

’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISK'S.
Reid’s London
Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE. DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants,
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
-1,000 Tons “ Ort> ” and “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Caslss Kniglit Bevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
O #
_ - .'C', *aP;,.
<RAc\aJocK>
• Ci + »^o
° Qt*
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street,
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, an& Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Rubton’S Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured bv Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas BroadbEnt & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured bv Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elkcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
A.n«aL see that you get it.
PROOF,
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., I>td.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. \
m
RRQSJFp
MDRATTI’S citiMWEs.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
Before venting fhe City wrirefo the Manager for
of Tam. (orrypomlence promptly amended to*
THE - -
(aros^oorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYDNEY.
The only Hotel in the City with four clear Frontages.
*
What is Health ?
Sciatica,
htimbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. JF.
JPAItKISIt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
PIONEER
LEATHER
''BELTING'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
13 diswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THS EDISON Si SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps : NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Poverty Poi nte X'ej
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland-
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
—-m
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
XX stories), Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM,
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Yol. 19.—N0. 946.]
[Saturday, April 2, 1898.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robertson & co.,
BOOKSELLERS and STATIONERS.
New Books and New Editions.
Cooper’s Marchioness Against the Country, 2s 6d and 3s
6d ; post 3s and 4s. Griffith’s Outlaw of Air, 2s 6d and 3s
6d ; post 3s and 4s. Braddon’s Rough Justice, 6s ; post 6s
6d. Voynich’s Gadfly : A Novel, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s
and 4s. Westall’s A Woman Tempted Him, 6s ; post 6s
6d. Fletcher’s Influence of Material on Architecture, 5s
6d ; post 6s. Bodley’s France, 2 vols., 245; post 255.
Kidd’s Social Evolution, 7s 6d; post Bs. Rendall’s
Antonius, 6s ; post 6s 6d. Lome’s (Marquis) Adventures
in Legend, 6s ; post 6s 6d. Foster’s The Two Duchesses,
16s ; post 17s. English Lyrics, 1340 to 1809, 2s 6d and 3s
6d ; post 3s and 4s.
DEAD MEN’S TALES and Other Sketches, by Charles
Junor. Picture Boards, 2s ; post 2s 4d.
THE TRAGEDY OF THE KOROSKO, by Conan Doyle,
2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
The last of six : tales oe
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
Your Cigarette
a “ CAMEO.”
Shouldn’t It?
THE BED PAGE.
Arthur A. D. Bayldon writes re Tennyson :
Tennyson is to this century what Pope was. to
his —the skilled craftsman who, lacking the in-
spiration of his immediate predecessors, elabo-
rated his creations on a more artistio but less
convincing plane. But whilst Pope’s intellect
was keen and decisive and objectively alert and
consequently rarely illumined, delighting in the
swift play and parry of the epigram, Tennyson’s
was slow and broodingly subjective and conse-
quently often sleepily illuminated. But each was
the best craftsman of his time. Swinburne is a
sound-singer, a colour-painter, too prodigal of
riotous imagery to be a great craftsman who re-
cognises the power of limitation and the wealth
that lies in the miserliness of words. Neverthe-
less, even in Tennyson’s finest work one catches
the tap of the trowel. Sometimes ib is a word
that jars—the cold and artificial ‘ polished argent,’
for example, as applied to a woman’s bosom in
‘ A Dream of Fair Women.’ More often ib is a
line that lacks muscle—frequent in his blank
verse. Sometimes his limitation is too positive,
as though the presentation had been planned out.
In ‘Break, Break, Break,’ he reached his highest
plane of artistic pathos. It is brief, yet per-
manent ; its suggestiveness adds to its charm. An
indefinable something, a far-off recollection, a
wistfulness —too deep for tears—glides over our
spirits as we read it, such as we feel when the sun
sinks with banners furled and lances sheathed in
cloud.
Tennyson’s Intellect was artistic rather than
poetic, which implies that his sympathies were
limited. _ When I say ‘limited,’ I mean that,
despite his breadth of range, they issued from his
artistic faculty. He felt, and manfully endea-
vored to combat, this deficiency by choosing
themes _ eminently human. He sometimes su>
eeeded in touching a human, but always through
an artistic emotion. Then self-abandonment to
an impulse is wanting. That outburst of passion
or grief, constantly found in his inferiors, is ab-
sent. Moore, a mere pigmy in other comparisons,
volleyed more passion into those few simple
stanzas that begin ‘ Come, rest in my bosom, my
own stricken deer,’ than you can find in all Ten-
nyson. In ‘ Rizpab,’ a powerful thing, it is the
gruesome element, not the human, that is abiding.
I agree it is time to explode the idea that ‘ In
Memoriam ’ is intellectually a great poem, A
smattering of Spencer and Plato garnished with a
student’s every-day knowledge of the positive
sciences furnishes its intellectual basis. In ‘The
Ancient Seer ’ (that is the poem, I think ; I’ve not
a Tennyson at hand) you have ‘ First Principles ’
versified.
As a metaphysician, Matthew Arnold over-
shadows Tennyson. It has long been the prac-
tice to praise Tennyson as an artist at the •
expense of Browning. This is an injustice to.
Browning. He could manipulate words nearly as
skilfully as Tennyson when he so minded.
Take Tennyson at his best for sweetness :
Myriads of rivulets hurrying through the lawn;
The moan of doves in immemorial elms
And murmuring of innumerable bees.
What a quick ripple and long wave of sound!
Now compare it with this from Browning—
One loves a baby face, with violet* there,
Violets instead of laurel in the hair,
As those were all the little locks could bear.
Again, take Tennyson for rough force—
A full tide
Rose with ground-swell, which on the foremost rocks
Touching, upjetted in spirts of wild sea smoke
And scaled in sheets of wasteful foam, and fell
In vast sea cataracts . . . ever and anon
Dead claps of thunder from within the oliffs
Heard through the living roar.
Listen to Browning—
Here’s John the Smith’s rough-hammered head. Great eye,
Gross jaw, and griped lips do what granite can
To give you the crown-grasper. What a man I
In fetching home the sights and sounds of
nature, has Tennyson surpassed this from Brown-
ing—
That’s the wise thrush—he sings each song twioe over,
Lest you should think he never could recapture
The first fine careless rapture ?
And Browning is full of such passages I
But the truth is Browning was too robust, too
virile, too full of an original genius walking in
god-like freedom, to waste his hours in burnishing
the facets of a jewel, however priceless. He had
no time to strew his path with flowers of fancy :
subjects of paramount importance clamored for
expression. Sometimes he struck on a theme the
other handled. Compare the fighting force and
lyric rapture of ‘Prospioe’ with ‘Crossing the
Bar,’ and choose between them. Even to men
content to surrender all claims to rivalry, Tenny-
son is inferior in fundamental brain-stuff. For
real brain-sinew Rossetti’s second sonnet on ‘ The
Sun’s Shame’ is beyond him. The dramatic
thrill at the death of Stephen in ‘The White
Ship ’ he never gave us ; and that superb mono-
logue of angel lamentation, ‘The Blessed Damozel’
—despice its obvious blemishes—has a spiritual
expansion and firmness of handling above his
reach. Comp_are it with the ‘St. Agnes’ Eve’—
there is an affinity of mood them.
Philosophically, too, ‘ The Cloud Confines ’
quivers nearer the mark than ‘ln Memoriam’;
and note its condensation, hardly surpassed by
Shakespeare’s ‘ Lust ’-sonnet —the most brainy
bit of work in the language.
If there be anything in Landor’s dictum that a
great man puts into movement other great men,
then Tennyson is not a great man. Browning,
Arnold, and Swinburne don’t betray his influence ;
Rossetti and William Morris stand aloof from
him. As for the smaller fry : take them as they
spring to memory—Francis Thompson is a dis-
ciple of Crashaw; William Watson of Words-
worth, by the way of Arnold; Le Gallienne and
Davidson of Keats; Bridges, of the austere
Milton. Who else? Oh, Lewis Morris! Yes,
he writes weak Tennysonian verse interlarded
with old Biblical texts: a worthy disciple, for-
sooth 1 Had he not written ‘The Organ Grinder’
I should not have remembered him. The laureate-
Austin, if he be anything, is a nature-poet of
Wordsworth’s school.
Tennyson never surpassed his volumes of 1848.
His triple gifts are there : his skill as a craftsman;
his breadth of range; his presentation of the
scientific knowledge of his day. His most charac-
teristic work as a craftsman is ‘ The Lady of
Shalott,’ with its Leightonian beauty; ‘The
Lotos Eaters’—steeped in the glamor of ‘The
Eve of St. Agnes;’ ‘Ulysses’—his best piece of
blank verse as verse; ‘ A Dream of Fair Women ’
—marred by defective machinery; ‘ The Palace of
Art’ and ‘The Day Dream.’ The influence of
Southey and Theocritus (what a strange bringing
together, by the way) is obvious in his idylls.
As he grew older, his work became more Saxonian
and flowing, but less opulent; there was a marked
decrease of poetic touches; and his imagery
became commonplace and< scanty. On the other
hand, his mastery over the artificial resources of
hia art, over vowelation and the mouthing of syl-
lables, was more prominent.
Of Tennyson as a man I’ve not much to say.
Like most men of genius, he was egotistical,
selfish, and full of infantine whims; but, unlike
them, he had the knack of making money. No
second-hand clothes-dealer had a keener eye for a
bargain. He was the terror of publishers ; and
for this I forgive him much, as they are devils to
deal with. Like Carlyle and Macaulay, who
should have been flogged for their brutalities, he
had few gentlemanly instincts. He was wont to
shake his head at everything Browning published.
In fact, it is not recorded he was ready to recog-
nise the merits of others, unless, as in the case of
Watson, they pandered to his vanity. Compared
with Hood and Lamb, he is repellent. Those
kindly sympathetic souls are more precious to the
world, after all, than Tennyson with all his|ame.
I cannot retire from the subject without draw-
ing some attention to Tennyson's plagiarisms. He
plundered everywhere, bhakespeare’s ghost must
have quaked at his pilfers. With the most inso-
lent coolness he filched a line from poor Peele—
-4 You soarce could see the grass for flowers.’ And
times without number he most clumsily reset his
looted gems. Even obscure poets (some entitled
to admiration, by the way; Vaughan, for ex-
ample) were ruthlessly overhauled for material.
After all has been said against him, the main fact
remains that he cast into our song-treasury many
precious jewels for which we must be grateful";
remembering at the same time that no poet in his
lifetime was more amply recompensed.
: +
William Watson’s ‘The Unknown God’ had
the stimulus of rivalry with Kipling’s ‘Reces-
sional ’ —and it remains the best thing in W’s new
volume, ‘The Hope of the World and Other
Poems.’
Altogether W.W’s work might run to about half as
many words as ‘ Robbery Under Arms,’ say, yet it is com-
posed in no less than ten volumes, which cost altogether
something over £2. That seems to be the only way to
make poetry pay in England: to issue small volumes
at a high prioe in limited editions of 500 to 1000,
For the British public, which buys as few books as it can
help, seems to buy poetry least of all. And when you
do read of big verse sales, like Kipling’s and Ingelow’s,
it almost follows that a lower standard has been striven
for, or a weaker keynote struck.
A M.L. correspondent commented to The
Bulletin on the intellectual dignity of Watson’s
poem as compared with Kipling’s ; and no doubt
Watson’s advance is substantial. A line like
Have mercy on thy people, Lord 1
in limiting the truth, decisively limits the artistic
effect of verse for people with any sense of rele-
vancy. Win. Gay’s ‘Federation’ sonnet is simi-
larly spoiled by the prayer—
O may we rise united, penitent,
And be one people, mighty, serving Theel
What is there to be penitent about? We are
what we are—mere effects of causes ; and ‘ pen-
ance ’is nowadays a word without meaning. The
sensible watchword is Hope, not Regret; the
sensible use of dead selves is as Tennyson’s
stepping-stones to higher things. And, in any
case, what is a legendary Hebrew deity—or even
‘the Unknown God’ —doing in the Federal
galley ? We are obviously federating for
our own benefit for the service of Man;
and a poem which suppresses this essential
truth to make rhetorical use of catchwords
loses artistic force by removing its appeal
to the regions of chimera. And by the
way, Watson, though his poem contains some
dignified and impressive verses, is himself
most part beating the air; though doubtless his
words still have validity for many people. And
in the penultimate verse he trips in precisely
the pitfall into which—probably with deliberate
intent on audience and effect—Kipling has
jumped. For Watson knows no more than any-
body else what is the work of heaven ; and when
he prostitutes his ‘ Unknown God ’ to back his
personal polemios (regarding Greece and other
matters) his preliminary denunciation is levelled
against himself.
• * * *
As a whole, the ‘ Hope of the World ’ volume is
feeble ; and the paraphrase of Matthew Arnold’s
‘ Empedocles on Etna ’ in the title-poem is at
once too strong and too weak to be flattering.
Occasionally there is a phrase or verse to charm ;
but more than ever the author wants fire and
force.
* * » *
Alex. Montgomery’s novel, ‘ The Sword of a
Sin,’ deals effectively with the historic tragedy of
Prince Rudolph of Austria. The theme seems
well-calculated to hit a popular audience where it
reads; and Montgomery has handled it in the
terse, clean, polished manner of which he is so
excellent a master. The marked intellectual ele-
ment in the story is perhaps its chief attraction to
a thoughtful reader; and it will be interesting to
observe whether the unthoughtful reader finds
that the addition of brains flavours pleasantly or
otherwise his favorite romantic pabulum.
——
A brilliant little yarn by Morley Roberts glows
in Lond. ‘ Critic ’ of Feb. 12. Two men and their
wives travelled in Egypt. The women craved for
danger—excitement—romance. The men felt
themselves tame, civilised, contemned. One of
them arranged—for a lesson—an excursion, and a
mock capture by dervishes—
The shadows sprang at them and tore them from their
saddles.
‘The Dervishes 1 ’ said Yera, ‘Help! Fay, Fay!
Where are you ? ’
But the leader carried Fay into a tomb.
‘Suleiman, help 1 Oh, Antony, Antony 1 ’
And Tempest came whirling and drove into the men.
‘ What’s this ? ’ he cried.
And Lamont came, laughing 1 , ■
‘ It’s nothing but a joke I ’
‘A joke, you fool I’ cried Tempest. ‘Where’s your
wife ? ’
‘ I see her,’ cried Vera. ‘ She comes out of the tomb.
They took her there.'
She came, wide-eyed, dishevelled.
‘lt’s nothing, Fay. I did it for you with Suleiman!
It’s a play in the desert! ’
He laughed, and Fay laughed too.
‘You fool, you damned fool,’ cried Tempest. ‘God
help us! '
‘Stop laughing, Fay,’ cried Lairoht.
‘Fay, Fay,’ said Vera, ‘stop laughing.’
‘ For God’s sake, Fay.’
But she still laughed dreadfully.
And the man who had carried her into the tomb
laughed.
* * • •
Writes 1 B.’
The list of Australian painters, and of men who have
painted in Australia, begins to grow long as it is meritori-
ous. One may recall particularly Westall, Oswald Brierly,
Skinner Prout, Conrad Martens, Nicholas Chevalier,
Abram Louis Buvelot, Von Guerard, Walton, Weigall,
Bunny, Folingsby, Piruenit, Longstaff, Arthur Streeton,
Johnstone, and Menpes, besides many admirable artists
whose reputation is, perhaps, more particularly local.
Westall is practically a olassic ; Oswald Brierly is a water-
color sea-scapist of world-wide reputation ; Skinner Prout
is almost unpurchasable ; and Conrad Martens’ work is
so prized that it rarely comes into the market. To the
worth of Chevalier and Weigall their English successes
amply attest. Buvelot’s ‘ Waterpool at Coleraine (Vic.)’ is
a landscape of genius. Many of Von Guerard’s pictures of
Australian scenery are now preserved in European gal-
leries. Walton was as spirited and sympathetic a painter
as almost any school could produce. Young men like
Bunnv, Condor, Fox and Menpes can show in any exhibi-
tion in the old world. Folingsby made an English name
long before he dreamt of visiting Australia. Robert
Atkinson’s work is treasured in England for its represen-
tations of South Sea life and scenery. John Gully is a
bold water-colorist of whom any country might be proud.
Longstaff is a great painter whose past work only faintly
shows what he has it in him to achieve. Piguenit has
some thirty or forty Australian and Tasmanian landscape's
which might, if collected, form as truthful and valuable
a panoramio gallery of the scenery of our quarter of the
globe as any conceivable. Johnstone’s powerful ‘ Off the
Track ’ and 1 A Mllabong ’ are creditable to the artist
and faithful presentments of our country. Streeton,
Mahony, Julian Ashton, Lister, and others, should have
little difficulty in holding their own against many Euro-
peans ; and an artist like Nerli should have no difficulty
at all.
* * * *
Says ‘ Gladstone Advocate ’ of Feb. 15—
A Rockhampton friend sends along a ‘ dodger,’boldly
printed on paper of a gorgeous blue and headed ‘Swim-
ming Extraordinary,’ which tells how ‘Mr. Arthur A. D.
Bayldon, the well-known Sydney “ Bulletin ” Poet and
Writer,’ will give a public exhibition of the ‘Champion
Fancy Stroke of the World ’ at the Corporation Swim-
ming Baths on such-and-such a date,
And somebody forwards a notice of the actual
performance, from which—
Regardless of the fact that the swimming suit through
some leakage admitted the water, Mr. Bayldon deoided
to next exhibit his champion back-stroke. It is marvel-
lous in the extreme, and won for him a great uproar of
applause. He rolled into the bath with legs and arms
strapped, and then sinking within a foot of the bottom
darted the whole length of the bath at an amazing speed.
Mr. Bayldon is widely known in literary circles as a poet
and writer of great imaginative force, eto.
Talk about the sorrows of the local young man
who goes on the land ! What are they to the
griefs of him who goes on Literature ? To be a poet
—and have to ‘ dart the whole length of the bath
with legs and arms strapped’ for bread (or butter)
—what tremendous irony !
THE UNKNOWN GOD.
When, overarched by gorgeous night,
I wave my trivial self away ;
When all I was to all men’s sight
Shares the erasure of the day ;
Then do I cast my cumbering load,
Then do I gain a sense of God.
Not him that with fantastic boasts
A sombre people dreamed they knew j
The mere barbaric God of Hosts
That edged their sword and braced their thew :
A God they pitted ’gainst a swarm
Of neighbor Gods less vast of arm ;
A God like some imperious king,
Wroth, were his realm not duly awed {
A God for ever hearkening
Unto his self-commanded laud ;
A God for ever jealous grown
Of carven wood and graven stone ;
A God whose ghost, in arch and aisle,
Yet haunts his temple—and his tomb ;
But follows in a little while
Odin and Zeus to equal doom ;
A God of kindred seed and line ;
Man’s giant shadow, hailed divine.
O streaming worlds, O crowded sky,
O Life, and mine own soul’s abyss,
Myself am scarce so small that I
Should bow to Deity like this !
This my Begetter? This was what
Man in his violent youth begot.
The God I know of, I shall ne’er
Know, though he dwells exceeding nigh.
Raise thou the stone and find me there,
Cleave thou the wood and there am I.
Yea in my flesh his spirit doth flow,
Too near, too far,, for me to know.
Whate’er my deeds, I am not sure
That I can pleasure him or vex :
I that must use a speech so poor
It narrows the Supreme with sex.
Notes he the good or ill in man ?
To hope he cares is all I can.
I hope with fear. For did I trust
This vision granted me at birth,
The sire of heaven would seem less just
Than many a faulty son of earth.
And so he seems indeed 1 But then,
I trust it not, this bounded ken.
And dreaming much, I never dare
To dream that in my prisoned soul
The flutter of a trembling prayer
Can move the Mind that is the Whole.
Though kneeling nations watch and yearn,
Does the primordial purpose turn ?
Best by remembering God, say some,
We keep our high imperial lot.
Fortune, I fear, hath oftenest come
When we forgot—when we forgot 1
A lovelier faith their happier crown,
But history laughs and weeps it down S
Know they not well, how seven times seven
Wronging our mighty arms with rust,
We dared not do the work of heaven
Lest heaven should hurl us in the dust 9
The work of heaven 1 ’Tis waiting still
The sanction of the heavenly wilL
Unmeet to be profaned by praise
Is he whose coils the world enfold ;
The God on whom I ever gaze,
The God I never once behold :
Above the cloud, beneath the clod:
The Unknown God, the Unknown God.
William Watson.


‘33IIIKM # IKH33BJ sjO
The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE .
* . NOTED SPECIALISTS
Staftd pre-eihinently at the lIEAD7)F THE MEDICAL PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease, than their
quite worthy but less successful associates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience is lifelong, and THEIR
RECORD RIGHT HERE IN SYDNEY is
A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS IN THIS LAND TO-DAY WHO ARE PRAISING THEIR
NAMES, BECAUSE THEY HAVE MADE THEIR LIVES HAPPY, AND BROUGHT SUNSHINE INTO
. THEIR HOMES.
Our valuable treatises
‘{.newOus And private
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication.
Our New Medical Work,
“ RESCUED at LAST,” over
300 pages letterpress, 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward * .£1 by mail, and dull
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
90IIDG men, raiODEEUGED 8 OLD Ml.
If j r ou are troubled with Pimples, Bashfiilness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
Energy, Ambition, and Self-confidence, and Absolutely Unfit for Study, Business, or Marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. GET WELL AND BE MEN ! .
There are Thousands of you Troubled with Weak, Aching Backs and Kidneys, Frequent; Painful Urination
and Sediment in Urine, and other unmistakeable signs of Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Many die <u
this difficulty Ignorant of the Cause, which is the second state of Seminal Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
CASES OF THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele and Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CURED
without Fain or Detention from Business.
ICttttlH
nCvsHtor
All Trams stop at the Boor.
CORRESPONDENCE DEPARTMENTS AND
MEDICINES BY PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Oil at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by.its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
take advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth. & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, an
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made all e- ong
.taiyof pRIVATE NERV OUS & SKIN DISEASES.
- He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and'course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, cor mg
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and su en g
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young" Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptipms, namely Frequent headaches, _gidd -
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling °
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a c ,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear Ox somet ling r
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or lace, lai mg J’
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &e., &c., should consult him, for he is now en
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Wot
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dk. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
» 1 » S 1 1T
If, in writing, you do nob feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney.
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.]
CONSULTING HOURS-Dailv
CONSULTATION TREE
THREE CLASSES OH" MEN
To whom we would Commend reading “ Rescued at Last.”
. i
\ f-
-7?
/
Si
f
<5
!»'
m
A
m
/ '<
m
7/
Wi
w.
Young Men,
Have you been indulging in a manner which has wasted your
powers, your health, your nerve force, your physical vigor, and
Manhood ? As if Nature would never ask for an accounting.
Are you weak, nervous, unfit for work, or pleasure ? Are your
vital powers weakened and on the verge of collapse, bodily and
mentally ? Don’t, for your physical and mental welfare, hide
such a weakness, but seek a cure by consulting DRS. FREE-
MAN and WALLACE.
Middle-aged Men,
There are Thousands of you suffering from Weak Back, Aching
Kidneys, Frequent Passing of Sediment, or accompanied by
Loss of Vigor or Power and Impairment of General Health.
Many die of this difficuly, ignorant of the cause, which is the
Second Stage .of Spermatorrhoea. -
Before it is everlastingly late consult DRS. FREEMAN and
WALLACE, who thoroughly understand your trouble, and can
cure you.
Old Men,
Who, as a result of overwork, business cares, imprudence, or
excessive indulgence in former years, now suffer from some
distressing trouble,
All May Find Immediate Relief, Many May
Be Radically Cured
by Consulting Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE, who have built
up an extensive practice by making cures when others have
failed. We have permanently established our reputation as
being the
Leading Specialists of the Age.
In seeking the services of
Ers. Freeman and Wallace
you place yourself under the treatment of highly educated
physicians, whose ambition is to excel, whose whole life is de-
voted to the advancement of the science of medicine and relief
of suffering humanity. We have no single remedy which we
deal out as a cure-all panacea, nor any mechanical contrivances
which , are heralded to the world as a remedy for all ills. Our
medical education condemns such methods. Our lofty aspira-
tions and ljonesty i n practice place such modern impositions
back to the days of witchcraft and quackery, where they
justly belong. Through constant study and deep research we
are always abreast of- the times; There is no new discovery in
medicine, no new apparatus to assist the physician, but what is
at our command as soon as science proves it to be of worth and
benefit. Every case that we undertake to cure is treated scien-
tifically with such remedies and such means as in our judgment
that particular case requires in order to effect a speedy and
permanent cure. We have no experiments to make, for we
are thoroughly educated and prepared through experience
already gained to accomplish our work in the field of medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS.
Write your troubles, if you are living away from the city, as
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE have a system of home treat-
ment that is entirely their own. Thousands are cured at home.
Our small pamphlets, 48 pages, post free, on application.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualifi-
cation and Eegistration Open to Inspection.
“ RESCUED AT LAST.”
A treatise on Nervous and Private Diseases, 300 pages letter-
press, 16 pages colored plates, 75 engravings, highly instruc-
tive. Every farmer, mariner, miner, and other workers should
purchase a copy. Price, 10s., post free, or .including our 10
days’ series of medicine, £l. -••»»-
[Please mention The Bulletin when writing.]
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts,, Sydney. P.O. Box. 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN PACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do yon desire to "be the
Equal of your Fellow-man?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force —the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
this element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can he found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly ?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
RUPTURE.
v If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulatedl
Hernia, and a permanent cure it possible. *
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic j
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at /
what you will learn. This Truss positively/
does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
„ BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free '
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC! TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or. W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-sl, SYDNEY.
'l'
<=>
SZT
Up
OLD
RNS
IK
sunbu.
FI2sTG
s/3
CHA
V
&iC
O'
Y
Pf *op
R, ETOBS 4
‘JIPH.INITOI W JMT»
ns
sJ
full DIRECTIONS
ENCLOSED? \
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a lew days DISEASES IN EITHER SEA.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Mep
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY/
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies.
tf3T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2*
post free


TATTERS ALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Holbart.
DONCASTER H. April 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me —.— shares in the above.
Name .
Address ■
SYDNEY C. April 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name,
Address
ADELAIDE C.
May 11.
100,000 Subscribers a>t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name,
Address
:
BIRTHDAY C
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers sffc 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me____ 1 .shares in the above.
Name ;
Address
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name • ; .
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ; shares in the above.
Name.
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, *_ shares in the above.
Name __
Address
ROSEHILL C
June 25
50,000 Subscribers at 5«
To TATTERSALL.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


2 GOOD
BOOKS
• • FROM • §
Anthony - flordern’s
Mmm*. GET BOTH
No. 1, GENERAL
CATALOGUE
560 Pages. Profusely illustrated.
No. 2. Portfolio of Autumn
and Winter Fashions
. . Over 250 Sketches.
POST FREE ANYWHERE . • .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS,
Universal Providers,
HAYI4ARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
Qjlg &/Ll €
*** '*?*
'KW
4iCWv ;
•jL&'vfc
&\icX£fivw/C
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dattdriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promo es Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
nd its unique testimonials piove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i-, 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdresser -, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD,,
16 Bi-vis Marks, I,ondon, England,
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, ditfioulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a had attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to he in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, hut nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
y?
GO XO 3ECELL-
-1 (POLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred HEagen.
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring’s, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buargies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. : Ladies’ Saddles
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d BOYS !
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc.
nni™ leS Radies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
Positively the Best Dressings
ENE**
u
#r
F ,p>,
Rt> V '
~a~
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HARLENE”
WORLD- RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes. Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Jura. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to he publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
(fliicßoßEßTSon s mm eum.
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
©
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
LOOK A.T OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify, customers that by buying from us _ _
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting OUR SPECIAL
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu- N O . 2.
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buekboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. Mackenzie’s Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHIELING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations. MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins. r
Db. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puftiness under the eyes it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles-
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle -
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD., 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
s Custard
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird's Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear B.— Be the central idea of Wells’s
“ The Invisible Man,” as discovered by “ M‘G.,”
I guess it belongs to that prince of story-tellers,
Ambrose Bierce. Bierce is very fond of the in-
visible monster, and used it again and again long
before Wells appeared in the literary market —
witness his shuddersome story, “That Damned
Thing.” The story “ M‘G.” mentions, which I
have read somewhere, is, I imagine, a creation of
the author of “In the Midst of Life.” —8.
THE PATH THRO’ THE BRACKEN.
(SERENADE.)
There is a path thro’ the bracken, my Sweetheart:
The saintly Queen of Night is climbing high,
A warm December zephyr stirs the musk leaves—
Little Sweetheart, I am by.
Come, sweet Love, the dew is falling,
Hearken to the bronzewing calling
In the coppice nigh !
The path is silver-litten, and in silence ;
But lullabies of distant sounds fall there,
And faint harmonics of the singing river:
Come, dearest ! I am here
Waiting, where the scented grasses
Smile thro’ tears as Evening passes
Dewy, cool, and clear.
The path leads under our sentinels silent,
The rung dead gums with white arms held elate.
Down in the hollow, ’neath the brooding myrtles,
Little Sweetheart, I wait :
Hasten, ere the winds of Morning
Sigh their faintest far-off warning
At the Dawn’s red gate !
0 lover, listen ! ’Tis the sliprail rattling—
A little while, and light upon thy heart
Her silken hair like gossamer will tremble,
And her sweet lips will part,
Breathing soft her faith abiding,
Breathing low her fond confiding.
Lover, calm thy heart !
Tas.
BARKIS.
MOTHER DOORSTEP.
“ Wanted Kind Person to take charge of Baby Boy (or
Girl),” &e.— Any newspaper, any day.
“ Early this morning the body of an infant was found
on a doorstep in street,” &c. —Any newspaper, every
other day.
Unto the Person Kind there came
A young girl bearing her fruit of shame :
She fell—and It had to pay the price—
Innocent Lamb of Sacrifice !
Lovingly then the Person smiled,
Gazing upon the face of the child ;
Smiled like an ogress—“ Don’t despond !
I am of children all too fond.”
Then said the mother, speaking low,
Kissing the babe she had borne in woe:
“Treat him tenderly—nurse him well.”
Hotly the tears on the baby fell.
Taking the mother’s coin with a leer
Ogress remarked : “ Don’t cry, my dear,
Motherly persons to me are known,
One is named Wood and another Stone.
“ Either of them will your baby keep
Hushing him into a soft, long sleep,
Crooning a lonesome,lullaby song ;
They have been used to children long.”
Cold and yet kind was the nurse’s breast,
Cold fell the rain on the babe at rest ;
Pale was his face as an immortelle,
Old Mother Doorstep had nursed him well.
V.J.D.
DIVINE DREAMER.
Not he who shapes an idol from a clod,
And trusting, kneels to it, is greatest. No,
He who creates a world and then can go
And live within it, he is most like God !
VON KOTZE.
THE LAUGH OF THE WOMEN.
From the dawn of the world’s first morning, the
song of the men has been:
“Ours is the rule of the ages o’er the red field and
the green ;
Ours is the wider life of the clanging city and
mart.”
Low is the laugh of the woman hearing these
things in her heart.
Soul of the stronger passion, man of the wider
life,
If the broad sea rushed between you, you and
your new-made wife,
As you paced on the desert shore way by the grey
sea’s dusky swell,
Would the thrill of fatherhood reach you—the
throb of the pulse-strings tell ?
Your lips to our ears are singing of love-red mouth
and a kiss :
Is our soul a child’s or a babe’s, though we know
not the meaning of this ?
There are thrills of unnoted rapture in the heart
beneath your hand,
So passionate pure, so exalted that God can under-
stand.
What is the thing we worship, women the free
and the bond ?
Husband, emblem and symbol—we crave for the
word beyond.
We have made Man in our image, and bowed our
knees to a stone,
But you who own us and hold us, you we have
never known
From the East and the harem curtain, to the open
doors of the West,
Low is the laugh of the woman holding the child
to the breast;
Sweet the prayer of woman for the stranger who
lies at her side :
“Grant him our peace, speak him comfort, let
him be satisfied ! ”
M.L.
CONSTANCK CLYDE.


IlCiStraliao MGtGal ort% Juu^T
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■OV I O ® t 0%1 € y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income .. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Xlead OfH.ce : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
RATES:
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night —advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
E.Rich&Co.
Ltd., (
AGENTS,
E ROIq
0 F S
afu able:
24 and 26
O’Connell - St.,
SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH uiu.
(Under, Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with ail
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-niade BRIARS.
Sole Agents S. HOFFNUNG & CO , BRISBANE.
■ ■ AUSTRALIAN . . .
Boomerang Brandy.
DR. PHILIP MUSKETT,
in his Lecture on “Alcohol,” says: —“I have often expressed the opinion that
AUSTRALIAN BRANDY should be sold in bottles of a smaller size. A
poor family should be able to purchase a Shilling or a Two-Shilling Bottle
of GUARANTEED PURE AUSTRALIAN BRANDY, for it may fre-
quently be the means of saving a baby stricken with debility, exhaustion
or prostration.”
In Flasks and Half-Flasks, of all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH 'FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
rPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
1 with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Flutes, by menus of Jiridr/eU’orJc .
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
i 98 ISinsf-st.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
M EL BOURNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Booms. ...
Two Dining Rooms ; and Oaf<s open Day and Night
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
V IN
... ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
3E3. j. & D. CURR.A.KT,
TAIIiORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
m
plSHUj^jri
««
Speci/itHB
Jj.. N B : i«
mm
■z'z-/,
-
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
i Insurance Company Ltd. %
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS' viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
majjes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary. '
i : -J
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
< FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-'
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney. "
Directors:
Hon.. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts, -
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident*Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
Accident
and
Guarantee
<jo. Ltd. of Lot"' 1 n.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. liiabilty.
Accidents; Typhoid, Diphtheria,: etc. '
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors. /
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Meft
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, JVC. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.,
Farquhar. J. -J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia, • V
' Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY:
fasts Respecting Hixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yafykce Poodle.
The Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cban)pioQ.
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Coi}q(icror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Park Twist. .
Park Plug and Twist.
n
vigars.
(imported). The Club Favorite Moiiopole, Rothschilds.
Bonanza— 4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for .
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 946.
SATURDAY, APRIL 2 , 1898.
Pbioe, 6d.
Before leaving Adelaide, Prince Ranpt-'
fimhji took the opportunity of forwarding:
the following communication to the'editor '
of. the Daily Tkleoraph : “Sir, Please
convey ray thanks to the public of New
South Wales.and Sydney in particular,'for
their hearty reception of myself on all
occasions. I have received many ex pres- *
sions of good feeling in various ways.,
*buch genuine acts of kindness have
made my sojourn with the English
team a very happy and pleasant
one. As I cannot thank them
all personally, 1 hope you will
do me the favor of doing
the same in your columns.
—Yours faithfully, Ra.v-
JITSINHJI.”
O'
.vC' • o v e~ v
c> e % " o+ .o^V
% e o' A 1 V v> «,
<x r e’ -e> , \ -jzr
§^v
Small Boy : “ Ranjit-
Slnh ji ! Ranji let me
see, where have I heard
liiune before ? ”
CN' e '
>
VV'Cv ,c/^,
?
' «&&
*v
The National Ass shows its ears
and hoofs occasionally.
“ Mr. Reid’s speech last night practically indicates his extraordinary
contortionist attitude on the Convention Bill. No great public measure
was ever more effectively damned with faint praise. And yet, after
nearly two hours’ candidly hostile criticism of the measure, he startled
and staggered his audience by declaring his intention to vote for it. Mr.
Reid has been straddling on the Federal rail ever since the Convention
closed. . . '. His acceptance of the Bill as it is framed, even when
given somewhat reluctantly, is embarrassing to his friends and supporters
in,local politics.” —Syd. Daily Telegraph.
■ Editor OP KX-Reid Organ : “Never wag your unreliable tail.at me after
this. You arc not my little dog any more ! ”
The man who will to “hold
the baby.’' And the worst of it is he
has to get up early of mornings to look after the
MoSJharry case.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
terms to subscribers
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... El 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
•which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Uout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
lFest.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1898.
An Optimist down South.
To say that because some crude, ill-digested pattern is
not accepted by a people as soon as it is offered, that
Federation will not be got at all, is opposed to reason and
experience. Federation being what we have described it,
a step in social evolution, we shall get it as certainly as
we have got manhood suffrage ; and for precisely the
same reason, because the growth of the social organism
will have made it necessary. To argue that if we do not
federate to-day we shall never federate, is to say that we
shall cease to advance along the line of our national
development; or to agree with Mr. Cook that we must re-
main politically stationary, or perhaps actually go back.
Australian Federation is just as certain as the next, inflow
of the tide, and this because it is the result of an organic
law in the social sphere. Rashness may deform the pat-
tern of our Federal Constitution, just as unwisdom may
attempt to thwart it; but neither the one nor the other
can avert our obvious destiny. What we have to guard
ourselves against is permitting our emotions to take the
place of our judgments. There has not been shown one
scrap of reason why we should take the Federal Bill of
1898, with all its manifold imperfections and dangers,
with the debts and railways unfederated, if, in a few
years, we can get a measure from which these imperfec-
tions will be eliminated. Just as the Bill of 1898 is more
acceptable than the Bill of 1891, so the Federal Bill of
1902 may be easily conceived of as an improvement on
he present measure. —Melbourne Age.
The Australian anti-Federal party, and the
semi-anti-Federal party, and the tired party
whose theory is “ Leterslide,” have spread
much literature abroad within the last few
weeks. The above slab is, in The Bulle-
tin’s opinion, the most interesting sample in
the lot. There is such a cheerful optimism
in it ; it reflects so beautifully the Aus-
tralian’s tired feeling, and his tendency to
hang the darned thing up for awhile, and
his easy confidence that he has all futurity
at his disposal and is immune from the acci-
dents which happen to other races. More-
over, the Age’s happy assurance that it really
doesn’t matter if Federation is postponed
till 1902, or some other date, contrasts so
beautifully with the same paper’s late im-
passioned yell that the big loan must be
floated immediately. The big loan is the
one subject in Australia regarding which
that tired feeling never predominates.
And it is such awful bunkum—this Federal
literature with the great Australian tired
feeling in it. Federation is undoubtedly ‘‘ a
step in social evolution,” but it doesn’t
follow, because it is so, that “ we shall get it
as certainly as we have got manhood
suffrage.” For that matter they haven’t yet
got pure manhood suffrage in Victoria —only
a modified form of property suffrage with a
certain amount of manhood suffrage mixed
with it. Also there are any number
of obvious steps in social evolution
which never eventuate—a community may
evolute in so many ways. So far, all
the evolution in Australia has been in the
direction of bursting up and disintegration,
and in North and Central Queensland the
spirit of disintegration is still in full blast.
It is a spirit that goes on by itself, in wet
weather and dry ; while the spirit of union
has been laboriously created, and is only
kept alive by careful nursing in which
respect it resembles almost every other spirit
that is worth preserving. “ To argue,” says
the Syme organ, ‘ ‘ that, if we don’t federate
to-day, we shall never federate, is to say that
we shall cease to advance along the line of
our national development.” It is a very
beautiful sentiment, with many long words
in it—but the one consistent line of national
development which Australia has developed
up to date has been in the direction of
further splitting apart into hostile States,
and the floating of new loans. To assume
that Federation will come of itself because it
is in the line of national development is
a pleasant, sanguine idea ; but, in reality,
the only real hope of Federation lies
in dragging the country off the old
bad lines of national development, about
which the less that is said the better.
For that matter, the thing has been too
chaotic to be called development, and it
hasn’t been national in any sense, but purely
provincial.
* * * *
The Federal scheme of 1898 is admittedly
better than the scheme of 1891. Therefore,
if the latter is rejected, the scheme of 1902
may be better, or it may be a great deal
worse, or there may never be any 1902
scheme at all. The doctrine of arithmetical
progression doesn’t apply in such a case.
The fact that a man is richer in ’9B than he
was in ’9l doesn’t prove that by 1902 he may
not be looking for crusts at midnight in the
dust-box. The fact that a man is stronger
in 1898 than he was in 1868 only proves that
by 1968 he will be dead. There is always a
point where improvement stops and retro-
gression sets in, and the Federal scheme of
1898 may be the nearest approach to an
ideal plan of union that these disjointed
provinces will ever evolve. Of course,
it is quite possible that four years
hence the provincial asperities will be so
much further smoothed down that the
provinces will be prepared to agree upon a
much more complete and workable scheme
of union than any yet constructed. But the
world is full of possibilities of the most
wildly unexpected character. The provinces
may not be on speaking terms by 1902. Be-
fore that date a Cornstalk army may be trying
to burn Melbourne, or a Victorian force may
be looting Sydney ; or Britain may have re-
sumed possession of the Northern Territory
and let it out to Pritchard Morgan’s Chow-
and-nigger syndicate, and the possibility of
making a real Australian Federation may be
postponed for a few centuries till after the
great Austral-Chow civil war is fought out.
The map is spotted all over with countries
which have gone to wreck because they
missed a chance and it never came again, and
whether this is or is not the chance that will
never come again no one knows. The pre-
carious art of weather-prophecy, which is the
only kind of prophecy left with us, throws
no light on the subject. But it may be the
very last opportunity that is coming our way
in the next dozen generations.
» • * *
The man who says that Australian Federa-
tion, even if the present opportunity is
neglected, is just as certain as the due inflow
of next tide, only escapes being the worst kind
of an ass, by virtue of the fact that even the
tide doesn’t always come back when it is due.
Only a few years ago a very large number
of respectable Dutch subjects went to sleep
as usual in Java with a full conviction that
they knew all about the next inflow of the
tide, and how far it would come in, and
when it would get there. But Krakatoa
upset the arrangements so completely that
multitudes of them were washed away, and
have never been accounted for from that day
to this. Also, by way of another case in
point, there is a locality in the far North
of Australia where the tide arranges things
very much as it pleases, and the man
who thinks he knows all about the next
inflow is often very badly left. It is
no doubt cheering to reflect that the pre-
sent chance of Federation can’t be j the
last one unless the awful possibility fore-
shadowed by Mr. Cook comes to pass, and
we begin to retrograde. And it is also a
very solemn thing to remember that half the
nations of the world at some time or other
lost their opportunity and began to retro-
grade, and have been retrograding ever
since. No one can tell for certain at the
time which is the lost opportunity that will
prove the turning-point ; there is no huge
label hung upon it to distinguish it from any
other opportunity ; and the lost opportunity
of Australia in 1898 may or may not be the
one—it is all a gamble.
* * * *
There is much comfort in the news that
whatever chances of making an Australian
nation the present generation of Australians
may fool away, still it is our “ obvious
destiny ” to be a nation, and the destiny
will work itself out, anyhow. There would
be a lot more comfort if it were not that so
many equally obvious destinies have gone
broke, or been lost or mislaid, and have
utterly failed to come to pass. A destiny is
just as likely to go in the wrong direction as
a horse if it is steered badly ; and, in any
case, no one knows exactly what is a destiny.
In theory it is a kind of hazy culmination, or
apex, or pinnacle that lies in front of us, or
else behind us ; and all that can be said
about it with certainty is that the destiny
of any community will only be fully recog-
nised after it is dead. Until then it is never
sufficiently obvious to be quite reliable,
and, as a rule, a nation gets just as much
destiny as it carves out for itself. And, as
regards the present case, this much and no
more is known with certainty : Australia has
a chance now to federate on reasonably
equitable conditions. If it loses this chance
it may get a better one, or a worse one, or
none at all, later on. The bone is obvious
enough ; as to the shadow, it isn’t even quite
certain that there is a shadow. The Bulle-
tin votes for the bone, anyhow.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Tattersall and his Critics.”
Apropos of a variety of circumstances and in
reply to various correspondents and inter-
viewers, The Bulletin wishes to very dis-
tinctly state what has already been clearly
embodied in a recent article on “ Tattersall
and his Critics”—viz., that this paper had
and has no intention or desire to injuri-
ously reflect on the good name of “ Tat-
tersall.” The Bulletin has every confidence
in “ Tattersall’s ” good intentions—it has often
put money into his sweeps, and it is ready to
do so again. The sole object of the above-men-
tioned article was to show how, in its opinion,
“ Tattersall’s ” sweeps could be placed above
criticism, and how the said good inten-
tions, which appear at present to miss
fire, might be carried into effect. In
short, The Bulletin’s position with re-
spect to “Tattersall” is just this: It believes
“ Tattersall ” to be absolutely honest, but it
regards certain details of his system as cal-
culated to cast quite unnecessary suspicion
on his bona-fides. “ Tattersall’s ” sweeps
are gambles, and The Bulletin asks
“ Tattersall ” to strictly conform to the
etiquette of gambling, by letting his clients
play, as it were, with an ostentatiously new
pack of cards every time. It is not enough for
an enormous concern like “ Tatts.’” sweep to
be honest—it must look honest and scrupulously
business-like right down to the minutest parti-
cular. There can be no “ sentiment ” in gamb-
ling for money.
4.
The Kalgoorlie Riot.
The Forrest Government’s new regulation
prohibiting alluvial miners from digging below
10ft. produced unexpected results at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) a few days ago. Premier For-
rest had gone there to lay a foundation-stone,
and the alluvial crowd wiped up the town with
him- and made him retire with great loss of
dignity. It was, undoubtedly, a rude and ob-
jectionable outrage, yet it was neither so brutal
nor so cowardly nor so indefensible as the daily
papers have represented it. The Forrest
Government first of all gave to the miners the
right to dig for alluvial at any depth, and mul-
titudes of them depended on the work for a
livelihood. Then it took away the right—-not
by any parliamentary process, but merely on
the say-so of the boss-firm of Forrest and Co.
—and its new regulation deprived numbers of
the miners of their sole means of support. This
was a worse outrage than the one which the
miners committed when they wiped up the
dusty town of Kalgoorlie with Forrest—
an outrage is most cowardly when the attack-
ing party lacks provocation and has such odds
on its side that the one attacked has no earthly
show, and when the Forrest Government, in
the calm seclusion of its office, where no miner
could get at it, deprived hundreds of men of
their livelihood by the safe process of writing
something on a sheet of paper, it took fewer
risks and gave its victims far less show than
the Kalgoorlie mob gave to Forrest. In
attacking him they at least faced armed police;
when the Forrest Government attacked them
it did it by a perfectly safe process, and faced
nothing more*deadly than some ink and a
wafer. There is little redress in Parliament
for the miners, because the franchise is so
arranged that the large population of the gold-
fields has less representation than one or two
men - and a few sheep in the pocket-burghs
of the Ministry. There is no redress at
law, for the ancient fossils who are returned
by the two-men-and-a-sheep vote of the old
pocket-burghs make the laws. When there is
no justice and no fair hearing to be had in any
lawful way, the unregenerate tendency to wipe
up the town with somebody breaks out. If the
act of the miners was a cruel and cowardly out-
rage, the excuse for it is that it was provoked
by an outrage which was probably quite
as cruel and which was still more cowardly.
A great deal has been said about the “ blot
upon the law - abiding character of Aus-
tralia,” but the laws that a community is sup-
posed to abide by are laws made by a Parlia-
ment representative of the people—not the
irresponsible ukase of a Minister who only
holds his position because the Parliament does
not, in any sense, represent the people. And
the utter lawlessness of the Forrest Govern-
ment’s action in abolishing a legal right on its
own authority, was a vastly bigger blot, any-
how.
Nationhood v. Shoddy.
Last week Sydney Telegraph declared bitter
war against the Convention’s scheme of Federa-
tion, and openly avowed that it did so in the
interests of Foreign-trade and its particular
friends—the firms whose German names of
Schmidt and Schneider and Schroder hang
out in long rows down by York-street, Sydney.
Its article of March 23 was one long shriek
to the people of N.S.W. to throw overboard
the prospects of nationhood in the future, so
that they may have their reward in the present
by getting lots of foreign-made boots landed at
Circular Quay, while they borrow the money to
go sand-shifting with. A few samples from
that famous howl are as follows :
The Bill has been so framed that they would have to
begin by forcing’ this colony to accept a fiscal policy which
is utterly obnoxious to it. The financial provisions are
such that an immense load of customs duties would at
once have to be shouldered by the people. We would be
compelled to raise a million a year or more of customs and
excise taxation, for which the colony would not have any
use. The money would be taken out of the pockets of our
people by the Federal Government, and, in the form of a
“ surplus,” handed over to the State Government. There
being no legitimate use to which this surplus taxation
could be applied, however, and it being impossible to give
it back to its rightful owners, illegitimate purposes might
very soon be expected to suggest themselves. It would,
therefore, in the end, amount to every man, woman, and
child in the colony compulsorily paying from a pound to
thirty shillings a year to a political-extravagance fund.
And the Federal Government, being the tax-gatherer, the
elector could only make his protest to a Legislature in
which it took twenty New South Wales votes to count for
one Tasmanian or West Australian vote. But, even
were the Federal Government willing to grant redress,
it could not do so. The Bill proposes to strap this
unnecessary load of customs taxation on to the back
of New South Wales so securely that it can only
be detached by an amendment of the Constitution.
Leaving aside the fact that an inter-State Commission un-
der this unrepresentative Government would interfere in
the management of our railways, for the commercial suc-
cess of which we would still retain all responsibility, it is
enough for the electors to ask themselves are they pre-
pared to go into a partnership of which a condition prece-
dent is the absolute and irrevocable surrender of Free-
trade ? About the answer to that surely there can be no
hesitation.
For utterly shameless misrepresentation this
should be a record. In the first place, the
Constitution doesn’t commit the Common-
wealth to Protection or Freetrade —it leaves
the question absolutely open. All it specifies
is that, if the Federal Parliament decides to
raise revenue by customs and excise, not more
than one-fourth thereof shall be applied to the
support of the Federal Government, while the
other three-fourths shall be returned to the
States. But the Federal Government may, if it
pleases, raise all the money it requires, or
any proportion it pleases, by direct taxation
and utterly abolish customs and excise. It is
merely agreed that, if the total customs and
excise revenue amounts to 6d. or £6,00U,000
or eighteenpence per annum, three-fourths
of it must be returned to the States.
Also, the Tasmanian and Westralian voter
equals about nine (not 20) N.S.W. voters in the
Upper House only ; in the Lower House the
numbers go practically according to population,
so that N.S.W. will have far the largest voting
power. And it is the Lower House which will
draft the tariff, and until the Lower House
passes it the Senate, where the small provinces
have more than their due share of population,
doesn’t come in anywhere. But probably the
wildest Ananias of the whole collection is
the statement that, if a Protective tariff is
adopted and N.S.VV. gets back £1,000,000
per annum more customs revenue than it now
receives, “ there is no legitimate use” to which
it can be put. N.S.W. has now an annual
shortage of some £900,000 or more. About
£BOO,OOO of this is disguised by paying all
manner of daily expenses out of loans, and the
other £lOO,OOO or more is the deficit which
Premier Reid says isn’t there. The legitimate
use which N.S.W. has for another million a
year is to make its finances decently honest
instead of the lie and swindle and fake they
now are. And if that isn’t a legitimate use-
well, what is it ?
Another Loan.
The news that Premier Skddon, of Maoriland,
is in favor of floating a £2,000,000 loan for rail-
way-building purposes evidently means that
any small remains of the self-reliant policy
which Ballance inaugurated are to be thrown
up. The news comes very closely after the
luckless Wellington election; it probably
means, therefore, that Digger Dick, recogiiising
that his luck is turning, proposes to try his
hand at a boom policy on the old Vogel lines
by way of strengthening his position. Seddon
and Turner are the only existing Premiers who
have kept up even a pretence at honest finance
—the other five have been professional mendi-
cants at Bull’s back-door all the days of their
lives —and apparently Seddon andTuRNER have
resolved to abandon the game simultaneously.
They didn’t keep it going very long in any
case. The average, easy-going Australian,
with his habit of hanging on to the apron of
mother-BuLL, and his poor little brag
about how this is the richest country
on earth, and his poor little wail about
the impossibility of doing anything un-
less a much poorer country will lend
him the money to do it with, and his
lament about his inability to stand taxation,
and his cant phrase about “ developing the
great resources of the country,” is a pretty
sick spectacle. There are a good many reasons
why Maoriland, at all events, should have
sworn off borrowing for good. In the early
days it was the most awful plunger of the
Seven Provinces. It has a debt of millions
—equal to over £6O 13s. per inhabitant. For
24 millions of this—equal to about £33 per
head—there are no reproductive assets to show;
it was borrowed in the old, awful days because
it was easier to meet current expenses out of
loans than to pay taxes. The British public
debt is equal to about £l5 per head; there-
fore Maoriland, in the course of 45 years,
despite the fact that it had, and still has, a
la'rge land revenue to help out its public in-
come,' has piled up about 60 per cent, more
debt than Britain, with no land-revenue to fall
back upon, did in two centuries. Because of that
vast load of unproductive debt Maoriland is the
most heavily-taxed province in Australasia, and
the accumulation of more debt only means that
it will have to be taxed still more heavily. It
has become remarkably prosperous since it, to a
great extent, abandoned the loan policy ; its
population is increasing rapidly ; its industries
are booming, under the influence of a strongly
Protectionist policy, more than those of any
other province in the seven ; it has a handsome
surplus every year ; aud it has partially cleared


away the wreck which the ending of the last
loan-boom brought upon its financial institu-
tions. All of these are reasons why,
having got out of the mire, it shouldn t make
haste to go back there. Maoriland, with its
big annual surplus, and with sufficient wealth
to raise even more revenue than it now does, is
better fitted than any other province to dis-
pense with loans and construct its public
works out of revenue. Anyhow, the question
which all the Australias have to face is this :
If they can’t afford now to set aside their land
revenues for public works purposes and meet
their ordinary expenditure out of taxation as
many poorer countries do, how will they be
later on when their land - revenues are
either greatly diminished or exhausted, when
the annual bill for interest is far larger than it
is now, when their credit is used up, as it must
be some day, and when the inevitable expen-
sive war-trouble, which comes to every country
soon or late, arrives at their doors { When
that time comes, this community will probably
strike the great idea of digging up its present
seven Premiers and hanging their remains on
seven tall trees as a token of humble but sincere
execration.
Quacks versus Doctors.
The Bulletin often receives letters in this
strain :
Dear Bulletin.— Re quackery, is there so much differ-
ence after all between the authorised pretender to special
knowledge and the unlicensed? A quack is an empiric.
But empiricism is founded upon experience, and half of
the pharmacopea is built up of its conclusions. The in-
telligent empiric observes, experiments, and is content
with results. He may be wholly ignorant of pathologic
science ; but he has found that, by the application of a
certain agent, under certain conditions of ailment, a
beneficial result is attained. There he rests. And for all
practical purpose of usefulness, as a leech, he is as good
as the man who gives a learned reason for every dose
he administers. The latter, whose claims are founded
upon his special education, is so tor handicapped that his
■ observations of disease and the action of remedial
agents are necessarily made through the spec-
tacles of his “ school.” And just as a great lawyer
falls into the error that the interpretation of the law (as
■established by precedents) must be the source of justice,
so the average practitioner of the schools concludes that
his text-books hold the truth. But as the practice of
medicine is but a theorem —a supposititious principle of
truth —and as there are several schools, all more or less
■divergent in their teachings, how can we assume that the
man who writes M.D. to his name is any more infallible
than he whom we deem quack? May not a conscientious
:and intelligent quack, free from the shackles of tradition,
learn as much from observation of cause and effect
as the mere schoolman, even giving the latter the
advantage of hospital practioe ? We know that it is so,
and that hundreds of physicians have quietly appropriated
■discoveries made by laymen who have worked upon the
■eclectic principle.— Old Jack.
Here is much confusion of ideas. The person
■who deals with an ailment according to per-
sonal experience of the effects of any particular
treatment, is—since he has to that extent de-
duced from observed phenomena a general rule
—by just so much the less an empiric. The
principles of formulated therapeutics, how-
ever, are founded upon vastly more compre-
hensive generalisations deduced from the in-
•conceivably wider induction of instances pre-
sented by the whole experience of mankind
including, most probably, not only the dis-
coveries of “old wives” and “herb-doctors,”
but even the very knowledge which the quasi-
■quack claims to have arrived at by personal
■observation ; whereas the empiric—even when
be isn’t a blind experimenter, pure and simple
—is but proceeding upon a few isolated
constituents of the vast corpus of accumulated
knowledge which is foolishly sneered at as that
■of the “schools.” The Bulletin has before
mow admitted that, while a non-legally-qualified
person may be a born healer, a duly-belettered
practitioner may be a dangerous blunderer, but
the chances—as in every other calling—are so
immensely in favor of the man who has learnt
his business that the person who would sooner
trust to an “eclectic” experimenter on his
“ own ” than to a student of the “ text-books ”
which record the physiological and pathological
observations of all times and all countries,
should, upon a very moderate amount of reflec-
tion, be prepared to write himself down an ass
—with a very large “A.”
Jerry-built Tradesmen.
Melb. Trades’ Hall begins to wonder whether
the Working-men’s College is all that it has
been cracked up to be as a technical school ;
whether, in fact, it is a technical school at all.
At a late meeting of the Trades’ Hall Council
a good deal of rhetoric was expended upon the
merits of the institution, and the great benefits
conferred by it upon the working-man. The
coopers’ representative said all this, or some-
thing like it, and others said some more. But
then the under-side of the case was turned up
by a house-painter member, who remarked
that the coopers’ opinion would be considerably
modified if cooperage were taught at the school
as painting is. That touches the spot. Bor
the best part of a score of years the virtues of
“technical education” have been continually
trumpeted, until the term has become a sort of
sacred thing. Instead of making better crafts-
men of apprentices, Melbourne’s alleged tech-
nical college has turned out hosts of young
men knowing just enough of a trade to take
the place of skilled artisans in an emergency.
So long as the jerry-builder was abroad in the
land the jerry-built tradesman was good enough
for his job. But the occupation of the jerry-
builder is for the present gone ; he is a house-
agent now, or on the sewage works, or he has
gone West. The young jerry-built tradesman’s
stomach, however, has just as bad a habit of
telegraphing for provisions as the full-blown
tradesman’s has ; and as booms and droughts
and other things have left the community with
not too much meat in its cupboard, the jerry-
built tradesman, knowing his own weakness,
offers to work for bread without meat. Almost
every daily paper issue has some such
advertisements as this: “Carpenter young,
plumbing, papering, useful, 155., no tools.” No
wonder, then, that when the college applies to
the trades for more support, the men who have
had the pinch feel like replying that “ those
who have been pushed out by these students
can’t be expected to pay the piper for the manu-
facture of more of the same sort of competition.
It is a boom system pure and simple—a relic of
the time when pretty well everybody was
making a short cut —this man to fortune through
a “ bank,” that one, less ambitious, to a trade
through a working men’s college. The “ banks ”
have been either wiped out or reconstructed ;
but the college remains in statu quo chiefly be-
cause the sufferers have been working men who
haven’t known what was the matter with them.
But light is being let in on the subject now;
and the trades are beginning to demand a
technical college which will not devote itself to
the manufacture in red-hot haste of shoddy
craftsmen who are only worth 15s. a week
themselves, and whose inefficiency helps to drag
other men’s wages down to the 15s. level also.
That there has been trouble between authori-
ties and prisoners at Darlinghurst Gaol is cer-
tain, whether or not it rose to not. And the
Rev. B. Carey, in spite of Minister Gould s
denial, appears convinced that he was told to
“ mind his own business ” when he pointed out
how young prisoners and first offenders weie
brutalised in the gaol by enforced association
with hardened criminals, and how prisoners
were ill-treated by brutal warders. The public
little knows what contamination of infamy,
what infamy of outrage, is possible behind the
four walls of a prison. In his new ‘ Ballad
of Reading Gaol ” Oscar Wilde throws ghastly
light on prison methods. He describes the
strangling of a fellow-convict
They hanged him as a beast is hanged :
They did not even toll
A requiem that might have brought
Rest to his startled soul.
But hurriedly they took him out,
And hid him in a hole.
The warders stripped him of his clothes ;
And gave him to the flies :
They mocked the swollen purple throat,
And the stark and staring eyes :
And with laughter loud they heaped the shroud
In which the convict lies.
And of the whole wretched penal business as
administered by men without hearts at the in-
stigation of men without brains
The vilest deeds, like poison weeds,
Bloom well in prison air ;
It is only what is good in Man
That wastes and withers there ;
Pale Anguish keeps the heavy gate,
And the Warder is Despair.
For they starve the little frightened child
Till it weeps both night and day : ,
And they scourge the weak, and flog the fool,
And gibe the old and grey ;
And some grow mad, and all grow bad,
And none a word may say.
And those scourging stanzas, if all were known,
are as true in Australia as anywhere. bays
Michael Davitt, an acknowledged authority
on prison treatment, in his new book of Aus-
tralian impressions :
Dark cells are still a strong feature in Darlinghurst
discipline. They appeared to me, on inspection, to be in
pretty frequent requisition. Seven days in one of these
cells would be calculated to drive an ordinary health} per-
son half insane. It can, therefore, easily be imagined
what the effect of repeated punishments of this homble
kind will have upon bodily and men tally-weakened
criminals. This barbarity has been abandoned alto
gether in Maoriland and Tasmania, and somewhat
modified i n all the other provinces, except New So uth bates.
It is a form of punishment which never did, and never
could, produce any good of any. kind upon any human
Being in its application. It might terronse for the
moment but the after-effects on the minds of criminals
mentally debilitating as these were bound to be, would
work more in the way of fixing vicious habits by lessening
the strength of resistance than in frightening evil-doers
out of their indulgence. A prison discipline, no matter
how severe, which cannot be upheld without the daik cell
and the “ cat," is more a proof of the incapacity of its ad-
ministrators than of any dogged insubordination m cer-
tain classes of criminals.
And of the treatment which the Rev. Carey
denounces as brutalising young prisoners,
Michael Davitt says “it is almost as savage
as the nature it is intended to cure. in a
word, the callous cruelty of N.S.W. gaol
officials is making criminals, not curing tnein.
Let N.S.W. Parliament mark it!
Item from Eng. Judge Lawrence s sum-up in
the aristocratic Nevill swindle-case (sentence,
five years’ penal servitude) :
Tf this had been the case of some wretched city clerk,
with'a famny of seven children who had -ffered some
great loss, and in his straits had helped himself from his
master’s till, I am afraid there would be nobody to speak
for him. It is said that in your position any punishment
p issed upon you would be felt more keenly than by one
hi a humbler position. I wish to point out to you, and to
others, that the higher the position the greater the re-
sponsibility. It is said, and this comes most close to my
heart that what you have done will bring sorrow on
those connected with you. In the case of the clerk whom
I mentioned, the blow falls with double severity on his
wife and children.
Tliis is very different soup to that ladled out
from the Australian bench, which habitually
lets the social-position offender down lightly on
the ground that the mere appearance in court
is a keen punishment to his refined nature, and
so on. But Australia can learn a good deal
from England in matters connected with the
dispensation of justice, with public honor, and
with private honesty. English insolvency-
judge Vaughan Williams, for example,
wouldn’t have whitewashed the Melb. boomers
with one fink in the bucket, while their
carriages waited at the door of the court 01
just round the corner. And just attempt to
fancy a man like Meagher attempting to enter
the House of Commons after the verdict of the
jury in the Dean conspiracy case, and the
scathing commentary of Chief Justice Darley
when he was evicted from the legal profession
—to say nothing of his (Meagher’s) own
admissions on the floor of the Leg. Assembly !
Also, had Sufeield been so scandalously mis-
tried in England he would have been released
long ago. John Bull publicly aims at
standards a lot higher than prevail out here
and often reaches them.
The Premiers’ Conference the other day re-
solved, in respect of colored-races immigration,
that every province should pass an Act on
the lines of the Natal Act—and vigilantly
enforce it. Premier Nelson, of Kanakaland,
stood out, of course. But, if the other pro-
vinces keep to the agreement, a very effective
bar against the cheap and nasty alien will be
set up. Natal has been suffering from the
plague of Indians even more than N.S. Wales ;
and last year a series of four Acts were passed
which were received with great indignation by
the Bengali and his British exploiter.
The first (says an authority) is a quarantine law of ex-
ceptional severity, obviously directed not against con-
tagious diseases, but against immigration. The second
Act, “ to place restrictions on immigrants, practically
prohibits Indian immigration by compelling the applica-
tion for admission to be written and signed in one ot the
languages of Europe. Without such authorisation an
immigrant can receive a license to carry on any trade or
calling only by incurring exceedingly heavy penalties,
which are further imposed on any master or owner of a
ship which may bring prohibited immigrants to the
colony. The third Act, “ to amend the law relating to
licenses to wholesale or retail dealers,’ places the tight
of granting or refusing licenses to trade in the hands or
an officer appointed by the Town Councils or Boards,
representing the very classes most opposed to Indian com-
petition. Nor is permission allowed to appeal against his
decision in any court of law. It further provides that no
license shall be issued to any person who does not keep his
books of account in the English language. This provision
shuts the door on all the large Indian traders and mer-
chants who are unacquainted with English, while it is
equally fatal to the smaller pedlars and hawkers who are
unaccustomed to use any account-books at all. Ihe fourth
Act “deals with the question of passes, ana subjects
any Indian found without a pass in his possession to
arrest and imprisonment without any ri<rht of appeal or
compensation for wrongful arrest and detention.
“Un-English and ungenerous” John Bull
calls these measures ; but, as the small white
community of Natal is practically fighting for
its life, John Bull’s indignation (on behalf of
his injured pocket) has been cheerfully dis-
regarded. And there is urgent need for all-
Australia to follow Natal s example.
According to Sydney Daily Telegraph s re-
port, Labor-member Watson also alleges that
Coghlan’s statistics show 20 more boot-
factories working in N.S.W. during 1896 under
the Foreign-trade policy than previously. It
Labor-member Watson really did say that The
Bulletin hereby presents him with Coghlan’s
real figures, so that he may read them a*nd
then go out and call himself any kind of bad
name that best fits him :
Factories. Employes. Boots made.
1895 66 3743 2,721,132
£896 82 3499 2,567,169
Note —For the year 1896, establishments not using
machinery have been accepted if employing not less than
four hands; prior to this year the minimum was five
hands.—N.S.lF. Statistical Register for 1896, page U9B.
Result, an increase of 16 (not 20) factories,
brought about solely through the inclusion of
small factories not previously included ; also
244 less hands employed and a diminished out-
put. Also the same authority quotes the
average wages for 15 classes of people em-
ployed in the boot-trade; in two cases the
wages paid in ’96 were the same as in 95 ; in
one case there was a small increase of 2s. 6d.
per week, and in 12 cases they had been re-
duced, sometimes by as much as £1 per week
(Statistical Register for 1896 page 500, as
compared with the same work for 1895, page
635). The Foreign-trade party had better drop
the painful boot subject.
A daily episode in N.S. Wales public schools.
TN S Wales can’t afford absolutely free education,
like Victoria. N.S. Wales, you see, has to subsi-
dise those great educators the Sydney daily and
other papers to the extent of £50,000 a year in free
postage] :
Teacher : “Come out on the floor the children who
hear their names called for owing fees. Where s your
money?—you, Brown?” , „
Brown : “ Please, miss, me muvvers got no change.
Teacher : “ When will she have change ?
Brown : “ Please, miss, me farver don t git paid till
Saturday.” „
Teacher : “ Bring it on Monday.
Brown Please, yes, miss.”
Teacher : “ Don’t say ‘ please so often. You don t
please me. Bring your money, then you will. Do you
understand ? ”
Brown Please, yes, miss.
Teacher (with a cry of mingled rage and despair) .
“ Return to your seat.” „
Teacher : “ Now, Smith, where’s your money !
Smith - “Please, miss, me mother buyed a new baby
7 o’clock Saturday night, and the woman wot she buyed
itoff’as took all the money.” . , , . „ . „
Teacher (sotto voce): “Uni! sad state of affairs.
[Writes in report- 11 Inability to pay fees due to an in-
crease in the family.”] Aloud: “Very well. Smith,
bring it as soon as you can. Go to your seat. Now,
Jones, where are your fees ? ”
Jones : “ Please, miss, I forgot it. (Youngstei re-
ceives a homily concerning his lack of memory.)
Teacher, looking at clock, finds it is tune to change
lessons (This business takes place during writing lesson.)
To other defaulters : “ Return to your seats. Stay in
after 4 o’clock until I make out bills for the amount you
owe ” Repeats to herself the injunction “ that if a
teacher steadily insists on weekly payments she will give
the Department little or no trouble concerning school-
fees.”
Dear Bulletin. —Someone with lordly ideas
sneers at the alleged £lOOO limit, to N.S.W.
civil-servants’ salaries. A few comparisons ;
The English service is among the best-remune-
rated in the world, yet the majority of depart-
mental heads only receive from £9OO to JMoOO
a year. [7 here, a man who behaves himself is
sure of his pay and pension. Ed. B.] In veiy
special cases, like those of pennanent undei-
secretaries, with a large hand in the control of
international affairs, as much as £2OOO, or even
£2500, is given. Even W. H. Preece, chief of
the British electricians, only draws £lOOO
salary. At least a dozen men in N.S.W. Govt,
employ (Judges excluded), with merely local
reputations, draw upwards of £looo—yet the
editor of a “ great ” Australian daily has his
services assessed at about that sum ; subordi-
nate scribes do not average beyond £6 a week ;
most lawyers are glad to clear £300 a year, and
the general run of medicoes, despite their
costly apprenticeship, cannot have much more
than that amount left after they have paid for
equipages and the conventional extravagances
of their profession.—T.D. [Probably the above-
mentioned British economy is the reason why a
common London “ beak ” gets £1500 a year for
fining the local drunk. — Ed. B.j
S.M. Herald, Melb. Argus, and other gloomy
Tory organs which continually parrot the cry
that M.L. Labor Govt, is “ driving population
from the country ” are invited to took at
N.S.W. Statistician’s just-published figures of
population-growth in 1897. The N.S.W.
excess of births over deaths was 1 - 75 per cent. ;
the excess of Victoria 1 '38 per cent.; and of radi-
cal Maoriland 1'68 per cent. And the excess of
arrivals over departures in M.L. was 0 - 41 per
cent., and in N.S.W. only 024 per cent., while
Victoria shows an excess of departures over
arrivals of 1'27 per cent. —so that wickedly-
misgoverned M.L. is attracting more popula-
tion than N.S.W., and very much more than
Vic. The figures of nett all-round increase of
population (births and immigration) in 1897
run —W.A., 17*37 per cent. ; Tas., 3’37 ; Q.,
2’65 ; M.L. (excluding Maoris), 2‘09 ; N.S. W.,
1-99 ; S.A., 0-78 ; Vic., 001. Both W.A. and
Tas. increases are due chiefly to an exceptional
influx of miners, so that M.L. stands second on
the list of the normal-increase bunch —with
N.S.W., S.A. and Vic. at varying distances
below her. And Editor Gullett and Editor
Willoughby can make a note of it.
.
Van Dobson (Convention edition) is a curious
instance of Conservative consistency. In dis-
cussing the appellate jurisdiction of the pro-
posed High Court, he argued for trusting the
Federal Parliament, and claims that:
The power which is given to the Federal Parliament
will be exercised with ordinal common-sense, and with a
due regard to justice.
On the Control of Rivers, he would also trust
the Federal Parliament; but, on the bookkeep-
ing proposals, he says :
I am not prepared to trust the Federal Parliament on a
question of that sort.
Mem. : Tasmania is not particularly interested
in Control of Rivers questions ; but, in finance,
she is a Dobson of quite another color. Again
(Control of Rivers debate) :
I do not think it my duty to frame a Constitution that
people will accept. ... I shall be satisfied if I know that
it is a Constitution that the people ought to accept, and
I am not going to bother myself about whether they will
or will not accept it.
Yet, on financial clauses, he somersaults with :
If there is a guarantee in the Bill that the State finances
will never be less than in the year before that in which
they enter into Federation, tlle Constitution will be moi d
readily accepted by the people.
And this, ye gods ! this a nation-builder ! ! ! !
We hear a deal about the kind of persons sum-
moned to serve on coroners’ juries, and their
qualifications—or disqualifications—for the
work. The country has to pay thousands a
year for the services and opinions of these juries,
and what are they worth? Absolutely nothing.
Why not abolish them entirely ? They are in-
deed an ancient institution ; an interesting relic
of the past; but quite useless to-day. If a
coroner’s jury brings in a verdict of murder or
manslaughter against a suspect, the coroner
commits him for trial—then the Attorney-
General may, or may not, file a bill against
him ; if the jury finds there is no case against
him, the same Attorney-General may still file
his indictment. If the jury finds manslaughter,
the Attorney-General may nevertheless proceed
for murder, so the jury really doesn’t amount
to a row of pins, anyhow. To allow the
coroner to sit on all inquests without a jury
would be giving him no more power than is
possessed by magistrates who, when inquiring
into the commission of any indictable offence,
sit without juries, and no one ever thinks this
is an injustice to the person charged. Coroners
juries are out of date, they are useless, they
are expensive—let us abolish them.
The Black North-West.
The white man came to the black north-west
For the east and south were want-opprest;
With a willing heart and a strong right hand
In search of work in a white man’s land.
He humped his drum, for his purse was low,
And he tramped cross-tracks that the drovers
know,
Till he struck a town in thy wild north-west
Which the dark Malay and the Jap. infest.
But his worn heart quailed when he learned, alack,
That he must be cheap, and he should be black.
For the master-men in the black north-west
Love the white men well but the cheap men best.
For a white man owns to a white man s vice,
He must have meat, but a Jap. eats rice ;
So the master men in the wild north-west
Love a white man well but a black man best.
They gave him work, out of charity,
At a black man’s wage in a white country ;
For you need not starve in a white man’s land,
You may have a bone if you lick the hand.
And he longed full oft with a hungering mouth,
To fight once more for the crumbs down south ;
But they held him low till his big heart shrunk
In the soulless wreck of a hopeless drunk.
Then the men white-faced with the inside black
Turned him south again on the dead men’s track,
Where the bird-picked bones of a man at rest
Warn the white men back from the black north-
west.
Let the cry go forth and be learnt by rote ;
Let the Patriot speak when the white men vote,
For the master men in the wild north-west
Keep a white man’s hell in an Asian nest.
Onslow, W.A.
WATT WHIPPLES.
“ Delcomyn ” on the Australian black
Editor Bulletin.—S.F. Monitor falls foul of the local
Chronicle for saying-, when reviewing Mark Twain’s last
booh that the Australian aborigines are Maoris. After
upsetting this statement, the Monitor itself goes for the
nigger. This is the indictment: —“ The native Australian
is a shiftless hound with a thirst. He is taciturn and
morose. He is a skulking coward who never faced an
enemy, but always struck in the hack. He is a thief and
a liar, incapable of being educated, and impervious to the
pleadings of civilisation. He is of low stature, and so
lazy that he will rather starve than work.” Now this is
making a bigger hash of things than the Chronicle man
made. In the first place, the writer is describing, or
partly describing, an Australian native ruined by “ the
pleadings of civilisation.” Of the native in his primal
state he evidently knows nothing. The myall nigger is
anything but shiftless and can subsist on the most
limited supply of fluid. The “ pleadings of civilisation
give him that expensive thirst. Instead of being
taciturn and morose, he is cheerful on the slightest
encouragement, and he is certainly not sulky. As to
striking in the back, etc., that is the sort of warfare he
has been brought up to ; it is his military tradition, and,
of course, he follows it, but he is no more a “ skulking
coward ” than the white man would be under similar cir-
cumstances—i.e., if defending his councry against in-
vasion of a powerful and superior raoe, armed with
unknown weapons of deadly precision. As to being
a thief and a liar: in his natural state he is not
a great thief, although he will pilfer a little until
matters are explained to him , and if he lies at times he
does it to please you. Ask him if there’s water in a
certain hole, he will not hesitate to assure you that there
is an ample supply; but this is done to give you
pleasure, as he knows you want to hear that there is
water there. A blackfellow will always say what he
thinks you want him to say ; and he lies with a reason-
ably-good motive. Instead of being impervious to the
pleadings of civilisation, he is singularly susceptible to
them, as represented by the civilisation of the back-
blocks, which is all that he comes in contact with, and
which’blights and degrades him at a touch. He is not
low in stature, but has a fairly high standard, far superior
to the present rising generation of Australian city-bred
whites, who generally reach the shoulder of the girl they
are walking with. And as to his laziness—why, if the
blackfellow would “ rather starve than work,” there
wouldn’t have been one here when the Dutch discovered
Australia. In his primitive state, uncontaminated by
white association, he is a hard worker, making finished
weapons, tools, hunting gear, baskets and fishing nets
with simple means of manufacture that would mock the
most ingenious European. No, the white man should not
call the black man lazy until he hunts the fat, loafing
bummers off our street corners. We have made the black
man a drunkard, a liar, and a loafer, and now abuse him
for learning our lesson so well.


By far the Best Victorian Coal.
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Claudian.”
Lyceum “ A Yorkshire Lass.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Town Hall Albani Concerts.
Royal Standard “ No Mercy.”
Belmore Park Hannston’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Babes in the Wood.”
Bijou “ The Tree of Knowledge.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Royal. “When London Sleeps.”
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Dramatic Co.
“Jack the Giant-Killer” came back to
Sydney last week, and turned itself on for a short
spell at the Tivoli. By the time these remarks
appear in print, however, it will have only two
more nights to run, and, therefore, it doesn’t call
for more than 2 k columns of profound analysis.
The present “ Jack ” is not altogether the
gorgeous spectacle it was at the Royal a month or
two ago. Since then it has been dragged to Mel-
bourne and back—which is not meant as a literal
statement that it was tied on behind the train with
a string and towed through the grit—and some-
thing of the dust of travel has accumulated on its
head, and the cold cinder has got into its ear. In
its second edition it looks more like Bill than
Jack. This is only a vague, general impression
which it is difficult to analyse ; but, anyhow, the
new jokes don’t seem quite so good as the old
ones, and the new girls don’t look quite so lovely
as their predecessors, and the eo. hasn’t the same
space in which tospread itself as it had at the Royal,
andthenightTHE Bulletin was there pretty Lottie
Moore didn t do her old reliable somersault, and
the audience which expected to see her two plump
pink extremities flourish over her curly head was
disappointed. Still, the original “Jack” was
such a tine production that even in its somewhat
faded state it is a very respectable pantomime.
The Hulines, the Haytor family, the Tiller
quartette, and Story Gofton’s meaty giant are
all the same as they used to be, which is some-
thing, anyhow. And when the thin, silly boy
whacks the silly fat boy with a great whack on
his artificial stomach, it recalls pleasant memories
of old pantomimes in the flowery days that are
gone. That vacant, vast youth with the artificial
stomach that the unlettered thin youth whacks
him on is a great pantomime institution, and
when he is finally worn out and departs out of the
Xmas show for good, he will leave a large void
behind him.
** * *
The MacMahon firm stages “ A Yorkshire
Lass ” at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday. This
piece is new to Sydney and is understood to be a
picturesque war-drama of the Crimean period with
Blood in it, and the flag waving triumphantly
over the accumulated horrid cadaver on the gory
field of strife. All of which is very comforting
and also gives scope for a vast amount of beautiful
uniform.
* * *
“ Claudian ” is to keep going at Her
Majesty’s till Easter, when it will be succeeded by
the “ Silver King.” The old bad Roman with
the sneer and the legs seems quite callable, too, of
holding up his end of the log till then, or even a
great deal longer. There is a certain fascination
about these plays of the old gaudy times, even
apart from their intrinsic merits, and they are
full of interesting problems. The people don’t
seem to toil as they do now ; they are a garish,
bejewelled crowd in purple and fine linen, who
apparently make an honest living by selling each
other as slaves, and hollering at the Prefect, and
1 eaning up against the tremendous marble palace
of the bad Roman with the diamonds and the leer.
The ladies, at all events, don’t work ; if they did
the quaint robes which have no shape or waist,
and which hang anyhow, would assuredly fall off.
The Roman lady, when she rises in the morning,
evidently stands up in the middle of the
floor with nothing on her but the pure
atmosphere of Italy, and then her solitary
garment —a piece of cloth 40yds. long—is
hove at her with a fork by her attendant slave-girl
to slow music. It never rains in the Roman
drama, and even the brown hermit who leads his
blameless existence in a blue cave seems to stand
the exposure very well, and make a comfortable
existence by working miracles and having visions.
And if everything else failed the unemployed in
those days could always go out and denounce a
Christian for breakfast. Those good times are
past, unfortunately ; the Domain lodger of to-day
is denounced by the Christians instead, who write
to the papers about him.
** * *
Last week The Bulletin complained that
** Claudian” dragged a good deal, but on second
thoughts it is perhaps right that it should. The
Roman drama has to go slow, else the lady of the
period would get mixed up in the tail of her un-
accountable garment and come down wallop, and
the very brief tail of the Roman gentleman’s kilt
would fly up disgracefully behind if he put on a
apurt ; and everything has to wander with an
impressive stride to be in keeping. Claudian even
dies slowly after making a long oration
among the ruins of his gorgeous palace, which fell
down gradually in the previous act, and as he dies
with his feet to the audience he has to fall down
gently, so that his brief skirt may not be disar-
ranged by the wind. After a second view, the
restful atmosphere of the drama began to soak
more effectually into the writer’s soul, and his
views on “Claudian” are more favourable. But
he deeply regrets the conversion of that tremendous
Eagan. The unregenerate Prefect whose evil leer
lights the vegetation is a far more effective char-
acter than the benevolent gentleman of the three
succeeding acts. The vast Roman legs don’t go
so well with benevolence and morality somehow.
** # *
Two more concerts of the Albani season
will be given on Saturday (April 2) and the fol-
lowing Monday. On Good Friday and Easter
Monday concerts will also be given at Sydney
Town Hall, with Madame Emily Spada, theever-
welcome Phil. Newbury, Mons. Wiegand, and
other first-class artists on deck. The Royal
Standard co. is doing great devastation with a
war-like drama called the “ Queen’s Colors.” The
“ Cin.,” at the Polytechnic, announces a new
series of pictures, among them “ a splendid
moving likeness of the Queen,” and the Agricul-
tural Society is organising a wood-chopping con-
test for 12th April.
* * *
Harmston's circus opens at Belmore Park
cm Saturday, and some observations thereupon
inay be expected in next issue. Also, various other
*hows are expected to swoop down on the im-
poverished city of Sydney at Easter.
* * #
Sydney Opera House closed up so unob-
trusively one night not long ago that the exact
«late of its closure escaped this paper’s notice.
There was no public announcement of the end of
the Barnes-Stanford season ; one night the greasy
portal remained shut, and the forlorn dog was left
in possession of the door-step, and that was all.
The Barnes-Stanford firm induced the old house
to keep going longer than it generally does; but
the usual downfall was inevitable in any case.
The writer had a horrible vision once that Wil-
liamson was induced to take the Opera House on
a long lease, and that he played Wilson Barrett
there to an audience of one, at eighteenpeuce,
but when he awoke he found that the dream was
merely the result of a cat-fight in the garden.
** * *
The Cartwright Comedy co. will open in
Sydney with “ A Marriage of Convenience,” and
“Dream Faces.” From which it would appear
that Cartwright isn’t a star who shines brightest
as a self-advertiser. In “The Marriage,” he
doesn’t show at all in the first two acts, and the
“fattest” character in the comedy falls to
Thursby, the beauty-man of the crowd. Cart-
wright’s seventeen-year-old daughter, Miss Edith
Morley, is said to have had some stage tuition in
Germany before her father brought her along to
try the effect of the fair damsel on the Australian
“ dog.” The same dawg will submit to any number
of such experiments without barking. Miss Edith,
in the language of profane bagmen, is a “plum,”
likewise a “ peach ” glistening with morning dew.
The grocer who described her as a consignment of
sugar is not a poet.
** * *
The public which stays away from Melb.
Bijou missed another bright and brainy enter-
tainment on Saturday. Good things are happen-
ing at the Bijou, but Charles Cartwright’s season
is frost-bitten, and, though the performance
“knocks” a limited first-night audience, the
applause is not to be accepted as a promise of
good business to come. “ The Tree of Know-
ledge ” was an artistic success on Saturday,
nevertheless it is probably a distinct financial
failure at time of writing, in which case “ The
Idler ” will take its place for the final week of the
company’s wasted endeavors. Time for Rickards
and Cartwright to complain that they haven’t re-
ceived sufficient encouragement from the Mel-
bourne press. In the flariug light of the Albani
concert-notices their grievance is very apparent.
* • * •
“The Tree of Knowledge,” by R. C.
Carton, is strong in everything but tricky effects.
It puts well-drawn characters upon the stage, and
they tell an interesting story in a natural way.
There are no clap-trap situations, no violent asser-
tions of one character’s importance at the ex-
pense of all the others. A rather gloomy bachelor,
who has lived with a fascinating light o’ lpve and
been duly deserted by her, chooses to reckon him-
self unfit for marriage with his mother’s adopted
daughter. The fascinating wicked creature turns
up again as the wife of the gloomy bachelor’s best
friend (a manly simpleton), and, having discovered
that her young husband isn’t as rich as
she took him for, she elopes with a cyni-
cal capitalist after a stormy interview with
her ex-lover, who would fain strangle the lady
rather than let her now treat his best friend
as she had treated him ten years ago. Then, the
adventuress, and the deserted husband, and the
drawling capitalist having played their parts, the
gloomy bachelor is left in the last act to marry his
mother’s nice adopted daughter and make the two
women happy. The whole-souled harlot, when
last seen, was going off in the darkness with her
new protector, and her husband was asleep on the
sofa when the drama left him. She kissed the
sleeper on his forehead ere she went away, re-
marking that the best and the worst women are
equally subject to such little weaknesses. A keen
moralist this wicked female. She had previously
remarked that “ no virtue is so austere as that of
the man who has found somebody else.”
• * * •
Miss Beatrice Lamb plays the adventuress
well and truly—a striking performance by a gor-
geously-apparelled artist. This is Miss Lamb’s
best achievement in Melbourne ; also Arthur
Styan, as the cynical “betrayer,” Miss Stewart,
as a white-haired parent, and Miss Darragh, as
the nice girl, are better than they have been in
any previous piece. Charles Thursby is a good-
looking young husband, anyhow. Hartley
Manners appears in the sham whiskers
of a ruined father to great disadvantage, but
Edwin Lester is singularly well-suited to the
small part of a mayor. Charles Cartwright is not
at his strongest as the gloomy bachelor, but Cart-
wright in any capacity is interesting and mag-
netic, and his attempt to choke Miss Lamb seems
likely to result fatally, sooner or later. “ The
Tree of Knowledge ” is mounted regardless of
empty benches. An admirable show.
** # *
“ When London Sleeps,” at the Royal, is
a tremendously-farcical melodrama with a lucra-
tive future before it. The seeds of trouble are
sown in the green-room of a travelling circus,
where a vociferous Fitzgerald Brother keeps the
peace among any members of the co. who may be
thirsting for one another’s blood. Here the White
Queen of the Slack Wire tells her love to an ele-
gant hero in drab tights and spangles, and becomes
suddenly possessed of a vast inheritance. From
that time forward the White Queen is chased by
a remorseless captain, who is next heir to
the inheritance, also by a circus lady who
covets the spangled hero, and the married
life of the White Queen becomes most un-
comfortable. They lure her into a haunt of
vice, concerning which The Bulletin will blush
in silence. Her character is saved, however, by a
clown on this occasion. A subsequent plot to
roast the White Queen and her child in the dead
of night, when London sleeps, is frustrated by a
stroke of dramatic genius. The house in which
she was shut up to burn happens to be “on the
telephone,” and the Queen —or somebody like her
—walks along the telephone-wire with the child
on her back. There is no apparent decep-
tion about this awful proceeding, which is
illuminated by stage-flames from the burning
housetop. In the last act the Queen gets
casually left in a temple at an aliened Indian Ex-
hibition (in London), and the captain, disguised
as a high-priest, is roasting her upon the altar of
Somnah when her husband springs from the
interior of the sacred idol and hands the captain
over to the police. The bustle, scenery, and
splendid foolishness of “ When London Sleeps ”
form a pleasant evening’s amusement. W. J.
Montgomery, Charles Holloway, Edwin Kelly, J.
P. O’Neill, William and Amy Gourley, Miss
Duggan, Miss Deorwyn, and 20 other people took
part in the festivities. The telephone wire-worker
is understood to be an expert professional, and
The Bulletin hopes she is sure-footed, for the
cheeild’s sake.
** * *
“ Gay Parisienne ” has kept the Princess’s
pretty well crowded of late. The multitudes who
dote on musical comedy are not likely to with-
draw their patronage when “ Babes in the Wood ’
conies along next Saturday, April 3. Everybody is
aware, or ought to be, that “ Babes ” is one of W.
and M.’s most expensive spectacles up to date,
and when this is said a lot of other things may be
left to speak for themselves.
** * *
The remarkable Hegelmanns and a variety
co., whose principal names loom large on the bill,
were joyfully received at Melb. Opera House, last
week, and the same bill, with a few variations,
promises to fill a want for an indefinite period.
** * *
At the Alexandra they are playing a some-
what less lurid drama than usual under the title
of “The Days of the Land Boom.’ The title
looks promising, but the plot, on investigation,
proves to be lacking in local allusions, and
although Dan. Barry himself is very reminiscent
of a famous undertaker, deceased, the resemblance
is seemingly accidental. “ The Days of the
Boom ” will not run for more than one consecu-
tive week.
** * *
Florence Schmidt has gone on a concert-
tour to her native Queensland, where, unless the
natives make the same mistake as the Victorians
in Melba’s case, she will make a pile. This young
lady, who possesses one of the finest soprano
voices ever put into a human throat, is struggling
to raise enough money to finish her studies in
Europe. If her Queensland countrymen waste
this opportunity of doing honor to themselves by
doing honor to her, they will miss a chance that
may never occur again in a blue moon. All sorts
of things may happen in a country like Queens-
land, but a great soprano voice combined with a
true musical soul only happens rarely in
the whole world. When it does come, let us
not wait for the “’Ome” imprimatur, but
sail in on our own responsibility and rave
at first hand, instead of doing a lot of
second-hand raving about great singers who come
here in their decadence. Florence Schmidt has a
great, pure soprano, of endless range and limit-
less power. She tills the big Sydney Town Hall
with perfect ease. Though she may lack the cul-
chaw and finish of the Baris polishing-schools,
she, at any rate, has not had the lusciousness and
freshness of her voice polished out of her. Sydney
is going to give her a benefit; and, if the Queens-
landers don’t do as much for her as the Southerners,
they deserve to produce nothing but politicians.
** * *
More American comment on Melba—this
time complimentary, by clever Geraldine Bonner
in S.F. Argonaut—
What a voice ! To what class did it belong? What did
it suggest? It was Italian—at least, the voice that
belongs to Italian music. It had in it all that soulless,
pagan joy that exults and throbs in the music of Italy.
It was one of those voices, like Patti’s, that seem in some
way above the responsibilities and pains and passions of
this world, and yet is not a voice that belongs to the
world of harps and angels. They are the voices of the
Golden Age, without conscience, without care, without
concern, 'full of the love of life, echoing the songs
of birds, the ripple of water, the murmurous music
of the wind in trees. Of the clamors, and tears,
and groans of the children of this world they know
nothing and hold no notes of understanding or of sym-
pathy. Wagner felt with these, and he made his music
cry with the cries of their anguish and thrill with the
pulse of their rapture. But the Italian voices—the
singers of the pure bel canto— shake out their notes like
the bird balancing on the branch, oblivious, indifferent,
but exultingly perfect. Melba’s voice is neither so flexible
nor so ethereal as Patti’s. The flute-like quality is not so
remarkable. The tone is richer, suggests in some way
■ more the singing of a woman and less the singing of a
sprite or an Undine. Yet it has not the lucidly sym-
pathetic tone which made Albani’s the most caressingly
feminine voice of its day and generation. It is pagan
and sensuous, unconcerned and without heart, but
full of a measureless joy and delight. One of the
most remarkable things about it is its suggestion
of fluent, effortless force and abundance. The ease with
which it is produced, the prodigal lavishness with which
it is used mid the strength and freshness of it give an
impress! m '< inexhaustible, buoyant power and richness.
For herself, Melba is a stout, handsome woman, looking
like a Jewess. She is not graceful, and she makes little
or no effort to act. Indeed, there is an air about her as
of one who says : “I sing for you—that is enough !”
Dressed magnificently in pink, embroidered in silver tin-
sel, she went through her long solo in the first act —the
Opera, by the way, was “Traviata”—walking up and down
the stage, and now and then approaching the footlights,
and challengingly -almost insolently in the power of her
triumph—flinging at the audience a tour de force of song.
* * *-
C.R. : The Continental Concert experi-
ment tried at Melb. Exhibition was a sad financial
failure - chiefly because the Govt, which, in
matters of this sort, is the bond-slave of every
Big or Little Bethel (always with the genial ex-
ception of the R.O. Ebenezer) permits only
temperance bilge-water to be sold in places
of public entertainment after 7 p.m. This
means that men’s liquor is not sold in
these places at all, as they don’t open until
after that time. The reason of the restric-
tion is obvious. If such drinks as lager beer or
wir.e were allowed to be sold at the C. Concerts,
for instance, the majority of the male audience
would, of course, get hog-drunk as rapidly as
possible, and then stagger out and lurch and
plunge through the business streets to the annoy-
ance of God-fearing persons who would then be in
the thick of their Saturday night’s shopping.
At Poverty Point.
Kyrle Bellew and Mrs. Potter, at latest dates, were
doing fairly at London Adelphi with “ Charlotte Corday”
in the evenings and “Lady of Lyons ” matinees. Even
London seems to have outlived the artificial sentiment of
Bulwer Lytton’s piny, and the critics treat the revival as
an interesting curio in dramatic art. Bellew, however,
gets warm praise for his hearty, picturesque rendering of
Claude Melnotte, and Mrs. P., in the name-part, is kindly
spoken of. It goes without saying that they don't get
praised up to their own ideas of “ fair play.” Mummers
in London (as elsewhere) protest against alleged news-
paper plots to crush their respective shows for the sake
of Irving, or Beerbohtn Tree, or George Alexander, or
somebody else who happens to be the rage. They tell
most absurd yarns, based on the purely mummeric
supposition that the theatrical notice writers, editors,
and proprietors of at least twenty important journals
form a happy family of conspirators, engaged in an ever-
lasting attempt to ruin deserving showmen. It is the
accursed cant of the perfeshun. All mummers and
managers have it more or less on their tongues or in their
hearts. Look even at that level-headi d commercial actor,
Wilson Barrett. No man has been more generously
treated by the press, and yet when he aims at paralysing
the public as a tragedian, and gets only moderate praise,
his satellites start the “ conspiracy ” cry. In the vocabu-
lary of histrionic conceit there is no such word as Fail.
Charles Thursby, the beauteous young man of the Cart-
wright Comedy Co., is vaguely rumored to be the son of
an earl, or something of that kind. Probably the female
wish is mother to the thought. Melbourne girls—as
many as saw him in “A Marriage of Convenience”—
adore Thursby, and all girls like to dearly love the son of
a lord.
Walter Bentley, foiled for aldermanship, consoles him-
self with the alluring thought of tacking M.L A. to his
name after next Q. elections. As monitor of Saturday
Nioiit he keeps his name well in the front, and “does a
Ranji ”in the daily press whenever he can. “ Speak well
o’ mv bairn, speak ill o’ my bairn, but aye keep speaking
of him.”
Carl Hertz (writes one of his assistants to a Melbourne
friend) is doing well in India, but there are drawbacks.
Says the letter : “ This is a dreadful country. It is now
135 deg. in the shade, and they say that’s not hot! But
the heat’s not the only misfortune; the stink of the
blackfeilows is enough to knock you down—worse than
the Yarra used to be! The boss is doing splendid biz.
He has got the audiences by the wool; he can’t go wrong,
for he has the luck of a Chinaman. We are turning them
away nightly. Played three weeks in Bombay, and could
have played another three, but the plague was raging so
badly we were glad to get away. They are dying in hun-
dreds daily at Bombay. It is terrible to walk out, for you
see nothing but corpses being carried away. It is all
right in Calcutta ; the plague has not reached there yet,
but the authorities are very particular—they examine you
about 50 miles along the line from Bombay to Calcutta.
Next address, Hongkong, G.P.0.”
One of city organist Wiegand’s musical enemies, testi-
fying before Sydney Council, remarked that “if one
pandered to the public taste, the most rapturous applause
would follow the performance of ‘ Pop goes the Weasel.’ ”
Which incited the combative Wiegand to give his follow-
ing vveek’s audience the tune in question. “This air,”
says the D.T.s musical crank, “considered by some
experts to possess no educational value, was a pregnant
one to M. Wiegand. His improvisation, spontaneous and
natural, was distinguished for its contrapuntal features.
At times he treated his theme playfully, toying with the
weasel in a freer style. Allowing his fancy full play, he
produced some dainty effects with the carillons, and,
finally returning to a serious vein, he closed in a most
profound and scholarly style. ‘Bravos!’ and much
applause greeted the improvisation.”
Churchand Stage again. Apologising on Saturday night,
at Melb. Opera House, for his wife, through in-
disposition, Michael Nolan concluded : ‘'But, please God,
she'll be here on Monday.”
On Feb. 20, Nat. Goodwin and Maxine Elliott were
married at Cleveland, O. The divorce-decree which pro-
hibits Goodwin's re-marriage during life-time of his first
wife is only operative within the state of New York.
Melbourne is glad to see its old friend, Howard Vernon,
cutting a first-class figure as the Major in “ Gay Parisi-
enne.” How ’ard Vernon works !
Paradis : “ Someone says the coat worn by Thursby, in
the last act of “Moths,” is sable-lined, cost 200 guineas.
Well, I was blaming him for wearing such a thing. But
the money is all inside. Does not this remind you of the
star who blacked himself all over for Othello? Sham
always beats reality, in stage proppery ”
At the close of that Melb. St. Patrick’s service which
Albani attended, but didn't vocally assist, a lady was
heard to deplore the fact that there was no Aus' ralian
artiste who could come within miles of that! Yet the
singer had been the regular choir soprano, Madame
Gabfiella Boema. On the subsequent occasion, also,
when Albani was expected to sing at St. Pat’s, but didn’t
even put in an appearance, many persons went away de-
lighted to think that —in the same Boema—they had
heard the world-famed Canadian. “We find what wa
expect to find ! ’’
( Continued on page 15).
Reid’s Confession of Faith.
It has always been a matter of uncertainty in
Sydney whether the Herald or the Telegraph
owned Premier Reid, but last Monday the ques-
tion was practically settled. The two papers
parted company on the Federal question, the
Herald going for the high ideal of Australian
nationhood, while the Telegraph decided to
grovel in the mud of provincialism and sacrifice
all the great possibilities of the future to the
imported calico interests of the present. And
when they parted company they both whistled to
Reid to follow them, whereupon he decided his
ownership by running after the Herald. He is
now following the Herald slowly, with his tail
down, and at a considerable distance —but still he
is following it. On Monday last, in the presence
of a vast public meeting, Premier Reid defined
himself as a Federationist, though not a very
enthusiastic one. He devoted more time, cer-
tainly, to pointing out the disadvantages of
the Convention Bill than its advantages—still,
in the end, he promised to give his own .vote
for the acceptance of the Constitution, and the
mere promise counts for a great deal. His analysis
of the Convention scheme was, in most respects,
very fair, despite a streak of occasional hostility.
The most notable statement in it was the one
which knocked the ground from under the
Telegraph’s crude invention, that the Conven-
tion had committed the future Federal Govern-
ment to Protection, and that every true apostle
of shoddy should vote against it in consequence.
The only clause in the. Constitution which can
possibly be tortured into an appearance of com-
mitting the Commonwealth to any fiscal policy is
Premier Braddon’s famous amendment, according
to which only one-fourth of the Customs and
Excise revenue is to be retained by the
Federal Government for its own expenses,
while the other three-fourths are to be divided
among the States. The parochial shoddyites
represent this as meaning that the Federal Go em-
inent is to pay all its expenses out of one-fourth of
the customs and excise revenue and return the
balance, thereby necessitating a very heavy tariff.
Premier Reid’s explanation put the matter in its
true light, and showed that the clause was rather
an incentive to the Federal Treasurer to raise
what revenue he required by direct taxation than
otherwise. If the Federal Treasurer wants
<£250,000 and raises it by direct taxation he need
only raise the quarter million he requires. If he
wants <£250,000 and proposes to get it by customs
duties he must collect a whole million, for of every
<£l he collects in customs duties he is bound to
hand 15s. to the State Treasuries. Therefore, it is
very much easier for him at a financial crisis to
raise revenue by income or land tax than by
Customs, and the assertion that the Common-
wealth is committed to Protection stands out, not
only as a fiction, but as an infamously stupid one.
The most lamentable part of Premier Reid’s
speech was his declaration that he was bitterly
opposed to federating the railways ; but even'with
this reservation in favor of provincialism he has
declared himself sufficiently to aggravate his old
supporter, the Telegraph, to red-hot fury. At
time of writing Premier Reid and the Telegraph
don’t speak, but merely heave road-metal at each
other as they pass by.
The Ship Atacama.
The Bulletin has received a letter from
Messrs. Sly and Russell, solicitors ’to Mr. Mahlon
C. Cowlishaw, which states that Mr. Cowlishaw
was the sole registered owner of the lost ship
Atacama ;, and, that it cost Mr. Cowlishaw £lBOO
to do the repairs. Messrs. Sly and Russell further
state that the captain of the Atacama, who super-
intended the repairs, had carte blanche to do
everything that was necessary so that the vessel
should be in a seaworthy condition in every re*-
peot.


SIR JOHN
POWER’S
Whiskey.
R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Ana. |
Rm. f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 °/o.
CAUSTIC, CARRONATE SODA, BORAX,
LITHARGE, CHLORATE POTASH, BONE ASH,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Mining: Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 ~PUt- at., Sydney ; Ilf C wriest., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood., Sole Proprietors.
Simpson’s Sulkies
No Horse-and-Cart Motion
The Best of Stuff well put together.
You have never seen one broken down.
SIDNEY SIMPSON.
Newtown, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
. Policy-holder ”: The balance-sheet reckons
stationery used under expenditure and stationery on hand
among the assets ; if you weren’t a superior ass you would
be able to understand a simple thing like that. Also,
The Bulletin based its criticism on the figures in the
balance-sheet ; the confused remarks of the man who
made a very muddled speech at the annual meeting don’t
alter them in the least.
* * » *
The Maoriland Government expects to close its
financial year at the end of this month with the splendid
surplus of £400,000. With £400,000 to spend on public
works, the floating of a big loan becomes all the more in-
excusable.
* * • *
The Victorian State Land Bank announces its
first ballot for the repayment of bonds. According to a
particularly insane provision of the Act, money received
as repayments from borrowers must not be lent out again
however much it is needed, but must be paid back to the
bondholders. Therefore the State Land Bank is selling
new bonds with one hand and repaying old ones with the
other. The lenders don’t want their money back—what
they do want is a long, safe investment. The arrange-
ment by which their money may be forcibly repaid to
them before they have even drawn one year’s interest
makes it difficult to get the public to invest in these bonds
at all. The State Land Bank doesn’t want to part with the
money ; it has plenty of uses for it in its business. But
the fool of a law says that things must be done this way,
so they are done this way.
• * * *
The Insurance and Banking Record figures
out that 14 Australasian banks have lost £11,842,721
among them since 1893. And this doesn’t include the
losses of the Federal, Mercantile, and Bank of South
Australia, and of the thirty or forty land banks and build-
ing societies which have died or reconstructed since the
boom, nor the immense losses of certain large loan and
mortgage concerns. If these had been included and the
figures had gone back to ’9l, probably the losses of public
companies alone would have been not far from £30,000,000.
Among the banks, the biggest single item in the list is
that of the Q.N.B. (£2,332,684). Then comes the Com-
mercial of Australia (£2,061,547), the B.N.Z. (£1,453,331
written off in the last five years, though if its previous
writings-down were included it would be the boss disaster
of the lot), and the E.S. and A. (£1,233,863). The
Record’s list deals only with losses actually announced,
but anyone who knows anything of the inner workings of
Australian banks could locate another £2,000,000 or more
which certain banks and alleged banks have yet to make
provision for. f
* * * *
At the end of 1892 the banks doing business in
Australasia had £8,833,296 of reserves among them. At
the end of ’97 they could only muster £5,029,042.
The most lamentable bank on earth —the Stan-
dard Bank of Melbourne —reached the end of another
stage in its career on 31st December, 1897. The half-
year’s income was £1246, and the expenditure (interest
on borrowed money and working expenses) was £10,479,
so the outlay was 8J times the receipts. Some of the
doings of this amazing bank are a? follows: —
Receipts. Expenditure. Deficit.
December, 1894 .. £26,744 £33,581 £6,837
June, 1895 .. .. 23,238 28,146 4,908
December, 1895 .. 17,241 18,754 1,513
June, 1896 .. ... 10,962 18,026 7,064
December, 1896 ... 3,268 i 1,261 7,993
June, 1897 .. .. 1,571 10,678 9,107
December, 1897 .. 1,246 10,749 9,503
It is difficult to imagine anything more hopeless than a
bank which gets its deposit money at the exceedingly
low rate of 2£ per cent., and yet can’t earn enough
to pay one-eighth of its outgoings. Why the utterly
disgraceful Standard wasn’t blotted out long ago when
(by comparison) respectable institutions like the City
of Melbourne, Mercantile, and Federal went under,
is a mystery. If the latest receipts are any
criterion, the Standard’s assets should be saleable for
about £65,000 as against about £756,000 of liabilities to
the public. The two biggest assets are “ Doubtful
accounts, £520,105,” and accumulated deficiency, £435,838.
The first batch of reconstructed deposits will become due
in a few months, and, as the Standard is obviously quite
unable to pay, the depositors have been requested to decide
what they intend to do with the most melancholy bank on
earth. If they are well-advised, they will do something
sudden and to the point, and prevent the institution
publishing any more dismal half-yearly literature. As a
thoroughly bad advertisement for Victoria, the Standard
Bank is unique.
• * * *
The Queensland Auditor - General’s report on
the Q.N. Bank makes things look rather better, in one
respect, than they appeared in the balance-sheet. The
“ profit, £8000,” certainly didn’t look genuine, by reason
of its beastly exactness, but the A.-G. states that the
visible profit was £16,635 Bs. lid. of which £8635
Bs. lid. was transferred on general principles to the
contingency account now being accumulated to cover
further depreciation. He also adds that the bank
property has now been written down to the
actual valuation. Incidentally, however, he turns a
merciless light on the smallness of the Q.N.B.’s business
nowadays ; out of “ Private deposits and other liabilities
£918,911,” it appears that £551,907 are current account s
and about £60,000 fixed deposits and interests; the rest
is “ other liabilities.” Also, the board explained proudly
that the securities sold during the year realised
£10,929 over the book values, arid this created
a general idea that the great mass of assets
had been written down to less than their real
value. The A.-G. reports that the profit was made by
selling Mount Morgan shares on a rise, and that the other
properties realised less than the estimate. This leaves
the old doubt about the possibility of further losses still
in full force. In these and other matters the report of
the Queensland Auditor-General is so different from the
average auditor’s meagre, sketchy certificate that Tiie
Bulletin’s conviction as to the advisability of a regular
State audit of all banks is more emphatic than ever.
* * » *
The Modern Permanent Building Society (Mel-
bourne) has negotiated with its creditors to keep on
accepting the reduced interest rate of 2£ per cent.,
and it gets five years extra for repayment of the
principal. If the Society’s earnings are large enough
to allow of it the depositors are to get more than 2£
per cent, and not over 5 per cent., but the chance is
probably too small to call for much consideration. Last
year the Modern made a loss of £7511 ; and out of
£688,000 assets £345,000 consists of house property in
possession and nearly £lOO,OOO is “ vacant land.” The
chief joy of having £345,000 worth of house property in
Melbourne now is that all these houses have to be con-
nected at heavy expense with the new Fitzgibbon sewers.
The Modern’s values are mostly the old paper values of
the good old times, and this big institution doesn’t even
pretend to know where it are, as things go now. In fact,
it simply says that its assets used to be worth so much,
which is about as much to the point as the fact that there
used to be a megatharium.
* » * •
That comparatively new concern, the Farmers’
Co-operative Fire and Marine Insurance Association of
Canterbury (M.L.) continues to prosper remarkably. The
net premiums for the year were £44s4—about £4OO more
than last year—and the profit on insurance business alone
was £2114. The co. also received £2929 as interest on in-
vestments, so the total profits are £5043. Shareholders
get 6 per cent, dividend, and a bonus of 10 per cent, on
their business ; also, £lOOO is added to reserve, making it
£4OOO, and about £5OO is carried forward. The Farmers’
Co-operative co. is the newest insurance co. in Austra-
lasia, and, considering the general tendency to sell the
business to Bull, any attempt at forming a new local co.
is commendable. Also, considering that it has £48,910
capital and £5850 of reserves to set against its very small
amount of insurance risks, it may fairly claim to be the
safest fire and marine co. in the Seven Provinces.
* * * •
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance Co.,
of Maoriland, was struck heavily by the Melbourne fire,
and the year ended 31st December, ’97, showed a loss of
£4872. The co. paid a half-year’s dividend at the rate of
7J per cent, before the disaster fell upon it, and, after
that, not having the courage to stop the div. altogether,
it paid at the rate of 21 per cent, per annum for the
second half—making 5 per cent, for the year. Adding
the loss of £4872 and the dividend of £3750 together, the
Standard went £8622 to the bad, and has had to take
£lO,OOO from reserves. This leaves it with £75,000 capi-
tal and £35,229 reserves, and, if it wants to pull itself to-
gether again, it will need to keep the dividend down to 5
per cent, for a few years to come. For a concern of the
size and age of the Standard, the reserves are not nearly
so large as they ought to be. The biggest part of the
Standard’s assets appear simply as “ Investments,
£62,692,” which is about as little information as could
well be put into one line of print.
* • * *
At the end of 1897 Sydney and its contents
were insured for £60,426,000. Of this amount, N.S.W.
companies held 24J millions ; other Australasian com-
panies, 9J millions ; British and other foreign companies,
26j millions. In the last three years the business of the
Australasian companies remained stationary, while that
of foreign companies increased by f-million. But since
the end of ’97 three local co’s doing business in Sydney
have sold out to Bull, so the foreign offices now hold prac-
tically half the business.
» * * *
The costly Melbourne sewerage scheme is a vast
blessing in one respect, anyhow. It is causing the sum-
mary destruction of hundreds of foul, dilapidated two and
three-roomed wooden shanties in the low-lying regions of
Richmond and Oollingwood—structures which are so far
gone as not to be worth the cost of connection with the
new sewers. Melbourne was so over-built in the boom
that a lot of these mean little shanties have never been
wanted since, and have been steadily decaying for years
past. Their removal gets rid of many grievous eye-sores
and fever-beds, and, by reducing the number of super-
fluous houses, it will probably increase the value of those
which remain to an extent that will more than cover the
loss. Another advantage is that these old-time hovels
were often built on frontages just about a dog’s jump
across, and, when once they come down, the new building
regulations will prevent any similar horrors taking their
places.
* * * *
Advice to Australians' about to try their for-
tune on the Yukon : Never play cards ; never carry a
pistol when in camp. No cards, no rows ; and the “ gun
less man is never shot—at least, not more than about once
in a blue moon.—Uncle Sam.
* * * »
Shipowners on the Pacific Slope seem to be
rigging up all the old hookers available to carry human
cargoes to the Klondyke. Already two vessels bound
from ’Frisco have been lost with all on board. One
barque found floating keel-upwards (she had sailed with
40 souls), was built exactly 50 years ago. The Bulletin
predicts that a few ancient vessels which Australian
owners now have in view, will also fulfil their apparent
destiny, and plunge down in the submarine wake of many
a Newcastle coal-ship or Californian emigrant vessel.
* * * *
Nelson and Nelson, Limited’s, annual report is
authority for the statement that up to date 9000 tons of
frozen rabbit, equal to 420,000 sheep, have been shipped
from Australasia.
» * * ♦
B. H. Prop. Manager Stewart says it isn’t true
that he has been offered the management of the Chilla-
goe, but he has agreed (his directors consenting) to report
upon it. The Bowes Itelly-Knox-Schlapp interest is
behind the venture ; the same, in short, that brought the
Mt. Lyell to the front.
* * * •
The 1721 b. slug of dyscrasite found in B.H.
Consols mine, the other day, is one of the largest ever
won from the property—always remarkable for its silver
marvels. The slug, which had to be dug out of oxidised
iron, will yield about 80 per cent, of fine silver. The
famous “Turtle” slug discovered in 1891 weighed over
16001 b., and was worth, at the then price of silver, about
£4OOO.
* * * *
British B.H. directors still have strong hopes of
the success of the English sulphide-treating process, so
far secret, which, for two years past, they have had under
their wing. A parcel of 50 tons ore has just been sent
’Ome for experimental treatment on a practical scale.
The British, by the way, was the scene of the last serious
mine-accident at Broken Hill, three lives being lost; and
there has been a pretty strong tendency to go for the co.
for damages over the matter. But the labor bodies, which
were moving, split on the subject, and are now calling
one another names.
» * » »
Block 14 has still more buddies ready ; and so
the tedious but so far reliable mechanical process for the
gradual separation of the metals in the sulphides goes on
extending.
* * » *
A Luhrig concentrating mill goes up at the
Pinnacles on the advice of consulting-engineer Pitcairn,
who has had experience of that type of plant.
Vic. Full Court refuses the British B.H. co. an
appeal to the Privy Council in the Dry Creek Smelting
co.’s matter until all local processes are exhausted.
I* » * *
Announced that an error has been found in the
return of matte from the Lake George mines, N.S.W. —
47J tons in excess of the actual quantity sent away. That
represents about 20 tons of copper besides gold and silver.
Somebody will probably suffer for this. Time has shown
in this case how much easier in mining it is to foreshadow
great things than to accomplish them.
* * * *
Though a somewhat disappointing mine, the
Myalls United (N.S.W.) is doing good work with 7 and
Bdwt. rock. The cost of mining, milling, and manage-
ment is given as 11s. 3d. per ton, or about 15s. including
cyaniding. A good profit is thus shown, but with such a
capital it will take a big production to pay small divs.
Victory Forest Reefs (N.S.W.): The directors
claim that the mining development on this mine is the
quickest done in Australasia. Divs. are talked of, but
there are some heavy debts to clear off.
* * * *
Again something seems to have gone a bit wrong
with the squatters’ mine, the Overflow, N.S.W. One man
proposed to cradle the ore for gold ; then a lead-smelting
furnace was talked of, and one purchased ; finally dry-
crushing and cyanide were resorted to. News that every-
thing was going like clockwork came along, and shares
moved upwards. Then followed just a whisper that per-
colation was slow. The slime trouble again ?
* * « *
Cobar Great Western, N.8.W., decided to add
another 10 stamps to the running ten. Seems to writer
the better plan would be to add a cyanide plant instead.
That would have doubled the production at very much
less cost. It could have been erected for less money than
it will take to conserve water to ensure the constant run-
ning of a 20-head mill.
* * * •
The pneumatophors, which Sydney Smith,
N.S.W. Minister for Mines, imported on the strength of
reports that they were new contrivances that would per-
mit work to be carried on in underground places full of
smoke or gas, have hardly come up to expectations. Ex-
tensive trials have been made at Broken Hill, where great
loss of property and life has hitherto occurred upon out-
breaks of fire in the extremely gaseous Oregon timber ;
but, although men, when supplied with the instrument,
can breathe for half-an-hour in any atmosphere, the
mouthpiece and other parts are so awkward and unwieldy
that the contrivance is declared useless for anything be-
yond exploratory purposes and in the most favorable
circumstances. Further, it does not afford any protection
to the eyes against smoke or gas, though that could, no
doubt, be overcome.
* » * *
The Birthday—a much-boomed and tipped mine,
Parkes, N.S.W. : “ Resolutions were passed unanimously
empowering the directors to sell or otherwise dispose of
the mine.” Much easier to pass resolutions than to find
buyers. Failing in that direction it is proposed to form a
new company.
* j(t 9 *
A Bathurst man, barracking for the Mt. David
mine, N.S.W. : “ Detractors of the mine are continually
cavilling at the indebtedness of the co., carefully shutting
their eyes to the fact that a few months’ work with the
new battery power will wipe the debt out, and then divs.
can be talked about.” Bosh 1 It is the manner in which
this great debt was brought about that has caused the
trouble which the Equity Court has been called upon to
settle.
* * * *
North Nymagee, N.S.W.: “Have no doubt
the ore will get more solid and defined with depth.” Per-
haps so—hope so. But when are we going to hear a
manager express the opinion that ore will become poorer
with depth—as it so very often does ?
• * * *
The Klondike Prospecting Dish, advertised in
this issue, is supported by testimonials from the N.S.W.
Inspector of Mines and other authorities, as being a great
improvement on the primitive, no-account dish of earlier
days. The manager of the Mount Cornish mine, in par-
ticular, booms it, on the ground that it washes the dirt
much faster than the old dish and saves all the gold—
which the common or garden vessel certainly doesn’t.
The manager of the Beacon gold-mine gives similar testi-
mony—he reports that he put 3gr. of gold in a dish of
gravel, and recovered it all by the washing process in
ljmin., while the same experiment in an ordinary dish
took 3min. and lost igr.
» * * *
Phoenix Golden Pile (Gympie): 120 tons, 21400 z.
Rich but erratic are Gympie mines, and the camp is too
old to boom.
* » * *
Miles and Co., Charters Towers, say of the
Brilliant :— ■“ The mine looks well, but the reserves of ore
will diminish unless there is something discovered in sink-
ing the vertical shaft.”
* * * •
The latest yarners from the North profess to
know of a much richer field than Chillagoe.
* * * *
The Pikedale Copper Mine (Q.) near the N.S.W.
border, the prospectus of which has been extensively
advertised throughout Australia, has started to work in
earnest, the flotation having been underwritten in Bris-
bane. The managing director is Mr. Rodda, for some
years manager of Lake George. The ore runs from 6ft. to
12ft. wide, from 2 to 10 per cent, copper, and averages
some 20oz. silver. Some thousands of tons have been
smelted. It is on a freehold, and the only drawback is the
owner’s royalty.
* * * *
The Leigh’s Creek coal deposit in northern S.A.
may be developed, after all. An Adelaide-English syndi-
cate is nosing it and a number of far-northern copper
shows. But, as to the latter, the report of successful
trials of iron telephone wires (copper has always been used
hitherto) comes as a steadier.
• * * *
George Lansell, the Bendigo mining king, has
at last done a rash thing, of which he ought to be ashamed
in his old age, and which, on reflection, he will surely
regret. Some weeks ago a number of men, including an
underground boss, were suddenly discharged, and
recently he intimated that others would follow. Suspicion
of gold-stealing the cause. The men waited on Lansell,
and pointed out the difficulty of getting work elsewhere
with the rumor abroad. The old man was adamant, and
th£ men declined to wait for their dismissal and left.
Their manager, Northcott, a relative of Lansell’s, who has
been manager of the 180 mine for about 30 years, sup-
ported the men’s attitude by his own resignation. Bravo !
Northcott. From all accounts, it would be hard to do
much gold-stealing in the mine, which has for years been
poorer than a church-mouse. The Victoria Quartz, the
adjoining mine, is much richer, and there the men have
asked in writing to be searched daily.
» * ♦ *
The Deddick movement in Melb. grows more
interesting and humorous. Last week there was a con-
ference of Deddickskites, representing the parent “mine”
and its large litter of kittens, and, “ on the motion of
Mr. Begelhole, seconded by Mr. J. B. Tonner, it was
decided to take united action to secure railway, telephonic,
and postal services for the field by forming a permanent
committee.” It has to be noted that the scene of this
sparkling Begelhole-Tonner comedy was Chief-Secretary
Peacock’s office in Collins-st., wherefore the “united
action ” of Begelhole, Tonner and co. promises to express
itself in further appeals to the Minister of Mines for the
railway, telephonic, and postal services aforesaid. Minis-
ter Foster’s constituents are scattered around the dark-
some Deddick district, and Chief-Sec. Peacock is legal-
manager for one or more Deddick syndicates. The much-
boomed Gippsland mountain may be what Begelhole and
Tonner say it is, or it may be the “ frost ” it has appeared
to sundry other people ; anyhow, the obvious political
duty of Peacock is to let the Deddick crowd do its
hustling in somebody else’s office.
* « * *
Some £50,000 has been spent in prospecting the
old Poverty mine, Vic., since the gold gave out some 20
year’s ago, about half of it by the present owners—an
English co. that has reason to expect better things in
opening up the next lift. Curious name for a mine that
crushed many thousand tons of three, four, and five-oz.
stuff, and yielded gold to the value of 1J million. Origin-
ally consisted of three claims, but the whole of the gold
came from less than 150 ft. of ground, and most of it from
25ft.
• • » •
The M.L. Govt, proposes to charge for the use
of the cyanide process H per cent, royalty on ore of less
value than £3, 2 per cent, between £3 and £4, and 21 per
cent, for all above £4 per ton in value. The patentees would
never have had any trouble in Australasia if they had
been content with such charges. As it is they get heavy
royalties from a few works, and none at all from a great
number. When is this question going to be fought out in
N.S.W. ?
* * • *
Quartz : “Mr. Knox greatly errs in stating the
divs. of the North Cross G.M. co., Stawell, at £300,000.
The North Cross paid over £750,000. The £300,000 re-
ferred to by Mr. Knox was paid by the Oriental G.M. co.,
the adjoining lease, south, on same line of reef. The
Oriental co. had 206 ft. along the reef, and an area of two
acres; from this it raised 85,893 tons of quartz for
141,0360 z; value, £556,612. The North Cross returns
are : Tons crushed, 266,488, for gold, 323,7120 z ; value,
£1,189,377 ; divs. paid, £751,742, equal to £75 3s. 9d. per
share (10,000 th). In ’BB, the Oriental proprietary bought
the North Cross lea,se and plant, and have since spent
over £40,000 in plant and resultless prospecting. Now
driving for the Magdala-Moonlight reef, which they should
reach shortly.”
* * * *
W.A. Mines-Minister said “he could not
account for the shrinkage in the gold-output for Feb., but
he knew that 96000 z. were in the banks at Geraldton, and
were, therefore, not included in that month’s returns.”
Well, they will no doubt swell next month’s production.
Next to nothing has been said about the extent of the
shrinkage. It amounted to 40,0000 z., or nearly 40 per
cent., and leaves Feb. with the lovvest return for seven
months. It looks, too, that some time will elapse before
the Jan. production of over 93,0000 z. will be beaten.
* * * *
Some mine-owners having started to work
aboriginals in W.A., Minister Wittenoom was asked if
it was legal, and replied that, while the blacks could not
hold miners’ rights, there was nothing to prevent them
working on a mine for wages. Surely the nigger’s claim
to the country is sufficient to let him have a miner’s right
if he can make any use of it 1
» * * *
A Coolgardie paper asserts that A. E. Morgan,
M.P., has a scheme for the booming of that camp. It is
not at liberty to divulge details, but Morgan will trot it
out as soon as the alluvial trouble is dealt with. Babbits !
• * » *
“ The feature of the market was supplied by
Hannan’s Paringa shares which had a heavy fail, notwith-
standing the excellent position of the mine and its posses-
sion of two promising reefs. There is no news to account
for the drop.”—B. M. Herald. More correct to say there
never was any reason to account for the rise. It is
nothing but solid reason that has brought them down,
and scores of others as well. Let us again try to en-
lighten Granny. In her share-list of that day there were
others : Hannan’s Block 45 —ss. 4d. They were once
more than ten times that price. Golden Bar, Is. 9d.
They reached £1 once, not on developments, but because
of the way in which the newspapers, including the
S.M. Herald, were fooled, and the way they fooled the
public. Lake View South, 21s. 6d. The mine is
looking better than when they were 605., but the boom
has gone. The writer could go on through the whole list.
Some newspapers are the play-things and tools of mining
boomsters without knowing it.
* * * *
The opening of Perth mint has been put back
to July 13 ; and it is not likely that it will be ready then.
The original idea was to provide for an output of a million
sovs. a year ; but now, as nothing short of three millions
will do, the plans have been altered, and hence the delay.
* * * *
Perth, W.A., municipal assessment in ’97 was
£205,565. For ’9B, it is £296,207. An eighteenpenny rate
is levied.
• • * *
L. M. Cullen, sec. of Kalgoorlie Chamoer of
Mines, which issues some excellent local statistics, tells a
Perth interviewer that Westralian customs-returns of gold-
production ought to be sniffed at. As to parcels of ore
shipped, “ the agents have a very convenient way of pass-
ing entries. They say, perhaps, ‘ Here are 200 tons of ore.
We will put it down as worth 3oz per ton.’ The yield
may, however, not bear out that estimate.” Also, he
warns the public not to expect Kalgoorlie outputs to go
on increasing. “ The mines are now working to the limits
of their crushing power. It is an open secret, too, that
our free-melting ores are not as plentiful as they used to
be.”
• * * *
Boulder township—Boulder City it loves to call
itself—can’t make much headway against its rival, Kal-
goorlie, where vested interests lie. For months it has
struggled to get a bank, and at last, in desperation, begged
Govt, to give a site to any institution which would come
along. But the Govt, wasn’t taking any of that.
* * * *
The far-back East Murchison district puts in a
claim for 20,1220 z. from 11,723 tons for ’97. Of that
15,2180 z. were got from 8643 tons of Great Eastern stone.
But out there yields don’t give much indication yet of the
staying quality of the reefs.
1c * * *
A Coolgardie paper says the opening of the
Menzies railway will be a peg on which to hang several
intended flotations. “Already one large firm is en-
deavouring to follow Kauffman’s steps.” What is missing,
and badly wanted, is Kauffman’s opportunity.
* * » *
The holders of more solid wealth have been
arrested at Albany, Westralia, than at any other town
twice its size in Australia. Zeb. Lane was “had” there
on a civil claim ; and now Big Hill Brookman has had his
turn. The latter event is the culmination of the row
between the brothers; James issued a debtor’s warrant
claiming £14,206 for non-delivery of mining shares. A
beak attended at Big Bill’s hotel, took his cheque for
£lO,OOO and his bonds for twice £14,206, and let the
“ absconder,” who is in really bad hea'th, pass on per
Barbarossa.
• * * *
In Victoria, mining has come to be regarded by
thousands of people, in and out of town, as an industry
which can be conducted as honestly and as safely as
cabbage-growing. In Wood’s Point district there are
working miners who could draw you a cheque for a thou-
sand, and in some cases have plenty to keep themselves,
wives, and families for r.he rest of their days, without the
necessity of doing a day’s graft. The mining fever born
in the fifties and sixties is as fierce now as ever, and a day
above-ground to any of the veterans is a time of purga-
tory. They will tell you that the old hunger and craving
is still there—the yearning to strike another rich patch
(even for somebody else) lives and thrives, and success
would give them all the heaven they want to experience
either in this world or the next. The other day an old
Vic. miner, who found himself in possession of a likely
show, was willing to sell three-fourths of it to a co. who
would provide machinery and capital—“ all the shares,
including his own, to be made contributing.” Where,
outside Victoria, do you ever hear of such a thing ?
* * * *
The daughters of a deceased official lately called
a meeting of his creditors, and offered 10s. in the £, which
was accepted. Then they put in a claim of £l7O against
the estate for board and lodging for their father since
1893, which claim the rest of the creditors had to admit.


ORIENT
CLOTNIN6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
(“STD
SYDNEY.
A
SNAP-
SHOT
m.
A*
•XS2
The
Victor
Camera
211-
ne
Duplex
Camera
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 2S.
Society
B[?]ester
COO[?]
Adelaide was electrified, last week, by the
news of the engagement of Chief Justice Way.
oammy, ’ who is well over 50 and a bachelor,
was utterly given up years ago by Adelaide
maidens, and now (at Easter) marries Mrs. Blue,
widow of a once well-known country medico. The
U.d. is very wealthy, and has a magnificent home
at -North Adelaide, and local girls can’t conceal
c^a ff rin that a provincial widow with four
children and unknown in city society should at
one bound ascend to the second highest social
position in the land, with the prospect of acting
as mistress of Government House during an in-
terregnum !
• * » *
Curious that the Bible Christians—the
Methodist denomination of which Chief Justice
Wa T the leading lay light in South Australia,
and which not only has congregations all over the
province but also runs one of the largest and most
progressive colleges—has no footing whatever in
jVS. Males. The only two B.C. “chapels” in
the latter province are at Broken Hill and another
border town. For the denomination’s present
president in South Australia it has a layman,
Ashton, a lawyer of the firm from which Judge
Boucaut came.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton has made himself immensely
popular in Adelaide by growing a moustache. A
great many of the irreverent remarks formerly
made about his Ex. were provoked by his aggra-
vatingly forlorn face. The immense area of
shaven upper lip, and the inexpressible aspect of
sadness about the Buxton countenance, led to
the impression that he was merely a Worm
within the domestic circle. But, under new condi-
tions, his XXX looks more aggressive, and the
public will not be surprised now to see the Gover-
nor punting at the races, winking at Tottie
behind the bar, and getting home late o’ nights.
A Sydney D.T. correspondent suggests
“ Cromwell ” as the name of the Federal capital.
Why not “Bartown,” a treble-barrelled compli-
ment (1) to the Convention leader, (2) to the
large number of legal constitution-framers, (3) to
the whisky-interest.
* * * *
Gov. Brassey’s departure for Europe, so
far from eclipsing the gaiety of Melb. society, is
marked by all the Naice people with a sigh of
relief. The heavy foot of Uncle Tom is oppressive
in the gilded halls of Toorakia; while the light
and airy, mincing gait of the gay and giddy bald-
head who takes his place for the time-being, is
suggestive of better fun than lectures, sermons,
readings of poetry, and such other improving
diversions as the old-man-of-the-sea offered his
guests. Madden and his handsome wife will be a
welcome change. Mr. Madden does not altogether
make an ass of himself. He simply poses —smiles,
bows with a fine air, says pretty things to the.
innocent virgins, and whispers wicked jokes to
their seasoned mammas, and, as he scoops in a
good slab of Gov. Brassey’s screw, he can make
things hum.
* * * *
Gov. Brassey’s departure was the “sick-
est ” thing in the way of loyalty that Melb. has
seen for some time. A fair crowd rolled up in the
streets, but not a cheer was heard, and when at
last, on Port Melb. pier, one grey-headed enthu-
siast lifted a black belltopper and called “Three
cheers for Lord Brassey,” his voice was the only
one heard to respond. Just at the moment, too,
a fireman carrying a couple of parcels fell over
the edge. All popular interest was instantly
transferred to the man in the water, and he was
ultimately dragged out hanging on to his parcels
with a tenacity which made late arrivals imagine
he was the departing Governor himself.
* * * *
“ A Loyal Citizen ” to The Bulletin :
Couldn’t some law he passed or embodied in the
Federal Constitution Bill, or somewhere, to prevent
people from naming their pet poodles after popular
Governors? Next to -me resides a blue-eyed png-doc
named Brassey, whose habits, taken in association with
his name, lead to results embarrassing to my loyalty. Is
it pleasant, for instance, to hear a young lady say, “ O,
mamma, Brassey is simply full of fleas ! ” just as if she
had found the item in a society paper? Then we get,
“O, Brassey, Brassey, you naughty dog!” and,
“ Mamma, Brassey’s following a lady down the street!”
and, “ Brassey, you mean old thing, why don’t you let
the other dogs have a share of your meat?” I’m* think-
ing of buying a mastiff, whom I shall call Higinbotham,
and sool on to pug-dog Brassey with incitations to chew
the little beast up.
* * » *
How to find out if a dog is registered.
Inspector hits the dog with his stick. “ How dare
you strike my dog, sir ! ” “Oh, is it your dog?
I am the inspector, and just want to know if he’s
registered.”
AFTER THE WIDOW HAS PASSED.
FIRST LADY: “I suppose her husband has left her an income?”
SECOND LADY: “No, dear; only a small incumbrance !”
Chicago has
invented achurch
trolly collection-
box. Wire is
stretched from
pew to pew, to
which little car-
riages are attach-
ed. Minister
touches an elec-
tric button, and
the little cars are
set in motion all
over the church.
Ad vantage
claimed for the
machine is that
nobody can find
out how much
each m ember con-
tributed. . . .
The parsonic in-
tellect is certain-
ly doting. Why,
what the chur-
ches want is a
contrivance that
will post every
worshipper’s do-
nations in letters
two feet long on
a hoarding be-
hind the parson ;
a machine that
will bellow out
like a foghorn :
“ Alderman Adi-
pose, sixpence ;
Mrs. Goldbug,
threepence;
Messrs. Brown,
Jones, Robinson,
nary cent ! ” and
so on.
• •
The affinity
between cancer
in man and can-
cer in cattle is
again exercising
the mindsof folks
up North. Can-
cer is undoubt-
edly on the in-
crease, and the dirty, uninspected slaughter-house
is, unfortunately, not on the decrease. The
trouble lies in the number of slaughter-houses.
The meat only undergoes a sham inspection at
best. One abattoir, fully manned, with proper
and minute inspection, would easily suffice for
most Australian towns—and the private slaughter-
house of the penny-farthing butcher, with all its
filthy abominations, should be swept out of exist-
ence.
* * * *
j Douceurs appear to have been flung round
broadcast to Vic. Parliamentary officials in con-
nection with the Federal Convention. One is
alleged to have got .£l7O, another .£9O, and so on,
down to the messengers who got .£2O each. As all
and sundry got their regular salaries all the time,
had nothing else to do, and got free feeds daily at
Government expense, they had what might be
called a “ chuck in.” Some of the salaries range
as high as .£BOO a year, too !
* * * *
Subjoined headings re the Dudley ex-
plosion appeared in a N.S.W. out-back paper
lately taken over by a sensational, go-ahead party,
who says he comes from Yankeeland. By gum ! !
Fifteen Men Sent up to Heaven,
Accompanied Part of the way by Dudley Colliery.
Supposed to be a Gas Explosion.
Minister Garrard Telegraphed for.
* * ♦ *
Bananaland storms are responsible for a
queer variety of catastrophes. The disturbance
“ Eline ” (so Mackay papers report) lifted the local
constable off his feet, banged him down on the
pa vement with fearful emphasis, and left him with
a broken ankle. Reflect on the difficulty of lifting
the average trap an inch off his No. nineteens and
you have some idea of the vigor of Eline.
* * *
The Dean of Sydney wasn’t wise in his
generation in expecting N. S. W. Agricultural
Society to forego its Good Friday arrangements
out of respect for the feelings of those who regard
the day as sacred. For in a “Christian” com-
munity, more than any other, when sentiment
conflicts with dollars —sentiment goes down every
time!
A very smellful and unprintable case, of
much interest in N.S.W. dancing circles, will
presently be heard of.
* * * *
N.S.W. Supreme Court will shortly have
before it a novel divorce case—between a Chinese
and his white wife.
* • * •
James Kidman, baker and general feed-
merchant, of Oxford-street, Sydney, has again
got all the contracts for feed in connection with
the N.S.W. Easter Encampment. James is now
in himself the whole commissariat of the noble
N.S.W. army, and as an army without a commis-
sariat is useless, presumably the best move on the
part of an enemy would be to lay siege on the big
shops in Oxford and George-streets, make Quarter-
master Kidman a prisoner of war, and prevent his
carts from dispensing feed to our gallant de-
fenders. The Bulletin hopes it is not giving
the enemy any information which should be kept
dark, but it trusts that this will be the means of
stirring up the authorities to at once arrange for
the defence of Mr. Commissariat Kidman. The
stoppage of his bread-carts would be a national
disaster.
• • * *
Cairns—where the population takes off its
hat to the Chinaman and the rest of its things
to the Jap. woman—is beginning to find Asiatic
ginger a trifle hot in the mouth. The local paper,
which saj's that the town’s sanitary state is the
worst in Q. —a big statement—adds that the
PLENTY TO SPARE.
(Two women talking about Mrs. Smith.)
ONE : “ Mr. Smith is so jealous of her.”
THE PTHER WOMAN: “Silly man! As if there wasn't quite enough of her to
go all round! ”
general condition isn’t a circumstance to the con-
dition of the crowded local Chinatown ; and darkly
hints that another Fire of London is needed to
burn out the plague. Also, the hospital doctor
says disease is frightfully prevalent ; and the
hospital committee is moving in the matter of
a lock ward. And the residents who own the
gambling-houses and woman-houses are hard at
work imploring Govt, to remove the restrictions
on “ our opium-trade.” Charming place, Cairns !
* • • *
The people of Cairns have at last risen
in wrath and demanded the removal of its
Kanaka leper. Five months ago, when this
spptted islander was first diagnosed, the authori-
ties ordered him to be isolated in the yard behind
the police-station, pending further consideration.
Then they forgot him, and left him there. The
sun shone on the leper, and the rain fell on him,
and the germs blew off him into the town, and ti e
passing children poked sticks at him through the
convenient open fence, and he shook his swollen
hands at them through the fence in execration by
way of response. Also the dogs and the cats
crawled through to see how he was getting on,
and sometimes the lone wretch howled dismally
at night and disturbed Cairns in its pleasant dal-
liance with the brown woman, and sometimes he
climbed up and put his enlarged head over the
fence by day, and shocked the piebald town by
his appearance. And now Cairns has suddenly
risen up as one man, and come cut of the house of
the brown woman, and intimated to the Govern
ment that it won’t have its leper -ny longer.
* « • *
Advt. from Sydney D.T. :
\ YOUNG LADY, smart Typewriter and Shorthand
j.\ Writer, thoroughly well educated, desires en-
gagement. Terms to commence with 15s. per wee k.
Address X. L., Daily Telegraph.
Yet the lady typists of Sydney talk volubly about
equal pay for equal work.
* * • •
Brisbane police-court presents, at times, a
queer variety of strange sounds and strange
spectacles. The other day, “ Papa ” Pinnock,
P.M., waxed furious at the presence of a mongrel
cur in court, inasmuch as the “ human stench was
bad enough ” without any addition of canine con-
diments. Shortly afterwards a young man was
charged with loitering in Queen-street with intent
to pilfer, found guilty on evidence of two con-
stables, and sent up for six months. Five minutes
after sentence was delivered, two respectable
citizens of good standing arrived and deposed
that they were standing beside prisoner at the
time referred to, and that his demeanor was per-
fectly correct and innocent. Whereupon the
amiable P.M. remarked that if they had come five
minutes earlier the prisoner wouldn’t have got six
months at all—leaving one to infer that aforesaid
citizens had got him six months by their un-
punctuality. However, prisoner has got his little
term until the Home Secretary chooses to inter-
vene—when, it is presumed, those two constables
will get the promotion their zeal deserves.
* * * *
The loathsome manner in which some
Brisbane butchers hawk dead meat is even arous-
ing the lethargic local Council. Writer _ the .other
day saw a dirty rascal reposing full length-boots
and all—on some carcases; the rascal, after attend-
ing to harness, wiped his paws on a convenient
piece of beef. The foregoing burnishes the fact
ENGAGED.
My prince has come, and all my dreams of yore—
Splendors of crown and sceptre, gems galore—
Die as dreams should beneath love’s first caress,
To rise again pure of all sordidness
In new-found spirit-realms scarce named before.
I clear mine eyes, full eager to explore
This new-found kingdom ; there through his soul’s door
To find, not gemless, crownless, sceptreless—
My prince has come.
Now, love-enthroned, I’m strong for evermore—
A princess truly, whom the fates smile o’er;
For when plebeian days’ pale ghosts oppress !
And I need more strength, more than I possess,
Answers my heart, down-thrilling to its core—
“ My prince has Come ! ”
M. A. R.


i!i"
A'
s®
&
2
You
FoRCIOf TEH
MM
Ladies and Gentlemen in the Country. —lf you should
come to Sydney at Easter for the great Agricultural Show,
(which promises to be the great event of ’9B ; over £3OOO
worth of prizes will be given away), call in and leave a
record of your measures with our dressmakers or tailors.
(No charge for registering measures). Many ladies and
gentlemen have already taken advantage of this free
registration of measures, and find that it is most conve-
nient, and a saving of time and trouble When ordering
garments of any description from us.— Hordern Brothers
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
•OOSE’S CELEBRATED
KYB LOTIOKT
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flics, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 03 1 Gcorge-st., Sydney. (0if?" Open all Night
-also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by jjost throughout
A nstrnlin.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
Tartaric , Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Curb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Cana,rtf, Hemp and Millctt),
CATANZARO LIQUORICE.
HY. MARKWALD,
Wholesale Only
from
11 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY.
178 William-st., '
MELBOURNE.
14 Cimic st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
that in a populous Brisbane suburb some weeks
back a baker, missed for some hours, was found
dead in his batch of dough. He had died in a fit.
Awful imagination : what became of that dough ?
* * * *
The recent initiation of the Sydney Kosher
Butchering Association suggests that it wouldn’t
be a bad thing for the alleged Christians to follow
suit with something upon similar precautionary
lines—or, better still, appoint Moses as their
butcher. The private slaughtering practices of
Sydney are still as the pestilence which walketh
in darkness.
* * * »
Melbourne butchers are now compelled to
wrap up meat in new and clean paper—the use of
newspapers, &c., is prohibited under stiff penalty.
* * * *
“ Ugh ! ” to The Bulletin :
Re unpleasant practices of Sydney food-purveyors.
Walking into the city from an eastern suburb, I passed
one of those butchers’ shops whose show of meat covers
the outside of the premises from pavement upwards. A
small and mangy dog-, after sundry samplings, made off
with a choice morsel, but not fast enough to escape a
well-placed kick from the butcher, who, upon recovering
the meat, coolly replaced it in its former position to await
purchase. Another time, returning from town about
11.30 p.m., I passed a ham-and-beef shop where the lady
in charge was undressing the window for the night. Pigs’
trotters were retiring as I passed, and were each subjected
to an intimate nasal examination before being passed in.
Ugh!
* ♦ * *
The history of a cablegram. It came from
London, reading: “Supposed tombs of the god-
kings Osiris Set Horus found Necropolis Abydos ”
—which is a plain statement to anyone with a
smattering of Egyptian mythology, or who will
spend two minutes on “Egypt” in a cyclopedia.
Adelaide Advertiser had it: “ The supposed
tombs of the god-kings Osiris, Sethan and
Horus are reported to have been found in a
necropolis in the ancient city of Abydos”
—quite correct. The Age rendered it: “ Arch-
aeological investigation in the necropolis of
Abydos, the cemetery of ancient kings in
Upper Egypt, has resulted in the discovery of
what is believed to be the tomb of the Osiris
dynasty, who were subsequently deified and wor-
shipped under the symbolical sign of a bull. A
set of bull’s horns ivas found in the tomb which had
en opened. ” Sydney Daily Telegraph launched
the news that “ Some tombs had been unearthed,
and they are supposed to be those of the god-
kings Osiris (the god of Hades, Leti, and Horus,
the last of the god-kings).” S.M. Herald :
“ Among the more important discoveries are what
are .believed to be the tombs of the god-kings
Osiris, Set I. and Horus (the last of the god-
kings).” The mutilations look as if some of the
night-editors had sneaked home and left the late-
cable translations to the night-watchman.
* * *
Melbourne’s Doasted Yan Yean reservoir
turns out to be but a one-horse arrangement, after
all, inasmuch as there is no reserve-receptacle to
allovv of the cleansing of the existing one—now, it
is said, extremely foul, and a probable typhoid-
producer.
Victoria is
haunted just now
by a man mid nod-
ings on. He first
came under the no-
tice of the law one
morning in Studley
Park, when he fra-
ternised in his nude
condition with a
policeman and in-
quired if the cop
had noticed a lady
in similar undress
going by. The lady,
he said, was Eve,
and he was the old
original Adam.
After a few days’
arrest he was re-
leased, and he
seems to have pur-
sued his researches
into the country,
where he got out of
his clothes again
and started digging
a grave in Ballarat
cemetery. The
grave was far ad-
vanced before any-
one came across the
operator, and all
that was visible
from the surface
was a shock head
and two bare arms
swinging a pick
vigorously iVhen
the naked citizen
was yanked out and
hastily disguised by
having some grass
tied round him, he
again explained
that he was Adam,
and that he was
pursuing Eve in a
balloon. This time
the melancholy pro-
duct of a “ godless
system of educa-
tion ” was run into
Wendouree asy-
lum, so the shock-
ing apparition of his bare Roman legs coming
unexpectedly on Mrs. Grundy from round a corner
is at rest for the time being.
ON THE BIKE.
JOHNNIE “ Come out for a spin, Mrs. Potts-Point: nobody will ever be a bit the wiser,”
MRS. POTTS-POINT: “No, thank you, Mr. Wheeler ; you forget I'm a married woman, not
a spinster! ”
A coming libel-case will finally determine
whether, under existing N.S.W. law, a newspaper
is privileged to report the preliminary (police-
court) proceedings in a criminal case.
* * * *
Queensland is just now wailing over the
loss of considerable numbers of married malcon-
tents. The fame of N.S.W. divorce-Judge Simp-
son has spread to the northward, and the great
AFIER R.J.W
BUSH HOSPITALITY.
VISITOR (who has stopped the night) : “I must thank you for your hospitality,
Mr. Jumbuck. I have enjoyed myself very much.”
R. JUMBUCK: “ Have you? I don’t give a damn whether you have or not! ”
heart of married Bananaland is yearning to gush
over Simpson and partake of the blessings that
drop from his judicial shears.
* * » *
Button y. Button, in Sydney Divorce-
court last week, presented some of the usual casual
features. Hubby, she said, deserted her several
years ago, and she had since only sighted him
once at Surry Hills. It was in the street, but he
apparently drifted away before petitioner had
time to overtake him. She told the court she
couldn’t positively locate him now, but had
heard that one Button held a billet at a Botany
bootshop who might be the one in question. So
she journeyed to that dismal suburb, and dis-
covered that it was really her missing Button,
who told her he was too tired, or something, to
appear on the suit. She related this to the Judge
on her return, and was duly un-Buttoned, so to
speak. His Honor wanted to give her costs, but
she didn’t wish any loophole left for troubling
Button again, and paid them herself.
* * * *
A recent sensation is the alleged elope-
ment of a Southern R.C. priest with a hospital-
nurse.
St. Kilda (Melb.) has been badly shocked
in the night of late by a bare-footed marauder who
breaks into houses and looks at ladies in bed. No
one knows how he gets in, but his luck in finding
an entrance is extraordinary. When he has got
in he is quite harmless ; all he does is to strike a
match, and look thoughtfully at the lady in bed,
and then bolt through the window. It is generally
supposed that he is looking for somebody, but why
he looks for her in this remarkable way is a
mystery. Several times he has been chased from
10 yards to If miles, but with no satisfactory
results. He has been known to break into three
houses in one night, and in each case he woke the
ladies of the family as they reposed in their curl-
papers, or with their independent hair hung on a
nail above the dressing-table, and made a hasty
inspection of them, and left. Altogether the bare-
footed man of St. Kilda is a rather amusing cuss
in his way.
* * * *
The most blasphemous utterance this paper
has struck for some time is a verse from Melb.
University-students’ anthem —
And now God bless our land,
Give the ’Varsity Council prudence,
And bless the noblest work on earth,
The Melbourne ’Varsity students !
Which recalls the yell of a grim, grey Scotch
person in the pit at Melb. Alexandra one night
when the students were acting the giddy ox. “Ay,
God made ye,” screamed the fierce old man, “ but
the Devil knows why ! ”
TO BRIDGET, WID DE INFLUENZY.
Ah, now, my dear desaver,
Your swate lips Oi’ll be missing ;
Though kissing goes by favour,
Yet faver comes by kissing.
So farewell to my darlint,
For till ye’re safe Oi’ll lave ye ;
And if ye live Oi’ll have ye ;
If ye die, the saints rasave ye !
Sydney.
MOICHARL.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
A.D.: Letter sent Newtown P.0.......E.M. (Q.):
Good ; keep on. P.M.: “ Reformed ” not up T.D.M.
(W.A.) : Thanks; will try and use Northerner: Right.
“ Evening ” : You plant your unimpressive foot right
in the track of 400,000 centuries C.S. : We’re tired of
drink cures. When a man’s nerves are gone to pieces
nothing can rebuild the degenerated cells. You can
tonic up the sound ones to concert-pitch, if he has any
sound ones ; but, directly they get below concert-pitch
in the process of Life’s wear-and-tear, or from the con-
tinual assaults of Age, back comes the same old craving.
You can no more give a man a new nervous system than
you can give him a new limb Ginghie : Thanks
Sprat: Considering N’lmporte : Received Watt
W. : The metre kills what there is of you W. M‘K. :
Presbyterian parson item doesn’t fit this paper Bush-
poet : All the torn-trouser ideas have been used up
A.O.W. : Par. not snap enough A.C.A. :To hand
J.H.: Not up P.A. : Said already T.F.M. : Re-
ceived one bang on the Federal drum. Two such bangs
would knock a hole in it C.W.C. : Federation poem
commencing “ Hark ! that sound! that solemn, sullen
roar ! ” squashed with great enthusiasm Cocksparrow :
Declined J.J. : Verse flat A.D.M. : The worth of
the art - rendezvous scheme needs self-proving
Chances are your menagerie will devour, not cheap
refreshments, but itself M.H.R. : May do
Vexata : Impossible to disentangle the Dreyfus contro-
versy at this distance A.B. (N.S.W.): Thanks
Kati-kati: You must.have labored hard writing ’em ; but
it’s regular penal servitude reading ’em T.T.O.M. :
Pretty glimpses; too involved Kaalee: Bump!
bump !—the rocky road to Dublin was nothing to it
C. : All right; but it isn’t worth print-correction Anti*
M.: Noted S.C. : Caesar, appealed to as requested,
says those verses are very flabby Tissaro : Your para-
graph is loaded. What is it loaded with? Vandorian :
It would land us in gaol, and we aren't taking any gaol.
E.C.A. : You can’t call Mr. M’Millan a “true Irish-
man.” J.E. : Can only read it per microscope Billy
Krush : Idea needlessly complicated. The plan of draw-
ing Tatt.’s sweep on day of race is far simpler and more
certain J. Crawford: Pretty verse; nice metre; nice
jingle ; but lacks vigor L.M.D. : The man who either
lost a horse or found a cart is good—but he isn’t new
Reporter: The cases aren’t parallel. Victoria has a coal
industry to encourage ; it has no steel-rail industry
L.R.M.': “ A Thin Crust ” hardly good enough. Crust so
thin that the tale fell through P. : The story of how
the whole feminine species died out through theuniversal
adoption of the Schenk process should end with the advt.
of Schmidt’s artificial boiler-metal woman, who rescued
the human race from extinction Mallee Trotter: Your
pome trotted right out of the office E.R.: Is it truth,
or only Tozer? J.E. :The old, old piano joke dished up
once more J.M.: When a man with a Hebrew name
writes, cursing the tote, he is probably a book-
maker. The writer lived in M.L. four years, and
gambled on the tote all that time, and found it
seventy times more honest than the bookie. And
he knows that your statements are mere rot
Bronze-wing : The parrot-lie is a refreshing change from
the horse and fish and snake and dog lies, anyhow
Luita : Good points about it, but too sketchy—only a lot
of hair and a shadow and a splash H.R.W. : Thk
Bulletin isn’t going to be the means of starting a dying
boy named Jim in Australian literature Sandy Blight:
Great Scott!! ...Swelled Head: Print four verses on
account of the beautiful odour of gin that hangs about
them :
Take away that glass and bottle,
Hide them from my aching sight;
Neither rum nor beer shall tempt me
To another glass to-night.
Shall I tell the story of it ?
Hpw my friend and I got tight ?
. How we swallowed spirits fiery
Till we thought the earth grew bright ?
How we pledged each other fondly
With the pleasant hope and trust
That the hinges of our friendship
Never should be stained by rust.
And at last my mem’ry failed me
Until morning sun up-rose ;
Then I only recognised me
By some portions of my clothes.
....L.H. (N.): Yes, if good enough. ...B. Catherwood : The
long and the short of it is that the Sydney stipendiaries
are not in a sufficiently independent position to be able
to act without fear or favor. They should be made just
as independent as Judges—care being taken, of course,
to appoint only first-class men at first-class salaries. As
matters stand, the P.M. often feels that his soul isn’t his
own Girardel : Make no mistake; if a Govt, wants
very badly indeed to find out what’s in your letters, it
simply steams and opens them Viator: Whites often
marry Indian women, hut we have not heard of one
marrying a Chinese Haro: A paraphrase of Sydney
Smith : “ The gigantic bushman, a machine of six foot
three, for turning potatoes into human nature.” F. :
Women, as a rule, do suicide by poison or drowning, but
there are many exceptions. For instance, we read of a
Vic. post-mistress shooting herself the other day True
Bill: The snake bit the coach-wheel, and the coach
swelled up so that you couldn’t get it through the
station-gates. Thanks Northerner : Whistling-spear
controversy ended long ago P.A. : Sorry no chance to
start other headings Ledo :It never strikes the boom-
ster shrieking for other people’s capital as remarkable
that, while the mining-camps of Victoria-, Queensland,
Maoriland, and other places in the world—particularly
America, by far the greatest metal-producing country—
were opened without Bull’s money, N.S.W. cannot, possibly
do without it. And, when it is got, nine-tenths usually go
into the boomsters’ pockets and the mines go to the devil
J.P. : Will use “ Interlude.” Indicated material pro-
mising Jericho: Go there! J.F.W. : Blue-bag
remedy already suggested. Fly-bung discussion gone
bung, in any case .....L.B.S. : Returned accordingly ...
A.J. M‘C. : Mask-idea hackneyed; verse down-at-heel,
anyhow Mariana : “We are a-weary, weary ; we
would that,” &c A.H.T. : Don’t care whether it’s true
or not; it isn’t strange enough for “ B.” Hockey :
Yes ; but the man who can’t write, and knows it, is on a
higher literary level than the man who can’t write and
doesn’t.know it Jamboree: The snaix and things
have got into your writing Sage Green : Style
superior to subject. Try something less well-worn, and
there’s hope for you B. : Another low-grade Bill-
poem H. Symonds : Good yarn, but practically the
same tale as a Billjim narrative recently published in
Bulletin J. 11. Hilton: Thanks 7.20: Scheme for
planting the Federal capital in Gippsland in the farthest
S.E. corner of Australia duly cremated .... A.B. (Bir-
chip) : It would take a flour-expert to decide the merits
of the case J.D. (Parkes) : There were more votes
cast in ’95 for Protectionists and Labor members of Pro-
tectionist views than for Freetraders and Labor men of
Freetrade views .... G.H.C. : Extract from poem :
Life staggers on Besor.ten
And never looks Behind.
Can never know the past nor dream of Western Palaces
Has lost the Gems of Life
And the Right to Memory’s Chalices
That is the World
Living in Strife
Unwitting of Tauranga.
Cec. P. : “ Contract” overdone, and we don’t like it.
P.M. : What is history as written? It is simply his
story. But always hear the other fellow. 7x7:
One may use; other too qualmish Selim : You
“ canot coll upon her faice a smile.” Have you
tried showing her your screed? H.J.11. : “End,”
not yet. Other, will consider J.L. : Sorry, not force
enough. G.W.C. : “But not for long did he warble
thus.” Wish you’d follow his example ; seven pages to
say that the parson was a mean man Dingo : Just
plain, unornamental welching.


All Drapers Everywhere.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
GLOBE TEAS haTe wo ***
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 25 7 George-st., Sydney.
London Sun, in a hostile critique of
“Deeds that Won the Empire,” says that “the
book spoils a good title.”
The inevitable Brian Boru had, of course,
to be dragged into Cardinal Moran’s recent
address to the military at St. Mary’s, Sydney.
“ In his last victory he held aloft the cross, and in
that sign he conquered.” Not considered neces-
sary to mention that while Brian the Bore was
prostrate before tike same cross afterwards the
heathen promptly knocked him on the sainted
head.
The stranding in the Red Sea of that great
show-ship, the P. and O. boat China was somehow
felt by everyone in Sydney as a personal calamity.
Should efforts to float the big vessel fail, the
company will lose at least .£300,000. Much sym-
pathy is felt for Captain De Horne, who, after a
faultless and fortunate career of so many years,
will no doubt be unceremoniously shunted, for the
laws of the P. and O. are like unto those of the
Medes and Persians ; no man who from any cause
once hits ground ever again takes command of a
P. O. liner.
On Monday the Atacama case shuffled
along another stage before N.S. W. Marine Board.
Since its last meeting, the Board has apparently
looked up its Constitution Act, and discovered
that it is the Board’s business to subpoena wit-
nesses who have material information to give;
for, without any report as to whether the wit-
nesses asked for by the Crown had consented to
turn up or not, they announced that subpoenas
would be issued. Then the case was adjourned
for yet another week.
The prospectus of the Tasmania Gold-
mining Extension, Beaconsfield, appears in our
advertising columns 'to-day. The leases, com-
prising 106 acres, are an amalgamation of the East
Tasmania Company and the Consols properties,
as recommended by Mr. H. H. Sehlapp, and cover
the whole of the area on the eastern end of the
Tasmania gold mine.*
The “Smokers’ Retreat,” conducted by
Miss Lilia Whitmore at 132 Pitt-street, Sydney,
aims at being the highest-class tobacco and cigar
establishment and the most comfortable lounge
and reading-room in Australia. If it doesn’t quite
get there, it at least gets near enough to it to
satisfy the most fastidious mortal.*
I say, Girls!
DO YOU SUFFER FROM PIMPLES?
MORE THAN LIKELY.
HAVE YOU EVER HEARD OF BILE
BEANS FOR BEAUTY?
YOU SAY BILE BEANS ARE FOR
BILIOUSNESS.
YES BUT THEY WILL ALSO CURE
SKIN AND COMPLEXION BLEMISHES.
This is the weather that young ladies and bud-
bing maidens realise that their blood needs cleans-
ing. Face sores, rash, and other skin affections —
including the common red pimple and black-head—
make them feel very miserable and uncomfortable,
fpr what girl with a face broken out all over in
pimples does not feel that she is observed by every-
one ? Bile Beans for Pimples, Face Sores, and
Skin Diseases, will be found a most excellent
remedy. They correct the digestion, thefoundation
of most skin affections, and tone the blood, thereby
giving a healthy tone to the whole system and a
good color to the complexion. This great remedy
will also be found of great service in liver trouble,
kidney ailments, constipation, headache, indiges-
tion, fullness after eating, dizziness and buzzing in
the head, lack of physical tone, female ailments,
debility, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, and a host
of other ailments that owe their origin to defective
digestion, assimilation, and bad blood. Sold at
ffyi. and Is. l£d. per box at all chemists or direct
from the Australian depot, 19 Macquarie Place,
Sydney. Six large boxes for 65., post paid. Bile
Beans are within the reach of everyone. If you
are not feeling well, don’t take the first thing
offered. Ask for Bile Beans, demand Bile Beans,
and dftn t have anything but Bile Beans, and
w J’ en Y9 U th p n* and use them, tell your friends l
what Bile Beans have done for you. #
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
T . Sydney, March 29, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
If Festina Lente means make haste Lent, I
aont wonder they used it so often in ancient
history. The slowness of things in general was
not enlivened much by Rosehill races last Satur-
day, or by the bicycle sports the same afternoon.
At Kosemll bookies’ babies swarmed all over the
grand-stand and made hay of the lawn while
their mothers and grandmothers punted with the
superior nonchalance that belongs by right to
bookies females. And the dressing struck a
horse-note, high up in the treble, where chroma-
tics yell in gay greens, and saffrons are repre-
sented. Crow s-feet and attenuated noses are the
divine inheritance of women who bet, so I may be
mistaken in guessing that the lady was 97 who
u f mumbled to me in the platform crush,
bix seconds to-day.” And the little girl in a
sunbonnet who grasped the tragedy and cried
Go on . before I realised that the events of the
day were six, had seen 12 fleeting years according
to her sunbonnet, and 30 racing ones by the lines
about her mouth. The joy of the stand was the
two-year-old who toddled along at a leading poli-
tician’s side lisping “ two to one on ’tretch ” with
a tiny purse in her tinier fingers ; and the moral
reflections these things let loose would be as out
of place at Lent as one man’s gout when his friend
has sciatica.
As for the bicycle sports, they were largely
populated but you know the sort of populace I
m ®^ n - Lilia M’Carthy was there with her own
and Alaud Jefferies’ share of observation, and
opinions differed fiercely. Or, perhaps I ought to
Sa j t • auc * Jefferies was there with her own
and Lilia M'Carthy’s share of observation. Any-
way, opinion differed fiercely.
One day last week I went to see the statuette
of Parkes with which Mr. Nelson Illingworth—
all told has made his latest bid for fame, and,
by some Hibernian freak, the likeness is more like
Parkes than Parkes was like himself. The old
man eloquent is cast in a erimson-kinship atti-
tude, one hand aloft, &c., and the crimson thread
itself is bound about the statue’s base. I’m not
taking much in the way of statues just now—
they don’t move off in a hurry—but this one gives
the most absolutely-unexaggerated likeness on
record of Parkes, with the shadow of failure heavy
on his poor old eyes. Tom Roberts put away his
pictures, and lent his studio all the week to tea
and statue-gazing, and many came and went away
delighted. J
But did you see that a plaster-cast of Reid and
eyeglass was sold in the market-place last week
for threepence ! Take away the threepenny eye-
glass, and another great man has gone for nothing.
Thnppence isn’t much of an inducement for any
man to be great, even under the most promising
circumstances, but when he has to spend the
whole of that honorarium on an eyeglass, it’s tin.e
greatness was fixed at a market-value. Well, as
things are at present, it seems unkind to say that
Nelson Illingworth may be a great man some
day. _ But what I am going to remark may have a
happier application when times mend, or eye-
glasses go out of date. For the thousandth time
in the history of this island-continent, an art-man
observed the other day, ** If I could only get away
to London ! ” But, probably for the first time in
the history of the world, he finished up his
•sentence with, “ I don’t know anything about my
art, and I want to go home to learn.'' That man
was Nelson Illingworth, whose name may not be
too big for him some day.
From statuary to Addie Conyers is not suen a
long leap as it seems, but Jack the Giant-Killer,
at the Tivoli, is a less killing young man than the
Theatre Royal Jack used to be. Addie Conyers
filled the buff suit with a shapeliness that Edie
Hay ter, or any other leading-lady I remember, falls
short of. Addie Conyers’ symmetry could hardly
be improved on ; line upon line and precept upon
precept have induced her proportions into the
perfection of up-to-date grace, and the second
Jack in buff is too reminiscent of Jack the First,
whose buff suit haunts me still. Silly Billy makes
you as young again as ever, and I thought that
you might like to know that the miniature lady
and gentleman at the right-hand corner of the
stage are sisters. The brightest spot of color in
the legend is Bella of The Cry, in a scarlet satin
redingote that howls appropriately.
Raiment and the gauds of trimmings are not
always what they seem. A deplorable instance
had its origin in a Sydney mansion, the other day,
where paterfamilias is a merchant prince and
“ self-made gentleman,” and the mistress is the
only daughter of an only son whose father boiled
soap in the good old gilt-fat days. One wet even-
ing a feminine friend, who was dining with the
hostess in the absence of the gilded host, was kept
there all night by bad weather, and slept the night
with the Dives’ family. Bed-time came, and she
wanted to do her hair. The Dives’ dressing-table
was strewn with silver-backed brushes in silver
cases, and she asked where she would find a comb.
From the drawer of her priceless dressing-table
Madame produced a remnant of the middle ages
in the shape of a worn and weary comb, with four
teeth and half a backbone. This she handed to
her friend without a blush, and did her own hair
with it afterwards. More tragic difficulties oc-
curred when the visitor wanted to wash her
hands. There was no soap in the Doulton soap-
dishes, no towels on the rosewood horse, and the
silver toilet jugs were dry with an old, .old
drought. And the hostess remarked in querulous
tones : “ When I want to wash I always go down
to the bathroom.” Just as Mr. and Mrs. Retail
Jones wash their faces at the kitchen-tap.
It is circulated at Govt. House that the million-
aire, Miss Walker, is engaged to Archbishop Smith.
If that’s so, there ought to be a good time ahead
for the cabbies.
The women’s penny-papers have struck oil at
last in a series of articles that provide an adroit
excuse for interviewing the whole of the human
race > if time lasts long enough. Home Notes is
the happy journal that has been hit with the idea
ofwriting up the. lives of “ Men Whom Women
Admire,” beginning with Pinero, and ending
with—— What? The ticket admits masculine
•c'at ,n i —f rom Tummy Wales to Quong Tart.
Men Who Admire Men ” might slow the series
down a little,. but “Women Who Admire
Women ” is positively the only chance of killing
it. It is not probable that the proprietors will
ever come to the end of their first lot, but if they
once get into the clutches of “ Men Who Admire
Women ” and “ Women Whom Men Admire,” the
millennium itself won’t stop ’em, and interviewing
will die a natural death next cycle.
Interviewing was responsible for the slip of a
person in high places the other day—a venerable
’ a dy journalist, who was seeking copy about one
of the Powers That Be, received a note from
an aide, inviting her to meet him at the
Power-house .at 11 p.m. next day, when he would
arrange the interview. Her age alone prevented
her from writing to ask him to make it midnight.
Four compositions by Louise Clarke (Glen and
Co.) might easily have been condensed into one.
Ihe graceful. dance that languishes under the
phenomenal title of “ Two Wooden Models and
Two Little Dogs ” is an attempt to bring the
Battle of Prague up to date. But after the open-
ing bars have inquired, according to printed direc-
tions, Hist, hist, who goes there?” the com-
poser quailed before her terrible task, and forgot
to mention when the models sounded the call to
arms, or when the dogs barked, or the guns went
off, and left us to believe that the Cries of the
Wounded will be heard as long as the piece is
played. Of the three songs by the same writer,
two ■ A Pagan’s Prayer ” and “A Laplander’s
hong —have such a similarity of motif that I
don t know now whether I’m a Lap. or a Pagan.
The Prayer is dedicated to Mrs. Grant Allen,
whose husband’s words are used by kind permis-
sion, but it isn’t Pagans who pray so
monotonously. The “ Shining Path,” with the
composer’s own words, is the most pleasing of
the bunch, although it doesn’t differ remarkably
from other Shining Paths and Golden Shores. Its
pathetic prettiness would suit a mezzo with a
limited range. Edward Parlove’s “Victoria
Polka ” opens brightly enough with less tin-tinni-
ness than the end-of-the-century polka, but the
trio relapses into a commonplace indistinctness
that relegates it to the shelf of after-supper-extras.
The world is very good-natured after supper.
Wesleyan ministers, who are noted chiefly (as
they say in geography books) for the smallness of
their incomes and the largeness of their families,
have fallen on such a bad time lately that “a
Tj system of celibacy ” is under serious con-
sideration. . The average Methodist clergyman, as
soon as lie is out of his Articles, and ceases to be a
Divinity Student, is sent up country to a parson-
age where the house and cow are not by any
means the only articles of furniture. Horsehair
suites and a prehistoric harmonium are found in
every well-conducted parsonage drawing-room,
and over every front bedroom mantelpiece an
engraving of the “ Day of Wrath ” hangs side-by-
side with a photograph of parsons at the first
Wesleyan Conference. (If the parson’s wife
sees any humor in the juxtaposition of the
two, she. doesn’t let on.) The night of arrival at
a new circuit, the chapel-folk come in and lay
the table for the parson and his wife, and cold
corned-beef and pickles flake the board, and all
goes merry as a marriage-bell. But, next day, the
ministers wife’s bonnet is under consideration,
and, if she wears roses in it, or an aigrette, or even
a paste brooch at a shilling a dozen retail, her hus-
band will have to work all he knows for every
penny that comes in, and for innumerable pennies
that never come, and, at the end of his three
years, he and his wife will retire with more years
than three added to their calendar. But if the
bonnet’s a brown-black hat, where brown-black
strings take the place of roses, a goose may be
given at Xmas, and the stipend will probably
come in without more than one appeal weekly.
As one in the know, I may here say that par-
sons’ wives must have been misbehaving them-
selves of late years, and dressing in cotton-backed
silks or satinette, and wearing light kid-gloves
and perhaps a bracelet or two, and having their
bonnets trimmed at Madame Chignonerie’s instead
of entrusting them to the tender mercies of the
draper’s lady who leads the choir three notes
away from the.right one. This would account for
the dismal falling-off of the Methodist ministers’
stipends, some of which now average =BlO a year.
Congregations kick against contributing to the
keep of a- parson’s ladv who wears trimmed bon-
nets and “ eddicates.”' But the threat of celibacy
will bring things round again. The feminine ele-
ment of the congregation will attend to that, for
it is quite unlikely they will tolerate celibacy in a
church whose jenncsse dorie is wholly represented
by its young unmarried parsons.
. What a pity to see clever Elsie Hall burdened
with hideous spectacles ! Except for them, she was
very pretty the other night. As she satgracefnllyat
the piano in her quaint, short-waisted white frock,
she looked like some dainty old-world maiden
dreaming at her spin net. Her touch is really
exquisite, like silver and pearls, elves, dewdrops
and so on.
The Brasseys last weeks in Melbourne were
saddened by a certain concert song. An epidemic
of ‘Simon the Cellarer’ broke out, and sassiety
soon learned that the tuneful reference to Simon’s
leading feature, which shows ‘ how oft the black-
jack to his lips doth go,’ was highly distasteful to
the Govmentouse party. Lady Brassey thought
it most vulgar and out-of-place. So did Lord
Neville. The Governor didn’t openly protest, but
a careful observer could see, from his manner of
using a handkerchief when the objectionable words
were about to fall due, that his Excellency had no
sympathy with the vocalist. At the Elsie Hall
concert, when Signor Rebottaro—he fancies him-
self as 9' humourist gave ( Simon 9 as an encore,
the whisper went round that Lady Brassey
wouldn’t have come if the ‘dreadful song’ had
been programmed.
Miss Sylvia Madden’s pleasant-faced intended
captive is of the attenuated, lengthy order—in a
word, lanky and somewhat crane-like. He has the
marked clean-shaved visage usually associated
with the stage, and plentiful, not to say bushy,
eyebrows. The wedding is to take place while pa
is Acting-Ex with swell doings at Guvment House,
and doubtless an array of presents will adorn the
semi-official function.
The Mayoral farewell to His Ex. came quite
up to the M'Eacharn reputation for doing things
m style. The Town Hail, which, during the pre-
sent regime, has. been brushed and spruced-up
generally, and crimson-carpeted on an extensive
scale as to corridors, was made glorious for the
occasion. To hide the sticky floor from view there
were many square yards of matting, and some
dozens of rugs whereon tables and chairs were
planted d la drawing-room, with an excrescence in
the shape of a platform along one side. The
Mayor and Mayoress pump-handled the guests as
they arrived, first-comers sprinting for the cosiest
seats and holding a mortgage on them all the
evening. The vice-regal party arrived about three-
quarters of an hour after invited time, as usual.
The Mayoress bouquetted Lady 8., and when the
civic couple led the exalted ones to the reserved
furniture the band started to drown conversation
Ahce Coy and Maggie Stirling chortled, and
Attilio Buzzi gave his parting song, Gounod’s
JNazareth. A cmematographe show burst forth
at intervals up on the portico balcony, inter-
spersed by magic-lantern views of a decidedly
sick and childish order. The funniest of the
former was Ranji practising the machinery
worked at express speed and caused the Indian to
hit in time, at the rate of about one swipe per
second. In another, ‘Ranji and Hayward bat-
ting, trie rapidity of the hits and the marvellous
spruits between wickets were most sensational,
lhe women had sported best bib and tucker and
dragged their hair up on top irrespective of
whether it was becoming or not, and that, together
with the return of barbaric ear-rings, added quite
10 years to the appearance of some of the Naicest.
If some folks, too, would but glance at the back
view they would not adopt the mode , for it reveals
the badly-shaped head and seems to accent all
the shocking bumps of which phrenologists prate.
Lady B. aired yellow satin with splotches of black
lace; the Mayoress was in grey satin and plenty
or lace. A jovial councillor’s wife, who goes in
for color, paralysed the crowd in a fixment of
bright pink with green. The ex-Mayoress affected
green touched with red. Mrs. S. M'Culloch wore
a daring combination of heliotrope and pale blue :
golden-haired Mrs. Percy Chirnside sported cream
satin with black sleeves and plenty of bullion
touching up the body-parts. One councillor’s
wife aired quite a decent little fortune on her
person in the form of lace.
“Mayor M'Eacharn is desperately ambitious
for his olive branches. At present, the juvenile
trio are en route for England, the boy consigned
to Harrow, his sisters to school, preparatory to
Girton later on. When the girls were fragile,
flaxen-haired mites barely out of the nursery they
took lessons in Latin and singing from male
experts, though subsequently educational pressure
was eased off temporarily—perhaps because of the
death of the then son-and heir from some childish
brain-ailment.
“ At the Princess’s, the Gay Parisienne herself
who seems to have plumped slightly during her
Sydney Stay, looks all the younger and more
kittenish for her extra dimples. Carrie Moore
more grotesque though less rollicking than her
predecessor in the part of the diminutive dish-
walloper, is handicapped by a too lugubrious
make-up. Her ghastly little face almost makes
one greet with pity for foundlings, orphanage
inmates, gin-stunted brats and white slaves in
general. Alyce Leith looks rather nice to begin
with in the simplest of white muslins, and a
bluey green hat-osprey, apt to tickle barrister
Peacheys nose every time he bends over the
wearer to tell his love in song.
“ Peachey’s sufferings on this score call up
memories of a fat, old lady so anxious to be
thought a great traveller that she always ordered
curries, mulligatawney, chutney and Chow-Chow
for dinner, when company was expected, and
wore a sort of Turkish turban with a trailing pea-
cock s feather. At table, as sure as ever the hostess
told her ad ventures by sea and land with explana-
toryhead-and-arm-wavings, that beastly feather-
tip dipped into the most peppery plat' available
preparatory to ‘ wiping the eye ’ of some wretched
guest later on. In later scenes, Miss Leith
carries off the huge checks of her mountaineering
Buit less high-handedly than did swagger Juliet
Wray. And, as heretofore, she apparently lives
moves and has her stage being in the trammels of
immaculate gloves.
“So the legatee sister of the late Mrs. Silas
Harding has bestowed herself and her big windfall
on her station manager. Business and pleasure 1
Sensible woman. The cadging brigade, I under-
stand, don’t trouble themselves to stay awake o’
nights praying for the safe arrival of the honey-
mooners at ’Frisco, though the ill-fated widow
herself was almost gracious and gushing to every-
one who held out his hat.
“Beware, my beloved brethren, lest the ‘early
dew of morning should melt away at noon’’
Apropos of above, M.L.C. Robert'Reid, linen
draper, bold and ardent Imperialist, had better
mind what he s after, or one of these days he’ll
bring down the grey hairs of dear old Mother
Country with sorrow to the grave. On Tuesday
March 29, the ingrate with his whole family leaves
for ’Ome by the German s.s. Prinz Regent Luit-
pold. In view of his passion for ‘ the Queen God
bFss her,’ the Anglo-Saxon flag, ‘the No’ncon
formist backbone,’ and whatnot, his disciples
would almost rather have had him pine away and
die ‘ while he was pure as the beautiful snovv’than
see him of his own free will elect to wallow for a
month or more in a slough of sausage, lager and
Kaisereult. And the aggregate profits from the
pilgrim’s following would have been better than
‘a poke m the eye with a burnt stick’ to some
British navigation company, I tell you, for, like all
‘ good ’ men, R.R. boasts a'quiverful.
“The Albani happy family—it is a happy
family—made much of Regina Nagel and her
voice. Baritone Pauli, while praising her natural
gifts sky-high, found fault with her methods
Until lately the * Ben Bolt ’ warbler has had the
reputation of a born blunderer. Now her friends
claim that she is improving in this respect, be-
cause, when the star said graciously, ‘ So, you are
going to sing to me ! ’ the trembling neophyte
answered—tactfully for her—‘l am going to try
Madame!’ Miss Nagel’s mother is blind, and
but for the dutiful songstress’s Westralian success
the household must soon have fallen on hard times.
When the wanderer left for Europe moneyed sym-
pathisers came forward with every useful offering
imaginable, but Lady Janet Clarke and Mrs!
Dunbar-Hooper were invaluable friends totlmshv
girl long before ‘ Ben Bolt' made her publicly
popular.
Commandant Booth, of the Salvation Army
at the big flare-up his crowd had in Melbourne
last briday, introduced his wife as ‘the oven in
which my heart was cooked.’ A Dutch oven.
“ Publisher Geo. Robertson, deceased last week,
began his Melbourne career as assistant in Pullar’s
book-shop, which stood on the site of what is now
the old Exchange, in Coll ins-street. The next
year he spt up for himself, laying the foundation
of his afterwards mammoth business in a little
shop in Russell-street. David Blair was his first
customer. His first wife was a beautiful Miss
Baxter; his second marriage was with a widow
with two children. Altogether the combined
families under his roof numbered twelve, and
G.R. used to introduce the three groups in batches
to visitors: ‘ These are mine, these are hers, these
are ours.’
_ “ Now that the Conventionalities are over,
Melbourne comments freely on the studied niggard-
liness of the departed Gov. Brassey in connection
therewith. His cheap garden-party and his ball
exhausted his hospitality. He did not even come
up to the level of Gov. Buxton during the Adelaide
Convention. Apparently, Uncle Tom has been
saving up to pay his expenses to England. It is
a pity that he didn’t go before, for Chief Justice
Madden as acting-Governor would have done the
thing handsomely.
“ When the Brassey people go to bazaars and
win raffles, at which, by the way, they are more
fortunate than in backing horses, a direction is
invariably given for the article to be wrapped up
in brown paper and taken to the carriage. The
real vice-regal attitude in such matters is, of
course, to airily disown the prize, and let it be
sold for the benefit of the show. But, then, the
Brassey crowd conducts the Governor - business
without any demned sentiment.
“Of a certain shapely and frisky little Melb.
cycliste it was recently rumored that her husband
was going for a divorce—which was anything but
unexpected. ‘ .Who are the co respondents ? ’
was the usual inquiry. ‘ The League of Vic.
Wheelmen,’ was the answer. And yet, at latest,
the L.Y.W. had only 2031 members.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Tl)?S(iffieldCase-
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
THE HEW SHIPMENTS
m
m
—OP—
FOSTER S ALE
JUST ARRIVED BY STEAMER.
IN SPLENDID CONDITION . .
. . LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Melb. pressman on Marcus Clarke : ‘ ‘ His
style was superb; he glided into debt with a grace-
fulness that was charming.”
Ages of Australian Governors—Buxton 65,
Brassey 62, Gormanston 61, Hampden 57, Smith
54, Ranfurly 42, Lamington 38.
That well-known boating enthusiast, Father
Gartlan, S.J., of Riverview College, Sydney, is a
nephew of the present Lord Chief Justice of
England.
Arthur Hunter Palmer is the third Presi-
dent of Queensland Leg. Council who has died in
office. O’Connell and Bell died suddenly. The
first President, Dr. Nicholson, still survives.
A Condobolin (N.S.W.) witness in a law
case, last week, informed the court that his general
consumption of ardent spirits reached 50 drinks a
day, of which 20 were taken before breakfast.
FELICITOUS QUOTATIONS.
“ Too much of a good thing. ”
Stoddart stated, on the eve of leaving
Adelaide, that Australia will see him no more.
He marries Miss Phillipson, sister of the wicket-
keeper of his previous team, on his arrival in Eng-
land.
Mr. Malaprop has a seat on a Sydney
suburban Council. On a recent trip to Glasgow
he saw a garbage-crematorium worked by dyna-
mos—and this he described as a “creamery worked
by dynamite.”
The marvellously virile Gladstone, it would
appear, is now dying fast. He is afflicted with
severe neuralgia—variously said to proceed from
facial cancer and from necrosis (mortification) of
the nasal bone.
A couple or three years ago every Governor
in Australia was a G.C.M.G.—Duff, Norman,
Kintore, Hopetoun and W. Robinson. Now not
one is a G.C.M.G.—Hampden, Brassey, Laming-
ton, Buxton, or G. Smith.
Dan O’Connor has been lecturing on
“ Great Men Whom I Have Met.” “ Mr. O’Con-
nor talked principally of our own Australian great
men.” Why, certainly. “Great men whom I
have met in (the) Australia.”
The claim made for the late Chief-Justice
Dobson, of Tasmania, in re appeals to the Privy
Council, is wholly justified in the case of the late
N.S.W. Justice Faucett. No decision of Faucett’s
was ever over-ruled by the P.C.
A year or two ago a prominent commercial
man took a woman from her husband and married
her. Now he is trying to divorce her, and she
wants <£looo a year alimony pending the suit,
alleging that his income is <£14,000 a year.
A certain dark-haired, pale-faced mining-
market operator who did pretty big things in Aus-
tralia and has since made a European reputation,
is, it appears, a quarter-caste Chinese, which
accounts for a lot of things. Here he was always
set down as having far-back Red Indian blood.
The son of a popular Australian comedian
married against his father’s will, but boldly took
his new wife to the paternal door and knocked.
Dad opened it. Son: “ We’ve come.” Dad
(shouting upstairs to mother): “ Mary, they've
come. And now you can go away again.” (Slam-
ming the door).
Melb. Age on Liord Brassey: “At both
ends of the world the Victorian Governor is
recognised as an expert authority on the naval
affairs of the world.” This statement may be
disputed, but nobody can deny that his steam
yacht knows enough to come in out of the wet as
often as possible.
Lancet: “The operation just undergone
by Premier Turner is, doubtless, necessitated by a
lifetime of inattention to the laws of hygiene.
From almost the beginning of his Premiership, his
health has been bad, physicking constant, pain
chronic. Yet I suppose men adjudge the game
worth the candle.”
Ex.-Vic. Premier Jimmy Munro, who dis-
appeared beneath the waters of Oblivion at the
bursting of the Boom, is slowly emerging once
more. The top of his head is, so to speak, visible
already. His auctioneering business is improving
greatly, and he is even beginning to take an in-
terest in Federation.
Old Amos Burr, of M.L., who recently
cameto serious grief over an allegednative land pur-
chase, is another evidence of how a promising dodge
may be wrecked by want of attention to small
details. Burr produced an aged, faded receipt in
the Maori language, showing that he had bought
and paid for the land in question in 1872. And
the receipt on the stamp belonged to an issue that
was first printed in 1882. It was a beautiful
receipt in every other respect.
George Higinbofcliam’s punctilious con-
scientiousness proved a great drawback to him as
a journalist. When Argus editor in the Fifties
he so carefully read the proofs and checked the
correctness of whatever was printed that publica-
tion of the paper was often delayed till six and
seven o’clock in the morning.
John Norton has publicly registered an
oa,th that when he enters Parliament he will deal
with Mr. (N.S.W.) District Court Judge Docker.
A full catalogue of Judge Docker’s judicial
vagaries during the last 12 years—beginning, say,
with his alleged comparison of a certain juryman
to Judas Iscariot—would make interesting read-
ing.
The death of James Payn, the novelist, at
the age of 68, is cabled. He lived a queer life,
and always prided himself on never walking more
than a few yards if he could possibly help it.
Apropos, an Oscar Wilde story. “Do you never
take exercise ? ” someone asked Wilde. “Oh,
yes,” replied the fat aesthete, “I sometimes talk
a little.”
The text selected by a certain holy S.A.
local-preaching defaulter for the Sunday before
his disappearance was Psalm lv., 6 —“ And I said,
Oh that I had wings like a dove, for then would
I fly away and be at rest. Lo, then would I
wander far off and remain in the wilderness. I
would hasten my escape from the windy storm
and tempest.’”
Told of Judge Yirgil Power (Q. ) that once,
as a barrister, he couldn’t prevent a popular young
fellow about town from getting five years for
embezzlement. Next day into his chambers
whipped a cocky little attorney’s messenger with
a brief, which he tossed across the table to the
tune of “ Ullo, Virgil! I see you didn’t get Abe
off yesterday. Hard cheese, eh ! ”
It is only the “ religious ” papers that are
truly comic. Sydney Life Words takes upon itself
to describe Rev. Congregational-Union-chairman
Binns as “one who has power with God, and who
dwells in the secret place of the Most High.” It
somehow forgot to add that, on the whole, Mr.
Binns is disposed to take quite a favorable view
of the Deity’s disposition and intentions.
Edward Wilson, the original proprietor of
the Argus, always gave his editors one piece of
advice —“Don’t go into Society : you will then
avoid even the appearance of belonging to any
particular coterie lt was sound journalistic
counsel, and has been pretty consistently adhered
to by those to whom it was tendered. Editor
Haddon, for instance, has chiefly associated
with his own well-bred dogs.
H. : “ Pastor Fitchett’s sheet-anchor with
the Wesleyans. is his admirable and remunerative
management of the Ladies’ College, while its com-
panion, Queen’s College University, for the
superfine young men, the members of the Young
Gentlemen’s Christian Association, wallows in
the financial quagmire. The outside world may
rail as it likes, but while Fitchett makes ecclesi-
ology pay, not only for himself but for the denom-
ination, he can write his ‘ Deeds,’ his Review, his
Argus, his Southern Cross anti-SpECTATOR, till
all is blue, and open a hay and corn-store as well,
if he chooses. The church is like President Lin-
coln when told that General Grant drank too
much Bourbon whisky, ‘By thunder, I wish my
other generals would get the same brand ! ’ ”
WHAT IT IS TO BE FAMOUS .
THE HONORABLE PERCY : “ I — aw—suppose you meet some vewy extra-
ordinary people, playing so frequently? ”
LADY CHAMPION: “Oh, yes; but one gets accustomed to those kind of
things in time !”
The late George Robertson rather surprised
some people by living for seven years after his
retirement from the Melbourne publishing busi-
ness. He started his life of ease in a gloomy
spirit by giving a <£looo-order for a family-vault at
St. Kilda cemetery. It is a beautiful, roomy struc-
ture, fitted with a ventilation-pipe that extends
way down to one of the main walks of the
cemetery. This provides an opening for any
gruesome joker, who, having left his victim to
admire the exterior of the vault, proceeds to the
pipe-mouth and groans into it. The groan swells
into resurrectionary rumblings, which, as a rule,
turn the other fellow pale.
The “ Cheap-Jack of the battlefield ” is
what the malignant Saturday Review styles par-
son Fitchett, upon whose hysterics of style and
catch-phrase tricks it lavishes unsparing ridicule.
Had “Deeds that Won” appeared under Fit-
chett’s nom-de-guerre of “Vedette,” it is re-
marked, the work might have passed for that of
some callow military enthusiast, “ finding relief in
the gush to which the amateur is prone.” Ama-
teur ! —ye gods !
The slaughter of Woolf Joel, the Trans-
vaal gold-bug, judging from the evidence of his
business manager, would seem to have been the
unpremeditated outcome of a blackmail scheme.
Wertheim, the assassin, was endeavoring to lure
Joel (and a sum of .£2500) into a plot, bogus or
otherwise, for the “removal” of President Kruger,
and Joel, being quite alive to the fact that any
sort of connivance in said plot would put his mil-
lions at the mercy of his accomplices, told Wer-
theim to clear out of the office.
A notable event in this Age of Steel
should be the recent passing away of the man
who made it possible. Before Bessemer’s dis-
coveries the price of steel was almost prohibitive,
but when, as the result of his despised investiga-
tions, the minimum cost of steel rails leaped sud-
denly down from £5O a ton to less than <£s—the
enchanter’s wand had been waved that was to
revolutionise bridge-building, cover the civilised
world with railways, and load the waters with the
tremendous fighting-machines of to-day.
From Melb. Age leading article :
Lord Canterbury, when Governor here, entertained, ac-
cording to custom, the members of the Assembly in
batches. Turning on one occasion to one of his political
guests, with an air of superb graciousness, he said, “ I
believe, sir, you were originally a tailor?” “ I was,” re-
plied the M.L.A. “ And pray, sir, how are you employed
now?” queried Governor Canterbury. “At present,”
replied the member, “ I am engaged in taking your Ex-
cellency’s measure.”
Good—but what was the name of that member ?
Pump Court: “ Melb. demise, octogena-
rian Barrister Pridham, once a London Times
special commissioner. Amazing what a reputa-
tion a man can get, if he only lives long enough.
Obituarised, Pridham almost inserts himself into
the line of Dick Ireland, Miehie, Aspinall, Fellows,
Dawson —not to speak of such moons to the suns
as Purves, Madden, and Hodges. In sooth, Prid-
ham and departed F. L. Smyth were just the
men to put into the losing case. As soon as they
appeared, the reporters knew that the other fellow
would get the verdict.”
“ C.0.W.” to The Bulletin :
You have often alluded to “ Philosopher ” Smith, dis-
coverer of Mt. Bischoff tin-mine, and allowed corres-
pondents to call upon people across the water to erect a
monument to his memory ; which is as it should be. But
not a word has ever escaped you in favor of the man who
really made it the biggest and best-managed concern of
the kind in the world. When Ferdinand Kayser took
charge of Mt. Bischoff some 25 years ago, no one ever ex-
pected it to become a success. He came recommended
by such men as Newbery and Ulrich, and, after examin-
ing the mine, made certain proposals to the directors
which were vigorously opposed by Smith aforesaid, but
were, after a great struggle, accepted by a majority of
one. Smith then sold the greater part of his shares,
Kayser buying as many as his means allowed at £1 and
less. Since those days Kayser has built up a township
connected with the coast by a railway, where formerly
all was but bush and swamp. The mine has paid nearly
1J millions in dividends, and Kayser’s earnest wish is to
live long enough to reach the two millions. Australia
badly needs more men of his stamp.
When the Franco-
German war started,
a French station-
holder in Victoria
forthwith sacked two
Germans who were
working for him. The
rest of the hands
thought this so rough
that they struck, and
were all discharged.
Then the boss got a
mob of Chinamen to
do his work. “ Dot
ist goodt,” said one
of the Germans; “der
beoples of der in-
verior races, dey gome
togeder in der last
day, und go ter Hell.”
One of the most
remarkable incidents
noticed by the pre-
sent scribe at Oscar
Wilde’s trial (writes
a Bulletin corres-
pondent), occurred
when the prisoner
was under cross-ex-
amination by barris-
ter Lockwood.
Straight opposite the
witness-box sat play-
ed-out old Queens-
berry, in the gallery
for distinguished visi-
tors, and as Wilde,
who has a dreadful
habit of mouthing
his words, ansivered
the searching en-
quiries of Lockwood
with aesthetic balderdash, made more inane by
the aforesaid mouthings, old Queensberry imitated
with extraordinary accuracy the idiotic contor-
tions of the once brilliant Irishman.
Parson Isitt, the Maoriland Cold Tea
shriekist, alleges that one of the local M.’sH.R
once zig-zagged into Parliament in a fearsome
state of gin, and there publicly took off his boots
and socks and pared his toe-nails. Like most 'of
Isitt’s fish stories, this one isn’t adorned with
either names or dates. And if Isitt only got tight
once he would discover that a thoroughly drunk
man can’t pare his toe-nails.
OBVIOUS.
LITTLE ROBERT : “Gimme a dawg-muzzle, mister !”
TRADESMAN (with doubts about payment) : “IS it
for yer ma? ”
LITTLE ROBERT : “Ho; for the dawg, of course!"
Man-who-is-dead Drury was a frozen-fish
kind of “ toff ”in his way. Said a colonel once
who sat beside him eating at the club : “ It is a
pity so few members come here to luncheon.
Look at the empty seats. Our charge is much
too great and should be lowered. Do you not
think so, Drury?” Drury transfixed him with
his eyeglass : “ Haw ! I have been infawmed that
a—aw —luncheon may be procuah’d in Brisbane
faw—aw—sixpence—haw. And I have no doubt
—aw —it satisfies those-—aw individuals who
prefah that kind of thing—haw.”
When an English Admiral cables the
Admiralty, the operators are sworn to strict
secrecy, although a special code is usually em-
ployed. A few years back an Admiral on the
Australian command was dictating an important
message to a telegraphist up Q. way, and at the
conclusion exclaimed, “ Thank heaven, that’s the
end! ” Operator saw the chance of a joke, but
had hardly clicked off the first word of the ex-
clamation when the naval man interrupted—
“ Hm-m ! No necessity to send that. They are
not humorists at the other end, you know.”
John Pope, of the big Sydney firm of
Farmer and Co., has gone to England, after
having lavishly farewelled and been fare welled
by his numerous employes. People with long
memories have bethought themselves of John’s
old-time familiar and startlingly original wheeze,
about how he owed his first real advance in com-
merce to the fact that his employer noticed him,
careful man, pick up a pin which lay on the floor.
But it is now a long time since the opulent
merchant has trotted out this story of Pope’s pin.
Judge Lutwyche (Q.) was a fowl-fancier.
One day, a witness said that he had risen at cock-
crow. The Judge observed that, as far as that
went, the Australian rooster crowed just when
the fit took him. At which Blake, a barrister, re-
marked, “ Ah, yer ’anner—the spirit av St. Pether
is abroad in yer ’anner’s hin roosts.” “ I can’t say
as to spirit,” said the Judge, “but of late I’ve had
solid evidence of some rascally bodily presence.
I lost a prize Dorking cock lasi, rnght. But pro-
ceed, proceed! ” —and his Honor sar back with the
air of a martyr.
The new member for Wide Bay (Q.) —
Jenkinson—isayouthful and hithertoinsignificant
“ imp of the inkpot,” who went straight from his
packing-case in Maryborough Chronicle office
to slay Tozer's nominee. Queensland now enjoys
the doubtful distinction of being politically repre-
sented by ten ex-pressmen—Groom, Drake, Cross,
Stewart, Jenkinson, Stephenson, Dawson, Stumm,
Chataway, and Hoolan. Which may partly ac-
count for the awful mediocrity, windiness, and
ineptitude of the Q. Legislature. Good journal-
ists seldom make successful politicians. The pen
is mightier than the windpipe.
Lady Fitzroy, Governor’s Fitzroy's wife,
was rather homely-looking. One day a Sydney
grocer sneaked in at the “tradesman’s entrance ”
at Government House. He encountered Lady
Fitzroy, and mistook her for the housekeeper. He
edged up and slipped a tenner into her hand.
“Get me the business, and I’ll double it,” he
whispered. Next day the grocer man received his
appointment as providore to the vice-regal house-
hold, with an intimation that Lady Mary Fitzroy
would be glad to receive the promised <£2o, for
distribution in charity. And then the grocer man
tried to hide his delighted shame in a butter keg.
Deffell, an amusing old fossil, who was
once N.S.W. Insolvency Judge, spoke through
his nose. One time, a sailor was witness in a case
arising out of the alleged felonious scuttling of a
brig. The sailor testified that the captain had
gone into the hold during the night-time. “Did
you—er—see him—er —go into the hold ? ” asked
Deffell. “No, your Honor.” “Then—er—how
did you—er—know it was the —er—captain?”
“Iheer’d his voice, yer Honor.” “You are—er
—shuah it was his voice ? ” “ Sartain, yer Honor.
It’s a pecooliar sort of voice. Suthin’ betwixt a
penny whistle and a snore, yer Honor.” “Ah !
a sort of—er—snuffle ? ” asked the Judge. “ Jes-
so,” said the witness, “ suthin like yer Honor’s !”
The late Tas. Chief Justice Lambert Dob-
son was an illustration of the fact that a man need
not possess exceptional ability to secure a reputa-
tion for it. From his school-days the late Judge
moved in a groove, from which he never swerved.
Essentially commonplace, conservative and highly
respectable, he had no capacity for great virtues
or vices. His intellect belonged to that average
order which enables a man to confine his reason-
ing to accepted facts, and sustain his faith with
accepted theories. A careful lawyer, with no
instinct in the direction of the initiative or the
speculative, a man of decent habits, a churchman
of the Thirty-nine Articles school, and a proof of
the value of passivity as a propelling force.
Thirty years ago a Scotchman named
M'Kay, on the staff of Brisbane Courier, was
a crank on the subject of Carlyle. He would lug
the sage into even a three-line paragraph, and his
talk was punctuated with Carlylean dogmatics.
The staff got to be tired of it, but endured it
for Carlyle’s sake. But, one day, M‘Kay fastened
on to a new man with Carlyle. “Oh, d n
Carlyle ! ” said the latter, rising and leaving the
office. M‘Kay sat aghast for some moments.
Then he went to Jones, the sub. “ Hae ye on.y
reliable knowledge o’ the new reporter’s character,
Mr. Jones?” “Well —yes. Why do you ask?’
“ Oh, joost for this :he d ns Carlyle.” “Does
he?” cried Jones, eagerly ; “then, by God ! I’ll
raise his screw.”


“ three GOOD THINGS ”
. . Madk in England. . .
Holbrook’s W orcesfcersh ire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pick! es
Holbrook’ Pure Malt V inegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES !
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook's Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
Strong Testimony for Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Woodgemool th a., W. A.,
December 11th, 1897.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that I am now
perfectly cured from severe pains in the region of
the kidneys, and from congested liver of many
years standing, after taking five (5) bottles of
Warner’s SAFE Cure. It has been the cheapest
‘doctor’s bill’ I have had to pay, and I have had
the satisfaction to know I have got rid of my
pains.E. C. THOMAS.*
FULLNESS OF BODY
Ts a desirable thing when applied to whisky, and
that is one of the characteristics of “D.C.L.” a
fine, well-matured, mellow blend of the finest
Highland Whiskies. Ask for the “D.C.L.’’
(Black Bottle).*
ENGLAND TO THE FRONT.
Another addition to England’s laurels. Ogden's
Guinea Gold cigarettes victorious everywhere.
The world conquered by this fashionable Smoke. *
Liverpool arjel Lopdcx
#<alob€ Ip&Cirapcc Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL, FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.B.W. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Cumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Ilead Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSEM ER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€
Aboriginalities .
At Wahgunyah, the other day, the police
arrested two poor devils suspected of having
snapped up certain trifles from the domiciles of
townspeople. Amongst the articles on the police-
list were several rolls of beef. Accused’s swags
were searched and the officers found what they
reckoned was the pickled bullock. The tramps
stoutly affirmed that the meat was that of a fat
dog which they had poached, pickled and skewered
up for use on the wallaby ; in proof of which they
actually produced the unfortunate tyke’s skin and
part of tlie carcase from which they had been
cutting steaks. “ Tinned-dog ! ” When the dog-
supply runs out, swaggies of this kind will be
pickling fat policemen.
* * * *
Writes “ 6 x 8 h to The Bulletin
I m weary of shrieks about fatmen, crushers, tyrants,
&c. After all, the "rafter in general, and bush-worker in
particular, is the, boss-sweater of the lot. Squatters,
managers, mill-owners, and others don’t know how to
sweat- until the “ sat-upon-toiler” conies along and shows
them. Bill takes a contract of fencing, ring-barking, or
drain-cutting at a decent figure, but when hard-up Jim
happens along, Bill puts him on at, say, £1 per week and
tucker i.e., damper and mutton. Bill makes from 12
to 15s. per day, while Jim, who does the same amount of
graft in the same 12 hours a day (there’s no 8 hours about
Bill when he is the employer) receives the magnificent
sum of 3s. 4d. aforesaid. The squatters see all this, and
justly argue—“ If Bill the toiler can get Jim the toiler to
work 12 hours a day for 3s. 4d., why shouldn't I? ” The
most barefaced sweating of this sort is done in the shear-
ing sheds (union or otherwise) by wool-pressers and
cooks. Fencers, tank-sinkers, &c., often own plants and
horse-power, and are entitled to a bigger share of the
contract; but wool-pressers and cooks enter a shed with
nought but their hands. In fully 75 per cent, of the
sheds Bill takes the wool-pressing by contract at the
average price of Is. fid. per bale, and emplo3's Jim at the
union rate of 255. per week. Both start on equal terms,
and both do exactly the same kind and amount of work.
Yet Bill coolly pockets four times the amount that Jim
does. Station-owners’ eyes are beginning to open, and
when wool-pressing (flic hardest work in the shed) drops
down to 255. per week, Bill the sweater will be the first
to shriek about crushers and tyrants ! In many cases,
cooks make even nowadays from £8 to £lO per week (4s.
per man is the average pay to a shearer’s cook), and pav
their “ off-siders ” (assistants), who do all the laborious
work and are on their feet from 4 a.m. to 11 p.m., 255. or
30s. per week ! Naturally, of course, the cook’s wage is
rapidly going down-hill. Shearers, who snort and bite
and battle for 8 hours and £1 a hundred, and union
agreements for themselves, are the hardest and worst-
paying employers when they take contracts. Also, many
of them leave a 16 hours-a-day and 12s. per-week-slave on
their selections when the shearing begins. Bill and Jim’s
alleged mateship and talk about equality and brother-
hood of man is ghastly satire to the man who has worked
with and for them Sweat!—Fatman’s not in it !
* * * *
“ Late Barcoo ” : Re .yarn about the fish
on the Murrumbidgee camping in hollow logs
(sth March, ’9B). During the late drought the
Warrego was quite dry. Having been down South
for a spell, I had lost the healthy sole-leather
color, and was mistaken by two bushmen for a
new-c' urn when travelling up the Warrego from
Charievilie. On a long stage the waterbags
gave out, and my new companions, thinking
SACRED JUSTICE!
COUNTRY J.P.: “ Prisoner , are yer guilty or not guilty? ”
DRUNK: “ Not guilty, yer Washup.”
COUNTRY J.P.: “ Well, wotcher want ’ere? I give yer seven days for INTEMPT av coort! ”
to take a rise out of me, suggested, when a big
bottle-tree hove in sight, that I should tap it
and fill the bags and billy while they fixed up the
other things. As I had an axe to grind, I fell in
with their proposal. My luck was in, for, besides
filling the bags and billy, I drew out of the open-
ing I'had made two fine, big catfish, which had
evidently left the river when it ran dry. They
were A 1 eating.
* * * *
An unorthodox tract. From Mitchell
(Q.), bound for a neighboring station, once went a
harum-scarum station-manager, driving a new-
chum parson in a buckboard. They were tearing
through the b.ush, and the good shepherd, hang-
ing on for all he was worth, implored the driver to
“moderate the speed of the benighted beasts. It
IS quite reckless.” “ Reckless be damned ! That’s
what I call reckless ! ” said the bushman, flinging
away the reins. A smash happened. The poor
P arso i n had both legs broken, and spent three
monfchs m hospital. And the station-manager
came onfc of lfc wlthout a bruise,
T * * * *
Dear B.—An old bush yarn, which has,
possibly, not yet grown old in print, concerns a
shearer who got the “sack.” It wasn’t con-
lenient for him to be sacked just then, so he con-
spired with his friend, the cook, got himself
blackened with soot, and appeared with his swag
on back, and bearing the name of Pompey, to
aS .h f° r work. He was engaged immediately, and
within an hour from the time of his discharge was
Land at work again. But the weather was hot,
and the color steadily streaked off in perspiration,
and the boss, taking an occasional look at the new
shearer, was amazed to see him gradually growing
° n patching, and
in ab ° ut .an hour all the outward Pompey had
washed ott, and the old shearer emerged from
beneath his disguise. He was re-engaged, just to
show that there was no animosity. The shearer
himself has dropped out of sight, but almost every
roiSlhe', B oft hu, ?Lt imB to , b l ™s wh “
s u PPl>ed the soot. Cooks are awful liars.—Seven-
BY-oEV K v.
* * * *
Dear BULLETIN. —“AM ’s ” GUerv re
JTvrWanrnoTj™ 8 , ( I UeI A re
Mydrosauius Varius isn t so easy to answer, as
fc “ e re P bl *® has different names m different regions,
In the neighborhood of Green Cape, where it is
common, I heard it universally called the ’guana,
In Queensland it is called ’guanna, guano or
,?r"“liYzr n j ith evety *•-
• g- • * ] asma nia the namegoanna, or gohanna,
ls restricted to the stump-lizard (oyclodus nigro-
leuteus). These names are all corruptions of the
“iguana.” The Hydrosaurus belongs to the
family of “ Monitoridoe,” which is distri-
buted over Africa Asia and Australia while
AL ’ , , la an “ Australia, while
,^uana Pr®P® r belongs to the family of
iguamdoe, all the surviving representatives of
which are confined to tropical America and the
adjacent islands. Besides very marked anatomical
distinctions, there is a wide distinction between the
monitors and the enanas in the matter nf
i an , • 6 & uanas 1 the matter of food—
f°r“er beulg essentially carnivorous, whilst
tlle l at ;t er aro purely herbivorous. The name
“lace-lizard,” also used for Hydrosaurus, i 3 a
very inappropriate one, and I hereby venture to
suggest Monitor Australis.— H.M.N.
* * * *
The average bushllian has far better teeth
f ha « the average townsman and a dentist out
back does not make a pile. It is surprising what
some bushies can get through with their teeth.
Many can bite pins in half like cheese, and they
have a selector on the Lachlan who can bite
through fencing-wire, and who wasonly beaten onco
—by a Sydney hash-house rump-steak. On the
other hand, a bushman with toothache has a bad
time, having little or no remedy save of his own
invention. A favorite bush cure is to shove a red-
hot needle or piece of wire into the tooth ; which
is supposed to “ kill the nerve,” and often goes
near killing the man. Some bushies like to have
the tooth out, and there are many ways of shifting
it. A common way is to dig it out with a pen-
knife, but others do the job quicker and better
with hammer and chisel. The latter is a good
way, but a still better is a team of bullocks and
ten yards of wire-rope,
* ~ » *
A policeman in Condobolin (N.S. W.) dis-
trict, after hunting two days for an alleged selec-
tor’s residence, on the third morning found a few
sheets of bark, and huddled up under these his
selector. “You look pretty comfortable there,
Mao.,” said the representative of law and order,
“ Nane sae braw,’’said Mac. ; “ Aw got sax wal-
labies this mornin’, and aw’m fear’t aw’ve eaten
ower muckle ” !
Dear Bulle-
tin. — I have seen
some interesting
buckjumping cir-
cumstances set
forth in your ver-
acious journal,
but never remem-
ber reading of a
horse bucking its
rider out of his
boots. This
“feet ’’happened
up here the other
day. We got a
blackfellow who
thought he could
ride on a young
one, which imme-
diately threw
him. On picking
himself up, the
darkey missed
his boots, and
when we caught
the horse we
found a No. 9
sticking in each
s t i r r up - iron.
Like all blacks
who wear boots,
this fellow never
used laces, so, of
course, it was
easier for his feet
to come out of
the boots than
the boots out of
the irons. He,
however, con-
cluded that there
was something
supernatural
about the horse,
and it was not
until we had
filled him with
the fire-water of
the pale - face
that he would
mount again.
Face.
* *
“ Jeff ” tells
The Bulletin
he has dicovered
another Chinese
industry :
Some time ago,
after a cattle-drov-
ing job, I was coming down one of the western Q. rivers.
For first 80 miles there were some fine patches of
pie and water melons, and sometimes pumpkins, grow-
ing wild on the T.S. reserves, as a result of floods
washing the melons out of gardens and depositing
them along the river road. After a long stretch in
the saddle behind a sluggish mob of bullocks, even the
curseful drover will call it a streak of luck when he
comes on one of these patches. But when I got within
20 miles of C township I found patch after patch
ivstroyed. Almost everyone I met
blamed the unfortunate “battler,” and
I put it down to some of the Sydney
“talent” until one evening, about dusk,
I caught two Chows vigorously destroy-
ing melon-vines. When they sighted
me they bolted off, but 1 had two good
cattle dogs that weren’t very partic-
ular about what they chewed, and
they ran the Chows up a leaning tree.
The explanation I got was -that while
people could get their melons for noth-
ing they would not buy the Celestial
melon.
* * *
5.0.8. : “ Once came across
two battlers, stranded up country,
intent on making a rise to get back
to town with. They borrowed a
small tent and rigged it up with a
placard :
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN WATER-
OTTER.
Admission Threepence.
One of the partners got on a gin-
case outside and tongued the crowd
—‘ This is the only Australian
water-otter on exhibition in a tent;
brought from the wild Barcoo by
three ti'aveiling bushmen ’—and so
on. I went in to get the strength
of it, and was nearly paralyzed.
They had a billy boiling on a fire,
and the confederate inside re-
marked, as if exhibiting an eighth
wonder, ‘ Step up, sir, and see the
water ’otter, sir ! The great Aus-
tralian water ’otter, sir ! brought
down by the man who led the
water-bag and crooked stick across
Queensland.’”
“Theßleafcer” to The Bulletin, re the
“ useful ” dodge :
Following is modus operandi of the proprietor of a
certain country woolscouring mill. He advertises in
one of the dailies :—“ Wanted a dozen lads to be
“ useful” in woolscouring mills; Bs. per week and keep.
Apply So-and-So’s registry.” As there is always a number
of willing lads unable to get work in the metropolis, they
simply jump at the chance. After parting up 7s. fid.
(usually borrowed for the occasion) as the labor-agent's
fee, they sign an agreement binding them to stay the
season of about five months. Then, with Labor Bureau
tickets, they start North and arrive about dinner-time
hungry and sleepy. Boss meets them and directs them
to the mill some distance outside town ; and next day it
doesn’t take them long to find out that they’ve got to
work just as hard as the “regulars’ who get their 255.
per week. And, what with the purchase of necessaries
and so on, when emancipation day arrives their cheque
wouldn’t pay for a round of drinks. Annually this dodge
is worked on numbers of lads, and yet the perpetrator
contrives with a little surface bonhommie to maintain the
reputation of a “ real good-hearted fellow.”
* » * *
Re a white Australia and “Australia for
the Australians.” Two big, powerful young
fellows were charged, at a Western (N.S.W.)
eourt recently, with having no lawful visible
means, and, in defence, called a local Chow, who
swore—on a Bible ! —that “ one fellow work ’im
garden, water ’im cabbage, letucee—him pay ’im
two bob, five bob—an’ so on. ’Nother fellow drive
’im cart, sell ’im fluit, vegetable, along annuder
Chinaman, an’ pay ’im seven bob one time ; him
away two weeks ” —etcetera. Such was the cas.e.
Result—Six months’ hard. Mr. Ah Fat, the em-
ployer of white labor, was interrogated by a
simpleton, who believed that laboring Chows
under-cut whites, as to why he kept loafers like
those round him, and why, if he wanted cheap and
A FAIR OFFER .
SQUATTER : “ What work can you do? ”
SWAGGY : “I’m wake now; but give me a fortnight’s camp an ’ tucker an’ I'll
manage the blanky station for yer—an’ nivir ask what yer blanky
religion is! ”
reliable (sober, at least) labor, did he not
employ his own countrymen? The answer was a
knock-down : “Oh ! Ino afford ’im. Chinaman,
he want £1 one week, no work ’im Sunday.
White-fellow no got job work ’im one week, sup-
pose* seven day, I pay ’im 7s. 6d. five day.” Good
old Chow !
* * * *
Perhaps the most pathetic thing about the
Warra Yadin (Vic.) murder was the place where
the victim resided with his red-haired flame. The
“ house ” was one-roomcd and built of sheets of
odd sizes of galvanised-iron nailed and tied
with wire to unsquared stringy-bark poles. The
roof was a lean-to of iron and bark, and the num-
ber of directions it leant to would be hard to say.
Frequent apertures in the “walls” had been
choked up with boards, bits of tin, and discarded
wearing - apparel. There was an old bedstead
covered with a quantity of antique bedding, and,
at the foot of it, stood a row of kerosene-tins con-
taining brine, in which floated portions of mutton
and rabbit. Above where the pillows should have
been—in the place usually occupied by “ God
Bless Our Home ’’—depended from the roof a
sheep’s pluck with congealed blood hanging from
it in long, horrible strings, which threatened to
fall into the mouth of any sleeper below. “Go on
the land, young man ! ”


“ SURPLUS.”
The term “surplus ’’ is applied, in life insurance
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate.
The natural tendency of distribution is to diminish
the surplus for the moment ; but in the case of a
prosperous company, the decrease is speedily more
than covered by accessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company withho'ds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. Of course it
is easy to keep in hand more than the future will
require under any possible circumstances; and,
when that course is followed, injustice to present
participants is inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while
careful to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they are entitled to claim. The
Company has never sacrificed the interests of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was .£6,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominent
instance—of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual’s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
24 millions sterling ! This is not guesswork. The
figures are based upon the official report issued hy
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisation, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
£44,445,244, which is more than twice the amount
paid for similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured —a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid interests of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
thiscourse, the Mutual Life of’ New York has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing,
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the world as “ the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,”“ the Co. which does the most
good i ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in excess of
any possible needs of the generations to come.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
r Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SoftCaQVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. VIKK It layl' 11 Kits,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
MISS HILDA SPONG.
MISS VANBRUGH.
THE GRACE OF THE CRINOLINE.
This is a scene from Mr. Pinero’s latest comedy,
“ Trelawney of the Wells,” clipped from London Daily
Chronicle. The scene is laid in or about 1861—and the
women loolc just as lovely as this !
This is the time of year when the Sydney waxworks
man takes an assortment of the Aggers round the country
on their annual tour to enlighten the bush intelligence.
There are several hundred murderers and others in the
waxworks, and about 60 of the most portable and ferocious
are selected once a year for a season out-back. There are
no Federal delegates among them —the management re-
ports with regret that the wax image of a Federal delegate
wouldn’t draw worth a cent. Butler is expected to be
the chief attraction, and George Dean is also worth a
good deal even yet, in a business point of view. Reynell,
who goes to pilot the statue of Dean round the country,
once acted as manager for Meagher when that sad, dry
person delivered his incoherent lecture to audiences that
consisted mostly of the four winds, so he will have a
chance to look at both sides of the question. The tour
starts at Newcastle, and goes as far North as the wax
murderer can be taken without melting. If, by any
chance, Butler should melt and begin to bob ridiculously
forward, the only thing to be done will be to put an axe
in his hand and pass him off as young G. Washington.
Pinero’s new comedy, wherein Dot Boucicault, Hilda
Spong, and Pattie Browne appear, is deliberately dated
back to the sixties, and dressed in the hideous fashions of
that dark age. Pretty Hilda Spong, for instance, is en-
compassed by a mauve silk-dress that can stand alone-
on its crinoline—when she gets out of it. A black straw
hat, pork-pie shape, with a yellow feather sticking from
a crimson tuft, is said to be not so very unbecoming,
ditto the golden hair a-hanging down her neck in a
beaded net. But the single-button mauve kid-gloves and
small mauve parasol are as essentially ridiculous as the
dundreary whiskers and peg-top trousers of the male
“toffs” in the cast. Pinero’s idea in reviving these
thirty-year-old atrocities has not been confided to the
public. It can hardly be that he looks back with admira-
tion to the figures that he and his girl presented in his
young love days. The author of “ Sweet Lavender” must
have an artistic hatred for crinolines. Prob bly he was
merely aiming at an advt. for the show. Thousands of
women will want to go and see how “frightful’ they
looked of yore in hoop-de-doo-dedoos.
Dear Bulletin.— Paid ss. at Sydney Town Hall to
hear Madame Albani. Heard Trebelli in same hall
some months ago for a modest “ bob.” Now, I may
be a mug at music, but I say that if Albani’s warbling is
worth five shillings, Trebelli’s is well worth a pound. Yet
the latter, as far as I can remember, received no mayoral
reception in either Melbourne or Sydney, wasn’t inter-
viewed by the “ leading defies,” nor even cabled to by
royalty.— Sancho Panza.
Haresfoot: “ I never saw air. Cartwright
act till the other night. His Zouroff is
the versatile Russian bear. The actor
makes no points, and yet subtly endues
himself with the character as with a sur-
tout. Incredible self-denial for a star.
The old school would say there is even
something amateurish about such acting,
perfectly natural abrupt entrances and
exits, with a total disregard of the front.
Seldom does Cartwright accidentally lift
an edge of the curtain that the wires
of his art.’’
Alfred Moii, one former iiielbourner,
erstwhile Age musical critic, has just re-
ceived a special vote of thanks from the
London Alhambra proprietors for his man-
agement during the past year. He has
made a hit with London biograph displays
of the cricket matches this year, Australia
v. England, at Sydney and Melbourne.
English cricketers have been curious to see
the play of Australians, such as Howell and
Noblegwho have leaped into celebrity, be-
sides renewing acquaintance with the fami-
liar Ranji, Trott, &c.
When H. M. Stanley took his last trip
to America, it entirely broke up the little
nig. he brought from Central Africa.
“ When I was in England,” he said, “ I
used to be kissed all day by ladies; here
they say ‘ get Mit you gawdam little
nigger.’ ”
A plea for the theatre-band — re a recent
Bulletin paragraph. The fiddling contin-
gent is generally looked upon with con-
tumely as being the first to “ strike ” when
a show is in difficulties, and so bring about
the inevitable “close-up.” But An
actor who goes on shares, say one-quarter,
in ratio to salary, generally gets something
out of it; the hapless instrumentalist rarely
gets anything at all. £2 10s. a week is good
pay for an orchestra-man these times;
most of them don’t get anything like it.
In a recent case (a pantomime, whereof
details are known to the writer), artists at
£2O per week didn’t do so badly out of the
percentage system, but the music-grinders,
with about 10s. Od. a week eventuating,
found it a tough job to live on that.
Moreover, in a panto, show', for instance,
the orchestra-men have to work harder, take
them individually, than the actors. The
latter have their “ scenes ” and their inter-
vals, but the catgut-scraper has to plug
along all through the evening, every num-
ber, with no pause or rest whatever. An-
other big point is that an immense amount
of music-writing has to be done before the
show starts, for which, in the case of a “run-
on-credit ” concern, the luckless “ ar-
ranger” (who “trombones” at night) is seldom o
never paid, though he provides his own “ score ”
paper and et ceteras. Taken all round, the band-
folk are more often cheated, and looked upon as
fair game, than the acting-members of a 00., and
it is small blame to them if they stick out for their rights
in the only effective way—by concerted and prompt action.
The “striking” band is a benefaotor to the community,
and administers the coup de grace to many a show which
ought to be in its grave. If the mummers themselves'are
fools enough to prop up a plainly moribund entertain-
ment, why should the “great conducted,” with more to
lose and less to gain, be expected to make fools of them-
selves too ?
Maoriland has been no less prolific in mummers than in
musicians. Well-known pros, from the province include
Harry Roberts, Jewett, Walter-r-r Bentley, Bland Holt,
(both spent most of their youth in Dunedin) Montgomery,
who cuts a fair figure in B. Holt’s co., and Harry Mar-
shall. ’Most every Maorilander frets an hour or two upon
the amateur stage.
Horace Hodges, of the Wilson Barrett co., has, to a
considerable extent, the rare Dot Boucicaultian knack of
changing his identity on the boards. His Belos in
“Olaudian,” Ross Christian in “The Manxman,” Truma-
torius in “ Virginius,” and Begg in “Ben My Chree” are
distinctly different people.
Charles Arnold talks of coming again to Australia with
a said-to-be roaring farcical comedy—“ What Happened
at Jones’s.” The principal character in this clumsily-
named joke is a sporting bagman who disguises himself
as a bishop. Difficult to imagine Arnold revelling in such
a part.
The Academy of Music, Ballarat’s only theatre, built by
the late Baronet Clarke at a cost of £12,000, was offered
at auction the other day and withdrawn —£5750 being the
highest bid. Stated that the Salvation Army authorities
are likely to buy it. If Ballarat prefers Blood and Fire and
walloping of the Big Drum to the drama, it is Ballarat’s
own funeral, but one can’t help feeling sorry for it all the
same.
Printed that Mrs. Langtry has been dropping much
money at Monte Carlo. Lily had best go slow. The
“ oofless ” has-been society beauty doesn’t finish up over
weU, as a rule.
Jack Costello has managed to earn bread and butter in
England, up to date. Jack was the old Australian actor
who adopted Salvation for a while, but went back to the
stage. He journeyed ’Ome on spec., and soon got a show,
as Uncle Matthew in “ A Night Out,” with a provincial
co. At latest, he was appearing at one of London’s halls
in dramatic-sketch pieces. All the same, Jack warns the
boys out here not to follow his example. There are
20,000 actors, unemployed as a rule, in Great Britain.
Paradis : “ Melb. show business has brisked-up so
amazingly that we will hear whispers again, in the next
century, about a new theatre. In boom-time, only nine
years ago, there were plans drawn for two. One, a
superb place, to be called the Imperial or National, was
to be at the south-west corner of Bourke and Russell
streets, and was to take the shine out of the grand Prin-
cess’s. Another, in Collins-street, was for Brough and
Boucicault, Melb.’s Vaudeville, or Criterion. Vanished
dreams ! ”
Cockaigne : “ Cartwright must be still a young man, as
actors go. He had the very junior part of Reynaldo
when Irving Hamletted at the Lyceum, Dec., 1878, the
Rosencrantz then being Elwood, known in Australia,
while the Guildenstern was the future great Pinero, and
Kyrle Bellew appeared for the first time under his real
name, taking the dandy character of Osrie. Young
Bellew started his stage life as Harold Kyrle.”
Thus severely “M.F.K.”: — Be “Mummer Morality.”
Wilson Barrett’s defence is much more convincing to the
well-informed than Thk Bulletin’s attack. If the laws
of Mrs. Grundy do not exercise a tremendous influence on
theatrical life, why should so many actors and actresses
take the trouble to marry at all ? That a large proportion
of them are united by a legal tie The Bulletin will
scarcely deny. Women of scandalous notoriety have in
most cases been pretty considerably smirched before ever
they set foot on the stage, so their loss of virtue cannot
be put down to the corrupting influence of “ fierce com-
petition for public applause.” Most women who are
compelled to hustle for a living have, at one time or other,
suffered annoyance from the importunities of their
employers. Has The Bulletin never heard of the manager
of a softgoods store using his position to assail the virtue
of his female employes ? Has it ever heard of an actress
gaining and keeping a position on the stage merely
through selling her decency? The favors of a notorious
woman are not (inside a theatre) such marketable com-
modities as The Bulletin appears to imagine.
“ E.” : As to the alleged swindling propensities of actors,
boarding-house and hotelkeepers’ statements should be
received with a certain amount of reserve. The landlord
remembers all about the actor by whom he has been
duped, and loses no opportunity of advertising him as a
rogue, but he is apt to forget the stranger in another
walk of life, who has enjoyed his hospitality and then
vanished mysteriously into the unknown. That actors do
not, as a rule, desert their wives is best proved by a
reference to their children. Ask almost anv actor’s child
about its parents, and it will speak of both with affection
and reverence. It is new 6 indeed that the actor is ten
A BACKBLOCKS SKETCH.
The long—and SHORT of it!
'tunes as shamelessly dishonest as the commercial-man
who embezzles trust-money confided to his care. A few
so-called actors do, at times, cadge, bilk, or borrow, no
doubt, but the majority honestly pay their way, frequently
under difficulties which would appal an ordinary wage-
earner whose income is secure. The special circumstances
of an actor’s life therefore often bring out real grit instead
of fostering vanity and conceit. The world may or may
not take the actor’s deficiency in moral principle for
granted, but if ever it sees a Poverty Pointer borrowing
half-a-sov. from a pressman or a gentlemanly lover, clad
in a suit made by the tailor to Tim Bulletin staff, it will
probably do more than smile.
Ed. B.—You omit Alfred Dampier from your list of
Hamlets. This should not be. The Hamlet of Dampier’s
younger days was a fine effort, and I know plenty of old
hands who would plump for him before any of those you
mention.—F.
In Paris one of the theatres has a comedy named “ The
Moon Without the Honey.”
A London news-agency the
other day sent the following
libellous news item the round
of the dailies :
“ ‘ THE LIARS’ AT THE
CRITERION.
The Prince and Princess Chris-
tian attended the performance
at Mr. Charles Wyndham’s thea-
tre last evening.”
Apropos a certain memorable
theatrical benefit. Stern moral-
ists may deny the pathos of the
lady’slastappearance before the
world, but the pathos is there,
nevertheless. Her palmiest days
were, of course, in London, long
ago. The gout had already got
hold of her nimble feet when
she came to Melbourne, and
astounded the waiters at the
Cafii Anglais (defunct) by taking
a full fourth share of the liquid
refreshment served to a joyous
quartette. The bill showed : one
bottle claret, four quarts of
champagne, one bottle old port,
and one bottle brandy. All the
bottles were “ dead-men” when
they left the table.
Hasn’t manager Harry Rick-
ards got a friend who will per-
suade him to forget that he is
a father when he regards his
daughter’s performances in
comedy ? Miss Noni Rickards
might be a satisfactory beginner
if she were not beginning in un-
suitable parts.
Addie Conyers left for Eng-
land by the Oruba, considerably
thinner than when she landed
here six months ago. Addie
is not the vigorous Conyers of yore, and when, in
the middle of a Melb. heat-wave, manager Rickards
talked of sending her to Westralia with his travelling co.,
she broke out into a profuse perspiration, and begged
him to excuse her from renewing the engagement. Addle
has The Bulletin’s best wishes for a rapid recovery of
her lost proportions.
Ambrose Manning, of Wilson Barrett’s co., must know
more about the text of the “ Silver King ” than even his
chief. The writer saw him play the part of Mr. ’Enery
Corkett in England at least ten years ago, and he had
then been playing it for several years. Now he is a
slightly exaggerated Elijah Coombe.
R. W. Carey, who died lately in Melb., leaving his
family poorly off, originated Saturday-night popular con-
certs in the Smellful City. Which reminds The Bulletin
that fully 50 per cent, of the Vic. burnt cork artists (?)
owe their introduction to Saturday “ pops.” “ Bob ”
Carey was in the field with juvenile opera long before
Tom Pollard, and toured the whole of Maoriland over and
over again, coining money, and spending it recklessly.
His last years were spent in the service of bill-poster
Roff, superintending the distribution of ads.
“ Nothing has covered Imperial Federation with more
ridicule.” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“than the so-called Imperial Institute. ‘Destitute’
would have been the more fitting title, for it is-of
reason, use and dignity. Certainly it provides a few
billets for Wales’ pals, and well they stick up for the
jam-ladler, but otherwise it is the laughing-stock of every
intelligent person who takes any note of its doings.
Now, a cheap variety show, next a popular concert,
always a fair feeding restaurant, it has in the season the
inevitable frightened - haired, guttural-eyed orchestra
blazing away in reckless fashion for the benefit of con-
versationalists. In this matter of music the management
got badly spoofed by a crack violinist, who, with an excel-
lent English orchestra, had been refused a season’s en-
gagement, at the 1.1. He simply re-labelled his party the
‘ Scandinavian Orchestra,’ called himself Sigvard Eriksen,
broke up his English to suit, and was engaged immedi-
ately upon application under these conditions.
H. : The notification of London Critic that it will
accept no theatrical passes or free copies of books for re-
view is good. There must always be a lingering scruple
about slating a play at which the reporter is virtually a
guest, or telling the unpleasant truth about a book which
comes with the author’s compliments. [“ Publisher’s
oompliments” mostly.— Ed. B.] Apropos: A Maoriland
paper once remarked re a locally-written novel: “As the
work is dedicated to ourselves we can hardly say any-
thing likely to prejudice it in the estimation of the
public.” What a gem that would have been with the
word “ further ” before “ prejudice ! ”
T.D. : “ When will Australian editors ban the unutter-
able anti-climax of the last paragraph in the ordinary
dramatic notice? One reads', for instance, a column of
well-rounded description and interesting comparisons
anent ‘ the Manxman ; ’ then comes the dreadful intima-
tion that ‘ the first matinee will be given on Wednesday
afternoon, at which children will be admitted half-price.’
Immediately gives the show away as a column, more or
less, of advertiser’s gush.”
Barton M‘Guckin, although his voice was seemingly
tattered beyond repair when Australia heard it a few
months ago, got an engagement immediately on his re-
turn ’Ome. He was hooked for Edgardo in “ Lucia ” at
Dublin Royal. Barton’s distinctive Irish name (and
no-a-se) are always good foi a Dublin success.
A.A.G.” from Maoriland :
Dear Bulletin, —Having read “ Lost and Given Over.”
by E. J. Brady, in Bulletin of Jan. 22, I wish to remark
that of all the “ chanteys ” I ever “ read of in books or
dreamt of in dreams,” or have heard on the long voyage
round the Horn, this of Brndy's is the best. Kipling’s
“Bolivar” is good, but it carries a moral, which a
“ chantey ” should not. In “ Lost and Given Over ” you
have the incoherent, vociferous, blatant sailor-man (just
home from a cruise) sitting on top of an empty, up-turned
barrel in a rowdy pub., with a pipe in one hand and a
mug of beer in the other, singing with all the might of
his raucous voice, and kicking his heels on the resound-
ing barrel in time to his utterly immoral song. But you
love the sailor-man, all the same ; and Bradv shows you
exactly what a good-hearted, easy-going, candid sort of
devil he is. I have read “L. and G. O.” a dozen times;
I have sung it to all sorts of improvised tunes, till I am
almost drunk with the spirit that is in it, and my verdict
is that it is the real thing, reader than anything even B.
himself—our poet of the fo’c’s’le—has yet invented. It
is the ideal “ chantey.”—A.A.G.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Some mixed maxims, by Carolyn Wells,
in “ Chicago Chap Book ” :
Virtue is its only reward.
The course of free love never did run smooth.
The woman who collaborates is lost.
HAMLET—YE GODS!
"Say, Bill, they must ev ’ad a run on special editions in them days!”
Here’s a novel clip from Cardinal Moran’s
“History of the Church in Australia.” The
country visited by Torres and I)e Quiros could not
have been (the Cardinal argues) the island of
Espiritu Santo, inasmuch as De Quiros’ narrative
says the length of the land was greater than that
of Europe—islands included. De Quiros gave the
harbor visited the name of Holy Cross, and de-
scribed it as being large enough to hold a thousand
ships. Also (he asserted) there were two large
rivers flowing into it—one of them as large as the
Guadalqui ver. The explorer’s account also states
that the land stretched from east to west ; that
the harbor had a row of islands in front and a
range of mountains in the background. Further,
he adds that the first thing the Spaniards did on
landing was to erect a cross and build a church to
our Lady of Loretto. . . . Now, the Cardinal
argues from the description given of the harbor,
and De Quiros' probable whereabouts as estimated
from his own mention, of latitude, that Gladstone
occupies the site whereon the Spaniards landed.
His Eminence, however, falls badly into the soup
in specifying the Calliope and Burnett as the two
rivers mentioned as flowing into the harbor of
Port Curtis —for the latter river, as most people
know, is many a league southward. And whither
away with all this geographical digression from an
ecclesiastical pundit? Only this : the Cardinal
would fain convince us that mass was celebrated
on the shores of Port Curtis three hundred years
ago. May be—who knows ?


THE ATTITUDE OF RUSSIA.
“It is well understood now that the Russian game is a long game: its method, to creep on awhile. to spring a stage at fair opportunity, then to halt and look pleasant, again to creep on. and so
to proceed till the time arrives when a rush may be made from more than one well-prepared post of vantage. Unless that time is supposed to have come, occasion invites to another halt, and to looking
pleasant again.”


~W'\lT"\e-
c u. rz<r)
V
0
€JO Artur e
see 0 suffer
*froL inSOTnni*;
and could
a l 'ura.yj
sletjo at- his
l ecCu>-es ■
' Jlr. observed that he would
limit the vote to women ever 21 years of a*e,
and would exclude women who had been
1 convicted of crime, and were Unown to the
police as drunkard*, lie would allow all the
• lady teetotallers to vote whether they were
■I2I "or not, as there was no fear of then-
igein? wvoiip
electors’
-RIGHTS
£ l EC T Oiks KO-if tvy*
s/r, %
little girl a'tnt
she's r\ v
ipfer 'pjttit \
_ , ■ in a m
~p~**
Thus the
"Bishop of IVfelbourne at a church meet-;■
ing last night. “Recently a man, charged
before the magistrates with being, we will !
say, drunk ana disorderly, pleaded, by way
of pointing out cause and effect, you see,
your worships, it's my wife; she nags, and
I drink/ Probably that is the history of
multitudes of drunkards. She—we won t
(pay who—does not know how to make Ins
home a comfortable one; how to put on
'that smiling, winning face; how to produce
That sweet silvery voice, when he comes
back from work, and off he goes to the
smiling landlady,! y .
T
%»
I n/f -
j^,ir&s,§ef s
, tft3s£,
Maon'es
Captain Evans, the inspector-genera I of
penal establishment*, who finally decides
these matters, has come to the conclusion
that Goakc having behaved himself, and
not having been in gaol before, must, owing
to the wording of the regulation, be
treated as a first offender, though Ire vir-
tually is a second offender!
y ' //l£- lauri s a Al/a Sb
/}£ /s 'a frig At UrAenf/ou. An our A/fn.
MELBOURNIANA.


Why Mot Have tf>€ Best ?
J/r. i?. A. LUCEHAM.
The Minerva Company is proud of the high
character of its testimonials. Among those who
have expressed their appreciation of preparations
by this company are : —Madame Albani, his
Eminence the Cardinal-Archbishop’s Private
Secretary, Hon. M. H. Moreton (Queensland),
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, manager of the Presby-
terian ; Mr. Hart, late Government Photographer
to the Colony of New South Wales; Mr. Selby
(Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co.), Dr. Davidson, Bal-
main ; Dr. Kane, Bourke ; Dr. Purcell, 13 Jamie-
son-street, Sydney ; Mr. Cole, “ Rosslyn,” Fraser-
road, Lewisham ; Dr. Ekin, Visiting Physician to
Thirlmere Home ; Dr. Ashwell, Glebe ; Dr. H.
Brown, Molong; Dr. Piercy, Strathfield; Dr.
Elliott (Elliott Bros.); Mr. Blackett, Govern-
ment Analyst, Victoria ; Mr. Dixon, Analyst,
Sydney; Mr. Stutchbury, Chief Clerk H.M.
Customs, Newcastle ; and many others in equally
leading positions, whilst most of the best-known
newspapers in Sydney, including Evening News,
Sunday Times, Freeman’s Journal, &c., have
published authoritative paragraphs containing
the highest possible praise.
One of the latest of the Minerva testimonials iB
from Mr. R. A. Luckham, one of the gentlemen
who so ably represents the commercial interests of
the Sydney Bulletin in Sydney, and who writes
to the Minerva Company as follows :
“I have taken Minerva Tonic, and found it
admirable in every way. I had slept badly, had
eaten badly, was, in fact, not well at all when I
tried Minerva Tonic as a restorative. As a re-
sult, I can congratulate the proprietors in putting
such a first-class tonic on the market. In my case
it promoted a good appetite, made me sleep well,
put new strength into me, and did me a lot of
good generally. lam also in a position to state
that Minerva Tonic has performed wonders in
other cases.
“ (Signed) R. ADAMS LUCKHAM.
“ Bulletin Office.
“ Bth March, 1898.’
INDICATIONS WHEN YOU WANT
MINERVA.
Anaemia, headaches, drowsiness, undue fatigue,
weak eyesight, uncertain temper, broken rest,
failing memory, lack of interest, poor appetite, in-
Bomma, influenza, ague, hysteria, physical debility,
neuralgia, toothache, night sweats, nervousness,
dislike of company, melancholia, unfounded ap-
prehension of trouble, irregularity of the bowels,
fulness after meals, sour taste in the mouth,
general listlessness, faint feeling, &e., &e.
WHAT MINERVA TONIC IS.
Minerva Tonic is a phosphorised iron syrup
combined with rare recuperative ingredients, and
is compounded from a formula approved by the
highest medical authorities, under the supervision
of legally qualified chemists of the first standing.
Taken in the prescribed doses it will speedily and
assuredly quicken the appetite, purify and enrich
the blood, renew the elasticity of youth, promote
a confident and happy feeling, stimulate the secre-
tions, harden and steady the nervous system, and
indirectly make bone and muscle and good healthy
fi dah.
WHOM MINERVA TONIC IS SOLD BY.
Minerva Tonic, which is offered to the public
under the registered trade-mark and name of that
famous goddess, is sold by all Chemists and
Dealers throughout these colonies, or will be pro-
cured by them on customers insisting on having it,
and refusing all substitutes. The price, New
South Wales, is 2s. 6d. per bottle, or it will be
mailed direct from the Sydney Depot, 56 Mar-
garet-street, on receipt of 3s. 6d., which includes
postage.
A STANDING OFFER OF .8100.
The Minerva Company, conscious of its own
unchallengeable rectitude, hereby offers the sum
of .£lOO sterling to any person producing proof
that any of its numerous testimonials are not
strictly genuine. As assistance to this, it hereby
offers a free inspection of all the originals pub-
lished in its pamphlet to any responsible person
on application at the Sydney Depot, 56 Mar-
garet-street.
The Minerva Co., Manufacturing Chemists and
Food Specialists : —London, 15 and 17 Fore-street
Avenue, E.C. ; New York, Kemble Building, 25
Whitehall-street; Sydney, 56 Margaret-street ;
Dunedin, Bond and Crawford streets ; Melbourne,
Hardware Chambers, 231 Elizabeth-street; Colom-
bo, 11 Queen-street; Adelaide, 98 Currie-street;
Brisbane, 8 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-Street.*
The ßallet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Lite,
Adven.
tu res, and
Confes- 1
sions I
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
L?ag(ie CycliOg Caroitfal!
AGRICULTURAL “GROUND, SYDNEY.
MARCH
26th
SATURDAYS
APRIL
2nd
TH€ SYDNEY PLATE.
A SERIES OF SCRATCH RACES. ONE, THREE, AND FIVE MILES.
MARCH STAKES.
GREAT AMATEUR HANDICAP.
HAMPPCN WHEEL RACE.
RECORD ENTRIES.
INTERNATIONAL TEAM RACE.
ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA.
MULTICYCLE HANDICAP.
20 TANDEMS AND TRIPLETS.
Walne, Green, Megson, Body, Relph, Porta, Jackson.
Admission., Is. Stand, Is. extra.
FRED. HAWLEY, Secretary.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
, PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP . ,
{old, Silver, [cad $ Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest i>rices for ores of all
descriptions. Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JR
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, M A TIT IN PLACE, SYDNEY.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWINC AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS QREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FnSM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to Mve upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO'S • FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK -1 remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil." — (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil , Holy Trinity Church , North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.—“ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now lam RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
— Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford."
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTlON.— Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT.'
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOR THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT,SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
m
CkK
W
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QUIIXT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
tfASGARA HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CICARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Prospectus. ~
Tasmania G.M.Extension
No Liabilily
Beaconsfield Tasmania
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Tasmania Gold mine Exten-
sion |)o [iability,
BEACONSFIELD, TASMANIA.
Capital :
£60,000 in 120,000 Shares of 10s. Each.
r, 0,000 shares paid-up to ss. per share are to be allotted for
the acquisition of the various leases in full payment
for the properties, and to constitute the sole con-
sideration given in connection with this purchase.
00,000 shares are offered to the public at Is. per share on
application, Is. per share on allotment, and the whole
of the proceeds to be placed to the credit of the com-
pany intact. When ss. per share has been contri-
buted by these shares, all shares rank equally for sub-
sequent calls if required.
DIRECTORS : Hon. Wm. Hart, M.L.C. (Chairman of
Directors Tasmania G.M. Co.); Leslie Jolly, Launceston ;
E. M. King (Director Tasmania G.M. Co.) ; Win. Knox
(Director Mount Lyell M. and R. Co.) ; H. H. Schlapp ; J.
A. Windred ; Lindsay Tulloch (Director Mount Lyell M.
and R. Co.).
BROKERS ; Tolhurst, Keats and Gumming, Queen-
street, Melbourne; D. Nasmith, Queen-street, Melbourne;
W. G. Barker, Launceston ; M. Stackhouse, Launceston.
BANKERS Commercial Bank of Australia Limited.
SOLICITOR : W. H. Croker, William-street, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER : John Potts, 31 Queen-street,
Melbourne.
\
Uff*
G!5
Shaft
Thsma
G.M
o,cc»
Dam
Shaft
rwrjf Silt
Reference to the accompanying plan will show that the
leases consist of 106 acres, and which are an amalgama-
tion of the East Tasmania Company and the Consols pro-
perties, cover the whole of the area on the eastern end of
the Tasmania Gold Mine, into which an extension of that
company’s reef could be carried.
The phenomenal success of the Tasmania Gold Mine is
well known, the company having taken out 417,536 ounces
of gold, and paid to date over £667,000 in dividends from
their reef, which is 22 feet in thickness, and is now being
worked at a depth of 700 feet, the stone extracted having
averaged throughout over loz. sdwt. They are now en-
raged in sinking a new main shaft to a depth of 1156 feet,
and erecting thereon a hauling and pumping plant, which
will be one of the largest and most effective in these
colonies, and which will completely drain the surrounding
area.
Mr. H. H. Schlapp, recently examined the property,
and it is upon his recommenation that the present amal-
gamation has been effected. He is of opinion that the
general indications justify the capital expenditure pro-
posed in an effort to discover the extension of the emin-
ently-profltable Tasmania lode, and in that view the pre-
sent scheme is a legitimate mining venture.
It will be note l that the owners of the amalgamated
liases received their consideration in shares only.
SPECIAL ATTENTION IS DIRECTED TO MR. REGIN-
ALD A. F. MURRAY’S, F.G.S. (LATE GOVERNMENT
GEOLOGIST FOR VICTORIA), REPORT ON THE PRO-
PERTY ; ALSO TO THE REPORT OF MR. JOSEPH
DAVIES, F.R.S., MANAGER OF THE TASMANIA
MINE.
COMPLETE PROSPECTUS will be FOR-
WARDED on APPLICATION to any of the
B JOKERS or the LEGAL MANAGER.
Last of applications will be CLOSED on Monday, April
4. when the Directors will proceed to allot the shares,


Scientific Examination of Mighty “ALOE.”
Dr. Helms, M.A.8.C.5., Consulting and Analytical Chemist. 8 Bridge-street, Sydney, Beb. 1, 1898.
Messrs. BIS HER & CO.
Gent'emen, —I have examined your preparation Mighty “Alok,” and find that it contains, beside Kola Nut, only pure vegetable
drugs having well-known tonic properties. Yours faithfully, A. HELMS.
Mr. J. L. Jacobsen, Champion Chess Player of Australasia, forwards unsolicited the following testimonial, which speaks for itself :
School of Arts, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —As a cure for brain weariness and lassitude I have proved Mighty “ Alok ” a marvellous tonic A dose before com-
mencing enables me to endure the arduous strain of match-play with little fatigue. I consider it a boon to brain workers, and heartily
recommend it to all chess players. J* L. JACOESEN.
WHAT A CHAMPION CHESS PLAYER SAYS ABOUT MIGHTY “ ALOK.”
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Hazellworth, January 7th, 1898.
Dear Sirs —I have pleasure in testifying that when upset by the cares of business or by the ten-
sion of a refractory chess battle, I have found your excellent preparation “ ALOK ” soothing to the
nerves and invigorating to the body. It is truly a mighty tonic.
Yours faithfully, WM. CRANE, Juh.
AN ENGLISH ATHLETE’S TESTIMONY.
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Thickthorn, Moore Park, January 7th, 1898.
Gentlemen, —It is only common gratitude on my part to let you know the great benefit I have
derived from your KOLA NUT preparations. As an old and successful athlete in the old country, I
have naturally tried many strength-conferring beverages, but consider your latest production, “Mighty
Alok ” to be peerless. Faithfully yours, CHARLES S. DAYIS.
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Tahiti > Society Islands.
Dear Sirs —I have been suffering from a severe attack of Influenza, which left me in a very low
state accompanied with pains in the head and back. Having tried many other medicines without
obtaining relief, resolved to take your Mighty “ALOK,” and after a few doses all the pains left me,
and in a very short time felt quite myself again. I cannot speak too highly of AIjOIv as a
strengthening Tonic after Influenza. TAURAATUO SALMON.
Lackey-street, Sumner Hill.
Messrs. FISHE R and CO. . , . „ . T „ .• . •
Dear Sirs,—l have tried several Tomes, but find none equal your Mignty ALOK,’ which is a
wonderful appetiser, and think it without an equal. ______
Yours truly. J. BURKE.
For Reviving the Liver & Brain,
and Restoring Vigor.
The most successful “ Pick-me-up ” known. It makes the
weak active and strong. Sad men and women are made
cheerful and happy. FISHER & CO’S TONIC, with Soda
Water, before meals is the most beneficial Refresher and
Appetiser in the World. Cyclists, Singers, and Public
Speakers “ swear by it.” During sultry and oppressive
weather it is a great boon to the ladies. Thousands of
ladies drink it when shopping in town.
The Talk of the Touin.
The Qrink of the. Season. -
Unintoxicating.
It Cures Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
All Stomach Troubles, and
MAKES YOU EAT!,
A SPLENDID PREPARATION FOR STRENGTHENING
THE NERVES AND HEART.
ACTION ON THE HEART.—Professor Heckel states
that Kola, by the Caffeine and Theobromine which it con-
tains, is a tonic of the heart, whose pulsation it accele-
rates, while it increases its power and regulates its con-
traction§. Professor Heckel further points out that the
principle called Kolaine contained in Kola prevents rapid
waste of the tissues during fatiguing exertions, while the
Caffeine stimulates the muscles.
PNEUMONIA.—Worry kills businessmen. Heavy losses
ana hard times make them depressed in spirits. The brain
and body become weak ; unknown to them they are de-
bilitated. It is then that the least chill strikes them, and
pneumonia carries them off. To fortify the system and
make the spirits buoyant, nothing can equal Fisher and
Co s famous Kola Nut Tonic. It is the most remarkable
mvigorator and sustainer known.
DIARRHOEA.—Dr. Durian and Dr. Cunio have both re-
ported cures in rebellious diarrhoea under the use of Kola.
A recent issue of the Planters’ Monthly contains a
description of this remarkable Nut and its uses:—“Kola
has the property of staying hunger, whilst supporting the
struggle for existence. If a supply of nuts had been in-
cluded in Mr. Stanley’s outfit, his men would not have
suffered so terribly for want of animal food. As might be
expected, the value of Kola increases as it makes its way
into the interior of Africa, and some of the tribes furthest
removed from the sea pay for the dry powder an equal
weight of gold-dust. In a despatch from Mr. George
Alexander Stevens, Her Majesty’s consul at Bahia, he calls
attention to the great powers of endurance in lifting
heavy loads and transporting them to long distance in the
tropical climate, attributed to the free use of Kola Bean.
An old African, after biting a piece of the magic bean,
luted 179 English pounds weight on to his head and
carried the same for a distance of four miles.”
“ Still another merit is named, however, which will in-
terest the temperance party. The negroes who chew
Kola Nut have no desire to drink rum, and hence save
money and retain strength.”
Dr. LEON ERNEST MONNET, Paris, reports “ I
gave a strong infusion of Kola Nut to a railroad track-
layer, who was suffering from ‘blue devils’ (hypochon-
dria) extremely, and within two hours he felt like going
to his hard duties, and laughed and talked.”
l.his TONIC acts with the most remarkable
rapidity in restoring a weakened Stomach, Im-
paired Digestion, Torpid Liver, Debility, and in
Keviving the Brain from the effects of Overwork
and Fatigue. It stimulates and strengthens the
entire Muscular System, acting like magic, and
rouses into Vigor and Health the whole Physical
Energy of the Human Economy. To enable one
to enjoy a meal, a dose taken an hour or so before
immensely sharpens the appetite. With Soda
Water, before breakfast, it is the most beneficial ,
drink in the world. It has a most marvellous
effect in Checking the Craving for Alcohol, in
many cases having restored Inebriates to their
Normal Conditions of Life.
V ♦
$
4
v> j "■'•‘v* ,\i |-
r?r
'l
xm y .
VA
tr 1 ,
€.
m
W <4
m m
y
ML.^
s<o
c
<r _
;>
is;
LEAVES
a dooa
press' o^
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong’, beg. to
intimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they hare placed on J;he
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET form:.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
“ALOK ”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter : What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “Oh! my favorite reviver—
“ ALOK,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOR
“ALOE.”
Mighty “ ALOK ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIG
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MILK.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH
WALES :
TOOTH & CO.
J. T. & J. TOOHEY.
CORNWALL’S AUSTRA-
LIAN BREWERY.
RESCH’S WAVERLEY
BREWERY.
CASTLEMAINE BREWERY
and WOOD BROS., New-
MAITLAND BREWING
CO., Maitland.
E. ROWLANDS, Darling
Harbor.
ELLIOTT BROS.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN &
SONS, Haymarket.
CIVIL SERVICE CO OPER.
SOCIETY, Pitt-street.
F. LASSETTER & CO.,
George street.
STEWAI T & CO., Kent-st.
SANDEMAN, Pitt-street.
D’ARCY & CO., George-st.
SAYWELL & CO., York-st.
DE LISSA & CO., Barrack-
A. THOMPSON & CO.,
Pitt-street.
N. SHELLEY, York-street.
TUCKER & CO., George-st.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Clarence-street.
B. B. NTCHOLL & CO.,
Deans-place.
J. LISTER & CO., Spring-
FESQ & CO., Pitt-street.
LUCAS BROS., Macquaiiie-
place.
CHAS. BATH & CO.,
Bridge-street.
BROWN & CO., Spring-st
TILLMANS & 00., Clarence-
HUDDART, PARRER and
CO., Pitt-street.
SEGUR, Pitt-street.
P. MTNTOSH & CO., Car-
rington-street.
■ P. McMAHON, Macquarie
Bond.
HOCKING & CO., Pitt-st.
RENARD & CO., Kent-st.
HOFFNUNG & CO., Pitt-st.
0. & J. B. WATSON, York-
D. COHEN & CO., Spring-
street'and Newcastle.
HALL & SONS, Newcastle.
WOLFE, PRENTICE & CO.,
'West Maitland.
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-
street.
FELD HEIM, GOTTHELF
and CO.,"Barrack-street.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Clarence-street.
MYERS & SALOMON,
Market-street.
JND. CONNELL & CO.,
Kent-street.
JULIUS LEVY, Angel-place.
TILLOCK & CO., Georee-sf.
COHEN & LEVY, Tamworth.
HOLDSWORTH, MAC-
PIIERSON & CO., George-
LIANKS & CO., George-st.
S. BENNETT & CO., Geerge-
JAMES ’ KIDMAN, George-
atreet.
HART & FIRKIN, New
castle.
IE YOU DO NOT SPECIALLY ORDER “ ALOK ” THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS HITHERTO—IN ITS
BITTER EORM. IN EVERY HOTEL AND REPRESHMENT ROOM, WITH SODA WATER.
“ALOK,” 6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for “ Alok ” (Registered) Mighty Alok.
FISHER & C 0. P S® l ® proprietors # manufacturers,
Pharmacy: 337 G-eorge-street (nearly opp. GPO), Sydney.
MIGHTY “ ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIO. MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC.
ASK FOR ALOK. ASK FOR ALOK.
MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC. MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC.
ASK FOR ALOK. ASK FOR ALOK.


Secrets of S(icccs&
Poor Stoddart’s “got the needle
’Cos a win he didn't see;
How different it micjht ha’ been
Had they trained on BILLY TEA.
We hope that soon he may regain
His usual good hnmour ;
But the Secret of Our Boys’ Success
Is FODAH and GHANUMA.
Drink “BILLY” TEA
“ 4 Eat GRANUMA.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine, Art Auctioneers,
Auction Room's, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
SST* Sales Held at the Auction Itootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradlet & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
-nffzl
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
M Gowan, leader of N.S.W. Labor-party,
was born at sea. He is still there.
Tasmania, according to Ben Tillett, is,
barinig the West Coast, “a land of prigs and
Thursday Island suffered a census during
March and panned out thusly :—Total population,
1702. Luropeans, 608; Japs, 619; Philippine
Islanders, 60 ; aboriginals, 60 ; Chinese, 58 ; &e.,
&c. Japanese increase for year, 288.
IN “PUSH" SOCIETY.
sis : “So yer goin’ ter chuck fightin’?”
STOUCHER: “ Yes; knocking me ehiv all out of
shape !”
SIS : “If yer ask me, I think every scrap yer ’ave
improves it!”
Drake, the lone, lorn Mrs. Gummidge of
Q. politics, is rapidly taking his place as a “back
number.” Although able, gritty, and sometimes
earnest, he never seems to catch the current when
it serves. Like Nelson, he neverminds.
When Federation is really accomplished
it should be the earnest effort of every good radi-
cal on the continent to convert Tasmania into a
democracy. The conversion of W.A. is pretty
well assured. This is the best way to euchre Fat-
man in the Federal game.
Is Peacockism contagious 1 B. R. Wise,
since his return from the last sitting of the Federal
Convention, breaks suddenly into such sustained
cacchination at the mention of Premier Reid’s
attitude towards the Commonwealth Bill that
people say, “That’s Peacock No. 2.”
S. A. Laborites and Ministerialists threaten
to take different ways over Federation. The
Kingston Ministry warmly supports the present
scheme, but the Labor-party, so far, intends to
solidly oppose. The latter, by the way, has not
elected a leader to succeed M'Pherson.
The present is a time when every N.S.W.
elector should see that he is on the roll and hustle
for his elector’s right. The Federation poll will
shortly be due, and, when 80,000 affirmative votes
are required, every adult male white citizen who
can be rolled up to the poll will be badly needed.
Governor Brassey fired off a most unneces-
sary confession before leaving Melbourne. He
told a Ministerial gathering that “ during his
residence in the colony it had been his chief duty
to speak well of the great Motherland which he
represented.” As though the beastly kawliny
didn’t know.
Edmund Barton—the man of Australia.
A couple of years ago Barton’s Federation ad-
dresses were always compressed by the Sydney
dailies into a quarter-column or less. At his
meeting, last week, one morning paper was repre-
sented by half-a-dozen of its best reporters, with
the result that between six and seven columns
were recorded next day in the first person.
Most N.S.W. M’sP. would as soon become
members of the fatly-paid Public Works Com-
mittee as join a Ministry. Works committee-men
are just now drawing 15 guineas a week, in addi-
tion to Parliamentary screws, for about 10 hours’
work, whilst Ministers only receive .£1370 a year,
and bear a heap of worry and quite a number of
expenses not incidental to the other billet.
Should Jock M’Kenzie and Jerome
Cadman retire, as rumored, the present M.L.
Govt, will set up a chameleonic record in point of
personnel. Ballance and Buckley are dead, Ward
is not dead but gone before, Reeves represents his
native land in London, and the only men left of
the original crowd, if M‘Kenzie and Cadman step
out, will be Kumara Dick himself and Minister
Carroll.
The matter of exploiting Papua for cheap
labor is again being mooted in Bananaland. Th
time-expired kanaka is too expensive; the raw
kanaka is too scarce. The fact is New Caledonia
is drawing off the best of the Polynesian laborers
to its shores. A “ free ” laborer in Noumea gets
J&5 a month ; a kanaka can make as much as .£6.
No wonder the “boys” buck at .£2O per annum
in Queensland.
The ultra-Foreign-trade party in N.S.W.
is against the Federation Bill on the ground that
it commits the Commonwealth to Protection, and
the ultra-Protectionist party in Victoria is against
it on the ground that it commits the Common-
wealth to Foreign-trade. A pretty sure proof
that the draft Constitution really leaves the fiscal
question quite open, and doesn’t commit the
country to anything.
Holdar M. : “ Admired the temerity of a
Labor member in town to-day sprinting past on a
bouncing bike. He handled a tennis-racquet and,
arrayed in spotless duck, cummerbund and a
Butler cap, presented quite a jaunty effect. This,
too, on the eve of a general election and within
sight of Sydney Star office.”
Apropos Federation and the border Cus-
toms duties, the story goes that when 10s. per ton
of chaff was collected on the S.A. border, near
Broken Hill, a timber-getter, working inN.S.W.,
rigged up a manger on the S.A. side of the rabbit-
proof fence, and his horses, standing in N.S.W.,
ate comfortably out of it. Moreover, the story is
true.
The Protectionist electors of Phillip Divi-
sion, Sydney, have chosen John Norton as their
candidate for the Leg. Assembly. However, as
many seats are open to Norton, it is presumed
that he will not stand against that straight, able,
and well-tried Protectionist, Copeland. If he
does, a Freetrade alderman will, of course, step in
between.
The N.S.W. Ministry was neither repre-
sented nor apologised for at the recent Sydney St.
Patrick s day celebration; but the Opposition
vvas there in full force. Such an over-
sight is not characteristic of Premier
Reid, though it fits several of his
colleagues like a glove. It was
all the more injudicious because
no member of the Ministry is of
Irish extraction.
Tozer’s pocket borough of Wide Bay has
dropped into Opposition hands, notwithstanding
there were two Oppositionists to divide the vote
and the Ministerial candidate was plainly branded.
But Jenkinson, the successful candidate, is a
smart young pressman, and personally popular;
and Chippindall, the Ministerialist, is a tired old
farmer, seasoned in local squabbles. So the elec-
tors practically darned politics, and chose the chap
they smiled with.
Of the Seven District Court Judges of N.S.
Wales, four (Murray, Backhouse, Rogers, and
Gibson) have at various times held acting-Supreme
Court commissions. Yet, when a permanent ap-
pointment is made, a man is always selected from
the Bar. If Judges of the D.C. can be entrusted
with acting appointments, why not consider their
claims when making permanent appointments ?
Such a course would tend to improve the personnel
of the District Court.
Comparing notes during the Convention
session in Melb., it was observed that N.S.W.
Hansard staff, though harder-worked, has some
more independent methods than the Vic. For
instance, N.S.W. men don’t hesitate to report an
interjection, and sometimes even a speech, as “in-
audible,” while “quotation not supplied” often
figures in the reports. But the Vic. men would
shudder at anything of the kind, and go to no end
of trouble in hunting up a missed interjection or
sentence.
Ed. Bulletin.—lt is written in Sydney
that while the Jews and the Scotch are clannish,
the Irish, like the English, will not go out of their
way to help each other. Wrong, both ways ! The
Englishman will go out of his way to help the
Englishman, although-to his credit be it said—
he’s just as ready to assist a Portuguese or a Pata-
gonian. And the Irishman—or a good many of
him—has that worst kind of clannishness which
to a comparatively harmless conviction of the sur-
passing merits of your own crowd superadds a
smouldering malignity towards those who don’t
happen to belong to it —Llham Dearg Aboo.
PUT YOURSELF IN HIS PLAGE.
BARMAID : “I don’t know why you want to get so beastly
drunk.”
AQUIFFY OLD PARTY : “Of course you don’t , my dear ;
YOU haven’t got a wife! ”
If leaden-footed Justice only delays a little
longer the Q.N.B. business will be beyond legal
touch by reason of the demise of most of the
parties concerned. Drury’s dead ; Palmer’s gone;
MTlwraith’s tottering on the brink ; and a certain
once all-potent ex-director is at present in a de-
plorably shaky condition in Brisbane.
DEEDS THAT WON THE
UMPIRE.
A sketch for the approaching football season.
Mayor Harkness, of Bendigo, refuses to
act as chairman at a meeting to hear a lecture, to
be delivered by Ben Tillett. Mr. Harkness says
that Mr. Tillett is not a desirable visitor. How-
ever, Tillett can open his own mouth ; he is under
no necessity to have his jaw blessed by an aider-
man.
J. H. Storey, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), the
garter-merchant who kept Barton out of the
Assembly, rose to a great rhetorical pitch at a re-
cent suburban function, in denunciation of Feder-
ation. “The whole scheme’s worthless,” quoth
Storey, working up to a final magnificent out-
burst. “It will impede our national progress !
I tell you it will ruin N.S.W., and disgrace us
for ever !! No Federation for me !!! ” But, in
the painful silence that ensued, a very crushed
and nervous Storey said “h-m-m” and “ha,”
mopped his perspiring brow, and wondered why
the thunderous applause had failed at the psycho-
logical moment. Federation isn’t so dead that the
Storeys of Australian politics may jump on it.
The anti-Federal party in Sydney is now
wading-in in deadly earnest, and its daily shriek
fills a large place in the morning papers. The
worst shrieker of the lot, one “F.,” rose lately
to tell the public that Sydney is now an
absolutely free port (where about millions are
collected annually in Customs duties); that the
Federation is committed to a 20 to 30 per cent,
tariff ; that the rivers are to be handed over to the
Federal Government; that the estimated cost of
the Federal Government is .£6,000,000 annually ;
that the said .£6,000,000 is to be “ spent in another
colony ”; and that “we are to place our railways
largely at the mercy of another colony.” Con-
sidering that the Telegraph gives this awful per-
jurer space in its columns to spread these lurii
fictions, that paper evidently doesn’t care much
how Federation is smashed so long as the smash is
accomplished.
Agent - General Playford, who
returns to Adelaide in May, is reput-
edly the best - dressed Australian in
London. All the same, “Honest Tom”
sticks to his market-garden business in
Adelaide. In the long run there is more
money in cabbages than politics, as
Graham Berry found out.
Dear Bulletin.—A Sydney
paper snorts disgustedly over the fact
that under the present Factories Act
an inspector is at liberty to clank into
a church or convent if he suspects a
factory to exist there. And what-for-
no ? The law can clank into any church
or convent in pursuit of the criminal
who murders men otherwise ; and why
not after the one who sweats them to
death ’—Hermes.
H. : “ The Federal Convention
dealt with Protection, a mere skirmish.
The most vital aspect was not touched
upon, though Turner or Berry would
soon have broached it in a serious
debate. Indeed, Turner has wrought
it out effectually, this national view of
Protection, as bracing up a people,
helping to create a national sentiment.
How often the question has been ar-
gued, without this occurring to the
Liberals. Yet it is the only plank with
the defenders of the system in America,
Germany, and France. This is the
overwhelming thing to urge for Protec-
tion by All-Australia against the world.
No bonds like the financial, the steel in
preference to the silk.”
Melbourne Evening Herald’s
yell about the treasonableness and blas-
phemy of Vic. Govt.’s action in buying
cheap Yankee steel-rails instead of com-
paratively dear English ones, makes
people tired. For it raises the ques-
tion : why is the Herald printed on
cheap Yankee paper (a penny a pound
less 5 per cent, discount) instead of on
English paper at a penny and one-
sixteenth per pound ? How much is the Herald
proprietary itself prepared to sacrifice for the
“ Einpiah ” in the matter of dividends ?
There will probably be a split in Vic.
Labor-party over the Federation question. Tren-
with is in favor, while the bulk of the others are
either against it or silent.
‘ 1 Premier Turner has pressed a button in
Melbourne that has set a funeral-bell tolling in
London for the coming down of the Imperial
Institute. Good luck to his backbone,”
writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “ for it will want staying to
meet the storm. Victoria’s refusal
to be any longer blackmailed for
the maintenance of the gorgeous
sepulchre known as the ‘ Free-
masons’ Home ’ presages a
scurried flight of the other gol-
den-crested cockatoos from
this leafless, fruitless tree
that only gives support to
the grubs inside it. A
soul - touching appeal,
most probably in Tummy
Wales’s name, is to be
made at once to Turner,
P.C., to fly back to the
Imperial perch, and
Australian officials
here will,mostly back
the appeal for the sake
of favors to be curried.
This action of G.T.’s is
the wisest, timeliest,
and strongest thing he has
yet done as a political
pilot—a thing that Gillies
and Patterson, with all their
bluster, would never have
dared to do, even if they had possessed genuine
Australian sympathies.”
The last hasn’t been heard of the Bulimba
Sunday-labor case. In this Nicholson, Melb,
P.M., decided that sailors didn’t come within the
protection of the Sunday Act of Charles 11., and
accordingly imprisoned them till the rising of the
court for refusing to put out to sea on Sunday.
An order to review has been obtained, and it is to
be hoped a harsh decision will soon be put right.
If not, fresh legislation is immediately wanted on
the subject.
Among the Sydney dailies the S.M.
Herald and Evening News are the only ones
which are honest and patriotic enough and suffi-
ciently Australian to give their cordial support to
Eederation. The Star was lukewarm all through;
and the shameful ratting of “ President ” Bus-
boss Carey’s Daily Telegraph— which turned
almost in a day from a cordial supporter of
Eederation to a bitter enemy—was a quite unex-
pected piece of treachery.
Melbourne Age on Federation :
She will be deprived of the power to further contest
with New South Wales for the Riverina trade, because
she will not be permitted to make special concessions.
For instance, the ordinary rate for the carriage of dumped
wool from Echuca to Melbourne is 355. 6d. per ton and
undumped 425., but wool coming from north of the Mur-
rurnbidgee to Echucads charged only 225. Wool coming
by river from the Darling or any of its tributaries is
charged 265. ; while the clips of the Murrumbidgee and
the wool from stations south of that river to a point half-
way between the Murrumbidgee and the Murray pay 305.,
south of that down to the Murray the same rates are
charged as to growers on the other side of the border.
Then the Age goes on to curse Eederation because
it carries with it uniform railway rates —in other
words, in implies that the Victorian railways
must not carry N.S.W, wool at about half the
rates which they levy on the Vic. wool-grower,
but must either reduce the rates to their own
people or raise them to the people across the
border. And the Age actually wants the Vic-
torians to throw Eederation overboard rather
than sacrifice the blessed privilege of carrying the
other fellow’s wool at about half the rate which
they pay on their own.
A vigorous three-cornered game is now
being played by the few wide-awakes who boss
the Land-of-Sleep-a-Lot. The prize is the Chief-
Justiceship, rendered vacant by Lambert Dob-
son’s demise. The choice apparently lies be-
tween Alfred Dobson, Justice Dodds, and ex-
Attorney-General Inglis Clark. The Dobson
faction is strong, but their political backers are
in Opposition, with Inglis Clark as leader. Dodds
is Acting-C.J., pro. tern., but is spoken of as being
socially “ impossible ” for the permanency, though
heavily backed by Masonic-newspaper influence.
Attorney-General Urquhart could appoint him-
self, but isn’t quite built that way. The vacancy
caused by the elevation of Alfred Dobson to
the C.J.-ship would not be a bad fit for Urqu-
hart. But, then, Braddon may desire to remove
Inglis Clark from the Opposition leadership, in
which case Urquhart’s chance of stepping into
the Solicitor-Generalship would be as remote as
the historic Buckley’s. But according to the
special Act of last session, no third Judge
can be appointed without the consent of Par-
liament, which consent cannot be obtained
until the Acting-Chief-Justice will have shown
his ability to fill the post. And as Dodds’
rumored social “impossibility” should be no
greater bar to his holding the C.J.-ship than to
his success as a puisne Judge, this paper is in-
clined to believe that John Stokell Dodds is
the future Chief-Justice of the Land of Bad
Dreams.


w
'W M Jm
60 AWAY
... MY ROLE ...
IS NOT OF WOOD,
IS NOT OF TIN,
NOR ANYTHING COMMON, but
. . A 60LDEN RULE, ...
WHICH IS NEVER TO PERMIT A CUSTOMER TO
DISSATISFIED IF I CAN POSSIBLY HELP IT. I
undertake to see that he (or she) is perfectly fitted, and I
GUARANTEE MY FOOTWEAR to give SATISFACTION.
ASK i; -? R THE ‘ KANGARA ’ Boots or Shoes.
As Soft as Kid, as Durable as Steel.
John Hunter & Sons, Ltd.,
THE BOOT KINGS OF AUSTRALASIA,
City Boot Palace, George and Market Sts., Sydney,
AND 70 BRANCHES IN THE CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
RP9BHN
SHND Vulß ORDER TO=DAY.
We will more than please you<
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 10s., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned rteds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen Other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit,
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
- ' ' ’ :e in the article, and canrecom-
ofagood Custard. Giveita trial.
LEEDS, ENG.
ERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
implicitly lollowed. The proprietors entertain me greatest counuenc
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVI
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d>, & 1/- each.
THE SUFFIBLD CASE 3.
TO NEWSAGENTS AND OTHERS.—A 64 pp. Pamphlet, giving full evidence in this notori*
ous Case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of Alleged Outrage. Just Published.
SAW MILLING - ■
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors Supplies.
Wind. Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St..
Sydney.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors, Habit & Breeches Makers.
NEW SEASON’S GOODS
JUST OPENED.
IMBORTERS OF
Vickerman’s Serges,
LADIES At Reform Prices!
“32T TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing:
David Braham and Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George & York Streets),
/
♦
Dunlqp Tyres
Are selected by ... .
Racing Cracks on account
of their
SPEED.
Du NifiP Tyres
Are ridden by the Cycling
Public, because they are the
BEST.
Dun lqp Tyres
Are fitted by Cycle Manufacturers,
because they give universal
First in 1888.
SATISFACTION.
Foremost ever since.
TH€ PUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD.,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Ohristohurch, N.Z. 486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
“System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national Cash Register
* O-fthe*
|<EV
saves
‘‘l
Pressure
on the^
Brain
- IS -A. .
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments.
We will Bny SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue , or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM ,
General Manager for Australasia.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
y’ the MOST DEI.ICIorS SAUCE IN THE WORED.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTI.KS
ANNUAIJ.Y.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and a/. each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO., LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TH,I,OCK & CO., KENT and I.IYERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS nr
Tbc Fii)?St at)d Largest MCiSic WareboGS*
XIQ- J f3LXJ , S*X*3FtA.X J .IA..
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYID3XIEY.
A wail from Cloncurry : —“ No vegetables,
no fruit; mails many days late; carriers with beer
stuck up on the road by the rains ; plenty of scan-
dal ; no beef, no mutton, but a fair allowance of
nanny-goat! ”
The marriage of Lady Coventry to Prince
Dhuleep Singh is rather a hard nut for the Eng-
lish aristocracy to crack. The prince is just as
black and odorous as the average Indian hawker.
When filthy lucre is needed to rescue the family
heirlooms from pawn and the ancient name from
the list of defaulters, ye olde nobilitie is appa-
rently color-blind and nose-plugged.
“ Long arm,” again. Two years ago, at
Georgetown, N.Q., a butcher suicided by shooting
himself with a gun. Exactly two years later his
successor, at same time and place, was shifting
jhis gun from his cart when it went off and shot
him dead also.
The young seaman who fell from the Ar-
dencraig's main-royal-yard at Stockton (N.S.W.),
the other day, must have been well put together
to escape with a dislocated knee. The terrific
jerk of a sudden pull-up by the foot, after falling
about 125ft., ought to have dragged the leg out of
a Sandow. «■


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FUKTIIKK REDUCED KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every £ 1 to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over £2O
3d. per month for every pound over £5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Banh of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. ... ». .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ... ... .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures ; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Elliotts
INVESTORS’ (SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mousing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarfee & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOELIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
T7SB
Spooler's
*OO N£/^
L:RQYAL NAVY DRESSING
V- FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
I OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC lIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing- Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
F.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Qavid graham ( (Jo.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
6cQtltn)*Q’S — H —
—H — StiitiQgS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clothing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
nriHS NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,712,058 14 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 37,941 510
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. ~ 750,000 0 0
2,805,786
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: VV. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acting Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw ; Acting
Accountant: VV. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manager: T. A. Edmeades. New South Wales
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R- Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager :A. W. Cunningham.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cafe, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:—Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Corppaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ftd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne )
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen street,
Telephone No. 1716. bo6ri)^.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
St QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
61 Gresham-street. London E.C.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN razors
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6.
Solitigen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5 -, 6/6, 8 6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, J, f, js, 10'-, 12 6.
All Razor's Set and Rendu for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2 6, 3 6, 57 6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1 - each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 6 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Gabo, Friday, March 31, 5 p.m.
-Peregrine, Saturday, April 2, 2 p.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 9, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Friday, March 31, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 2, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 12, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Friday, March 31, 5 p.m.
-Konoowarra, Tues., April 12, 5 p.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, April 2, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 5, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 9, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, April 2, 2 p.m.
'Peregrine, Saturday, April 9, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
A.ND
-via-
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
-DESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, oj} \Melbourne.
Melbourne Ore Testing fe Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
The New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
STOVE,
“Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
it has all the latest im-
provements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will ROAST, BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/0 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
“ Jupiter ” burner
fitted to any stove.
“Primus” Stoves, 9/6
each.
Send for catalogues.
BMOS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
FTIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
I Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, April 2.
S.S. Allinga (from Melbourne)
Saturday, April 9,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innamincka(fromMelb.)
Saturday, April 2.
S.S. Allinga (from Melb.)
Saturday, April 9.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
April 12.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Tuesday,
April 5.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Gr. S. YUILL and CO., J.td., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker § Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked ta Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
H) < |luiraith, o]‘Eaeharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money.
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare —London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. S.vdnev;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS <*, CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.* Agents
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Go’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney'.


vanffiruXmA Gjcpcl
Nutritive, Refreshing, Economical in use. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing
whit’e heather
11 WHISKY.
THE PLACES
WH€R€ THIEVCS BRCAK THROUGH
AKTD STEAL
WITH IMPUNITY ARE BECOMING- FEWER EVERY DAY, because
BTDERMOTT’S BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address.
The JTDERMOTT BURGLAR & FIRE ALARM CO.,
CASTLEREAGH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’S BakiQS Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Pates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb'Qgtoo N-Sotil &Co.,m’sp.s.
158, 160, and 268 Fitt-street, Sydney; and at
Clmrcli-street, Parramatta.
9
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney.
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Central, the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best. A Broad. Well
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable Dressing
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants.
THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA.
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE.
12 Cabinets, with a 12x10 Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
■{ 10/6
To celebrate the opening, we give an Extra Position FREE to each Sitter, and, as there is no charge for re-sittin
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of our Work.
No Disappointment.
The Swiss Studios.
No Delays.
King Street
(between Pitt & George Sts).
Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios.
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
11 VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per lllustr’n. v £l4 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL <& CO.
I
227 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne—
AGENT FOR F. BESSON & CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN COLONIES,
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all,
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2£ x 1|; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215, ; parcel post, 6d.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter ; takes
plates 4lin. x Alin. (Jp.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “Amateur” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d.
DRY PLATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. ; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD-,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
66 KIKTGr STREET,
See Our Advertisement on Society Page.
SYDKTEY.
APAMS’S MARBLE BAR,SYDNEY.
m
)
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Sights
to be seen in Australia.
The
Finest Paintings]
The Most
Handsome Decorations!
The Most
Superb Carvings!
Massive and Elegant Marble
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manager.
H
2
TiOOK OF NATURE
* —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugli prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by 0. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Ch.eap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
*HE
* Plum ’
p/0
THE
‘ Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings life a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. B(/ing practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an e#usy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p • I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price | Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole
Agents
TRY
ip
/\geats
J6HT
romatic
QO
[RO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
m.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Rail-way
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NO A ICES, M. COI.ONTAT, MANAGER.
Also Representative for the OIL ENGINE.
“ The Last of 'Jix.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING
Per Post, Is. 3d.


ITVjR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
J ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ TIIU CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell is’ Kins-strcet Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
To the Members of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society.
LADIES AND GENTLEMENMy second
term of office as a Director of your Society
will terminate at the ensuing Annual Meeting,
and I now respectfully beg to intimate that I shall
be a Candidate for one of the seats then vacant.
I shall be glad of a renewal of the confidence
which I have so long had the honor to hold, and
assuring you that no effort on my part shall be
wanting to justify a continuance of the same.—
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH ABBOTT.
March 3lst, 1898.
To the Members of the AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-I beg to in-
form you that I am a CANDIDATE for
RE-ELECTION to the Board of your Society at
the coming Annual Meeting, and, if you think
that my past services as a Director justify me in
asking for your support, I shall feel honored by
your giving me your vote. j R HILL.
ABSOLUTLY
llans
the^Best
i
1 Lists
PfANO SOLOS
P/ANO DUET&
m
ILErD
TTfEY Contain
focal
DUCTS
so/vcs
1898
RED BIRD . .
RUBY RIM . .
BLACK BIRD
CYCLES
Will teach all Bicycle Riders and Dealers what the BEST RIDERS KNOW NOW —
“ That Our Cycles are Better than the rest.”
If we haven’t a good agent
in your town, let us know.
Factories:
Brantford, Canada.
The Goold Bicycle Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH : 64 King-st., Sydney.
MELBOURNE ~ 345 Collins-street.
BRISBANE : Edward-street.
ADELAIDE: Rundle-street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HUMBER CYCLES (America)
Lady’s
GS-ents
«=e
26
25
“These are produced by the same methods as'those in vojpie at our Bees ton Works, and are of the MOST APPROVED AMERICAN DESIGN. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give the
SAME GUARANTEE as with the BEESTON MACHINES.” * «
COUNTRY AGENT'; WANTED.
The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
Stoddart s departed Eleven didn’t bat up to
its English “ form,” considering that batting-averages,
by Australians or Britishers, can be fairly expected to
run much higher in this country than in damp, bumpy-
wicketed Hingland. That’s certain. As to the extent
to which their “failure” was forced upon them by the
local bowling and fielding, nobody can speak with in-
controvertible argument. Nor would the question be
settled by the immediate sending ’Ome of an Australian
team that included Jones, Trumble, Noble, Howell, and
M'Leod, unless the five bowlers named were to repeat
their recent successes. If they didn’t carry the All-
England wickets before them, there would be reasonable
cause for complaining they were “out of form.” Nothing
is certain—except figures—in these Anglo-Australian
cricket calculations. Figures, thus far, have shown that
the best Australians at ’Ome are stronger in bowling and
weaker in batting than the best English teams, whereas
this season’s performances on their native soil show the
Australians to be stronger than their opponents in both
departments of the game. That’s good enough for the
kangaroo to swear by for the present.
* * • *
We haven’t heard the last of the famous bet-
ting cases which raised the question as to whether bet-
ting in enclosures on racecourses is illegal. The case of
Hawke v. Dunne settled that it was illegal. But a
friendly suit between parties interested in the English
Kempton Park racecourse resulted in a decision of a
higher court that it was not illegal, and that Hawke v.
Dunne was not above suspicion. It seems now that there
is to be an appeal to the Lords from that decision, but
t he parties, being both satisfied with the Court of Appeal
decision, are not hurrying the matter up. According to
latest news, however, the appeal is really coming on, so
that we shall probably know on the authority of the
highest court in the Empire whether Flemington race-
course is to be shut up before next Cup-day.
* * » *
A plebiscite of experts as to the best batsman in
the English team would possibly declare for Hayward.
M'Laren had abnormal luck, and Ranji, with a colored
gentleman's lack of balance and ballast, often lost his
wicket through striving to be “flash.” The Englishmen
should find chief cause for regret in the fact that Hay-
ward did not “strike form” earlier.
• * » «
Ranji announced in Adelaide that he and Jones
were again good friends—the latter had forgiven him.
But it didn’t look like it when Jonah clean-bowled the
Indian in Adelaide. Jonah turned three somersaults in
manifestation of his delight.
* * • *
S.A. cricket eleven ought to be altered next
season. Men like W. Giffen, Reedman, and M’Kenzie,
who are almost regular batting failures, ought to stand
down for the many rising juniors coming on. N.S.W.
taught the other provinces a lesson two years ago which
they are slow in taking to heart.
* * * *
As showing the batting failure of the English
tour, note that Wainwright, in the last match, was the
first pro. to make a century in important matches. Hay-
ward missed it by 4 runs in Sydney.
* * • *
The moral of Stoddart and co s failure is on the
surface. English Elevens for Australia should be chosen,
as far as possible, from young professional and matured
(but not too old) amateurs. A young pro.—like Brown, of
yore—has strong business inducements to keep steady,
do his best, and get his name up ; a young amateur is
likely to shirk his responsibilities and content himself
with a good time. True, Stoddart hadn’t much young
professional bowling talent to pick from, but he might
have selected at least one promising boy from the many
who hope to live by cricket. Amateurs Druce and Mason
undoubtedly failed through lack of earnestness. Briggs,
and Stoddy himself, who is much the same as a pro., are
nearly' worn out; Hearne has grown weary; Wain-
wright’s excuse is said to have been ill-health—the only
reai bit of bad luck the Englishmen can complain of.
M’Laren fell off as his wedding-day drew near, but the
happy event was on the programme anyway, and Mac.
did verv well under the circs.
* » * *
In first-class matches this season Briggs took
only 12 wickets, at the awful cost of 65 runs a-piece, yet
for all matches he had the respectable average of 26.17.
Which suggests that the best Australian batting is now
much better than it was three years ago, as regards
Briggs’s bowling. Country teams found the little man
as difficult as before. Richardson this time made a slight
improvement on his previous average, although he was
less destructive in the test-matches. Hearne proved
himself a fairly good substitute for Peel in eleven-a-side
games, and Mason, being granted a reasonable show to
distinguish himself at the end of the tour, got through
with top average on the English side —25.35 for 20 wickets.
Hayward was a disappointment merely ; Hirst and Wain-
wright calamitous failures, the latter taking the cake with
1 wicket for exactly 250. The figures altogether point to
injudicious captaincy as a factor in the English bowling
failure. Briggs was allowed to bowl 1800 balls, whilst
Mason put in less than 1100, and Hirst bowled 300 balls
more than Hayward, whose 15 wickets cost 113 runs less
than the left-hander’s 9 wickets.
As for the Englishmen’s batting in test-matches,
twelve of them played in two or more tests ; eleven Aus-
tralians (including M'Kibbin) did likewise. Of these 23
representative players three Australians headed the
crowd, and four others were among the leading ten. Nine
Englishmen finished among the last 13, and the seventh
Australian on the list (Trumble) was nine runs per inn-
ings in advance of the fourth Englishman (Hirst). Take
six men as follows from either team—Gregory, Iredale,
Kelly, Trumble, Noble, and Trott versus Hayward, Hirst,
Druce, Storer, Wainwright, and Mason. The Australian
six scored a general average of 65 rums per innings more
than their antagonists.
• • • *
Averages in first-class matches: Hill, 1196 runs,
av. 66'44 ; Ranji, 1157 runs, av. 60'89; MaoLaren, 1037
runs, av. 54'57 ; Darling, 978 runs, av. 51.47. Bowling—
Roche, 33 wickets for 684 runs, av. 20'72; Jones, 76
wickets for 1653 runs, av. 21 ‘75. Then come Noble and
Mason. As showing English bowling weakness Mason,
who heads Stoddart’s bowlers, comes fifth on the list, and
Richardson and Hearne are eleventh and twelfth re-
spectively. In batting, the first Englishman, after Ranji
and MacLaren who are second and third, is Hayward who
is eleventh. Storer is fifteenth. English critics can
explain these facts away.
* * * *
English cricket-critics should be satisfied now.
The last match of Stoddart’s team, against S.A., again
exposed the utter plainness of the bowling. Even Jack
Lyons, almost a back number, tickled Richardson and co.
to the tune of 79, and, when Hill and Darling got together
in the second innings, they seemed to just do as they
liked, Mason being the only one to keep a length. At the
commencement of the S.A. second innings, Hill wanted
86 to reach Ranji’s total for first-class matches and also
secure top average, and, by making 124 not out, did it
easily. In fact, only Ranji’s luck has put him where he
is in the averages, Hill, Darling, and MacLaren having
shown finer cricket all through.
S.A. wanted 67 runs to win at time, with eight
wickets in hand, and Clem. Hill going strong ! No wonder
Stoddart and co. were glad to get on the boat.
Lightning Jonah’s feat of taking 14 wickets for
237 runs, despite his half-crippled state, again shows that
he is the most consistent trundler in Australia.
The English cricketers left Adelaide yester-
day by R.M.S. Ormuz. Major Wardill, who travelled
with them, denied that there had been any disturbances
amongst the members of the team.” That is a yarn.
Wasn’t it a “ disturbance ” when that pro. “plugged”
that amateur—plugged him hard, very hard —for in-
sinuating that the pro. had intentionally missed a catch ?
* » * •
There were no less than three centuries scored
at S3 r dney, by Paddington against Redfern, last Saturday
—Trumper 133, Noble 138, and Meagher 108. Young
Trumper’s figures for his club are phenomenal—B2, 123,
125, 85, 120 not out, 191 not out, and 133.
* * * •
The N.S.W. wheelmen’s meet at Sydney Agri-
cultural Ground last Saturday was a tremendous success
from a racing standpoint, and deserved to be a bigger
success in the way of “ gate.”
Parsons’ preliminary to his first race evoked only
a few spasmodic clappings, as if the more decent of the
crowd felt it incumbent to welcome his re-appearance. He
is no longer a champion ; he is Parsons—not Jack.
A great run by Clinton from the bell in the
fourth heat of the March Stakes was rewarded as such
runs usually are, by the rider being beaten on the post.
This time it was Mutton who snatched the victory.
A. F. Chapman is a rider whose vibrations and
spasms are so violent when racing, that he seems to try
as much as all the other men put together. In the fifth
heat of the March Stakes Chapman’s pursuit of Gerster,
the easy winner, was almost ludicrous.
Gallant Ken Lewis, whose top-notch sprint is
somehow never seen in Sydney, went under in the third
heat of the Sydney Plate to Body, Barker, and Megson.
Nobody could extend Walne in the final of the
Sydney Plate mile. Half-a-mile from home he flew out
like a freed pigeon, and sailed round the course and down
the straight with beautiful ease. Nothing has been seen
like it in Sydney cycling since Zimmerman raced away
from the stage-coaches who tried to sprint him home in a
mile on Sydney Cricket Ground. Walne also gave them
a terrific go in the first heat of Sydney Plate. He shot
home in a dead straight line with no one able to hang
near him.
Then in the Five Miles Walne wouldn’t go ;
and Green hung behind him. The field got away; the
field lapped them. If Green were behind Walne on a
tandem he couldn’t stick there more systematically. The
racing board made the pair run an extra three miles as
penalty. Green hung to Walne just the same all through ;
but in the sprint home he was beaten all out.
Green, the general who takes all points to win,
has just about exploited the game of hanging on to
Walne’s wheel. Green’s tactics on the track are always
the same ; he picks the best man, hangs just behind him
all the time, and challenges him in the home sprint.
Walne threw his cap off and jumped for the
half-lap-home sprint in the Sydney Plate, three miles ;
Green, being on Walne’s hind wheel, jumped response,
battled at his top speed round the turn and half-way down
the straight, then, with a few final kicks, sent his wheel
in front.
They were a young and very hungry-looking
lot who came forth to battle for the amateur Two Mile
Handicap. This tin-pot brigade that races only for glory
seems to have been weaned early and to have been brought
up on condensed milk. The spectacle of 34 such youths
struggling round the track recalls the poor boys whom a
certain pug-master used to “kid” into “ bashing ” one
another on Saturday' nights. Those green unfortunates
used to get the glory, and the pug-master the cash. With
the cyclists the amateurs get the glory, and the League
the cash. There is always a doctor in attendance at the
League’s meets. Couldn’t he prescribe some roast beef
and pudding? In the good old days of the beastly fight-
ing business one strong, hearty medico, on seeing two
much-advertised “champions” come into the ring, took
the entrepreneur aside and said, “ You might have given
the poor little wretches a few good meals before getting
them to fight.”
L. M. Jackson, the big, solid youngster who
won the last A.N.A., was slow to get moving, and when
he did move he was still very slow. When it came to
sprinting he couldn’t hold the field at all.
• * • •
Vedette, the Maorilander, who essays the an-
nexation of the Doncaster mile, is another of those lively
“hacks” for which M.L. is so famous. It was only the
other day that he was permitted to join “aristocratic”
company (writes a Bulletin correspondent), and three
runaway victories in hot time determined the Sydney
trip. Vanguard’s son has a picnic parcel to carry in
Bst. 21b., and whatever beats him (assuming that he gets
a clear run) will have to go a perisher. In his last public
mile flutter (7.12) he cantered home, hard held, in 1.42.
Three trials for the Doncaster subsequently—l.4o,l.39f,
1.40. Hot 1
A few thousands will go Maoriland way should
Vedette swamp his Doncaster field. He is reckoned a
greater possibility than was Russley, who won a few
years back. M.L. books are backing the “Coaster”
themselves in Sydney, and are laying prohibitive odds to
clients.
• * m *
There is a dearth of proved stayers among the
24 acceptors for the valuable Sydney Cup, and so, with
the thumping weight of 9st. 121 b., Old Battalion is being
well backed at a short price, whilst the three-year-old
Amberite, with the steadier of Bst. 121 b., is even a better
favorite. But such great fancies may be downed by some
obscure outsider—like Phillip or The Sketch.
» * * *
The “go ” of the season in M.L. saw the down-
fall hy a nose of Yaldhurst Stead’s champion, Gold Medal-
list, in the classic Hawkes Bay Stakes. Hon. Ormond’s
Daunt (a Dreadnought) beat Gold Medallist last year —a
“fluke,” ’twas said. This time the pair ding-donged
from flag-fall, and even Derrett’s superior horsemanship
failed to avert defeat by a “ snort.” ’Twas Derrett who
piloted Carbine in the remembersome V.R.C. Derby when
he hit “ Old Jack ” and was pipped by Ensign.
•Jr * * *
Plain Bill, the Maoriland hurdler, who may
visit Sydney shortly, jumped at four pops from the best
“hack” stick-flier to the best “racehorse” in the
country. A pound under 13st. is his latest handicap in
top company. He is a grandson of Musket.
* * * *
The ancient but evergreen Hawkesbury Race
Club, N.S.W., brings off a meeting to-day (Sat.), and, as
there is a “sweep” on the big event, large fields and
good racing may be looked for. The Clarendon Handicap
looks like falling to Amourette or Nineveh, while Senior
Wrangler or Essex should succeed in landing the Nursery
Handicap. Gozoczar, The Sketch, Syerla, and The Tola
appear the best treated of the many entrants for the
Autumn Handicap, and, all being well, the first-named
should about win. The Welter may fall to Antimony, in
the probable absence of old Pharamond, who will win a
race in the near future.
• * * *
Sydney followers of the game were sorry, but
not surprised, to hear that Peter Jackson—in his day, the
greatest exponent of the modern style of fighting—had
been practically defeated in three rounds by the lusty
young Jeffries. Jackson ever required to be in the very
nick of condition to show at his best; and his Sydney
friends knew well that he could not be in anything like
condition with a few weeks’ v'ork after years of high-liv-
ing and absence from the ring.
One of the most smellful incidents connected
with Melb. cycling—and that is saying a lot—was the
publication of photos purporting to show the finish of the
10 mile Aust. Championship in certain southern journals.
One paper shows Body winning by at least 6in. and the
other corroborates the judges who gave the race to Ken
Lewis. Which is right, Heaven only knows, but one is
guilty of a glaring “ fake.” “ The apparatus cannot lie,”
hut a skilful draughtsman can alter the position of the
white line across the track in about 15secs.
♦ * * *
The A.J.C. Committee has determined not to
proceed with the erection of a new number-hoard at
Randwick, the excuse being that the only ground avail-
able for its site is too far from the grand-stand to be of
avail to its aristocratic occupants, and so the poor flatite
will have to go, as heretofore, without any adequate
knowledge of the game he has paid to witness. This is a
paltry excuse of the committee, as the space between
stand and Leger-reserve is admirably suited for such a
board, which, put at a correct angle, could be seen, not
only from the two stands, but by the “bob” public to
whom it would be a real boon.
* • * *
The Queensland champion two-year-old, Corona-
tion, together with Borgia, has been bought by a
Northerner who intends sending them Ome with a view
of picking up some of the racing plums that are
sanguinely supposed to be had for the plucking. This
sudden craze for racing at ’Ome, no doubt engendered by
Merman’s success, will be found before long to be most
costly and disappointing.
* » * *
The new “ ride-’em-out ” rule should at least
permit of a horse being eased when it is clear that the
jockey has exhausted all hope of victory and gone beyond
the point where a pull might possibly deceive the handi-
capper. In the Brunswick Stakes at Flemington, the
other Saturday, the pony Fitzroy led the field until
Parisienne came along and “ smothered ” the little fellow,
whose jockey thereupon ceased to flog his beaten animal.
But, because this happened right under the notice of the
stewards, they sent for the jockey after the race and
severely censured him for not having struggled to the
bitter end, on the chance of finishing second. Why not
have censu:ed some of the boys who, from the start, had
done their best to finish “ nowhere?”
* * * *
Cordang, the Dutch cyclist, who was cook on a
steamer ere taking to the wheel, is credited with receiving
£ll2O for his 24 hours’ record ride. Better game than
ladling out lobscouse.
* * » •
Menier, the big French chocolate-man, is “a
whale” at racing. He has at present 161 thoroughbreds
in active work—s 3 of them three-year-olds.
» * '» *
Baronet Rupert Clarke had another sweetener,
at Kvneton (Vic.), with his good-looking colt, Ranfurly.
Racing, as a rule, is made sweet for the novice owner. In
verdure clad the Turf appears delightful to Sirupert’s
eye.
* * » *
Sec. Byron Moore should be presented with a
pair of white gloves by the V.R.C. Not a single case of
welshing occurred on the Hill this year. This is stated to
be a record.
• • • *
The first day of the N.S.W. Wheelmen’s meet
was another big victory for Beeston-Humber and Swift
cycles fitted with Dunlop Tyres. These machines won
every event but one. In the Sydney Plate, the great
scratch race of the day, Walne came first on a Swift and
Green second on a Beeston-Humber.
In more than one Australian province there
is still the belief that in every case it is desirable
to have as senior or junior counsel a relative of
the presiding Judge, especially when questions
of allowing costs arise.
Rev. Father Carey, said to have been
rudely requested, the other day, by genial
N.S. Wales Justice-Minister Gould, to “ mind
his own business ” —is such a general favorite
that one of the victims of the recent Moore
Park (Sydney) shooting fray—though not R.C.
—requested Father Carey to be brought with-
out delay. The priest, upon arrival, natur-
ally inquired if the injured man wished to
come into the true fold, and was a bit broken up
at the answer—“ I don’t care a damn about the
Church—l want to follow you! ”
Frank Rogers’ “ microscopic friend,” the
grimly-conscientious C. G. Heydon, whose ap-
pointment to an acting-N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judgeship has been officially notified, has had
numerous State plums during the Reid regime.
Mr. Heydon as a criminal Judge would, in
the opinion of many, be as objectionable as
Judge Windeyer, although he is quite a different
kind of person. Tory to the last degree, cold as
an icicle, and belonging to the Trappist heaven
rather than to this base and fleshly earth, his
mental bias is that of a prosecutor, and renders
him quite incapable of making allowance for
frailties of human nature. The Bulletin doesn’t
want the virtuous Heydon to be taken from the
Bar and made into a Judge. It would prefer to
see him—in his own good time, of course—trans-
lated straight to Paradise per fiery chariot.
The boss woman of the N.S.W. woman-
suffragists sends in this protest against the land-
aninkum-tax :
I beg to inform you that I pay the Land-tax under
strong protest—l object to be taxed whilst I have no vote.
Men are not taxed without representation, why, then,
should women be so unjustly taxed, seeing that they are
in need of the protection of a vote far more than men ?
In my municipality I am taxed, but I am content, seeing
that I have the right to vote for the election of the aider-
men and auditors who control municipal affairs. I pro-
test against aliens and blackfellows being allowed a vote
if they please, whilst I and all the women of New South
Wales are absolutely without a voice in choosing those
Parliamentary representatives who have the power to
tax us, to make laws which we must obey, and to deal
with far more important interests than those which confer
a vote upon us in municipal affairs. Therefore, I repeat,
I pay this Land-tax under strong protest, it being un-
righteous and unjust to tax those who have no vote.
Death—God’s bailiff.
“ The prisoner, however, is still at large.*
S.M. Herald, re recent Rook wood murder.
‘ ‘The Prettiest Easter Show In Sydney, ”
is the title claimed for the beautiful display made
by those up-to-date jewellers, “ The Goldsmiths
and Silversmiths’ Alliance,” of 90 King-street. A
visit to this enchanting establishment of “ White
and Gold ” will amply repay country visitors at
Show-time. There will be seen a wonderful col-
lection of all the very latest London and Continen-
tal novelties of the jewellers’art. The “ Alliance”
prides itself on the great and varied assortment of
novelties which it is constantly introducing to
Australia, and the prices charged are a marvel of
cheapness, all goods being sold at London rates.*
Prospectus of the Victoria Klondike G.M.
Co. appears in this issue. Capital, 35,000 shares
(ill) paid up to 3s. on allotment. The vendors,
whose prices is 10,000 f.p. shares and =B2OOO cash
offer a property of 40 acres at Gordons (15 miles
from Ballarat) and a lot of good work. The main
shaft, 415 ft. deep, is estimated to be worth ,£l5OO
to the company. Another shaft is 60ft. down,
and from the reef at this point trial crushings of
88 tons have yielded 570 z. The estimate that
4dwt. per ton will pay when a battery arrives is,
perhaps, too sanguine, but the spec, looks suffi-
ciently tempting, anyhow. The Vic. Klondike
G.M. Co. should have no trouble in getting afloat.
Messrs Gordon and Gotch, of all over
Australasia, issue their 29th annual number of the
“Australian Handbook ’’—which covers Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, Maoriland, Fiji and Papua, so
that it is themostcomprehensiveannual publication
of its kind issued in this country. Its strongest
point as a work of reference lies in the detailed
information it gives regarding every town and
village and reasonable-sized hamlet in the nine
provinces. Any one who wants to know
anything about Yarrawonga, or Yarraweyah,
•or Breakfast Creek, or Kaitaia, or any other such
place can refer to this volume and find out all
about it population, industries, newspapers,
churches, hotels, public buildings, how you get
there, how you get away again, fares, scenery,
local Rechabites, parks, rivers, banks, and other
things. The detailed information supplied about
a great number of perfectly new towns in Wes-
tralia shows how carefully the work is kept up to
date.
NO HOPE.
Though the rain be on the river
And the sun be on the hill,
No power can us deliver
From the Winter’s bitter pill,
From the mud and blood and curses
Of the victories and reverses
Through that season most insane
When‘football's in again 1


Riders Appreciate JS'.X’iXf
This is one of the reasons for the overwhelming’ ....
popularity of-^=a
lASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES.
Another reason is that the name, Massey-Harris, is a . . .
guarantee of high quality and fair treatment.
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch .Depots: 294 Bourke Street, .Melbourne. 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane , Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Genuine
REENER l
UNS (and Rifles) J
For Pigeon and
Game Shooting
These can now be obtained from all the principal
dealers throughout Australasia, and all bear \V. VV.
GREENER’S NAME and MARKS, proofs positive of quality
and workmanship. All prices from 10 to 80 Guineas.
Shooting unequaled in any country. Write to W. W
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to the Vic.
Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by ths Amss & Frost Co., Chicago,
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an 1 i nn D(r a n •
Duplicate parts always in stock. I IVI rtRIAL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
Wolf American High Jjrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. tW Everything fancy but the price.
English American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPARE [L
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET , SIDNEY.
Hotels.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLIffS GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
Kj
the grand central
OPPOSITE 6.P.0.
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H l,: ' ST Ma Y nag E r. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Tales of the convict system, b y
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
IBLere To-day!
Yesterday i
and To-morrow !
are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stocc
>nly machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
UD-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
I £3" Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
I tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
| Department.
N.S. W. Government Railways.
Easter Holidays, 1898.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS
Will be issued from all stations to all stations (ex-
cept for distances not exceeding 13 miles between
stations in the Metropolitan Suburban and New-
castle Suburban Sections), commencing with the
day trains leaving terminal stations on FRIDAY,
Ist April, and thereafter by all trains until MON-
DAY, 11th April, available for return until
MONDAY, 25th April, 1898, inclusive.
Intercolonial Tickets at the Following
Fares will be issued from New South Wales
stations to the other Colonies from Monday,
4th April, until Monday, 11th. April,
1898, inclusive, available for Return for
six months, with the exception of the Adelaide
and Broken Hill tickets, which will be available for
two months only.
The journey may be broken for one month going,
j and during the currency of the ticket on returning.
From Sydney to Brisbane and vice versa.
! Ist-class return £5 0 0 | 2nd-class return £3 0 0
From Newcastle to Brisbane and vice versa.
Ist-ciass return £4 12 6 | 2nd-class return £2 15 0
Front Sydney to Melbourne and vice versa.
Ist-class return £5 0 0 | 2nd-class return £3 15 0
Tickets not available by express. Passengers wishing
to travel by express to pay the difference between the
ordinary and holiday excursion rates, viz., 21s. 6d. first-
class, 16s. second-class.
From Sydney to Adelaide and vice versa.
Ist-class return £7 6 3j 2nd-class return £4 19 0
Holders may travel by express.
From Sydney to Broken Hill and vice versa.
Ist-class return £lO 4 0 | 2nd-class return £6 15 3
Available by express.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS.—In addi-
tion to the Cheap Excursion tickets ordinarily
issued on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, simi-
lar tickets at 2d. per mile first-class return (mini-
mum Is.), and id. per mile second-class return
(minimum 9d.) will be issued at Sydney and
Suburban stations by trains leaving Sydney as
under, AVAILABLE FOR RETURN UP TO
AND INCLUDING MONDAY, 18th APRIL,
viz. :
SOUTHERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 7th April : 5.2 p.m. to stations
Mittagong to Bundanoon ; 5.15 p.m. to stations
Picton to Goulburn ; 0.10 p.m. to Goulburn ; 8.58
p.m. to stations on the Cooma Line.
FRIDAY, Bth April, and MONDAY, 11th
April : 8.0 a.m. to Goulburn.
SATURDAY, 9th April : 2.28 p.m. to Bunda-
noon.
SOUTH COAST LINE.
THURSDAY, 7th April : 1.30 p.m. toKiaina ;
4.30 p.m. to Dapto; 5.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. to
Kiama and Nowra.
FRIDAY, Bth April, and MONDAY, 11th
April ; 7.30 a.m. to Stanwell Park, Wollongong,
and all stations thence to Novvra; 7.38 a.m. to
Wollongong.
WESTERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 7th April : 3.0 p.m. to Orange ;
3.45 p.m., 4.50 p.m. and 5.25 p.m. to Mt. Vic-
toria ; 8.0 p.m. to stations on Mudgee line only ;
8.20 p.m. to stations west of Mt. Victoria as far
as Orange.
FRIDAY, Bth April, and MONDAY, 11th
April: 8.10 a.m. to Mt. Victoria, and 8.20 a.m.
to Eskbank.
SATURDAY, 9th April: 8.10 a.m. to Mt.
Victoria; 8.20 a.m. to Bathurst; and 6.15 p.m. to
Orange.
NORTHERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 7th April: 3.40 p.m. to Mur-
rurundi (2.40 p.m. from Milson’s Point); 4.40
p.m. to Gosford; 7.35 p.m. to West Maitland
(7.40 p.m. from Milson’s Point); 11.15 p.m. to
Newcastle (11.25 p.m. from Milson’s Point).
FRIDAY, SATURDAY, and MONDAY, Bth,
9th, and 11th April : 8.5 a.m. to Newcastle (7.50
a.m. from Milson’s Point).
SUNDAY, 10th April: 9.30 a.m. to Gosford.
MONDAY, 11th April: 7.5 a.m. to Gosford
(6.47 a.m. from Milson’s Point).
SIMILAR CHEAP TICKETS will also be
issued to SYDNEY by trains as follows, AVAIL-
ABLE FOR RETURN UP TO AND IN-
CLUDING MONDAY, 18th APRIL
SOUTHERN LINE.
FRIDAY, Bth April : 4.15 p.m. from Goulburrt*.
MONDAY, 11th April: 5.0 a.m. from Goul-
burn.
SOUTH COAST LINE.
FRIDAY, Bth April, and MONDAY, 11th
April: 4.35 a.m. from Nowra.
SATURDAY, 9th April: 1.40 p.m. from
Nowra.
WESTERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 7th April: 6.45 p.m. from
Mudgee ; 11.0 p.m. from Orange.
SUNDAY, 10th April: 9.20 p.m. from Orange.
NORTHERN LINE.
THURSDAY, 7th April: 11.0 a.m. from Mur-
rurundi ; 10.20 p.m. from West Maitland.
FRIDAY, Bth April: 12.5 a.m. and 5.30 p.m.
from Newcastle.
SATURDAY, 9th April: 5.15 p.m. from New-
castle ; and 10.20 p.m. from West Maitland.
SUNDAY, 10th April: 12.5 a.m. from New-
castle.
MONDAY, 11th April: 5.0 a.m. from West
Maitland, and 6.0 a.m. from Newcastle.
Handbills and further particulars can be ob-
tained from all stationmasters.
By Order of the Commissioners,
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
Prospectus
Of the
VICTORIA KLONDIKE GOLD-MINING
COMPANY,
Gordons, Victoria.
To be Registered as a No-liability Company.
CAPITAL, £35,000, in 35,000 SHARES of £1
EACH.
10,000 shares fully paid up to be allotted the ven-
dors, also the sum of =£2ooo cash.
25,000 shares are offered to the public at Is. 6d.
per share on application and Is. 6d. on allot-
i ment.
I Proceeds, less brokerage and flotation expenses
(not to exceed =£soo), to be placed to the credit
i of the company.
I The company may be considered floated when
15,000 shares have been applied for.
I As 10,000 contributing shares have already been
applied for, early application will be necessary,
I and shares will be allotted in priority of appli-
| cation.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
! The Hon. Pharez Phillips, M.L.C.
Wm. Holyoak, Esq., merchant, Melbourne
J. H. Thompson, Esq., merchant, Melbourne
i Arthur Robinson, Esq., Commercial Agency,
34 Queen-street, Melbourne
| Henry Thompson, Esq., mine manager, Mel-
bourne
E. M‘Robert, Esq. (director South Germans),
Melbourne
BANKERS:
London Bank of Australia Limited, Melbourne
BROKERS :
Stanhope O’Connor, Esq., Exchange, Mel-
bourne
J. D. Woolcott, Esq. Exchange, Ballarat
S. H. M‘Go wan, Esq., Exchange, Bendigo
H. Robinson, Esq., Exchange, Maryborough
SOLICITOR :
Herbert H. Oakley, 95 Queen-street, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER (pro. tem.):
J. W. H. Evans (Evans, Smith, and Co.),
11 and 13 Baring-chambers, 54 Market-street,
Melbourne.
Application for shares will be received by any of
the above-named brokers, and at the office of
Messrs. Evans, Smith, and Co., 54 Market-street,
where samples of the gold may be seen and further
information of the mines obtained.
The company is being formed for the purpose of
acquiring Leases Nos. 2919 and 3003 (P.P. Bal-
larat), situated at Gordons, 15 miles east from
Ballarat, comprising an area of 40 acres, more or
less, through which four parallel highly auriferous
quartz reefs traverse the whole length of the pro-
perty.
One of these is a continuation of the famous
Black Horse line, at Egerton. Gold has been won
from the Black Horse mine valued .£470,022, out
out of which £178,000 has been paid in dividends.
The Egerton has won gold valued £780,482, and
paid £310,729 in dividends. An additional 30
acres adjoining has been applied for on behalf of
the company.
Three of these reefs are known as Kangaroo
Bob, Fisher’s, and Peterson’s.
The Kangaroo Bob averaged 2 feet wide, and
yielded as high as 30 ounces per ton.
The Fisher’s reef was found to average in width
7 feet, and returned yields equal to two ounces per
ton.
Peterson’s reef is about 4 feet wide, and gave an
average return of Bdwt. of gold per ton from the
surface to the 400-feet level. This reef was fol-
lowed 20 feet down from the 400-feet level, and a
trial crushing returned 15dwt. to the ton.
The main shaft is 415 feet deep, in good con-
dition, timbered with the best of material, and
ladders fixed from top to bottom, is 10 feet by 4
feet in the clear, divided into three compartments,
and is worth over £l5OO to the company.
There is a shaft sunk 60ft., from which a cross-
cut has been driven 40ft., where a reef was met
with, varying in width from 6 to 10ft., carrying
gold all through. Two trial crushings have been
taken from this reef—s 6 tons yielded re-
torted gold, 32 tons yielded 270 z. 15dwt. retorted
gold ; 4dwt. per ton will pay when a battery is
upon the ground.
There are fully 100 tons of mullock upon the
surface, carrying payable gold.
Experts recommend that a crosscut be put in
200 ft. deep in the main shaft, which should strike
the main reef after driving 75ft., thereby giving
the company 200 ft. backs from this level.
The contract price for driving is less than Bs.
per foot.
The value of the gold is £4 2s. 3d. per ounce.
The provisional directors have every confidence
in recommending the venture, and it is expected
that almost immediately the machinery has been
erected that the mine will become dividend-
paying.
Intending investors are invited to personally
inspect the property, which can easily be accom-
plished in one day, it being within 1| miles of the
Gordons railway station.
Samples of the eastern lode may be seen at the
office of the legal manager (pro. tem.), 34 Market-
street.
ME. ARTHUK’S REPORT.
To Messrs. Evans, Smith and Co., 13 Baring-chambers,
Market-street, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —Having examined the property described in
Lease No. 2919, at Gordon’s, by your request, I have
much pleasure in submitting my opinion of the property.
There are four distinct reefs running through the lease,
A shaft has been sunk 400 ft. ; it is well timbered and in
good condition, has three compartments, and I consider
it a valuable asset for the future working of the mine.
At the bottom of the lower level, I am informed on good
authority, there is a reef carrying gold equal to 15dwt. to
the ton. I was unable to go down as the shaft contains a
considerable quantity of water.
The most important feature at the mine is the last
shaft sunk to a depth of 60ft. from the surface. A drive
was put in at 40ft., and struck a new reef, which has been
driven on 50ft. to the north, and 70ft. to the south. The
size of the reef, I should say, is from 6ft. to 10ft. wide,
carrying gold all through. A trial crushing of 56 tons
was taken from about 3ft. of the reef, and yielded 30oz.
of smelted gold. I took several prospects from the
bottom of the drive, with the object of testing whether
it went down. I found gold in all of it, the best being at
the back of the tunnel. With a crushing plant upon the
ground I consider the mullock would be payable.
The reef is very much broken up, and I would recom-
mend that a crosscut be put in from the 400 ft. shaft, at
about 200 ft. deep, to strike the lode now being worked in
the new shaft. I then believe it would be more defined
and most probably richer. By the broken appearance of
the reef, I am of opinion that the alluvial in the neighbor-
hood was shed from the reef. One of the best leads in
the district takes its start about 20 yards from the present
shaft. The reef has never heen worked upon the pro-
perty, and I consider it a new find, and a continuation of
the famous Egerton line of reef; and, with good manage-
ment and properly opened up, I would recommend it as a
good venture with great possibilities.
There are 30 to 40 tons of stone at present at grass,
which 1 would recommend crushing at once, and should
think it would turn out from 12dwt. to lddwt. per ton.
A quantity of mullook companies at the 1800 ft. and 1300 ft.
levels would to the ton.
Yours faithfully,
R. ARTHUR.
Moonie Ponds, 9th February, 1898.
Since writing this report, 32 tons were crushed for 270 z.
15dwt. gold.
EXTRACTS FROM REPORTS.
Mr. Thomas M‘Cluskey, who has been mining for 31
years, writes :
I am thoroughly acquainted with the features of the
lodes on the property. Crushings from the Kangaroo Bob
yield from 20oz. to 30oz. to the ton.
Peterson’s lode is about the centre of the lode forma-
tion. From the 300 ft. to the 400 ft. levels 6000 tons of
stone were crushed for a return of 3000 oz. of gold. The
lode was followed underfoot at the 400 ft. level, and the
trial crushing returned 15dwt. to the ton.
The increase in the yields was most marked the deeper
the lode was worked, and 1 feel quite positive the lode
will at deeper levels prove highly auriferous and return
splendid dividends. There is little doubt but that the
famous reefs worked by the Black Horse United and
Egerton companies at the 1800 ft. and 1300 ft. levels would
be found in your area.
Mr. Wm. Sterritt. M.A.1.M.E., writes:—
There are four parallel well-known and highly auri-
ferous reefs the whole length of the property.
The Kangaroo Bob reef averaged 2ft. in width, and re-
turned yields over 20oz. to the ton.
Fisher’s reef is 7ft. wide and 350 ft. west of Kangaroo
Bob. It averaged 3oz. to the ton to the 200 ft. level. The
early prospectors made big wages by dollying the stone.
Peterson's reef is 250 ft. east of Kangaroo Bob. Its
width, about 4ft., gave an average return of lOdwt. from
the surface to the 400 ft. level. This lode was followed
underfoot a distance of 20ft. from the 400 ft. level. Trial
crushing returned 15dwt. The lode being the whole
width of the face, and gold-bearing throughout, will re-
turn dividends from the start.
Your eastern line of reef has been driven for 150 ft. at
40ft. from the surface. The reef is nearly 12ft. wide,
and gold-bearing throughout. The gold is free and good
quality, easily saved by ordinary milling. 3dwt. per ton
would pay on this line of reef. The reef is well defined
between slate and sandstone walls, of a permanent ap-
pearance, and has an underlay to the east of Ift. in 4ft.
My opinion is that further south .you will find a very rich
shoot of gold, as an immensely rich alluvial gutter was
worked 50ft. further south, and I consider it one of the
best shows in this district.
I may say that the pleasing and satisfactory feature of
the lodes is that the gold is not found in them in pockets,
but is distributed throughout, so that in working them
there will be no waste, the whole of the stone being fit
for the battery.
I am of the opinion that as deeper levels are opened up
the reefs will get richer, this being the characteristic of
the district lode formation of which yours is a part. The
greater portion of the gold obtained in the district has
been got below 400 ft., as in the Black Horse and Egerton,
the best gold in these two mines being obtained at 800 ft.
and 1400 ft. Your reefs being in this same auriferous belt
of country as the foregoing mines, I think your property
is the best show in the district, and have no hesitation in
stating that, properly developed, it will return good
dividends for many years.
IT HAS ARRIVED!
IN ALL ITS MAGNIFICENCE AND
WONDERMENT.
HARMSTON’S
no CIRCUS * ZOOM
OF PERFORMING ANIMALS.
“ The World’s Greatest
No event has been looked forward to with more
expectancy, interest and excitement than
THE + GRAND + OPENING,
which POSITIVELY takes place
This SATURDAY, 2nd April,
Of this the best - equipped and finest - tented
amusement enterprise that has ever visited Aus-
tralasia.
Our Central and Superb Location,
BELM ORE BARK, *^S
To which all eyes must be directed.
THE HUGE WHITE PAVILIONS brilliantly
illuminated throughout with electricity.
TWO GREAT EQUESTRIAN COMPANIES
AND ONE WILD BEAST EXHIBITION.
Combining in one Elegant Entertainment, the
varied Exercises of the Circus, and Living Won-
ders of Gymnastic and Acrobatic Art culled from
the Principal Establishments of
EUROPE and AMERICA.
Two specially chartered steamers, the s.s. Aramac and
the s.s. Eurimbla, required to convey all the impedimenta,
horses, animals, etc., to Sydney.
Prices of Admission:
Private Boxes (containing 6 chairs) ... £l4 0
Single Chairs in Boxes ... ... 4 0
Dress Circle Chairs ... ... ... SO
Stalls ... ... ... ... 2 0
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Plan of Boxes and Reserved Chairs at Messrs. Elvy and
Co’s Music Warehouse, George-street.
Matinees every Wednesday and Saturday. No Extor-
tion. No early doors. Seats for all. Children half-
price to matinees only.
Mrs. HARMSTON-LOVE, Proprietress.
ROBERT LOVE, Sole Manager.
COL. C. B. HICKS, Representative.
JOE BROWN,, General Agent.
A SILVER WATCH FREE.
w •
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE ?
T * Y T * P*E*
E*E*Y*o*Y.
S E
We will Present to Every Person SOLVING the above
Puzzle one of our Splendid
SILVER WATCHES,
LADY’S or GENT.’s, having
SOLID SILVER CASES, Jewelled Movements, and are
Reliable Timekeepers. List Price, 50s.
Send your answer at once, with a stamped addressed
envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE. If so and
you purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS to
wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be sent
securely packed, free by registered post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
lO5 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ DOWRIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
/A UUi ELD’S fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.


Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved and.
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. O. Ayer &s Co.,
IIOWEIIII, MASS., TT. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral —is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY PROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geortre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHCAP
MACHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
l etc.
S. ROWLEY Si CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC*
IFER BRAVAIS
FER BRATAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, |
and enabling the consti-!
ration 10 resist climatic
influences. ,
Invaluable in all cases of-
anaemia, Influenza and
general debility.
Highly recommended for J
weak and debilitated chil- [1
dren. «
LANCET “ A beautiful and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all{
the good effects of iron without producing consti- |
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold bv Chemists all the world over. ]
Deafness a noises d
Wilson’s Common n _ 1 : AI > A J
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 6(6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ‘l)6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair. -
W. N. Wsz*ll,
110 William Street,
rorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attenbion'gjyen to Country Orders,
The story goes that when Prince Henry of
Prussia visited England recently he hunted the
Prince of Wales about with a special message
from the Kaiser, intended to tone-down the bun-
kum of the Kiel banquet braggadocio. But
Tummy, it is said, dexterously avoided being
ear-wigged on the subject, and now he and
William the Wonderful are “ not playing ” more
than ever.
“ The disclosures in court about the meat-
supply of a swell London caravanserai,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “may
lead to a war declaration by some foreign
powers whose representatives were housed therein
as the Queen’s jubilee guests. It now turns out
that two warriors, who for a couple of months
guarded the main entrance, should have been
stationed at the kitchen entrance through which
went all manner of cat’s meat and meat that no
cat would eat, to be fixed up for the menu as filet
de bceuf <1 la viennoise. It appears that a certain
butcher has, through dummies, gradually acquired
most of the hotel shares, and he amply used his
chances. Stale sheep’s plucks, sweetbreads that
were far from sweet, and game that was game.
What a stomach-squirm will travel round at the
idea of a cute tradesman thus getting quadruple
prices for the refuse of the slaughter-house ! ”
Within a year have been killed three sons
of the late Sherbourne Sheppard, one of the
pioneer squatters of Vic. after whom Shepparton
is named. One son was killed in a bicycle road-
race at Werribee (Vic.) ; a second burst a blood-
vessel on the bike and died from the effects ; and
news lately came that the third, a naval lieuten-
ant, has been killed by a panther in Central
Africa. Old Sherbourne Sheppard—he wasn’t
old then —was the central figure of a memorable
row in the early days of Vic. Leaving his station
at Tallygaroopna to the care of “Brab” Purcell,
afterwards of a Melb. horse-bazaar, he took a trip
to his home in Ireland, only to find on his return
in 1850 that things had gone wrong and that one
Khull was in possession of the homestead with
10,000 of his own sheep fattening in the pad-
docks. Sheppard took legal advice, and the advice
was to recapture the station by force. Accord-
ingly, he got together Archie Knight (afterwards
a “cadet”), Albert Le Souef (now director of
Melb. Zoo.), Jack Doherty (afterwards M.L.C.),
Purcell, and a score of good, reliable fighting men.
These, armed with swords and pistols, marched
on Tallygaroopna and made formal demand for
the premises. Khull declined with thanks, and,
a trifle scared at the display, barricaded the home-
stead. Sheppard’s party then set to work with
axes, battered a hole in the wall, and bounced in,
ejecting the Khull party, which was too scared to
retaliate. The next move was to chuck all the
Khull furniture and stores into the bush, and, as
the place had been provisioned for about six
months, the result was that all the blackfellows in
Vic. rolled up sooner or later to participate in the
“ plenty flour and thugar ’’ that was wasting
under the eucalypts. Khull’s 10,000 head of sheep
were driven off to Benalla pound, to be sold by
auction for half nothing, and Sheppard gained his
point. Subsequently Khull took action, and a
lengthy suit resulted in his getting a nominal
verdict, but he couldn’t shift Sheppard.
it
APBKTTA.”
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“ Its composition is constant.”— Lancet.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Co. Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12/6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/d. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Jf2T Send for Price List.
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f’g Co.,
MELBOURNE-,ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY 5
The Sydney Carriage ManVg. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
MUM S lUarvtllous H|| RGSTOtCR
£2
#
X
e/?
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
&
&
X
&
met
52
Read the following G-enuine and Unsolicited Testimonial: ■.4
E. Holland, Esq. Dear Sir,— -I wish to thank you for your skilful treatment of my hair. When
our family doctor (under whose treatment I had been for some considerable time, though unsuccess-
fully) advised me to call and see yon, my hair was in a most deplorable condition, more than half my
head being bare, and my eyebrows were gone. Thanks to your beneficial treatment, my hair is now,
after ten months’ treatment, quite thick all over my head, and my eyebrows have grown in splendidly.
—Yours gratefully, E.W. Melbourne, August 13, 1897.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
'Guinea
4^ S
e#'
s§s:
s;®?
Kv.'i
H Hi
£>3
Iplll
i
Slsfi
■oo#-!
;<s>
I
§!«
- W-^"
KPil
L«mtnr'
m isSfilMijl
IimXK
W->v: Si
vi&
ssB
9 m
M
Gold'
per
Packet
royat. W-A.R.RAN'T of A.PPOIKTXMEKTT to “ THE QUEEKT.
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE ”
Schweppe
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
SCHWEPPE.
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, ANDSTEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F ° R
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Mouses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.’
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Herr Rassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist,
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
fllfaliie Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a conimonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Oases of this
kind occur dailv, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herba 1
Remedies.
A
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging 1 to
Business,
taking- little interest in
topics of the day. who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Kemedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th - Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
whi e h keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, tliey espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SI&TER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Bassmussen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
©>
v\
HERR RASSMUSSCN’S Medical Page.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER PELT BETTER in their lives.
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
AIiFAIaINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
w
'A
HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULEN C Y are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa'ine
Fat-Reducing 1 Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets 65.,
TRIPPING the
Pantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Ras-mus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
m
i)i
r
fcd'2
r
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmusseu’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
JORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. Gd.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,'
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifL,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the: players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
/•
How to Obtain Free Book.
m- When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. Cd. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne — 150 Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
Adelaide— ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgfardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
aoiAav
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/'o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thusforprivacy sake—
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, Without iail.


Amusements.
■pOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Grood Friday!
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT OF THE
| NEWBURY SPA DA CO. \
Selections from “STABAT MATER,” and Passion Music.
-East©r 3MCoM.t3.ay I
gigantic national and popular night.
Popular Prices—ls., 25., 3s.
R» < rJ^J\* S . rA^,. DARD THEATRE SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereasrh-st.)
oole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
E y ery SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
«« }
tf The Great Irish Patriotic Drama,
3XT O 3VL ERC Y.”
Wed., N. Sydney; Thnrs., Waverley; Friday, Petersham
PLAY EVERY WEEK.
A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
, MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
t»,, u°' e lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
i y ,R - WILSON BARRETT
and HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45.
CLA.T7DIA.KT.
Play in 4 acts, by W. G. Wills and Henry Herman.
Mr. Barrett as “Claudian”; Miss Jeffries as “Almida.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
■YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
Terror of Faria.
(By arrangement with Mr. W. J. Holloway).
SATURDAY, April 2, the new, romantic, and military
drama reminiscent of the Crimean War, entitled
•A- Yorkshire Lass.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
tp I von
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON NEXT, 2nd APRIL.
Commencement of 2nd Variety Season.
When the following Great Company will appear :
The Haytors, The Hulines, The Tillers, Bellman and
Moore, Hagan and Fraser, Ivy Scott, Wallace King, Eva
Lee, Clarence Lyndon, and an entirely New and Grand
First Part, entitled ~~8~. *C3y t
Popular Prices, 2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinee every Saturday, 3 p.m.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ev er Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Last Nights of Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY, the Great Tenor.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
Mr. JOHN COLEMAN. Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN.
. Miss AGNES HAZEL. AUSTIN RUDD.
THE THREE HEGELMANNS. WILL WHITBURN.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
■DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN ARTISTIC AND COMPLETE SUCCESS 1
Mr. Chas. Cartwright Miss Beatrice Lamb
AND NEW LONDON COMPANY
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.
To be followed on SATURDAY, April 2nd, with Haddon
Chambers’s great play, “ THE IDLER.”
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Plan at W. H. Glen and Co.
Amusements,
ALEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
"**■ Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In the Most Exciting Play Produced in Melbourne for
Years,
THE DAYS OF THE LAND BOOM!
CHANGE OF BILL EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
"PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
” Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
The Merry Musical Farce, in 2 acts,
“TN€ (SAY PARISICNMC.”
SATURDAY, 2nd April—THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
mHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
*“■ Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
OVERWHELMING AND MAJESTIC TRIUMPH 1
EVERY EVENING !
Mr. Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Drama,
When London Sleeps.
Interpreted by
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And His Specially Augmented Dramatic Company,
sar- POPULAR PRICES! Plan at Allan’s
A Silver Watch
GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady's or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
A*V*N*E
A*S*R*L*A.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling' Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducinc and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, per
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which gives me more than satisfaction.—
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M'CARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch and Jewellery Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney;
and No. 28 (4th Floor), Tuckett’s Chambers, 359 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
mm
mmsM
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Collections of 1000 varieties
complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, 56. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The prettiest Easter shou in Sydney/’
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
Half Hoop.
6 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £'3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 455,505, 60s
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s.
diiiiiiiiiiiijgpif
Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
16c., JBs 6d; oc., 13s 6d.
New Gold Scroll Brooch, 9s.
' <s•»
90 KING STREET
SYDNEY
Watches a Specialty.
Gent’s (fall-size) Silver Hunters
Our Special Levers, 455, 60s, 80s.
WALTHAM, 47s 6d, 655, 90s.
ROTHERHAMS, 70s, 80s, 100 s.
Gent's Solid Gold Hunters.
£&„ £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Hunters.
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £7 10s, £lO.
Ladies' Silver Hunters.
:255, :30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Please send for our Illustrated
- Slips of Novelties.
9c., 13'6 pair;
15c., 27/6 pair.
20 other Pat-
terns from 10/6
pair.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
9ct., 23 6pair; 15c.,37/6pair
Silver, 5/- pair.
A)
A
ijB\
W
English Hall-marked Alberts.
9c. GOLD SINGLE, 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. „ „ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
SILVER ~ 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
9c. GOLD DOUBLE, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. „ „ 110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
SILVER „ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Post Pree.
18c, Marquise,
Set with 14 Diamond?
.and 1 Rt,i%ror Sapphire,
Emerald'or Torquoise
centre, £4s 4s.
Plain
Gold.
7s 6d
pair.
Our New
Twin
with
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d.
Bird
Brooches.
Post Free.
15c
Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or
Sapphire, 21s.
Diamond, 85s.
NOTE Oca Only Austealian Address—
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CIGARETTES.
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
Royal Sweets’
it Ait
ROYAL SMOKE.
Reproduced from “ The British Underwriter and Insurance
Advocate/’ London, February, 1898.
TTFirfil
#7
AUSTRALASIA TO ENGLAND. THE GREAT INSURANCE RACE.
NATIONAL MUTUAL OF AUSTRALASIA...
MUTUAL OF AUSTRALASIA
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
... 1
... 2
... 3
National Mutual Life Association of Australasia.
AS our readers are aware, this old-established and sound colonial office has lately opened a chief
office for Great Britain and Ireland at 75 and 76, Cornhill, London, and districts and agencies
are being established in various parts of the United Kingdom. Already an excellent board of direc-
tors have been formed in London with Sir Saul Samuel, Bart, K.C.M.G., C. 8., as chairman, and the
General Manager for the United Kingdom, Mr. John Munro, an able, scholarly and conscientious in-
surance man, in whose hands the interests and reputation of the Association are absolutely safe.
The association was established in 1869, and at once commenced a new era in Life Assurance by
introducing a non forfeiture clause under which policies could not be lapsed for non-payment of pre-
miums so long as the surrender values were sufficient to pay the premiums. Numerous instances are
cited in the prospectus, which show how beneficiently this considerate and equitable arrangement
has operated. All the best features of the leading insurance offices of the world were kept in view by
the founders of the Association. In 1896 the Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria was absorbed,
with the result that the funds now exceed .£2,500,000. The individuality of Colonel Templeton was
well asserted in the formation of this excellent society, and that both the Colonel and those connected
with him looked upon the office with pride is shown from the following extract as to the reasons for the
formation of the office, published in the prospectus—
The introduction of such a feature alone (the non-forfeiture principle) was sufficient warrant for the establishment of
the Association ; but there were other reason, viz.—To liberalise the general conditions of policies, removing stringent
conditions unfair to members of a Mutual Life Association ; to introduce an improvement in the mode of dividing pro-
fits, the rule adopted by the association being that profits should be divided among members in proportion to their
contributions to the profit fund. The principle of Mutual Assurance were strictly observed from the inception of the
Association, no advantages being given to the first members, who were admitted on exactly the same terms as those
upon which members may now enter.
Thus was established the first office in the world to insert into Life Policies a truly Non-Forfeiture Clause for the
protection of those who might omit to pay their renewal premiums.
Whilst the society is fully abreast of the times in regard to the various departments and the absence
of restrictions antagonistic to the interests of members, the bonus-paying powers are of a high order.
Thus policy No. 12, assuring nominally <£soo, has been in force 23 years, and the reversionary bonuses
added amount to £306 ; policy No. 204 for £5OO has been in force 22 years, and bonuses amounting to
£264 have been added ; policy No. 284, assuring £lOOO, has had, after 21 years, £703 in bonuses added,
increasing the assurance to £1703. We learn that up to the present the reversionary bonuses allotted
to members aggregate the large sum of over £900,000. The results of the year 1897 have been cabled
to London : The new assurances amounted to £1,100,000 with new annual premiums of £33,000. The
income for the year amounted to £450,000, and the funds came to a total of £2,600,000 in addition to
which there is an investment fluctuation fund of £70,000. The society is well established in the
various colonies, and, in addition to the Chief Office Board at Melbourne, there are Boards of Direc-
tors at Sydney, Adelaide, New Zealand, Brisbane, Tasmania, Western Australia, and Cape Town, in
addition to the London Board, to which we have already referred. The society is viewed, from any
and every standpoint, a first-class Life Office, which any agent or other person can, with the fullest
confidence, recommend to his friends. With the spread of imperialism, and the great and increasing
desire to draw the colonies closer and closer to the Mother Country for the mutual good of all, there is
an additional reason why Britishers should give practical proof of their love of the colonies, of that
broad patriotism so frequently accentuated by our modern statesmen, by extending a generous welcome
and patronage to The National Mutual Life Association of Australasia.
OFFICES: 85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Board of Directors : Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Chairman); Robert Saddington, Esq.;
J( H'j Pope, Esq. ; Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq. ; Hon. F. B. Suitor ; Hon. George Thornton, M.L.O.
H. C. Evans, Resident Secretary.
%
Rfc«
fatism mi
\Ali tßade U.
Wtl-oWfIiST
lARK 4
Corset
Witwowflist Corset
the BEST IN the market.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LENGTHENS THE WAIST.
SEA UTIFIES TH E FIG UR E.
WittSwAisr Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'i.t'oy\m>ST Corset
of ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F . w. LEE, Camden Buildings.
2 !8, GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
TO FAT PEOPLE.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to get permanent relief,
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ’S OBESITY
PILLS., A Reduction of 61b. a week is guaranteed to
anyone, young or old, by their use.
PRICE, 6s. and 7s. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Read,
146 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
FORTUNE
i’rench Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
TJCI.I-.INC> Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand's ; celebrated
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever rend, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
62 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.—-——
SECRET
' Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
[Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
!
Q
UIBELL’S Fluid Disinfectant exterminates
Buffs, Fleas, White Ants, Moths, SilVet-iUh ft FeVW*.


■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
’ a complete and perfect 'diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
suoplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peck Ham, London, England.
Mascotte
TOBACCO.
T-rt AT
yo<S get
it
-y
8 8
Sole Agents—S. HOFFNUNG- & CO., Brisbane.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs’
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The" Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles’
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brush ware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
T° THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG &TaITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
GBO 082 George Street, Sydney.
s|
v oua Life or thatSigaJet tobacco f
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO
Best Cigarette* are Wills’ Three Castles.
M ARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, V
1 Price Wauung ; Is. 3d. posted.
“No wonder the beggars try to bolt;
they’re let down too easily when caught; the
maudlin sympathy of civilians encourages them.”
This is printed as a Sydney policeman’s comment
on recent attempts at escape from gaol made by
certain prisoners. “ They’re let down too easily.’’,
A N.S.W. escapee when caught is often triced up
and given 25 lashes ; he is also punished through
his dietary, and remissions earned by previous
good conduct are wiped out. In the early days
even the gallows were called on to punish attempts
at escape. A record of the year 1800 describes
the fate of five convicts who tried to escape from
Sydney stockade. One got 1000 lashes, another
500 lashes, and the rest were sent to the chain*'
gang in iron collars. A policeman’s • life had joy-
ous hours in those days. Escapees were not then
“ let down too easily.”
“An old-time Pressman,” on a narrowly
averted tragedy:—
We hanged a reporter once—at Rockhampton. It was
this way i Joe Lee, shipping reporter on the Northern
Argus, was a Jew—and a very good sort at that. Not
very clever, hut his colossal cheek got him along all right,
and editor Bouoicault loved him like a brother. Well,
Joe and half-a dozen other habitues were in Macallister’s
bar. It was prime drinking weather —always is in the
city of Sin, Sweat, and Sorrow. Also, it was Saturday—
and pay-day. So it went round pretty often. And the
talk got upon hanging, because on the Monday there was
to be an official exhibition thereof. Lee said he believed
a man could train himself so that when he was turned off
he could cheat the hangman. Whereupon a chap named
M‘Kenzie insisted that Joe should show us how it was
done. We got a rope, threw it over a beam in the bar,
fixed up the loop, and trussed up Lee before he had time
to say a prayer. Of course, we didn’t mean to hurt him,
but, as the devil would have it, just as we ran him up the
circus band drove past, and we walked outside to have a
look, all still holding on to the rope, and clean forgetting
Joe, so that, only for Jack Macallister, who jumped over
the bar and cut him down, bringing us all down in turn,
tbere’d have been an inquest right enough, and a verdict
of manslaughter, and cross-headed articles in the papers
about “ brutal practical jokes.” As it was, Joe was black
in the face, and somebody had to open a vein in his
neck. But he was good-natured, and forgave us. In-
deed, I think he was rather proud of the experience,
because years afterwards, when he and I were on Sydney
Evening News, and Lester were hanged, Joe
asked to be sent to the function, because, as he told the
chief of the staff, he’d been through it all himself and was
therefore an expert.
Dear Bulletin, Harry Monck ”
whom I take to be an ex-’birder desirous of show-
ing that his craft isn’t quite as black as painted—
is unfortunate in having his denial of child-slaving
printed in the same issue which records that a
recruiting-vessel the other day reached Q. with 14
boys aboard —and not one over 13 years of age.
In any case, his objection to A. B. Kellie’s yarn
is beside the question. Mr. Kellie fixed no date—
his incidents might have happened 20 years
ago or at any intervening time; and no one
who knows much about the Q. slave-trade before
the new regulations would put child-outrage past
the old-time brutal blackbirder. Further, it is
merely said the child was outraged on the vessel—*
nothing is said about sailors. The responsible
person might have been ttie Govt, agent, or a
missionary passenger. Further, “child” is as
vague a term as “ boy ”; and a kanaka 12-year-
old, for example, is ripe enough for “outrage”
without it being necessary to defend the sailor-
man against any particular aspersion. In a word,
“ Harry Monck ” has jumped at a conclusion —
and missed the right one.— An Apmirer of the
Yarn.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., Keystone of the !
N.S.W. Democratic Arch, is noweditorof Sydney
Freeman’s Journal (faix), and the result is a
serial story described as follows in the heading ;
UNDER THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
A, Romance, Introducing Stirring Scenes and Episodes
in Australasian History. ' „
By E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. i
[This story is written with five objects in view—to
assist in the creation of an Australian sentiment, to
preach the confederation of the Anglo-Ctltic race, to re-
move the strange misconceptions about Australasia which
exist in various circles in Great Britain, to familiarise the
elder branches of our race with the sidelights of our his-
tory, and show that Australasia is a country worthy of
more attention than she has hitherto received from the
people of Great Britain and Ireland, Europe, and the
United States.]
It appears to consistof long conversations between
an-English O’Sullivan, an Irish O'Sullivan, and
an Australian O’Sullivan, who tell long stories
and put leading questions to each other to evoke
further long stories. There are also several female
O’Sullivans in it.
“I'U Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. Oil.
Sdle Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 630-652 Gaorge-st,, Sydney
EEB
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely ove. come Deafness
land. Head Ko;sfs, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfoitable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatoiy Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyME.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept.. 28, 1895, says:
“ Tf T were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to taker abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chi.ohooyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
iNDIOEjTio^
HcioiTyg,
\is #
HEADACHE
PAKRoT
BR6ND"
SWp%
I&pS&T
3P/?aiMs woundc
(oUGMj (piP5 £ ?
[Beware or V
/MITATJOMS
MELBOURNE.
WSffir?
POST FREEvt^
WATCHES-CLOCKS-jEVI/ELLERY-BIRTriDAV*
weddiNc z CrißisTEtsliisic Presents
H NEWMAIVI- 1755177-ELIZARFTri 5f
OPPOSITE C:P,Q.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
r
TO ALL
“ If you dumped a cart-
-load of gold at my feet it
% would not bring such joy and
'%Jadness into my life.” So
; w#it's a prominent man after
Hsing the Homoeopathic
[ method of self-trtatir.ent that
has re tored so many men.
A litile book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
■EI
KNITTING
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, ] Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
ml
MarjO^
TRADE
SEE
THIS
SKEIN
EVERY
Trade Mai k Registered.
Es!;',b itiUc(ll7Bs.
Sa-ypls SHADE
C ARJ Hi EE BY
rosr.
M#>'> " I’eeliive ”
fosiei y& Under*
■•" ar m nurac-
tme.l from l lie
'beeliive Wools.
J. a J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
llLtfc
MPAH
Trade
Mark
171 rnorKHTOns '
Distillers CompanyL?
*'■ EDINBURGH.
,*J ‘ llw^'K l .-\l * lu,„J ,/«
, fimh ■/!"/'
‘"'i Ijfl ' Ju £ /jJ I'/riUJTH
3'v. ay
Ifjoderately
Take a little Whisky
“forthestortiateh’ssakt
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.O.L.’'
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated hr
plain watpr, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
.(XL/
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND OR MARINE)
The S imp'.est, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for,
any purpose. ? j-
Built in all Sizes,
from zh to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
J xplos'ons ImpossYb'e
Always Rexdy for Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on applicatioi i
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s bivfi
yift to man— Electricity.
Our E'ectric Belts will erne
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Bedt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free); giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY whieh will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOB
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of DrunF
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
aanno
AIISV3
Dr. Gibbons.
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
ISF-ee - JSX. W ;I ,
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia,;; n 1 in
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NenfoOS Weakness ...
Cerebro-’Spioal Piscas^s,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
wliiph lias proved most successful in the hands, of.
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper wlim writing.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.


You are Anaemic (Bloodless).
YOU FEEL WEAK,
DISPIRITED & TIRED.
DR. WILLIAMS
Pink Pills for Pale People
WILL— ■■
Alone Enable Yon to Combat the Cold of Winter.
PALLID GIRLS, 33E WARNED !
“I Was Weak, Pale, & Sickly-
Looking.”
ANAEMIA MARVELLOUSLY VAN-
QUISHED BY DR. WILLIAMS’
PINK PILLS.
Mrs. Lardelli, a fine, handsome woman of about
35 years of age, who resides at 162 Do wl in "-street,
Sydney, recently said to a reporter of the Balmain
Observer, who called upon her to get particulars
of an illness through which she had just passed :
“I am quite well now, and don’t think I ever
enjoyed better health—thanks to Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People ! but I was very bad
indeed. The first start of my illness was loss of
appetite, and as I also began to feel a bit low in
spirits occasionally, and also was growing rather
pale, I went to a chemist. ‘ Why,’ he said, ‘you’re
anaemic,’ and he showed me in the looking-glass
NS
Offered Jfciiyiyij hcfj.
how white my
gums were get-
ting ; also, the
bad color of the
inside of my eye-
lide. He said,
‘You want a
strong tonic,’
and he gave me
one. However,
I continued to
get paler and
more sickly-look-
ing, my appetite
grew gradually
less and less, till
I felt that I
hardly cared
whether I ate
anything or not,
and when I did
manage to get a
little food down s
it seemed to stick like a hard lump on my chest.
I was losing flesh rapidly, and was growing so
weak that I could hardly get out of bed in the
mornings, and when I did do a little work it
knocked me up completely, and I had to go and
lie down on the bed to recover. At last every-
thing became a trouble to me, and I got into a
low, hopeless sort of state, and hardly cared what
became of me. Nearly all the time I had
suffered from a peculiar dull pain in my
back, so I made an effort and went to an-
other chemist and asked him what this pain
meant. He told me my liver was out of order,
and he gave me some pills and medicine; but
these did me no good at all. Altogether, I sup-
pose I must have tried a dozen different kinds of
medicine without any good effect. You have no
idea what a wretched state I was in by this time.
I used to lie down all day on the sofa, hardly able
to move anything but my eyes. However, I could
read, and it was because of an account of a re-
markable cure that I saw in the Daily Tele-
graph that I decided to try Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. I sent my daughter for a
box. In less than a week’s time there was a
great difference, I can assure you. My friends
congratulated me on a change for the better in
my appearance. I continued the pills, and very
soon I was able to do a little work again. My
appetite came back, and a slight tinge of color
appeared in my cheeks. I got slowly, but surely,
better every day, and in about two month’s time
was completely cured, and felt as brisk and lively
as a girl of 18. As I have said before, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People did this for me
when lots of other medicines failed to do me any
good at all, and I shall always recommend them
to my friends. I give my full permission to the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company to publish the
facts of my cure wherever and whenever they may
think fit.
“E. LARDELLI.”
Hopelessly Depressed, Thin and
Tired.
DR.
WILLIAMS' PINK PILLS BRING
BRIGHTNESS AND VIGOR.
Mrs. Johns is a pretty and vivacious young lady
of about 25 years of age, and in answer to the
questions put to her she said : —“ I have been very
ill, but at present I am enjoying excellent health
and spirits. Indeed I don’t know that I ever felt
better in my life. I can safely say that I owe my
satisfactory recovery entirely to Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The first cause of my illness was, I
think, the worry and extra work caused by moving
from place to place, and I have been a great
traveller during the last year or two. Anyhow,
after my last journey I began to feel very low and
depressed in spirits ; I could eat scarcely any-
thing, and began to get very thin. And as far
as my color—well, I was as yellow as if I had a
severe fit of the jaundice. An old friend of mine
who met me in the street, looked me straight in
the face and passed me by without recognition,
and she was positively shocked when I ran after
her and told her who I really was. I got from
bad to worse ; the least exertion wearied me, and
my ordinary housework became too much for me.
My gums grew quite white, and my lips looked a
blueish-grey color. My sleep was restless and dis-
turbed, and I was so tired in the mornings that I
could hardly get out of bed, and, when I did, I
used to lay on the sofa, feeling I hardly cared what
happened to me. I saw a doctor, who said I
needed a strong tonic, and I had several bottles of
physio from him, besides other bottles of tonics
which I obtained from chemists ; but I grew no better. I was in this miserable and hopeless con-
dition when I heard from someone who had been cured by them about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
and I at once got some. After taking a few I was agreeably surprised to find a real and distinct
change for the better. I got rid of that miserable depression of spirits, which in itself was enough to
keep me ill, and, in a few days, I was able to sleep the night through without interruption. The Pills,
too, gave me a good appetite, and T began slowly to get cheerful and fat again. My color came
back, and, after taking six boxes, I was completely cured, and found myself as strong as ever. I shall
always remember my cure with gratitude, and shall, you may be sure, recommend this wonderful
medicine to any of my friends who may have the bad fortune to suffer as I did.”
Mrs. Johns resides at 60 Yurong-street, Sydney,
“MY DAUGHTER WAS FADING AWAY.”
Mrs. Hutchison, of St. George’s-road, North Fitzroy, Melbourne, said of her daughter May, aged
18 : ‘ After her 15th birthday my daughter became very delicate, and suffered from poorness of blood
(anaemia). It turned to water at periodical times, so said a prominent ladies’ doctor under whose
treatment she was for seven months, but I’m sorry to add without any benefit accruing ; indeed, she
became worse day by day until I began to fear for her life. A young chemist suggested her trying
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People. She took his advice, with the result that she rapidly re-
covered her previous good health. She only took a few boxes, and is perfectly cured, and says she can
recommend them strongly to her girl acquaintances ; in fact, she has done so, and a young lady at
Clifton Hill, who was a great sufferer, is now taking them with much success. You have our full
permission to make known the particulars given you, and I only hope that no mother will experience
the pain I felt when I thought I saw my daughter fading away.”
TOO LITTLE BLOOP.
Too little blood ! That is what makes men and women look
pale, sallow, and languid. That is what makes them drag along,
a ways tired, never hungry, unable
to digest their food, breathless
and palpitating at the heart after
slight exertion, so that it is a
trouble to go upstairs. They are
“Anaemic,” doctors tell them ; and
that is Greek for having “ too
little blood.”
Are you like that ? Have you
too little blood 1 Pull down your
lower lip—are your gums pale in-
stead of being scarlet ? Pull down
your lower eyelid—is the lining
of it bloodshot and pale 1 That
is where “too little blood ” shows.
More anaemic people have been
made strong, hungry, energetic,
cheerful men and women by
Dr. Williams’
>3?
PtwyjQ
c*
2
Pink Pills for Pale People
FACSIMILE OF GENUINE PACKAGE.
Name in Red on a White Wrapper just like this
than by any other means.
They are the finest tonic
in the world. But you
must get the real Dr.
Williams’ PINK PILLS,
like this,
or it is of
no use.
THE CHANGE OF LIFE.
How a Lady Avoided All T nj;r.
What Dr. Williams’ Pii k Pills will do for women at the change < f life !s shown in a case reported
m the Dewsbury (Eng.) Cmo iolk. It is that of Mrs. Benjamin 8m th, who lives at Hanover-street
Dewsbury. The change of Hf had left her weak and miserable ; with constant pains, dizziness and
shortness of breath on the slig itest exertion, together with chronic rheumatism in the head and eyes.
The pain in her head was too
sleep either by day or by
times so great that it took
bed. A skilful doctor was
“My cheeks would swell up
Smith; “my eyes were as
getting rid of the pains in
from a sluggish liver and a
eyesight was so bad that
but dim shadows, and there
who looked for my restora-
“l saw an account in a
to mine through the use of
and my husband urged me
boxes were used the pains
magic, and the continued
more than a month has left
as ever I had in my life. I
Pills a blessing-, and a' y
sto.
\s
SSS
ir'H
acute for words; she got no
night, and her agony was at
two people to hold' her in
called in, but did no good,
as big as saucers,” says Mrs.
red as fire, and there was no
the head. I also suffered
weak heart, and at times my
objects before me seemed
were none of my friends
tion to Imalth.
newspxp >r of a cure similar
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
to try them. Before two
had disappeared as if by
»<<> r *f the Pills for a little
ni ‘ enjoying as good lmdth
rounder Dr. Williams' P.nk
knov there are thousands of
women who suffer in silt'll
; ■" »»»"-« from troubles having the same origin as mi mi, I alii rr itcful enowd
what they have done for me to tell my story, in the hope that some *,,%* ** sister' n j ■ in
bvSiT? y °'’ •n" fol l'* , V I \ i . n - ission V’ P» Wis! * 'vl.it 11. ivo foM you, which statement can h ,
KTaiZSli-’-' 1, r ii,H wo » di ‘ rfl ' l is offeiv 1 tot!, ■ public with a full confide,in •
forces whiehTr LinT^ 1 " fM E X wa J? ry ,u, l‘»'oris!,ecl condition of the blood or shattered ne,
forces, which it will not cure if the directions are faithfully followed and the treatment persisted
i for
l.irly
ri li d
l hat
•vous
in.
Cramps, Failing Appetite, De-
pression, and Listlessness.
ANOTHER EXTRAORDINARY AN/EMI A
CURE BY DR. WILLIAMS’
PINK PILLS.
My daughter had been strong and healthy
until about two years ago,” said Mrs. Bo we to a
reporter of the Tarrangower Times (Victoria),
“ when she grew very pale and thin. She became
weak and low-spirited, lost her appetite, her sleep
was troubled and restless, and the least exertion
fatigued her —in fact, she had to take her sister’s
arm for support when out walking. She was of
a wonderfully active
and cheerful disposi-
tion before this
change took place,
and the alteration,
therefore, caused us
great concern, and
medical aid was
sought. But no good
resulted. Several
medicines were
tried, butshe became
weaker and more
listless every day.
The doctor said she
was suffering from
anaemia, or poorness
of blood. We then
became seriously alarmed, and consulted different
medical men, who prescribed, and told Miss May
to take as much exercise as possible. She, being
fond of flowers, naturally turned her attention to
the garden, but had to abandon the work, as the
least exertion exhausted her. Often, whenlthought
she was out taking exercise in the fresh air, I have
found her in the drawing-room with her head
resting in her hands, and in a somnolent state.
Then, when disturbed, she would steal quietly to
her room, and remain there for hours at a time.
At this stage we became extremely anxious con-
cerning her health, and again sought medical
advice, as we thought she was going into a de-
cline. It was of no use though ; nothing did her
any good. She was then so thin and weak that
the slightest exertion tired her. She also suffered
from severe cramps in the. legs.
“Friends then recommended patent medicines,
and two or three kinds were tried, unsuccessfully.
“At last I decided to take her away to the
country for a change, but just as I was about to
do so I saw in the Tarrangower Times an ad-
vertisement about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and noticing that people with
symptoms similar to those of my daughter had
been cured, I determined she should give them a
trial.
“After using half a box a great improvement
was noticeable, and after using three boxes she
regained her appetite, was able to sleep with
comfort, and was so strong and well that we
considered there was no necessity for her con-
tinuing to take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. So
she discontinued them. I honestly believe my
daughter’s recovery was due to this great remedy.
She is now as well as ever she was in her life.
She has a fine color; is able to eat and sleep well,
and can take any amount of out-door exercise
without feeling fatigued. I feel very grateful to
Dr. Williams for my daughter’s recovery, and
would like to have the case made known, as it
may induce others who suffer as my daughter did
to try this remedy to their benefit, and thus
Eerhaps bring sunshine and happiness to their
omes.”
Great satisfaction has been expressed by Miss
Bowe’s large circle of friends that she is again
enjoying health, and able to take her accustomed
place at local social gatherings.
' ; +
Curable Ailments!
The only genuine Dr. William’s Pink Pills have
a remarkable efficacy in curing diseases arising
from an impoverished condition of the blood or an
impairment of the nervous system, such as rheu-
matism, neuralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor
ataxia, St. Vitus dance, nervous headache, nervous
prostration and the tired feeling arising therefrom,
the after-effects of la-grippe, influenza, typhoid
and dengue fevers, and severe colds, diseases de-
pending on humors in the blood, such as scrofula,
chronic erysipelas, &e. Dr. William’s Pink Pills
give a healthy glow to pale and sallow complexions
and are a specific for the troubles peculiar to the
female system, and in the case of men they effect
a radical cure in all cases arising from mental
worry, overwork, and excesses of any nature.
These pills are not a purgative.
♦
Beware of Imitations.
The genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold
only in wooden boxes, about two inches in length,
each of which is encircled by a blue warning label.
The outside wrapper has the full name, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, printed in'red
on white paper. They are never sold in bulk, or
from glass jars, and any dealer who offers substi-
tutes in this or any other form should be avoided ;
his desire is to soil you an article upon which he
gets a bigger profit. In case of doubt, it is better
to send direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medieine'Com-
piny, Q icon's Chambers, Queen’s Place, Sydney,
enclosing the price, 2s. fid. a box, or six boxes for
15s. fid. Those pills are not a purgative, and they
contain nothing that would injure the most deli
cate.


Dear B. —Be par. recommending balsam
of Peru. What’s the matter with red gran ! As
a gargle for sore throat it’s the ne plus ultra. For
diarrhoea, taken internally, it is not to be beaten.
For wounds balsam is novvhere by comparison.
Red gum is not only astringent, but powerfully
antiseptic.— Pestle.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
. . MEDICAL . .
<Salv/ai)ic Batteries-
IVTO HOUSEHOLD should be without one. A most simple, speedy and effective cure for all
J3I Nervous Derangements—HEADACHES, TOOTHACHES, NEURALGIA, etc., Also, the
best known remedy for RHEUMATISM, PARALYSIS, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, etc., etc.
When the system is run down, GALVANISM IS THE BEST TONIC.
Owing to the enormously increased sales of these Batteries, caused by their general use, we are
now enabled to supply at very much reduced prices.
Dr. Ga'iffe’s is one of the finest little instruments made, very sound and compact, yet very
powerful. Simple to use, and not at all likely to get out of order. The price is <£l 12s. 6d., with
instruments for applying for all facial affections, and full instructions for use. Sent post free anywhere.
This one (illustrated) is
13 r- MA-CKENTZIIEJ’S
£3 5g
Post Free.
an
PRICE NOW
£3 ss.
Post Free.
and is without a doubt the best instrument made. It can be regulated so as hardly to be felt, and
can be made so strong that one cannot hold it. It is exceedingly simple to use, eosts’next to nothing,
to maintain, and never gets out of order. Full sets of instruments are supplied for applying to any
part of the body. We recommend it strongly as the best instrument procurable. Any
further information given with pleasure.
OSBORN & JERDAN (late Frost & Shipham),
Household and Medical Electricians,
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetters) 438 GEORGE STREET
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
Pulvermacher’s Galvanic Belts and Appliances.
Fresh.
Cooling.
Sp arltling.
VELTEN LA6ER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
ft
it
Letters Latent, No. 2590.
Half-Tester Wood Bedstead
AND
Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire Mattress
(Combined), any color wood.
Size—6J x 2|, 3, 3|, 4, 4| feet.
Price—lss., 17s. 6d., 205., 225. 6d., 25s
SOLD by all STOREKEEPERS, IRONMONGERS and FURNITURE WAREHOUSES.
J. Lawler & Sons,
Manufacturers
Patentees,
610 Georoe Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Battle are universally acknowledged
TO DEIFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OE MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Bay at Barranjoey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in a Sydney waterside hotel that
the dilapidated, sun-cracked, battered wreck
lifted up his voice and babbled of the good old
times.
By dint of hard work —honest and otherwise —
he had become sole owner of a little coasting craft,
big enough to smuggle with and small enough to
be handled by two men. Then he arranged with
a Hawkesbury syndicate to transport certain
liquors to Sydney without paying duty. Accord-
ing to his manifest his cargo consisted of oysters,
shingles, or similar trade.
* * * *
“Yes, the business paid all right. The
materials cost at the rate of 3s. 6d. per gallon,
and when made up sold for 145., and as fast as it
was got ready it was got rid of. But the business,
like most which pay well, had its risks ; if caught
it meant that I would lose my boat and my friends
would lose my society for months. Landing the
rum in Sydney was easy enough; at night I’d
pull over from Neutral Bay to a wharf near
Erskine-street; putting a cask in a bag I’d carry
it up to a room at the back of one of the hotels,
where a light was left burning for me. I’d leave
the cask on the table, and when I returned with
another cask the first one had disappeared, but
the money for it was on the table. The trouble
lay in getting the yeast up to the Hawkesbury.
This I at last managed by having a false-bottom
built into a cask which was nicely painted and
placed on the cabin table. When the revenue-
stationmaster came aboard, if he said he’d like a
glass of grog, it was drawn off for him, under his
very nose, from this innocent-looking cask.
“But I came near being caught once. I had
my usual cargo of 80 gallons of rum aboard, and
was making for Sydney from the Hawkesbury,
but, as a strong easterly was blowing, I dropped
anchor inside the bay at Barranjoey. I had
turned in for the night when I heard steps on
deck : it was one of the men from the station.
“Hullo, George, what brings you here to-
night?”
“ Any rum aboard ? ”
“Yes, 80 gallons.”
“ Well, you’d better get rid of it before morn-
ing ; we’re coming aboard first thing—you’ve been
informed on.”
This was important news to a man following my
profession. I felt George was incapable of joking,
so I made up my mind to go back to the Hawkes-
bury that night and unload. I called up the
hand : he wanted to know whether the easterly
had dropped. I told him that it hadn’t, but that
we were going to make a move for all that. We
returned to the river; unloaded the rum ; dug a
trench, in which we buried the casks, and then
got back to the Bay again to our previous anchor -
a g e , just about an hour before daylight.
About ten o’clock in the morning I saw the
station boat leave the station wharf; it passed all
the other boats, and made straight for us. So
George had not been joking.
“Good morning, Jones.”
“ Good morning, Capt. Morrison.”
“ What have you got aboard ?”
“Oysters, for Sydney.”
“ Anything else ? ”
“No. What else do you think I carry ? ”
“You’d better get the hatch open.”
When I had got the tarpaulin off the hatch,
Capt. Morrison said he would have to get the
oysters on deck. I told him he could do as he
liked, but that he would not find anything. He
then turned to George—my friend of the night
before—and told him to get the shovels out of the
boat.
“ One moment, Captain Morrison,” I said ; “ I
can’t allow a spade to be used on those oysters —
they are live fish, and if you dig a spade into them
you will kill them, and they will be no good to
me. If you want the oysters taken out of the
hatch your men will have to pick them out with
their hands, or you must take the consequences.”
So the men started putting the oysters on deck
with their hands ; but it was fearfully slow work,
and in handling the shells the men cut their hands
and began growling. Capt. Morrison stood it for
about a quarter of an hour, and then told them to
use their shovels. They got the oysters on deck,
but, of course, found nothing.
“ Are you satisfied, Captain ?”
“ Yes, it must have been a hoax.”
“ Where shall I put the oysters for you ?
You’ve got enough to keep you going for a day or
two.”
As I got no answer I ran alongside the Govt,
wharf and put them on the beach. I went
back again to the Hawkesbury, and a great dis-
cussion took place; they had another 80gals.
ready for me; so that, with the 80gals. buried,
there were 160 gals. consigned to Sydney. After
much consultation I resolved to chance it and
then retire from the business. The whole lfiOgals.
were put aboard. When I got down to the coast
there was, curiously enough, a strong easterly
blowing, which made it impossible to make for
Sydney. I couldn’t go back to the Hawkesbury
again, so I ran into Barranjoey, and this time
dropped anchor almost alongside the Government
wharf. Capt. Morrison passed in a boat. I
hailed him and asked him whether he was coming
aboard. He replied, “No.” I said, “You had
better. I’ve got plenty of rum aboard now.” He
told me to go to a place which will, I suppose, in
due course receive me.
I got up to Sydney, landed my cargo, and
called at the Customs on Mr. Brown, who was in
some way very friendly with Capt. Morrison. I
stated my case to him, and said that the Govt,
had no right to destroy my property. He admitted
this in the abstract, and, after thinking over the
matter, said :
“ How much were the oysters worth a bushel ? ”
“ Ten shillings.”
“ How many bushels had you ? ”
“120.”
“Well, if you .call to-morrow, I will let you
have an answer.”
When I did call Mr. Black handed me a cheque
for <£6o, and told me to hold my tongue.
I did.
HENRY BENN.
Slowly but surely the communal idea is
being thrown over at the S.A. village-settlements.
At first settlers used to assemble every morning
and heatedly discuss whether Jones should dig
and Brown plant, or whether it should be the
other way round. When the matter was decided
it was time for dinner; and occasionally there
wasn’t anything to eat. Now they’re, in some
cases—the most successful of them —employing a
salaried boss. The community decides what shall
be done (helped thereto by the Govt, inspector),
and the boss allots the work. But it’s still hard
battling : the drought and the low river (most of
the settlements are on the Murray) have been a
terrible handicap.
Business, Bobbery, etc .
In connection with the combination of Vic.
farmers who are shipping their wheat to England in order
to maintain a reasonable price being paid by the local
millers, it is instructive to note that two of the most
active agitators in favor of the movement are intimately
connected with one of the biggest speculators and holders
of wheat in the province. He could almost flood the
market at 3d. less than the Vic. farmers’ combination is
likely to realise at Home. Heads the speculator wins,
tails the farmers’ combination loses, is just what it means
—in the long run.
* • * *
The big fortune made by a leading Southern
wheat-operator dates from the discovery of rust in wheat
in his particular region. He had been a farmer in Eng-
land, so was well acquainted with the cereal disease.
Farming not paying there, he came to Australia and went
into the same line. After a few successful seasons a fair
harvest arrived, but threshing-machine returns staggered
him by their extensive smallness. His overseer could
give no explanation of the cause, but remarked
that the men and their clothes were as red as bricks. The
reason flashed through his brain at once, and he lost no
time in sending out buyers to purchase at any price all
the old wheat they came across. Everyone thought him
mad, but that charge was removed when the full state of
affairs was discovered. In subsequent years he sold his
business to a limited co., whose last dreadful balance-sheet
recalls the above incident.
» * * *
A big alleged embezzler, whose delinquencies
were so carefully and smellfully hushed up a little while
back, was everywhere regarded as a partner in the con-
cern he took down. Even his own wife swallowed the
fiction that he was a member of the firm, and entrusted
him, some years back, with many thousands of her own
to “ put into the business.” Where it was put the lady
wonders to the present day, but the astute hubby invari-
ably pitched a tale of great profits and turned up with fat
dividends every half year.
• • * *
The minnows in the Melb. tea-trade are nearly
all parsons’ sons, the balance being preaching laymen.
Why this is thus no one seems to know, but the fact
remains that they all make a good living in this trickiest
of trades, whereas the godless dealer in the leaf somehow
seldom manages to make enough to pay his way.
* * * •
The spruceness and beaming faces of one or two
of the little men who were in the late big Melb. blaze is
remarkable. Prior to the fire most of them were shabby,
gloomy, and had “assignment” written large in the
wrinkles on their faces and on the fringes of their pants.
The purifieation-by-fire theory looms large in the minds
of those who know anything.
* * » *
Rumored that an amalgamation of certain big
Melb. retail groceries is a certainty. They are at present
cutting one another to pieces, but by amalgamation they
propose to open up scores of small groceries, and, instead
of fighting each other as at present, to “go for’’their
smaller rivals, wipe them out and monopolise the trade.
• * * * .
Although big sums pass through Salvation
Army hands no cases of defalcation are ever heard of. Is
this because no money is ever embezzled, or is it that the
S. A. is too wise to wash its dirty linen in public ?
* * * *
So keen now is life-assurance competition that
as many as three rival offices, represented by buggy,
doctor, and agent, are often found simultaneously in the
same small township. A pointer for would-be insurers
failing to pass Sydney medical inspection : Go West, the
further the better, and, with average luck, in less than a
month some travelling medico will put you through as a
first-class life. The reason sticks out: The doctor is
under obligations to the agent; two or three weeks may
have passed without a proposal, and when one dobs
comes along the agent remembers the doctor “has a
mouth on him ” —circumstances that tend to an optimistic
view of a client’s innards.
* * * *
S. : “ The experience of two generations advises
—beware of Lazarus mines. Mines are continually being
resurrected, and the resurrectionists always tell the same
story : The mine was worked down to a certain level 30
years ago, the lode was 4ft. wide, and the walls soft, and
25dwt. was the poorest crushing. But the water became
too strong, or the party went away to bury its aunt and
forgot to return, or it started on a purple tear and ran
down a steep place into the sea; and there is that magni-
ficent property waiting for a co. to put up machinery on
it and grow disgustingly rich. I have been in some ven-
tures of this kind and have observed many, and the fool,
having learnt wisdom, tips the other jackass. Fight shy
of the Lazarus! Miners 20 or 30 or 40 years ago knew
what they were about, and nothing less convincing than
death could keep them off decent stone once they got on
to it. The popular belief that the men of the Sixties were
slouches at reefing is also a delusion and a snare, as good
miners know after a peep into old workings. They knew
enough to get the gold out, and when the water met them
in a good thing they sat down in that locality till the lifts
were in and never lost grip for 10 seconds, and as a general
thing they had not long to wait. Better play-up your
money at fan-tan than back the Lazarus, which is the
most hopeless gamble available to a Christian man.”
• * *-■ *
“But,” gasped the city-speculator to the tired,
clay-stained man leaning on the windlass, “ we were told
it would go 2oz. to the load ! ” “Well,” said the other,
thoughtfully, “ maybe it will—you see, we ain’t quite
crushed the whole o’ the lode yet.”
• • * •
Melb. City Council lately let a contract for
5000 tons of coal to the Adelaide s.s. co., although the
tender of a local colliery was only l£d. a ton higher. The
Council replies to the consequent outcry: “We are here
to protect the interests of the rate-payers.” Save us
from our protectors! Gippsland coal-supplies have
served to break up a monopoly and reduce the cost of im-
ported stuff nearly 50 per cent in a few years. The Fatted
Council still cries out about the inferiority of Gippsland
coal, despite expert evidence to the contrary, and the
proved superiority of the Jumbunna product at properly-
supervised trials. Vested interest returns many Staunch
champions to the Council; hence the discouragement of
local industries.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re sarsaparilla - man Ayer.
Such wholesale medical fakirs hold the druggist at their
mercy, and regulate prices throughout the trade.
The retail - man’s margin of profit on a patent
medicine is insignificant, and his returns must
come from draughts and boluses of his own mix-
ing threepenn’orth of stuff for eighteenpence. I
have never met a chemist who was not completely out of
a patent compound if any chance offered of trading off one
of his own specifics—probably the very thing asked for,
without the label. Astonishing how much people will pay
for a label.—T.D.
• * * *
“ Made in Germany ” has proved a profound
humiliation for the bumptious Briton. Parliamentary re-
ports show that the “ Made in Germany ” brand didn’t
deter the average purchaser at all, and that it proved a
splendid advertisement for the German industries. To
crown all, the British manufacturers, in several cases,
actually descended to the ignoble device of putting afore-
said foreign brand on British goods to ensure their sale.
» * * *
H. : “ Providence is entirely opposed to Thrift.
As the sewerage is being connected in Melb. there are
frantic efforts to sell houses for removal. I saw a decent
one marked up to-day for £9! Here is a place in which
the industrious thriftite has stewed, for weary years,
pinching self and family, for the busted Permanent
Evanescent Building Society.. Oh, miserable ant, how the
grasshopper laughs at you ! ”


The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
r*
m
1
§
mi
151
UE
REPUBUQi
CAIS
FRAN
PEARS
& F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
(AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
i
Prince of Wales.
The Worker’s Worst Foe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jhe batman in his mansion fine
Dwells royally at ease ;
He drinks the most expensive winej
He eats the Gouda cheese.
Ihe weeds he smokes are Havanese,
The best that coin can buy,
And through their curling wreaths he sees
Chateaux- not in the sky.
His womankind in diamonds he
Decks splendidly, of course—
-1 hose gems should blood-red rubies be,
To signify their source..
His horses are of noble blood,
All full of pride and fire ;
He owns indeed as fine a stud
As Patman could desire.
Such horses ! Biped trudging by—
Scant dinner in your can —-
Just pause and watch them prancing high,
And ponder, Working-Man !
111-clothed your children are ; your wife,
What clothes should she require ?
The Patman’s womenkind through life
Go clad in silk attire.
The Patman’s daughters and his sons
Right daintily are fed ;
Your wan-faced wife and little ones
Thank God when they have bread.
He lives for many years, and dies
In smell of sanctity ;
Por he is strong, and he is wise,
And hard of grasp is he.
You live as long as you can slave,
And like a dog you die.
“ You’ll go to Heav’n if you behave ! ”
Bah ! Fatman owns the sky.
He runs the creeds of all the world,
And, smiling in his pew,
Hears lurid maledictions hurled
At wickedness—that’s you.
And is he, then, your fellest foe,
This Fatman full of glee,
Who sweats your blood and brain ? Ah, no !
There is a worse than he.
In your own ranks the traitor lurks,
All smug, and slick, and prim ;
Blame not the Patman, or his works,
Por your distress. Blame him.
He bows beneath the Patman’s yoke,
And never feels it gall.
He doesn’t drink, he doesn’t smoke,
He slaves and saves—that’s all.
He sneers at your aspirings grand,
And quietly says he :
“ I have a steady billet, and
That’s good enough for me.”
And if he’s “ sacked ” with notice curt
He doesn’t storm or rage,
But worm-like crawls through kindred dirt
To take the lowest wage.
The Patman is a man of might ;
And open foe is he :
But this fish-blooded parasite
Is your worst enemy.
CREEVE ROE.
A Perverted Punishment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I contend that any woman can deceive any
man, if she has an ounce of brains, and get off
scot free, too —no matter how clever the man may
be. Why, Samson was a baby in Delilah’s hands!”
The first woman delivered this speech insinuat-
ingly) with a world of suggestion in her look and
tones.
“ But, Mrs. Norton, there’s nothing to show
that Samson was a giant intellectually. Now,
my husband is a genius. ”
The second woman, who was thirty, and looked
twenty-five, leaned back among her cushions with
the air of a person who has said something pecu-
liarly convincing. Mrs. Norton shrugged her
shoulders, and prepared to depart. “ A man may
have musical talent and yet be an arrant fool, for
all that,” was her Parthian shaft.
“I loathe that woman,” murmured the other,
cordially, to herself, as she heard the outside
door shut. Her husband, entering just then,
caught her words. He was a small, thin man
with brilliant eyes, and long hair pushed back from
his forehead and falling to his collar.
“ Eh ! you loathe her, my dear ? ” he said, en-
quiringly. “Then why the deuce do you see
her? Just the way with you women, though.
Loathe her, eh ? and dose her with tea ! Well,
that s logical, I can’t deny—though once your sex
used somewhat swifter poisons for the friends they
‘loathed.’” *
The woman glanced up, annoyed. “ I wish you
could contrive to exempt me from the fire of your
sarcasm ! ” she said, icily.
The man smiled, and, sitting down beside her,
slipped an arm round her waist. “What is the
matter, dear? Surely you know I was jesting ! ”
His voice was anxious, but his eyes were cold cud
abstracted.
The woman looked into his eyes a second and
seemed to have made up her mind to something.
“Listen!” she said, imperiously. “Do you
know what Mrs. Norton wanted me to do ? ”
“No,” replied the man.
“ She wanted me to deceive you.” She looked
at him as if she expected an outburst.
“ Ah ! ” said the man, with a bewildered air ;
“ deceive me ? But what for—what about ? ”
The woman seemed disappointed. “How and
when do wives usually deceive their husbands ? ”
she asked, meaningly.
The man laughed easily. “ Why, in a hundred
different ways, and every day of their lives, dear! ”
The woman’s face flushed, and her eyes grew
bright and hard. “ You are very sure of me,
George! ”
“ Yes, you are my wife ! ”
“ Yes, I am your wife—but I am a woman, too,
George.” She was silent a moment, then sud-
denly burst into a passion of sobbing, hiding her
face in her hands and throwing herself sideways
among the cushions on the lounge.
The man looked annoyed, perplexed: he glanced
first at his wife, then round the room till his eyes
rested on a grand piano at the further corner, and
the thought to calm his wife’s nerves came to his
musician’s.soul. He crossed the room on tip-toe,
and, opening the instrument, touched the keys
silently and lovingly for a moment with caressing
finger-tips ; then siowly and dreamily the music
woke and whispered through the room.
But the woman started up and gazed at her
husband as if she could not believe her eyes.
She interpreted his action into the cruellest
indifference to her tears. Suddenly she sprang
up and crossed the room. “Stop !” she almost
screamed.
. The musician started and looked up at her, dazed;
his soul was lost in the music ; he had forgotten
her presence completely. “ What is it ?” he
asked, absently.
“You ask me what is it!” she cried in a tempest.
“You don’t want to know. You’d be better
pleased if I left you to your cursed music.” The
man started and cowered —she had always said
she loved music.
“ But I’ll not! —do you hear—l won’t! Do you
think I’m going to put up with your indifference ?
I am not a stick or a stone. lam a woman. I
want—oh, if you are a man, you know what I
want! ”
She stood before him splendid in her florid
beauty, her eyes filled with passion and pride, her
breast heaving, her red lips panting with the sobs
she vvas struggling to restrain. The man stared
stupidly at her. He was utterly unable to cope
with the situation. Women were passionless
beings to him ; angels with soft voices that sug-
gested perfect melodies. His wife’s voice now
was harsh and strident with anger, and it irritated
him. He could not understand that she or any
woman could be. swayed by a passion that de-
manded response in kind. He felt disturbed and
vexed by the whole occurrence, but put it down to
his wife’s “ nerves ” !
“ My dear,” he said, kindly, and quite sincerely,
“ I am afraid you are not well.”
“ I am well enough, thank you,’’said the woman.
“Mrs. Norton was quite right—you are a fool.”
The man was just a little nettled. “Did she
say that ? ”
The woman leaned forward —“Yes, she gave
that as a reason why I should be unfaithful to
you.”
“ Well ? ” he asked, his face paling a little.
“ And I told, her that your indifference was
freezing me, killing my love for you ; that I was
commencing to hate you. I told her you were
wrapped up in your music and utterly neglected
your wife.”
“ Go on ! ” said the man, with a queer, strained
voice.
The woman saw she had made him feel at last,
and her mood urged her further. She told me she
knew a man who worshipped me, and asked me
why I didn’t seek consolation from others.”
“ What reply did you give her ! ”
“ I said you were too clever to be deceived. She
said you were a fool. I was the one in the wrong.”
She tapped the floor with her foot and watched
the man covertly from the corners of her eyes.
The man was roused. He paced about nervously,
with clenched hands. Suddenly he turned and
faced her. “ Having discovered lam a fool, what
do you intend to do ? ”
“ I am not going to put up with your treatment
of me any more ! ”
“ Which means ? ”
“ Anything you like —I shall take my revenge.”
“ Good ! ” said the man quietly ; “ that leaves
me free to return to the mistress I should never
have deserted.”
“ Your wretched music!” sneered the woman
as she swept from the room.
* * • *
The man locked the door after his wife had left,
and sat down to think. All his life was disturbed,
disarranged. Hours passed, and still he remained
gazing into vacancy. By-and-bye the dark came,
and servants tapped at the door, but he did not
answer them. For hours he sat brooding over he
knew not what. When midnight chimed he roused
himself and went to the piano. Then, while his
cheeks were still wet with tears of self-pity, the
musical inspiration of his life came to him.
Days passed, and the room became littered with
scores. The man seldom left the piano for an
hour, and his meals were taken irregularly and at
long intervals. He grew thinner and even paler;
but his eyes shone brilliantly, and he was filled
with the ecstasy of creation.
Meanwhile, his wife attributed his pre-occupa-
tion and seclusion to grief at the loss of her. As
the days passed she grew sad and lonely, and
commenced to relent. One evening at twilight
she slipped in with the servant as her husband un-
locked the door. “George!” she whispered, her
eyes full of love and entreaty. But the musician
looked at her as if he could not understand—he
thought she had returned to him from her lover—
from the dead.
“ George—dear George ! ” said the woman
tremulously. “I have come to tell you that I
love you still, dear, and I forgive you. I want
you to forgive me, too, dear, for making you
suffer.” She moved towards him, but he waved
her off.
“ You have come back ! ” was all he could say.
The woman commenced to protest. “I have
never been away since I left you. I have never
been out of the house or seen anyone. I’ll cut
Mrs. Norton if you like, dear. All I said the
other day was just to punish you, George. You
know you neglected me, George, and I wanted to
punish you, but I didn’t think you’d suffer so
much, dear. I thought you cared more for your
stupid old music than you did for me ! ”
The man shivered. “ Stupid old music!” he
repeated, but the woman thought he agreed with
her.
“ Yes, dear,'’ she said. “ I can see now how
foolish I have been, and I want you to forgive me
for being so cruel to you.” She went close to
he shivered again as she touched him, but per-
mitted her to kiss him, and even returned her
caresses.
Presently she glanced round at the untidy room,
with its litter of papers. “What are all these
papers—music scores ? How tremendously you
must have been writing, George ! ” She picked
up a loose sheet nearest her ; by chance it was
numbered “ One,” and across the top was scrawled
an Italian phrase. The woman deciphered it with
difficulty, then looked up and met her husband’s
eyes. “Is this the name of your opera?” she
asked, pointing to the writing on the score.
“Yes,”he answered, miserably.
“ I am not a linguist—will you tell me what it
means ? ” she asked, with a terrible calmness.
The man stammered evasively, “It is just a
name.”
“ Yes ; but what does it mean ? ”
“ The Unfaithful Wife,” he answered desper-
ately.
N.S.W.
AMBROSE PRATT.


POKER MACHINES,
CIGARS FREE
wicksiwkioms
s'* * 4 *
fQROP3 9 IN THE SLOTmI
niiniiitmimniiiiiiitMmrmmiln
lliutflil
iliUHnijlillfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif
mminmum
JVo Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars
Best Yalue
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco
* *
*
A
U
T
O
m
A
T
1
C
E
L
P
E
E
D
I
N
For
Counter
Use.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
(flick Simmons, gaparket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
GOUT
Readers, of this paper should
know that to* effectually cure
Gout the great thing to do is
to eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause of
the malady, and nothing does
this so effectually as Bishop 3
Citrate of Lithia. All doc-
tors prescribe it. Of all Chem-
ists in two sizes. A Booklet on
Gout sent post free ori applica-
tion to their Australian Depdt,
18 O’Connell-street,, Sydney.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd;,
48 Speuian St., London, E.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Visitors to -
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. Firstrdass Board and Residence =6l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
T| OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
I I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are su plied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SOMETHING NEW
UNDER THE SUN.
The
LA TEST
CURE
GREATEST
FOR
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Bruises, Cuts, etc.
Post Free ... ... 2s. Bottle.
The DON CASH TRADING 00.,
206-214 Johnston-street, Colling wood,
MELBOURNE, Vic.
Boi)i)iQgtoQ’S
(Registered) IRISH MOSS
Unequalled as a Specific for the CURE of COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
PNEUMONIA, SORENESS and TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, DIFFICULTY OF breath-
ing, and all other LUNG COMPLAINTS tending to Consumption. In Large
and Small Bottles.
BoQQifygtOQ’S Pills
CURE all LIVER DISORDERS, BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE, DIZZINESS, CONSTIPATION.
Do not Q-ripe.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and 2s 9d each.
Bonnington’s
For GENERAL DEBILITY, NER-
VOUS IRRITABILITY, & LIVER
DISORDERS.
Such Complaints often arise from Indigestion,
which maybe the result of a naturally Weak
Stomach, from drinking ardent spirits, mus-
cular exhaustion, worry, or over mental work
causing Depression of Spirits. A Bottle of
Liver Tonic
BONNINGTON’S Liver Tonic will put all such matters Right.
A Splendid Appetiser . 2s. 6d. per Bottle.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
TO STAND THE FIRE.
HE (tired of life): “I wish I were an angel.”
SHE : “You would have to have your wings made of asbestos."


OLEfIC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
“OLEAC”
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
SMELLING SALTS,’
As supplied to the Queen. Regd.
The Perfume is specially distilled for these Salts. Invaluable
■ n *u H °L^ se 2! blies ‘ Always Refreshing. Of great value
in the Sick Room. The best Companion at < hurch, Chapel,
Theatre » or any Heated Assembl}-.
Sold in Plain or Cut Bottles, price 9d., 1/-, 1/0 & 2/-
BABY’S SOAP” (The ORIGINAL).
V' ld Soap, prepared for the INFANTS FIRSI
, , Dellcatel y Perfumed. Recommended for Children
and Adults with TENDER SKIN. In use 30 years. Price Bd.
The above sold by all Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESBMAN,
„ Perfumers to the Queen,
19i Golden Square, Regent St., London, W.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W\ O- ELDBIIDG-E &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
TVi
& FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
CSHSSIi!®
“ THE BEAVER.”
<«>HE JJbBOT
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ the block,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortbiQgtOQ PGnjpiijg Eogii)e Conjpaijy.
ustralasian Branch.)
Simpson Brothers.
WORTHINGTON
(Australasian Branch.)
3§@
Sydney, N.S.W.
REGULAR
PATTERN.
Victoria:
South Australia:
Agencies :
WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKTNG (which has done so much for the colony and colonies) • the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) •
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish, G-ame, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 King- Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be mode at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOtJR STREET-
JAgexits BverywHere.
-THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
Have in Stock—
Ingersoll Air Compres-
sors and Rock Drills
of all sizes,
Knowles Pumps for
all services,
Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans,
Rockbreakers
and Rolls,
Pulverisers,
Sample
Grinders,
Ore
Feeders,
o
57
Forges,
Screens,
Horizontal
and
ertical Engines
and Boilers,
Horse Whims,
Water Wheels,
Engine
Governors,
Dynamos,
Electro-Copper
Plates,
57
m
Retorts,
Bullion
Moulds,
Shafting,
Pullies,
Belting, Oils,
All kinds of
Engineers’
Tools and
Fittings, and
Mine and
Mill Supplies,
A/
&
%
A*
Ay
V?
&
C>
At
c>
to
to
Sole
-Agents for
“ Three
Bullet ”
Brand
Mining Steel.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
THE
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEW
OSCILLATOR phTtw qtttptt
INC MACHINES. Ul.LiA.lll KJ 111 l 11
Bathe's
Baking Powder _
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
A & Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge’ machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machmesand cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 lOsea. complete
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s Gd per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun
■HE LONDON SMALL. ARMS COMPANY rav huizabeth st., MELBOURNE,
. Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross)’
Dunlop Valves (10'- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 0) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 6'6, Blcumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for trade Illustrated Price
List Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied. ’
137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
All our Engines are fitted with The Pickering
Governor (for which we are Sole Agents), the
most Perfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
