

The Bulletin
Yol. 19. —No. 947. J
[Saturday, April 9, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury’s Cocoa
f< The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
IS. G. WATKINS «S& GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Foll~
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE—
-56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
TVMolesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ OrtD ” and. “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 CasKs Knlglit Sevan’s Cement.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
30
>
m
<RackX r °c K>
r *
o cv
a Ta
v
R. A- HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street
c ‘ ‘
(1)“ l
,4) A ll,
, . —,_ '
'5 53:35"
V_,.-:-_I: "
a: 'Zggi'km'fﬂ‘l‘
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecricat, Storahb Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And see that you.
i/t.
to
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaglit Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices- Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PROOF
mum
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CKIIETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Hotel
Before visiting the City writefo the Manager for
©rd of Tariff, ©rrejpondence promptly attended to*
T ZEE HU
(arosVeoorHotel,
Grosvenor Square,
STDKTEY.
The only Hotel in the City with four clear Frontages.
TTamM
M
PIONEER
LEATHER
'B B. LTING
M
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland: Perth, \V. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
lKKX]p»e**iei>l 3SC<ot;el
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
AUSTRALIAN ...
Boomerang Brandy.
DR. PHILIP MUSKETT,
in his Lecture on “Alcohol,” says:—“l have often expressed the opinion that
AUSTRALIAN BRANDY should be sold in bottles of a smaller size. A
poor family should be able to purchase a Shilling or a Two-Shilling Bottle
of GUARANTEED PURE AUSTRALIAN BRANDY, for it may fre-
quently be the means of saving a baby stricken with debility, exhaustion,
or prostration.”
In Flasks and Half-Flasks, of all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.


THE RED PAGE.
1 The Development of Australian Literature,’
by H. G. Turner and A. Sutherland, is nob
entirely the amiable indiscretion of two elderly
gentlemen. It is chiefly a book misnamed (appar-
ently in the hope of attracting notice beyond its
merits). Its title should have been ‘Three Aus-
tralian Writers, with Gossip Regarding Others,’
and then there would have been only the gossip
to condemn ; for the notices of Gordon,
Kendall, and Clarke which fill two-thirds of
the space are biographically the best extant—
and the absence of criticism in them is (everything
considered) rather commendable. But the book
has little to say about the development of Aus-
tralian literature, and it says that little badly. H.
G. Turner’s haphazard survey of certain patches
in our literary field is as incapable, as it is inade-
quate. The standpoint of criticism is apparently
that of a mature maiden lady of narrow intelli-
gence and conventional morals ; and the criticism
is precisely what might have been expected from
the standpoint. Mr. Turner is obviously unac-
quainted with five-sixths of the literature he does
not chatter about, and his acquaintance with the
sixth which he does chatter about is (certain ex-
ceptions granted) about as close as a poet’s
acquaintance with Plutus. His dull snippets of
comment are not even accurate. Six lines on
Marriott (misspelt) Watson show only that H. G.
Turner knows nothing of his work. Twelve lines
on ‘Price Waning’ show that he has read one
book of Warung’s, and hasn’t brains enough to
understand, much less to judge it. The ignorance
shown in thirteen lines about Becke would doubt-
fully be pardoned in a school boy. In fact, there
is hardly a page which does not contain several
statements either wrong or stupid—and when
H. G. Turner is stupid his stupidity is something
memorable. The style is commonplace journalese ;
and -well, look ab the thing by as well as
large—
But even if our history had been pregnant with the
subliniest material, instead of being hopelessly common-
place . . . (P. 24).
Our history hopelessly commonplace ! The
conquest of a Continent ! the ruin of a Race !
these things commonplace ! The tragedy of the
Convicts ! the heroi iof the Explorers ! the con-
tinual, fight with the Bush and the Desert !—these
things commonplace ! Commonplace the epic of
pastoral development, the lyric passages of pathos
and , humor which sing through settlers’stories,
the glowing glorious drama of the gold-hunters !
Why, no country on earth can show more thrilling
romances, loftier themes, grander emotions.
Jewels are everywhere for the artist’s setting.
And H. G. Turner stands at gaze and cannot see
the sky full of stars ! Truly, to the commonplace
mind all things are commonplace. But that is no
reason why Australia should be libelled in a notice
of ‘The Development of Australian Literature.’
* * * *
Wm. Gay’s ‘ Eederation ’ sonnet is quoted, and
there is comment on the line
‘ With petty variance our souls are spent.’
~ Possibly, says the critic, ‘itis a misprint
t&e book, but euphony requires that the wore
variance should be in the plural.’ (!!) Why
6 ? r •u ! eU P^- on y ’ wants another hiss in a line fu
of sibilants is a secret between Mr. Turner and h
Creator—if he had a Creator.
* *
Lest any literary purist, reminiscent of the inspir
F t n^Hah Ce fn of , thoBe H','^ 8 ° f 80,1 £ who have crown
Km llteralUr ? Wl i h the K>°ry of their geniu
Should say, surely these colonial aspirants for t.
bays are too universally commended [“ inspired
and aspirants ’ —kings crowning literature, inste
of literature crowning kings—aspirants for bays—t
universal commendation of a score of writers —and a
the minor beauties of phrase and cadence O Lord
And this passage is typical ! It is to be hoped the ne
writer on The Development of Australian Literatur
will at least commit no such indecent assaults
Language] it may be urged in extenuation that they are
selected samples. (P. 77.) u
Turning 1 back, one sees among these ‘ selectee
examples ’ E. B. Loughran, whose abject new
paper jingles receive upwards of two pages
notice; Alexander Sutherland (co-author of ‘Tt
Development,’ &c. !), of whom it is recorded, mtc
aha, that his ‘blank verse poem, “Love and th
Law. is entitled to take rank beside “ Enoc
Arden m the realistic simplicity of its expressio
and the intensity of its pathos’; Charles Alle
pherrard, whose poetical ‘ work justifies the publi
in taking him seriously ’; and others of the sam
calibre. And of Victor Daley, whose poems ran
with the very best written in Australia—no
a word !—here or elsewhere in the essay. O
the gifted Barcroft Boake, author of some of th
strongest and most characteristic poems writte
for this country—not a word ! Of a dozen othe
young verse-writers whose little fingers have mor
strength than the loins of some of H. G. Turner’
selected examples ’—not a word ! Surely Mr
Turner uausfc have designed ‘The Development o
Australian Literature ’ to be judged—not by hi
statements, but—by his astounding omissions ?
* * * *
For the criticism, take this re Paterson—
But the three or four little pieoes that come nearest t
evidencing the poetic faculty, such as ‘Lost,’ ‘On
Keley s (sicj Run ’ [Mr. Turner likes to show his fami
iarity with his authors by misspelling their names an
the names of their works] • In the Droving Days,’ all o
which have a tinge of pathos, are not the verses whiol
make him-popular.
‘On Kiley’s Run ’ is probably the piece o
Paterson’s with most pathetic appeal; ‘ln the
Droving Days ’ has a touch of pathetic senti
ment ; —and Mr. Turner brackets these with
possibly the crudest and weakest composition in
Paterson’s book, a composition in which conven-
tional sentiment 4s strained to mawkishness,
composition which contains lines like—
And the mother came and clutohed him, with sudden
spasmodic fright:
‘ What has beoome of my Willie?—why isn’t he home to
night ? ’
Seeking her loved one ever, she faded and pined away,
But with strength of her great affection she still sought
every day.
‘ Lost ’ is one of Paterson’s earliest rhymes, and
a blot on his excellent book; and H. G. Turner
selects it for special commendation !
* * * *
And so one goes on. As before said, there is
hardly a page without its error. Heney’s verse
is praised for ‘musical form ’ —its chief want; we
are told that the influence of Gordon, of Bret
Harte, and of Brunton Stephens is upon Pater-
son, Lawson, Farrell, and Dyson (‘upon them
all’!); ‘unfamiliar hexameter dress’ is a mis-
leading description of the metre of ‘ Conviot
Once ’; the complaint that the ending of ‘ Dave’s
Sweetheart ’ is ‘ actively painful ’ is backed by
half-a-dozen comments going to show that Mr.
Turner doesn’t want artistic bread, but circus—
not literature, but something ‘cheerful’ and
* healthy ’ with a clown and sausages in it. Allow-
ing for these and other drawbacks, however, and
for the omission of all reference to the influence on
the development of Australian literature of
Dailey, Deniehy, Charles Bad ham, Redmond
Barry, Henry Parkes, George Grey, John Dun-
more Lang, and many others ; and of all refer-
ence or adequate reference to the work of Favenc,
Bonwick, Francis Adams, G. B. Barton, David
Blair, and very many others ; it may be sa d that
the light which Mr. Turner has shed upon his
subject is precisely the light which Mr. Turner
might have been expected to shed.
Writes ‘ Senex ’ —
YoUr commendation of the musical dvawrahk em-
boldens me to relate a recent experience of his talent. I
had been reading D’Aubignd until ten o’clock(I generally
take him up on a Sunday evening for the sake of example
to the girls, and because he is not quite so tedious as
Bunyan or Milton), and after a survey to see that all was
right around the house (Sarah is a good girl, but she
rarely remembers to look the kitchen side-door), I had got
into bed and was dozing peacefully off when he made me
jump up in alarm. It was just a single croak, but it had
a Boom ! like the proverbial minute-gun at sea. As
soon as I gathered my wits I thought he might go away
(the voice was quite too deep for a female), so I lay still
and listened. The rain pattered on the roof, and I heard
the’ not unpleasant music of his congeners making love in
the distant pools. Nothing else happened for tea
minutes. Gratified to find my conjecture correct, I
turned over, and Boom! It came again with a
mournful tone like a coffin falling on earth. This would
not do. I summoned all the resolution I possessed, and
got up.
I found him where I anticipated, in the flower-pot on
the verandah. H» was particularly large and green ; hut
by the dim light I could see that his face was clean
and his expression not unattractive. I summoned
up more resolution, and grasped him. He was
damp, very damp ; but I threw him (I should
imagine) a quarter of a mile or more. He uttered
a sepulchral Boom!, as he was flying through
the air. I smiled (not uncharitably, I trust) and retired.
It must have been an hour after this that I was making
the ascent of Mont Blanc, when I heard the roar of an
avalanche overhead. I looked anxiously at the guide-
he was pale and trembling. The noise increased, and at
last we were able to see the falling mass. We were
directly in its path. The guide fell upon his knees. I
tried to contemplate Death with serenity. Another
instant, and—l woke in a shuddering perspiration to find
him sitting on my pillow, and pouring out a continuous
Boom,! in which one could not distinguish the syllables.
I was calm in the twinkling of two bedposts. I seized
him by the collar and the seat of his breeches (I defend
myself against the attacks of genteel critics by this
quotation—
‘King Stephen was a worthy peer,
His breeches cost him but a crown •
He held them sixpence all too dear, ’
With that he called the tailor clown.*
—Shakspere, Othello, Act ii., Sc. 3.)
and carried him out on the verandah. A bright
idea had struck me. It was* no use throwing him
away—his bump of locality was too good ; and, although
one may crush a cockroach without qualms, it is difficult
in cold feet to squash a frog. Besides, it makes a mess ;
and in my household ‘ a mess’ is the inexpiable sin. I
had determined to put him under the flower-pot, where
his singing would sound like ‘faint sweet music
from a far-off strand.’ The pot was heavy, but
I managed to lift it. Then I slid him under
and listened. The effect was charming; it was like a
musical-box with the lid down playing a trois-temps
valse. I was delighted ; and as sound as a top in ten
seconds.
Reckoning by sleep-time, it was scarcely live minutes
before I woke with a horrible sensation at the pit of my
stomach ; and saw him sitting on the top of the toilet-
glass. He had lit the candle, and by its flickering light
was pouring out the most dismal curses against myself,
my ancestors, and my remotest posterity. I could not
understand it. If he got out by himself, he must have
been proportionately stronger than Jean \aljean, in
ViotorHugo’s story, whose loins were so powerful that he
was able at need to take the place of a jack. If he got
his mates to help him—but, anyhow, I would end it this
time. I put him into my shaving-mug, got the spade
from the tool-house, and set him down while I dug a hole
in the hardest bed in the garden. The rain was coming
down heavily ; but I never thought of it. He did not
speak, but stood on his hind legs looking on, with his
chin just over the edge of the shaving-mug. When I got
down three feet, I emptied him in, filled the hole up, and
stamped down the earth. Then I went to bed again. He
never returned ; but I woke up in the morning with one
of the worst colds I have ever been martyr to.
■As I was trying rather incapably to eat my porridge at
breakfast, Amelia came rushing in (Amelia is my young-
est, and at the most excitable age). • Oh, pa ! ’ she said,
‘the garden’s making noises.’ ‘Nonsense, child,’ I re-
plied with a sinking heart, ‘all imagination! Go and
praotise your music 1 ’ But she would have her sisters
oome and hear, and as they agreed with all the alacrity
which feminine curiosity could furnish, I saw the game
was up. When I came out, ten minutes later, he was
disinterred, and lay booming feebly by the side of the
hole. He was evidently cooked-; but as he heard my
step he turned his eyes up and distinctly winked the
other one. Then he smiled softly, and expired. The
girls drew their own conclusions. ‘ Oh, pa, it was you 1 ’
they said in reproachful unison. I explained, I ex-
plained again, and all over again, but I could not bring
their minds to see the matter from the right point of
view. Women’s minds are a queer formation, and I
doubt if the doctrine of final causes accounts for it.
But the direct consequence is that, though I snuflle
and bark till the air is full of nose-and-throat-clearing
noises, I get not an atom of sympathy. Yet—l appeal to
any elderly gentleman who needs his nine hours' un-
broken rest nightly—was I not, in the words of that rather-
vulgar buffo song, * right, all right ’ ?
* * • *
Writes G-. 8. (another Gr.B.) —
Byron on Burns is good. What dainty patronage !
Jeames Yellowplush criticism. And all unconsciously a
self-conviction. For, if ever poet lived of dual nature,
Byron the sublime-snob was the man. But the critic
never dreams of testing his theory by a self-analysis. If
he did, we should have less criticism and more peace.
As for the poets, there never yet was one worth a rap
who had not a taint of blackguardism in his blood. Show
me a social-purity man, a temperance man, a God-fearing
man, and, if you tell me he is a poet, then will I cut off
my beard and do penance as a liar. But you cannot.
The fact is, that in all intellectual effort appealing,
to and springing from the emotions, the back of
the head has a lot to do. One cannot depict
passion who does not feel it ; and some passions,
stronger in the poet than in the clean-shirted average
man, often stray to the dungheap. Genius has a ten-
dency that way: illustrations are without end. Turner
the painter, for example, used to freshen up his divinity
by plunging into the stews of Wapping, and seeking
solaoe and inspiration in the arms of sailors’ trulls. It is
not always the sweetest-singing bird that has the cleanest
nest. More ; There are poets—l have known some—who,
if you dismount them from their Pegasus, can scarce
walk. They seem to come to an intellectual full-stop.
And so it is that so few poets ever write prose worth the
ink used in the process. But Burns did, and none the
worse that it was not always fit for dainty eyes or ears.
Anyway, he was always strong, and virile, and manly;
the poet of passion, not sentiment; the singer of truth
the bard who never pandered to rank, or'wealth,
patronage, even under the pressure of such conditions a
enslave most men. He was no saint-thank God! Bu
if his sins were human, his antithetical nature was nc
without an element of the divine.
• « « I
Writes 6 x 8—
Here’s an old whalers’ rhyme well-known on all Aus
tralian rivers. Yet no one knows whence it came—
‘ Little tea and sugar-bag
Looking nice and plump;
Three little johnnie-cakes
Standing on a stump ;
Two little cod-fish
Hanging on the line—
Here’s to a whaler’s life
And Auld Lang Syne! *
[ls there no more of it?]
* » * «
Writes John Peat—
Another local girls’ game-rhyme— a Woolloomooloo
(Sydney) classic—
Bake a puddin’,
Bake a pie,
Take ’em up to Bondi;
Bondi wasn’t in,
Take ’em up to black gin ;
Black gin took ’em in—
Out goes she !
* ♦ * •
J. H. Twells writes :
Be fastest. Australian train. The 5.25 p.m. train, Syd-
ney to Penrith, runs 34 miles in 46mins., or at lmin.
2(T76secB. per mile. The Adelaide to Melb. Express
runs from Tailem Bend onwards a distance of 39 miles in
52mins., or at lmin. 20secs. per mile. The same train,
after taking water at Tintara, runs thence to Bordertown,
51J miles, in 67mins., or at lmin. 18‘439secs. per mile.
In the latter oase, the S.A. train beats the N.S.W. train
by 2 - 736 secs. per mile, or by lmin. '33'o73secs. in the 34
miles.
* * * *
Writes ‘ Wee Juggler ’
Be children’s song-games, it is not generally known
that the game called ‘jacks,’ played with five knuckle-
bones, is a relic of last-century Jacobite plots and in-
trigues. Apart from the name, which supports this idea,
a verse always repeated at one stage of the game runs—
‘Charlie over the water,
Charlie over the sea,
Charlie come to my house
And have a cup of tea.’
This can refer to no other than the ‘Bonnie PrineeJ
though the last two lines don't sound like the last cen-
tury. Probably the original has been lost in being handed
down through countless young players, and the ‘ cup of
tea has been introduced as an easy and familiar rhyme.
But there wasn’t much tea among the people who used
to ask the Stuarts to come and be kings. By the way, is
‘jacks,’ as played here, anything like the game in Scot-
land called ‘ chuckie stanes ’ ? And is there any special
significance in the Jive stones or knuckle-bones?—some-
thing, maybe, like the famous password Limp, used by
the Jacobites in the reign of William and Mary, because
its letters were the initials of Lewis, James, Mary of
Modena, and the Prince?
A SONG OF KEATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'T is a tarnished book and old,
Edges frayed and covers green ]
But between the covers gold—
Gold and jewels in between.
And this written (see, O see !
How old Time hath made it dim)
‘ for one song Keats gave to me
I kneel down and worship him .*
He who wrote these lines is dust,
All of him is past away ;
Some hand closed his eyes, I trust,
Drew the blind to darken day.
Did lips kiss him at the end,
Love-lips tremulous yet brave?
Had he mistress, child, or friend
To sow green grass upon his grave t
Nay, we know not—it is long
Since he tired of Life’s deceits.
Closed his ears to sigh and song,
Parted with this book, John Keats.
•Year by year the Poet thrives ;
Summer smiles and winter weeps;
La Belle Dame Sans Herd lives,
But a heart that loved her sleeps.
Who would woeful go to miss
Roses red in thorns arrayed,
When he might with surer bliss
Love a milkwhite Devon maid?
Beauty kindles man’s desire,
Beauty fades and groweth faint;
But the girls who never tire
Are the girls that poets paint.
When the moon has taken wings
And the twilight hour is come,
Grey the woods, and no bird sings ;
Grey the world beyond, and dumb ]
Neither light is there nor breeze,
Rose to redden, thorn to pain ;
Till, look ! look ! Among the trees,
A sudden bird ! A scarlet stain!
So he tired of Fate’s defeats,
Life’s dead trees and woodlands grim,
Till sudden-sweet a song of Keats
Made life a red rose bush for him.
RODERIC QUINN.
DAISIES.
At evening when I go to bed
I see the stars shine overhead ;
They are the little daisies white
That dot the meadows of the Night.
And often while I'm dreaming so,
Across the sky the Moon will go
It is a lady, sweet and fair.
Who comes to gather daisies there.
For when at morning I arise
There’s not a star left in the skies ;
She’s picked them all and dropped them down
Into the meadows of the town.
Frank Dempster Sherman.
Messrs. George Robertson & Co.,
BOOKSELLERS and STATIONERS.
Swan’s Neglected Privilege, 2s 6d; post, 3s. Stockton’s
Great Stone Sardis, 2s (rid and 3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4s.
Egerton’s Symphonies, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post, 3s and 4s.
Lawler’s Traits and Confidences, 2s Cd and 3s 6d ; post, 3s
and 4s. Owen's Story of Hawaii, ss; post, 5s 6d. De
Windt’s Through Alaska, 16s ; post, 16s 9d. Threlfall’s
Laboratory Arts, 6s ; post, 6s 6d. Macey’s Specifications,
21s ; post, 22s 6d. Fleming’s Magnets and Electric Cur-
rents, 7s 6d ; post, Bs. Bon wick’s Australia’s First
Preacher, 4s ; post, 4s 6d. Progress of Women’s Educa-
tion, 6s ; post, Cs 6d. Symonds’ Italian Literature, 15s;
post, 16s. Earle’s Simple Grammar of English, 6s ; post,
6s 6d. -Dyer’s North-Western Canada, 6s ; post, 6s 6d.
Grinling’s History of the G.N. Railway, 10s 6d ; post, 11s.
JET Just Published—DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles
Junor. Picture Boards, 2s ; post, 2s 4d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
The last of six.- tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
A CLEAA SMOKE!
KTo Flies on
CAMEOS.
C
A
M
E
O
S
DO YOU KNOW WHAT WE MEAN?
A smoke that refreshes and cleanses the mouth.
A smoke that never, by any chance, leaves an unpleasant taste in your mouth.
A smoke that smokes clean, and you are convinced all the time that the tobacco is pure.
A smoke that you never get tired of—always pure, always fresh, always fragrant.
You scarcely • need be told that your Cigarettes are CAMEOS,
because you know it would be impossible to get such qualifications
in any other smoke. *


Drs.FREEMAN&WALLACE
w,
The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE . .
i
. NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the HEAD OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease, than their
quite worthy bat less successful associates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience is lifelong, and THEIR
RECORD RIGHT HERE IN SYDNEY is
A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS IN THIS LAND TO-DAY WHO ARE PRAISING THEIR
NAMES, BECAUSE THEY HAVE MADE THEIR LIVES HAPPY, AND BROUGHT SUNSHINE INTO
THEIR HOMES.
Our valuable treatises
“NERVOUS AND PRIVATE
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication.
Our New Medical Work,
“ RESCUED at LAST,” over
300 pages letterpress, 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
S &
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward J>l by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
mu men, idiodleugeo s odd men.
If you are troubled with Pimples, Bashfulness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
Energy, Ambition, and Self-confidence, and Absolutely Unfit for Study, Business, or Marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. GET WELL AND BE MEN !
There are Thousands of you Troubled with Weak, Aching Backs and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
and Sediment in Urine, and other unmistakeable signs of Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Many die of
this difficulty Ignorant of the Cause, which is the second state of Seminal Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
CASES OF THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele and Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CURED
■without Fain or Detention from Business.
SPEEOY
S 3
All Trams stop at the Door ,
CORRESPONDENCE DEPARTMENTS AND
MEDICINES BY PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks tothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
take advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
jp 7?pFv^U.Te.R&
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
DB’CIBBONS
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
DR. and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
GIBBONS, completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
.tody of pRIVATE NERV OUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ot lu
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a can e,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dread u
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consult him, for he is now enao e
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient'to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
.I‘SGIBBONS
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the .Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of _ Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS —Dailv,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THREE CLASSES OF MEN
To whom we would Commend reading “ Rescued at Last.”
IA ttlfj
fi
w
/y> ]
m
f.
mu
m
i
WH
'LA
A
m
/ '<
0
9
w.
w/
vr
Young Men,
Have you been indulging in a manner which has wasted your
powers, your health, your nerve force, your physical vigor, and
Manhood ? As if Nature would never ask for an accounting.
Are you weak, nervous, unfit for work, or pleasure ? Are your
vital powers weakened and on the verge of collapse, bodily and
mentally ? Don’t, for your physical and mental welfare, hide
such a weakness, but seek a cure by consulting DBS. FREE-
MAN and WALLACE.
Middle-aged Men,
There are Thousands of you suffering from Weak Back, Aching
Kidneys, Frequent Passing of Sediment, or accompanied by
Loss of Vigor or Power and Impairment of General Health.
Many die of this difficuly, ignorant of the cause, which is the
Second Stage of Spermatorrhoea.
Before it is everlastingly late consult DBS. FREEMAN and
WALLACE, who thoroughly understand your trouble, and can
cure you.
Old Men,
who, as a result of overwork, business cares, imprudence, or
excessive indulgence in former years, now suffer from some
distressing trouble,
All May Find Immediate Relief, Many May
Be Radically Cured
hy Consulting Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE, who have built
up an extensive practice by making cures when others have
failed. We have permanently established our reputation as
being the
Leading Specialists of the Age.
In seeking the services of
Drs. Freeman and Wallace
you place yourself under the treatment of highly educated
physicians, whose ambition is to excel, whose whole life is de-
voted to the advancement of the science of medicine and relief
of suffering humanity. We have no single remedy which we
deal out as a cure-all panacea, nor any mechanical contrivances
which are heralded to the world as a remedy for all ills. Our
medical education condemns such methods. Our lofty aspira-
tions and honesty in practice place such modern impositions
back to the days of witchcraft and quackery, where they
justly belong. Through constant study and deep research we
are always abreast of the times. There is no new discovery in
medicine, no new apparatus to assist the physician, but what is
at our command as soon as science proves it to be of worth and
benefit. Every case that we undertake to cure is treated scien-
tifically with such remedies and such means as in our judgment
that particular case requires in order to effect a speedy and
permanent cure. We have no experiments to make, for we
are thoroughly educated and prepared through experience
already gained to accomplish our work in the field of medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS.
Write your troubles, if you are living away from the cny, as
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE have a system of home treat-
ment that is entirely their own. Thousands are cured at home.
Our small pamphlets, 48 pages, post free, on application.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualifi-
cation and Eegistration Open to Inspection.
“rescued AT LAST.”
A treatise on Nervous and Private Diseases, 300 pages letter-
press, 16 pages colored plates, 75 engravings, highly instruc-
tive. Every farmer, mariner, miner, and other workers should
purchase a copy. Price, 10s., post free, or including our 10
days’ series of medicine, £l.
[Please mention The Bulletin when writing.]
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney. P.O. Box. 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who
TRUTHS, the PLAIN
would KNOW THE GRAND
FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to Tee the
Equal of your Fellow-man ?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
this element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corpora Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.0.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
NERVOUS PEOPLE.
Q; £5“. I 5/.
Egg
IN“; 1.5!.219
- Magyar:
I ﬁn“ ”5;,
1.1;??qu
For people on
on the verge oi
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
the languid, for the
run-down system, for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention—Dß.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT isaQRAND REMEDY.
It assists Nature by a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a mild, wanning, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE. —If Ruptured, send also for “ Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
JOHM DUHAMTI
W l o^M
SPECIFIC CAPSULES
0’ ft . ‘
. . .
. I L "'
M
FULL 'DIRECTIQItSSI
ENCLOSED! 'J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0.. Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNfc-Y.
Publications, etc.
Married. Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,’’
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d


TATTERS ALL’S
••. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
DONCASTER H. April 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
£,
Address
SYDNEY C. April il.
25,000 Sulbsorilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
ADELAIDE C.
May 11
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.,
Address
BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
in the above.
Name.
Address
S
ELLESMERE S.
June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ;
Name
in the above.
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
Name.
shares in the above.
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
To TATTERSALL.
Address
ROSEHILL C. June 25.
To TATTERSALL.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


2 GOOD
book s
t ■ FROM • •
Rothony - Hordefti’s
- BOTH!
No. 1. GENERAL
CATALOGUE
560 Pages. Profusely illustrated.
No. 2. Portfolio of Autumn
AND Winter Fashions
. . Over 250 Sketches.
POST FREE ANYWHERE . . .
ANTHONY
HORDEKN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should he without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, hut nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses 1 was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
:he Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W., G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Hotels.
MM»
TO
OTICE
MELBOURNE VISITORS.
W I MPOLK’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
m
SO
S
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.Q.
the grand central,
opposite G.P.0.,
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
H 15 STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W
mAXES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I p r ice Warun*. 1«. 3d.
Various Verses,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEADMAN’S INN.
There are guests enow at the Deadman’s Inn ;
There is room, I trow, at the Deadman’s Inn ;
Its roof is wrapped in a garb of green,
Its bed are board, but its sheets are clean ;
Its folks have never a beer to brew,
For all they drink is the dripping dew ;
And the greeting there is a gruesome grin,
And the sleep is deep—at the Deadman’s Inn.
_They mostly drive to the Deadman’s Inn ;
They seldom wive at the Deadman’s Inn.
And though ’tis said that the fare is foul,
Yet never a knave is known to growl.
For the host is blest with a taking way,
And a guest for once is a guest for aye ;
And they’re all content, as a peaceful kin,
In the careless calm of the Deadman’s Inn.
They’re side by side at the Deadman’s Inn ;
They know no pride at the Deadman’s Inn ;
There’s no one first and there’s no one last,
There’s no one cursed with the craze of caste ;
The leprous lout hath a grip secure
On the bony hand of the spotless pure,
And the dearest mate of the man of sin
Is a holy saint—at the Deadman’s Inn.
There’s a marble sign at the Deadman’s Inn;
And it’s carven fine at the Deadman’s Inn ;
And the woeful wight and the luckless loon
May read thereon of an ancient rune :
“ O, ye who weary of work and din,
Ye are welcome all to a couch within—
To the shimmering skull and the shining shin,
And the sleep so deep—at the Deadman’s Inn.”
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
MY RETINUE.
The suites of queens—the emperor’s escort,
The pomps of kings who win,
Pale at the glories of my splendid court—
My retinue of Sin.
Kings have their waiting lords when they do
wake —
Their lords who wait for gain ;
Ah ! Pin of that young maid whose heart I
brake—
Thou art my chamberlain !
Ah ! Judas-kiss ! that helped her heart to woo
For my false heart to win !
Thou art my ’dizened page in gilt and blue—
Thou fine and lusty Sin !
A friend had I, I cunningly betrayed—
His joy I tiirned to gall
Thou traitorous guile—in vestures fine arrayed
Thou art my seneschal!
The bad acts acted, the good things undone,
Are shields to me and swords ;
The dark deeds hidden from the honest Sun
These are my body-lords.
But at the noon of night do I escape
From page and lord and groom ;
And, racked by Self, myself disguise and drape,
And leave my haunted room ;
And, with worst sin of all, throughout the town,
Mounting a crape-black horse,
I tireless ride—till dawning—fro and down,
Esquired by dark Remorse.
Mt. Lyell, Tas.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
FREEDOM AND FA E.
Freedom stood leaning on her sword,
And sadly sighed ;
Her eyes were on the toiling horde
For whom Christ died.
“ Was it in vain, that sacrifice
On Calvary ?
Did God’s Son pay that woeful price
For this? ” said she.
“ Before me lies a sea of blood ;
The skies are wan ;
Must I pass through this deadly flood ? ”
Fate answered —“ On ! ”
VICTOR J. DALEY .
MEMORY.
The sun sinks drowsily to rest,
Drawing his red cloak after him ;
The moon dethrones the twilight dim
And mounts, a queen all jewel-dressed :
Then backward turn we, yearningly,
Far down those pearly paths of thine,
In quest of peace and anodyne—
O moonlit land of memory !
Th *re comes young Love with shining eyes,
Bearing the world with ease untold !
His thousand airs both shy and bold,
His thin designs for self-disguise
Betray the bliss he hides in vain ;
And, ah, his pangs are undefined,
Or glorified or unassigned,
Or haply turned to joys again !
Far days come near enough to thrill,
And yesterday has vanished quite,
And days wherein we drained delight
With tropic fervor shimmer still.
The face of him, our old-time foe,
Seems less repulsive—lo, his debt
Has dwindled to a half regret !
Is’t hate we have been nursing so?
O Moonlit Land ! Down thy bright way
We hear no sound of those who weep ;
There Sorrow’s smiling in her sleep
And Pain is lost in reverie ;
There Love and Hate are two in one,
And not so surely worlds apart;
And we pass on with lifted heart
Hope-poised till moonlight turn to sun !
M. A. ROBERTSON.
iHAUPiUNY
.'WWO
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Get.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring’s, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s.;
Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. SILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc.
Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE*
FAC-SIMHLE OF
ROYALTESTIMONIAL
VsOKo
FOR THE
tRADE MARK
REGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL i
Oju
2S'* 1
9-v-i 4\(Xasi ; AS
■^Ux'fc
c lXr Qsoo^- 1
'V^'V
£'\/Jl/W^ r IVV-rW^
ttsls
KOKO
QOQ'W
A‘$$
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and DanJriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoub’edly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Coo’, & Invigorat: g. ■ 9-Sf> a P -i* s, of all Chemists,
Stores &c. THE KOKO ----- - . ownpiv, ENG.
LOOK AT OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buekboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l. _
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
Manufacturing Co. Brown-st, NEWTOWN. Sydney,
jsote uu for our Illustrated Catalogue.
Our Special
No. 2.
M
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE liOTION.
n» Mackenzie's Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
ce rt i lie ah/ w iVh ea ch cake, certf fy i ni g
Soap most excellent.” This Soap
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in BU ™™® r ™-}\ _ g X jg ma tchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit la sold *
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the dally menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.


7\<istraliao WtGal Drft ”T tI
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ** ■ ■Cl® ly [ I€t y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head. Office : 87 Pitt-atreet. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
m
a
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereag-h-street, Sydney.
E.Rich&Co.
iita.,
AGENTS,
0 F s
R
zfil ABLE-
24 and 26
O’Connell-St.
SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
BAILEY’S
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, imperial Institute, and in the
midst Qf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF. '
Gjouc.ester Road, London, S.W.
111(11
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
Sole Agents S. HOFFNUNG & CO., BRISBANE.
PIANO
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
or PIANOS IN
Tlj€ ai)d Largest MCiSic Warehouse
IKT
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO .£35
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
PIANOS.
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
eorge Street,
SYDjV EY.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is, A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
dr. s. lever,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
THE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
II itJiout Plates, by means of Bridyewovk.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM, FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
.•Z=z==-
■’•C-
rz
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT. 1
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
□E3. J. & 33. CURRA3V,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
$
V>" p\sTtLt£^
• ilii
SPECIAL
Irilj.
m
Wn
ij
N B ‘ls
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Tire Insurance at Lowest Bates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
THE^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager;
Ocean
Accident
tcind
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lor“* n.
fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M ‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for. Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting Hixson's Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yagkw Poodle.
Ihe ‘Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Bark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cbaippioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqG^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€i>t€Qi)ial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole, Rothschilds.
Bonanza 4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post OJJice, Sydney , for Transmission by Tost as a Newspaper,
Vol. 19.—N0. 947.
SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1898.
Price, 6d.
A TOWER OF STRENGTH.
W. J. LYNE: “Jack, old man, I'm delighted to hoar that you have resigned your position, and for such a noble purpose. I regard your espousal of the antl-Feder. son
movement as a tower of strength to the cause. Now, what do you think is the first thing to be done 1
Ex-N.S.W. AŢORNEY-GENERAL : “Well, I was thinking if T took a run over to Japan for a few months"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bid lettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... ° n a a
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 o o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin* Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal A ote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for. a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in thefoiin of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon ami Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. —it. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. II.
Solomon and Co., 32 Houf-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IT. M. Smith .0 Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Ufa or Hand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added .for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
To Subscribers in Queensland,.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscn.pnon
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, pay able.in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid, on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1898.
Smith and Wilks, and Other Matters.
New South Wales’s seventeenth Parliament
dies very shortly of old age and dilapidation,
and the electors of the province will again
have an opportunity of choosing between
Reid and Lyne Few events serve more
effectually to convince the local elector of
the great trust which is committed to his
keeping, and the importance of his position
as a free and independent citizen, and his
vast responsibility as a member of a self-
governing community, than this triennial
opportunity of deciding whether he will be
governed by Reid or Lyne The Cornstalk
citizen has no voice in the appointment of
the Imperial Government which holds the
final veto over all Acts of the New South
Wales Parliament. He has no voice what-
ever in the appointment of the Governor,
who is the local embodiment of that Imperial
veto. He isn’t consulted in any way about
the personnel of the Upper House, which
forms the permanent half of the legislative
machine—the Assembly being the temporary
and ephemeral half. He has only a voice
in the appointment of one out of the 125
members that form the Assembly ; each
separate elector is governed by the 125
politicians who comprise the Lower House,
and he has a voice in the selection of one of
hem, and by the vote he gives as ri g vrds
hat one he is enabled to explain whether he
wants to be bossed by Reid or Lane. If he
wants to be bossed by M‘Millan on one side
or by Barton or Dick O’Connor on the
other, there is no means by which he can
explain the circumstance. He has no voice
at all in deciding what Ministers are to assist
Reid or Lyne, as the case may be, or what
Reid or Lyne is to do with his power when
he gets it; and if Reid or Lyne, when he
gets into power, does exactly the opposite of
what he was intended to do. the country has
simply to let him do it till his three years are
up, or till some accident intervenes. Still it
has the great and beautiful and inestimable
privilege of self-government—'inasmuch as it
is allowed, once in three years, to decide
between Reid and Lyne.
* * * e
There are times when it occurs to this
paper in a far-off way, like a glimpse of
something seen through a thick fog, that the
inestimable privilege of self-government is a
good deal of an empty fraud. The present
writer, for instance, doesn’t want to vote for
either Reid or Lvne, and he never wanted
to vote for either of them. Also, he doesn’t
want to vote for the Labor-party, which is
now only a melancholy joint in Reid’s tail ;
at the same time, if it were a melancholy
joint in Lyne’s tail, he wouldn’t feel one
whit the more inclined to vote for it. He
doesn’t want to vote for any joint in any
tail belonging to any two such persons. Reid
holds his position because Parkes foolishly
quarrelled with his bread-and-butter some
seven years ago and, in the course of the
disagreement which followed, the bread-and-
butter was knocked out in one round. Lyne
holds his position because Dibbs went down
at Tam worth in ’95, and Dibbs went down
then, partly, at least, because Tamworth is
1277 feet above sea-level, and the election
took place in the middle of winter, and many
of Dibbs’s supporters, who were mainly the
farmers of the adjacent country, were bogged
or snowed up Therefore, the writer, like
every other member of the community, had
practically no voice in the drift of affairs
which has made Reid and Lyne the two
weary alternatives in N.S.W. politics.
* * * *
This scribe has always desired to go to the
poll and there explain, by his vote, that he
regards Federation as the first essential. If,
when the local election comes off, the Federal
question is still unsettled, he will want to
do that again, and when the choice lies
between Reid, who is a weak and treacherous
Federationist, and Lyne, who is a narrow
Provincialist, and the Labor-party, which is
very lukewarm upon, if not actively hostile
to, the present Federal movement, he doesn’t
come in anywhere. As regards local politics,
he wants to see the Upper House reformed
by being turned into a paid elective body,
chosen by absolute manhood or manhood
and womanhood suffrage, with the whole
province voting as one constituency—in
other words, he wants the Council to be the
Democratic House which represents all New
South Wales, while the Assembly may re-
main the Democratic House which repre-
sents the 125 odd bits of the province. Reid’s
scheme of making the Council a House of tem-
porary nominee lossils instead of a House of
permanent fossils, and the Labor-party’s
scheme of having no Council and leaving all
the power in the hands of the House of the
125 road-and-bridge members, and Lyne’s
want of any apparent scheme at all, are
about equally obnoxious to him. He wants
to vote for an income-tax which will dis-
tinguish between incomes derived from toil
and incomes derived from property ; and for
a really democratic land-tax on the graduated
principle, with an absentee tax attached.
Also, lie wants Protection along with these ;
genuine Protection—not the weak, hybrid,
apologetic article that the Dibbs-Lyne
Government supplied when it wasted its
great opportunity'in 1891, and consequently
came down with a loud crash at the first
opportunity thereafter.
* * * *
In addition to these things he wants to
give his vote for the utter abolition of bor-
rowing, and for the establishment of a State
Land Bank and a State Life Insurance De-
partment, and a system of land-resumption
for closer settlement; also for Local Govern-
ment, and a minimum wage, and an eight-hour
system, and for the expansion of the Com-
monwealth idea to cover the federation of the
railways and the public debts. These are the
articles of his political belief which he regards
as most essential and most urgent, and there
is no satisfaction in the blessed privilege of
voting for either Reid or Lyne, or for the
third party—which is much the same thing in
the end, seeing that it is ready to support
either Reid or Lyne on certain conditions,
and its conditions are not the conditions
he wants, or anything like them. In
short, his view is that the Labor-party
is a failure because it is too much of a
purely pick-and-shovel party, and not enough
of a Democratic party in the wide sense that
the country requires. Also, that Reid is
three-parts a Tory,, that he is a wretched
spendthrift, and a juggler with finances, that
his public accounts are the worst fraud and
misrepresentation on record in New South
Wales, that, his land and income taxes are
utterly undemocratic in their incidence, that
he is a shuffler, more than half a Provin-
cialist at heart, and that his abandonment of
most of his original democratic programme
has deprived him of any claim he ever
had on public support. Also, his view is
chat Lyne is a weary bore of the dullest
description. Under all these circumstances,
the triennial opportunity of stating at the
poll whether he prefers Lyne or Reid isn’t
self-government by a long way, so far as he
is concerned. And there are thousands of
other citizens in the same position.
* ♦ * *
The writer’s own vote lies in the suburb of
Balmain, Sydney. Consequently, at the
1895 election, he was permitted to express
the most intelligent opinion he happened to
have about him on the above urgent ques-
tions, and on all the other questions of the
day, and to explain his convictions as to
who, among a dozen possible leaders, was
the fittest person to be entrusted with the
helm of State at a particularly stormy time,
by giving his vote either for Bill Wilks, or
a dreadfully obscure person nanied Milne,
or for some kind of a shadow called Smith.
At the previous election, he had a choice
between Murphy and two other men, and
the same lamentable Bill Wilks. And
the principal reason why The Bulletin
holds that one House the one with
the larger share of authority should
be elected by the whole province
voting as one constituency is that the mere
privilege of voting for Bill Wilks or for a
dim individual named Smith is not self-
government. Also, the mere privilege of
having a vote for Balmain—the venerable
suburb where the whiff of the reliable garb-
age cart is in the air at all hours of the
night—is not self-government either ; this
scribe, as a citizen of New South Wales,
wants to have a vote for New South Wales,
and not merely for one small suburb with a
garbage cart in it. Further, the privilege of
saying, indirectly, through Bill Wilks or
per medium of the hazy outline of Smith,
that he thinks Lyne a shade less of a failure
than Reid or Reid not quite such a hopeless
prospect as Lyne, is not self-government in
any sense. The political world should con-
sist of something more than even Reid or
Lyne.
* * * *
By entrusting the larger share of power
to a House of, say, 60 or 70 well-paid mem-
bers, elected on the widest possible suffrage
by the whole province voting as one con-
stituency, every citizen would have—what
he has never yet possessed—a vote for New
South Wales. The voting would enable the
community to show which men among two
or three hundred candidates had the largest
share of public confidence, and thereby give
at least a fair indication as to the composition
of the Ministry which would best suit the
views of the country at large. It would
enable the country to dispense with Bill
Wilks —an individual who would never be
missed. Under the present system, if Wilks
and the dim, unhonored Smith contest one
constituency, and Reid and Barton another,
the certain result is that either Reid or
Barton must be left out while either Smith
or Bill Wilks must get in, which is a
hideously ridiculous method of Government
by accident. Also, the system here outlined
would insure that there would be at least one
House which represented the sentiments and
opinions of the whole province, instead of one
House which represents nothing and one
which represents sundry separate fragments
of the province. And, if Ministers were
elected by the Legislature, instead of being
appointed, often for reasons which won’t
bear inspection, by a person who
may have become the party - leader by
the merest accident; and the Referendum
were introduced so that a definite public
opinion could *be expressed on separate
questions when necessary, then the present
fiction of self-government would begin to be
a reality. At present it practically begins
and ends with the melancholy alternative of
Smith and Wilks in the foreground as the
representatives of Reid and Lyne in the
background ; and Reid and Lyne are a
failure and an utter weariness, and Smith
and Bill Wilks, regarded as politicians, are
more hopelessly commonplace than dust and
ashes, and there is no good in any of them.
Slamming the Door.
Last Thursday N.S.W. Premier Reid, as Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph pathetically puts it,
“ slammed the door ” of Parliament House, and
announced that there is to be no Parliamentary
session till the Federal vote has been taken.
It was a great and honorable slam, and deserves
to be preserved in spirits, or framed, or other-
wise saved from decay in order that it may be
handed down to future generations. The pity
is that Premier Reid did not assert himself
with equal vigor when the treacherous scheme
for raising the minimum affirmative vote to
80,000 was before the House ; still the fact that
he has done it now is none the less gratifying.
And, outside the slammed door, all the small
fry of the provincial party are raising their
voices to say that Reid’s action is an outrage on
the “ Constitoosh’n.” Probably it would be
much more accurate to say that this case is
almost the first in which Premier Reid’s action
hasn’t damaged the Constitoosh’n more or less.
* * . * *
The Provincial party has already loaded the
dice very heavily against Federation, and if
Reid hadn’t ended the controversy by his
peremptory slamming of the door they would
probably have loaded them more heavily still.
The bitterest curse which the little, buzzing
crowd of parochialists heaves at the Convention
Bill is that, owing to the extra representation
accorded to Westralia and Tasmania, the sacred
principle of government by the majority has
been somewhat interfered with But the same
crowd has already knocked the principle end-
ways. It started with the stipulation that the
people should not be allowed to accept or reject
Federation by the will of the majority. The
party for Federation was not only to show a
majority but also a minimum vote of 50,000, so
that if 49,999 electors said “ Yes ” and one
elector said “ No ” the one elector was to carry
the day, and the grand democratic principle of
majority rule was bashed out of all recognis-
able shape. The dice were similarly loaded in
all the provinces except S.A., the only visible
reason being that the very small politicians who
have no hope of getting into a Federal Legisla-
ture, and who will be reduced by Federation
to the rank of something akin to aldermen, saw
that their interest lay that way. Without any
warrant, or semblance of warrant, from the
people, the present N.S.W. Parliament, and
the Parliaments of Victoria, Tasmania and
Westralia, thus deliberately robbed the people
•of their right to govern themselves by the will
of the majority.
• * • 9
Then the N.S.W. Parliament went further
by raising the minimum affirmative vote to
80,000. As matters now stand, if 79,999
electors vote for Federation and only one votes
against it, the one lone malcontent carries the
day. This was a further outrage on the prin-
ciple of majority rule, and a further forcible
confiscation from the people of their allegedly
sacred right of self-government, and the second
outrage, like the first one, had no shadow of
popular sanction. And within the last
few days it has become an open secret
that a great effort was to be made
in that session of Parliament, which didn’t
come off, because Premier Reid slammed
the door, to shut down on the right of self-
government, so far as the Federation Bill is
concerned, altogether. One idea was to claim
the right of Parliament to amend the Bill before
it went to the people, and allow them to say
“yes” or “no” on the amended Bill only.
As there can be no Federation unless all the
provinces accept the same Constitution, the idea
of submitting a different Constitution would
have stopped the movement as completely in
N.S.W. as if the vote had been taken, not on
the Constitution at all, but on the acceptance or
rejection of Webster’s dictionary. Another
idea was to again raise the minimum affirma-
tive vote—this time to an absolutely impossible
figure. A third was to so amend the Enabling
Act as to give Parliament the power to reject
the Constitution on its own account quite
regardless of the people. Reckoning up the
forces —the sincere anti - Federationists, the
Tories who loathe the One-man-one-vote pro-
viso and the other democratic principles em-
bodied in the Constitution, the small fry
who object to Federation because it may
destroy their political importance, the handful
of bigoted Protectionists who would be influ-
enced by the fact that the Foreign-trade leader
is on the other side, the bigoted Foreign-traders
who would sacrifice Federation lest it should
involve Protection, and the people who merely
want office—counting all these in, there was a
fair chance that if Premier Reid hadn’t
slammed the door with that historic slam the
right of the people to decide the most im-
portant of all current political questions might
have been utterly taken away from them.
* * * *
The law says that the question of Federation
or Provincialism shall be decided by the people
with certain limitations—the 80,000 minimum
having already given the Provincial gang a long
start. If Premier Reid has for once the courage
of his convictions, and doesn’t call Parliamentto-
gether till the Federal poll is over, the awful
resultis that, within theselimitations, the matter
will be left to the people. Barring the utterly
unfair 80,000 minimum, it is an equal deal to
both parties. The Provincialists are not allowed
to use Parliament as a machine to further
deprive the people of their right to decide
their own destiny. The Federalists are not
allowed to use it as a means for abolishing the
80,000 minimum, and thus getting a fair field,
or for loading the dice in their own favor.
As it is, the Provincial party is filling the
air with big, big D about Premier Reid’s
decision to leave the matter to the people
exactly as it stands, which alone is reasonable
evidence that it did intend to still further
swindle the people out of their rights of self-
government, and is now raving at the loss of
its mean little opportunity. The Federalists,
heavily handicapped as they are with the
80,000 minimum, mostly accept Reid’s action
as a fair attempt to leave the decision to the
nation, and to prevent a small body of in-
terested politicians from stacking the cards any
further.
• • * •
The particular curse heaved by the pro-
vincial crowd is that Reid is “ stifling dis-
cussion by the people’s representatives,” and
dodging an inevitable defeat in the Assembly.
But in the first place the “ people’s representa-
tives ” in their parliamentary capacity have no
earthly right to discuss the matter at all. It is
in the hands of their masters, the People them-
selves. The Convention Bill was drafted by
the people’s representatives—the ten representa-
tives who were specially elected for the purpose,
whereas the Assembly was not specially elected
for any such purpose. And the bargain was
that the work of the people’s representatives—
the ten Convention delegates—should be ac-
cepted or rejected by the people. Parliament
made this compact with the people when it
passed the original Enabling • Bill, and the
people accepted it when they elected their ten
delegates with Barton at the head of the list.
The whole power was to rest with the people
direct, and Parliament was to stand out of the
matter altogether. Therefore, the Parliamen-
tary majority, when it broke the original
agreement and interfered with the people’s
right by raising the minimum affirmative vote
to 80,000, committed a disgraceful outrage on
popular liberties. And if the provincial crowd
proposed to eject Reid on the ground that he
doesn’t possess the public confidence by reason
of his action as a Federal delegate, it medi-
tated another gross outrage, seeing that Reid
was appointed a delegate by the direct vote of
the people, and his actions at the Convention
are to be judged by the direct vote of the people.
The people are above Parliament, and when
they have the matter in their own hands the
people’s representatives don’t amount to a
solitary pin. If the representatives don’t
understand this they require to be stifled.
* * * •
The Parochial party is doing good service in
its own blundering fashion. The minimum
vote required in N.S.W. is so much higher
than in the other provinces that there was
serious danger of failure through sheer public
weariness and apathy. If the parochial crowd
had kept absolutely quiet, and let the other
people do all the talking, it might have won.
There is no more interest in a political cam-
paign where the row is all on one side than
there is in a dog-fight with only one dog pre-
sent, or an argument where there is no one to
argue with. The bitter yell of the Haynes'


and Want party advertised the matter to
begin with. Their avowed intention to drag
the question, cat-fashion, all over the floor of
Parliament House gave Premier Reid the best
of all possible reasons for slamming the door of
that institution so as to prevent a question of
national importance being drowned in the
tumult of local politics, and that slam woke up
quite a lot of slumbering electors. Ihe fear-
some yell of the Daily Telegraph on the door-
step outside woke up a lot more. Of course
the Provincial party must needs go on in this
fashion, for if Premier Reid should lose his
billet over the Federal question the man who
has gone on more dreadfully than the rest, and
thereby distinguished himself as the anti-Federal
leader, has the best claim to be his successor.
But for this personal element in the matter the
whole party might have lain low and let Feder-
ation die, so far as N.S.W. is concerned, of the
80,000 minimum. Haynes and Want, in fact,
are doing for the second Federal campaign the
same good service which the Cardinal did for
the first one—they are dispelling the national
apathy and rousing the blood-and-raw-meat
element for a joyful fight. And meanwhile
Reid, by dropping his wonted flabbiness, is
making friends in unexpected quarters. He is
the broad surface on which Haynes and Want
are pasting their big advertisement, and no
man knows better the advantages of a big
advertisement, with a general election at hand.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cost of Disunion.
Thomas Ewing, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), writes very
much to the point, as follows :
Editor Bulletin,— Many of the residents of Sydney and
its environs are apprehensive lest great loss and incon-
venience will be experienced by them if the railways be
federated.
The essence of their contention, fairly stated, is this :
N.S.W. has certain boundaries and one great port; from
within these limits all trade must be concentrated on this
point.
They ignore the fact that by such a procedure the
province must waste a large sum yearly on unproductive
labor, and the traders within those geographical lines
which bound the true sphere of trading influence of the
city of Sydney must be heavily taxed to carry on an
unprofitable trade with those parts of the province which
commercially find their best trading centre elsewhere.
Are these legitimate traders prepared to submit to a per-
petual levy in the form of extra freight-charges and fares
to pay for a futile struggle for the trade of, say, the Lower
Darling ?
A line crossing the Lower Darling at Menindie and ter-
minating at the important town of Broken Hill would in-
cur a loss in railway revenue of over £60,000 per annum ;
the main products of the district would not use it, for
cheaper means of communication are already in existence.
The estimated annual cost, including interest upon
construction, traffic, locomotive, and other expenses, of
the proposed city railway is £26,000, i.e., approximately
one-third of the loss on the Broken Hill line.
If the residents of the city and suburbs were asked
whether it would be more satisfactory to them that the
railway should carry them from Redfern to the centre of
the city free of cost, and reduce the fares in the subur-
ban service by a further £40,000, or that a railway should
run, at a loss Of over £60,000 a year, to a distant portion
of this country which has cheaper means of transit now,
can there be any doubt as to the reply?
The total annual profit on the tramway system of the
city and environs is about £57,000. Are the people of
Sydney and the suburbs prepared to devote the whole of
these profits (with a few thousands added) for the purpose
of maintaining one line to engage in a futile effort to
secure distant trade ?
I have chosen these examples because it is persistently
urged to be in the interest of the people of Sydney that
all trade and produce within the boundaries of the pro-
vince should, irrespective of cost, be drawn to Port
Jackson.
Again. In theory, at least, it is conceded that each
portion of the province is entitled to the cheapest means
of transit it is in the power of the State to give ; there-
fqre, it follows if it be possible to provide our far western
districts with cheaper access to the sea, by rendering the
River Darling navigable, it should be done.
Most reasonable people see it would be a mistake to
alien ate the inhabitants of our outlying territory by treat-
ing them as residents of a tributary state, only existing
that their produce may swell the traffic in the vicinity of
the metropolis.
There cannot be much doubt that in the future the
River Darling will be rendered navigable. When this is
accomplished, a very considerable portion of the products
and trade of the- West will be water-borne most of the
way to the seaboard.
The sister provinces of South Australia and Victoria—
whether there be Federation or not—will become inti-
mately connected with the western portions of this pro-
vince, and the capitals of those provinces will have
greatly increased trade relations with the Darling coun-
try.
River-steamers owned in, and trading from, the sister
provinces will have the same access to the river as boats
owned in N.S.W.
To render the Darling navigable will cost (at a low
estimate) about one million and a quarter of money, and
there will be in addition a large annual charge for main-
tenance. If the Darling be placed under Federal control,
all the provinces interested in the trade will be required
to participate in this Co3t. If the Darling be regarded as
provincial property, pure and simple, the province of
N.S.W. will require to defray this heavy initial expendi-
ture and the permanent annual charges.
Therefore, with regard to the navigation of the Darling
the case stands thus :
1. Federalise the River and save two-thirds of the out-
lay.
2. Regard the River as provincial property, and pay
the whole charge and acquire no further benefit than
that obtainable if the River be regarded as Federal pro-
perty.
To our people who will use the River the matter is im-
material. Are the people of Sydney and the suburbs
prepared to defray the extra expenditure?
Again. Whether the River Darling be treated as
Federal property or not, if there be any attempt made to
utilize the water for large irrigation schemes, and also to
provide for permanent navigation, there will certainly be
serious friction because of the insufficiency of water for
both purposes.
The watershed of the Darling embraces almost 73,000
square miles in N.S. Wales and 49,000 square miles in
Queensland. Allowing for the difference in rainfall the
proportion of water falling in these areas is about 73 to
60, and if water for irrigation purposes becomes valuable
in N.S. Wales it will also become so in Queensland. If
N.S. Wales claims as State property all the water within
her boundaries, Queensland can do the same; and as
Queensland supplies about half the water, the effect of
such a proceeding is not difficult to understand.
If water for irrigation purposes becomes so vital to N.S.
Wales, it will also be of paramount importance to South
Australia and Queensland. If, therefore, irrespective of
N.S. Wales, the latter province intercepts nearly half the
water passing Bourke, and South Australia drains the
Murray from where it passes through her territory, what
becomes of navigation and irrigation on the Darling
within the boundaries of N.S. Wales? And the party
which desires to make the rivers provincial instead of
Federal property is doing its level best to bring about this
state of things.
The Latest Anti-Federal Move.
There is a streak of mad humor in the alleged
programme of the N.S.W. anti-Federal party,
of which Lyne is the prospective leader. Pro-
bably the party itself doesn’t quite see where
the humor comes in, but it is there none the
less. The programme is set forth in the follow-
ing plain statement of the case by the Daily
Telegraph, which, as the organ of the Provin-
cial party, should know what it is talking
about in this matter; and it is a wild satire on
the Constitoosh’n, and the sacred principles of
democracy, and a lot of other things :
Efforts are now being made for a fusion of all parties
whos4 primary object in the present state of politics is to
ensure the defeat of the Bill on the Referendum. The
Opposition counts ari overwhelming majority of the mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly. Not only a majority'
of Freetraders, but a majority of Protectionists, and
nearly, if not actually all, the Labor members. All these
scattered elements require a leader who would not only
fight the battle against the Bill now but would go to the
country at the next general election with the clearly-ex-
pressed object of securing such a voting strength in the
Assembly that, if the Referendum does not show that
the country is unmistakeably in favor of the Bill, it will
be prepared to refuse to.pass an Address to the Queen,
praying for Imperial sanction to the proposed Constitu-
tion.
That makes a really beautiful situation. If the
Federal Constitution is rejected by the people,
the matter, of course, ends there. If it
is accepted, despite the tremendous handi-
cap of the 80,000 minimum, then it is
necessary for Parliament to send the measure
along to its Gracious Monarch in England
with a certain formal message. Parliament
can, if it likes to set itself in direct opposition
to the will of the people, block proceedings by
refusing to pass that message, and the mission
of the new party, it is openly stated, is to do
this, if the majority in favor of the Bill isn’t so
overwhelming as to scare it from its purpose.
In other words, its alleged object is to over-
ride the decision of the popular majority, and
squash the referendum, and to do high-handed
violence to the self-governing powers of the
community, and wreck all the beautiful senti-
ments about freedom and democracy that the
Labor-party in particular lives upon. If it
wasn’t intended to do this, there could be no
possible excuse for bringing the Federal question
into the Parliamentary election at all. By the
time the new Parliament meets, the country will
either have accepted or rejected the Constitu-
tion Bill. If it is rejected, an anti-Federal
majority in Parliament can’t affect the case
one way or the other. If it is accepted by a
popular majority, then the only possible use for
an anti-Federal party in Parliament is to over-
rule that majority and throw out the measure
in defiance of the people and the people’s right
of self-government. The N.S.W. Labor-party
is alleged to be more or less involved in this
movement; and if it is not in it, then the
obvious business of the Labor members is to
clear their characters of the foul aspersion
forthwith, even if they have to break a good
deal of property in the process. If they are in
it—well, the situation is a wildly comic one for
any democratic party to be in. No one expects
anything better from Lyne, who is just the
man that would blunder into such an awful
situation ; and, as for the tail-ends of the
Foreign-trade and Protectionist parties, they
have no particular character or brains to lose,
and can do such things with comparative im-
punity. But if the Labor-party associates itself
with “ William John ” for the purpose of
suppressing the referendum it is a lost party.
A Police Problem.
The question was raised in Melbourne, last
week, as to whether the parading of a hand-
cuffed prisoner upon a railway platform, where
he is waiting to be conveyed to trial, is not a
shameful exhibition of the Law’s authority.
Police-Commissioner Chomley replies that the
danger of accused persons breaking away from
custody whilst “ on the travel ” is considerable.
Persons under arrest are apt to bolt; to convey
them from town to suburban courts per cab
would be an expensive system, and—well, the
matter, in Mr. Chomley’s opinion, is not worth
troubling about. If an accused person can
prove that he was wrongfully charged he may
in due course apply for damages against the
power responsible for his appearance in hand-
cuffs. Commissioner Chomley speaks as a
policeman on behalf of his subordinates. He
knows that handcuffs are regarded by the
public as a proof of the guilt of the un-
tried prisoner who is compelled to wear
them in public, but he considers that the
police-department’s liability to err on this
point is fully provided for by the Crown’s lia-
bility to be sued for damages when a mistake
occurs. The Bulletin will adopt Commis-
sioners Chomley’s argument, and ignore the
humanitarian complaint of unnecessary cruelty
to criminals. They, after all, may be said to
expose themselves to a fair business risk of
handcuffs in public the moment they break the
Law. Then there remains only the financial
question to be settled. What cash damages
are fairly due to the sensitive innocent man who
has suffered the mental agony of handcuffs
in full view of a morning train-load of
passengers, by some of whom he may always
be remembered, and pointed at thereafter as a
—for all that they ever learned to the con-
trary—convicted criminal of the meanest or
most ruffianly sort ? The Bulletin begs to
propose the sum of =£lo,ooo as a reasonable
compensation in such cases. But it is evident
that the figure mentioned would encourage
conspiracies between impecunious citizens and
constables of easy virtue. The Bulletin
withdraws the <£lo,ooo proposal and desires
Mr. Chomley to suspend the handcuff regula-
tion until he can settle the financial difficulty
attaching thereto. Mr. Chomley laughs ; the
Crown laughs ; everybody laughs—barring
only the occasional victim of police stupidity or
malice.
Racing' Sweeps and Blackmail.
Dear Bulletin. —After much thinking over
the matter of “Tatb.’s” sweep and owners’
blackmail, I have almost persuaded myself that
the difficulty would soon vanish were “ Tat-
tersall” to refuse his countenance and assistance
in squeezing arrangements. “ Tattersall,”
under the present system, guarantees payment
of the blackmail when he gets instructions from
the ticket-holder. The horse-owner demands
this guarantee, for it is his only safe assurance
of receiving 33 per cent, of the sweep prize (in
the event of his horse winning it) without risk of
the worry and publicity of legal proceedings. A
ticket-holder having received his fairly-
won prize from “Tatt.,” less the fair 10 per
cent., might repudiate the contract which the
blackmailing owner had wrung from him, and,
in that case, the ’mailer would be compelled to
plead guilty to his tactics in a court of law ere
he could grab the ill-gotten booty. We may
take it for granted, indeed, that repudiations
would become the rule. A man who has won a
prize in a lottery can afford to spend a few
pounds upon the luxury of “ showing-up ” a
blackmailer. Some owners would shrink from
the discreditable job of bringing their claim to
court. The more brazen among them, for whom
exposure of that sort has no terrors, would
become notorious, and notoriety is a danger-
ous possession for an unclean turfman,
anyway. Unscreened by “Tatt.’s” good
guarantee, the blackmailing evil would
sooner or later cure itself altogether.
Why does “ Tatt.” give the guarantee
under instruction from frightened ticket -
holders ? Why not stiffly stand by his contract
to deliver all prizes (less 10 per cent.) into the
hands of the winners, leaving them to either
meekly fulfil the promises extorted from
them, or refuse payment until they have
at least enjoyed the satisfaction of brand-
ing “Sweep” upon the plaintiff’s brows?
Owner’s blackmail is robbery unpunish-
able robbery, but robbery nevertheless—
and “ Tatt.,” I take it, is blameworthy when-
ever he accepts instructions to forward a pro-
bable cash prize to any person other than the
holder of the ticket in question.—E.F.
A Tasmanian correspondent, commenting upon
the corrupt and antiquated police-system of
that lively land, lays much stress on the fact
that in the case of the woman who recently des-
troyed her six children and herself at Tria-
bunna, the bodies—by joint ukase of coroner
and police-superintendent —were buried “with-
out medical examination. And so supreme,” it
is added, “ is the rule of the municipal police
that it is doubtful whether the subsequent ex-
humation ordered by the Attorney-General
could have been carried out if the little local
functionaries had opposed it. The municipal
police, in small townships where there is ho
newspaper and practically no public opinion,
are a greater power than the Ministry. They
are fixtures for life ; and are never in danger of
losing their billets while they can retain the
‘ friendship ’ of three or four of the leading
storekeepers or publicans.” What the adminis-
tration has become under this plan is evidenced
by t lie fact that in the case under notice the
alleged desire to smother inquiry was appa-
rently connected with sundry allegations, true
or untrue, about the deceased woman’s rela-
tions with certain members of the police-force.
The whole business has a very evil odour, and
offers a glaring instance of the rottenness of a
police-svstem which only Sleep-a-Lot-Land
would have endured so long.
Yet another example of the woman-enigma :
Hay, Tuesday.
The circuit court opened to-day, before Chief Justice
Darley. John William Foster was charged with com-
mitting rape upon his daughter, Susan Mary Foster,
and the case ended in a most unexpected manner.
The prosecutrix, who is 16 years of age! stated unwill-
ingly, but positively, at the police court, that the offence
was committed several times by her father without her
consent. To-day, she said she had no recollection of what
she said at the police court. The Judge having hinted
that a short time spent in gaol might' improve her
memory, the witness said that what she previously swore
was all untrue, that her father never assaulted her in his
life, and that she had “put it on her father” because he
had threatened to thrash her. The Judge said the case
was the most extraordinary of its kind in his experience.
He hoped the girl’s present evidence was true! Having
told the Crown Prosecutor that there was no use proceed-
ing further, he directed the jury to teturn a verdict of
not guilty. Turning then to the witness, the Judge said,
“As for you, you are a most diabolical child, and I am
afraid there is only one place for you. "Go down.” The
jury returned a verdict of not guilty, and the accused was
discharged.
Statements by Rev. B. Carey (formerly prison
chaplain) in letter to Sydney Catholic Press,
April 2:
I was reminded that my duty was to administer to the
spiritual wants of the prisoners, and not to interfere in
other matters. . . . Up to a few months ago, when
the present Comptroller-General was put at the head of
affairs by the Public Service Board, it was quite a com-
mon practice to put two or three of those young fellows
in the same cell at night. There is a constant communi-
cation by writing, or, as the prisoners term it, “passing
stiffs,” between the 7th class prisoners and those in the
yards. Does this not show laxity in the prison system ?
Again, if a young man receive a sentence of more than 12
months he is not separated from the others ; but is let
loose amongst every class of criminals who people our
gaols. . . . Almost every day I went round the cells
of “ E ” wing, and for no more direct purpose than to
stand on a stool and with the end of my umbrella kill the
bugs that at night time fed on these helpless boys. They
were not allowed to stain the walls by killing them them-
selves, nor could they reach the high corners of the cells
where this vermin was located, and they had to look
forward to the visit of the chaplain to be eased.
And, in the face of these horrible proofs of mal-
administration, in the face of his obstinate
refusal to give Sufeield a fair trial, in the face of
the evidence of incapacity given by his opposi-
tion to suggestions for reform of judicial and
penal abuses, Minister Just-ice Gould is under-
stood to hope quite confidently that the miners
of Greta will again return lum as their represen-
tative in Parliament! But the dispute between
Gould and Carey should be settled one way or
the other. Did Carey see what he says he
saw ?
Criminals manufactured in bur gaols ; young fellows
convicted of slight offences put into association with
hardened criminals, and after a few weeks leave the gaol
determined to wage war against society ; young fellows
kicked by warders ; and when he reported the matter to
the present Minister for Justice, he was told to mind his
own affairs—that the treatment of prisoners did not con-
cern him.
Did Gould reply as the chaplain says he did ?
If the report exists in writing, or if its substance
has been minuted, the public are entitled to
have the written record published in corrobora-
tion of one side or the other. If there be
nothing in writing, then the- witnesses or
parties to the transaction should be placed
under examination to get at the truth.
S.A. Labor politicians are again in n tight
place. The opposition of their brethren in Vic.
and N.S.W. is based on the argument that the
minority of people in the small States will
trample on the majority of people in the big
States per medium of the Senate. But S.A.
being a small State itself, the local Labor
paper has to take the House of Representatives
figures in order to show how the minority (of
States) is going to trample on the majority (of
States). In other words, though the Labor-
party professes to have, and ought to have,
practically the same aspirations throughout
Australia, one section of it finds it necessary,
in order to attempt to slaughter a Bill which
had been condemned beforehand, to attack the
measure for doing precisely what the other sec-
tions attack it for neglecting to do.
Every time a Labor-member goes to his con-
stituents, he tells them that he and his party
have done so little because of two things—(l)
domestic business has been crowded out; (2)
the Leg. Council has blocked them. Now they
have the opportunity to get a House of Assem-
bly to deal with domestic legislation almost
exclusively, while a Federal Legislative Coun-
cil is offered them in which they will be repre-
sented by members chosen on the basis of
manhood suffrage to all intents and purposes ;
while, even as to the local Legislative Council,
nothing ought so much to advance reform there
as the knowledge that the Federal Senate is
elected on a more liberal basis. Notwithstand-
ing all of which, most of the Labor-members,
probably finding destructive criticism easier
than constructive statesmanship, have joined
their natural enemies in opposition to' the
Federal Bill.
The Chinese question is not a question of
morality or of color. The sins of the Chinese
are yellow, and those of white men crimson, but
that has nothing to do with the question, which
is simply this :—Has the white worker to work
14 hours a day, and to give up bearing children
for the mere sake of living? For the most
part the Chinese in Australia do not have
families, and, therefore, can make it im-
possible for white men with families to com-
pete with them in the labor : market. And
also, owing to an abnormal indifference to
leisure and luxury, hard-drinking and high
feeding, they can work more cheaply than the
white. It is impossible for the two standards
of life to exist side by side in free competition,
and although—seen in the clear light of the
infinities—there is perhaps nothing to choose
between them ; yet, if the white man wants
to live as he has been accustomed to live, and to
have eight hours a day in which to rest, com-
petition between him and the yellow laborer
must not go unrestricted.
♦
At the enquiry into the Dudley colliery ex-
plosion (Newcastle district, N.S.W.), by which
15 lives were lost, John Bernard Reynolds, a
miner recently employed in the holliery, is re-
ported as witnessing :
Dunns: the three months he had been working in the
mine he found the place very hot. There was a good
current of air going up the heading, but still the colliery
was very sultry. The workings should have heen brat-
ticed up to the face. For some time prior to the disaster
the gas used to fire regularly every day, and specially when
baling. For a fortnight prior to the explosion he had re-
garded the pit as a dangerous one. He reported the
sultry nature of the workings to Mr. 1 letherington,
one of the deputies, who was killed. Witness referred
to the necessity for extra bratticing, and the deceased
remarked, “ What did you do before there was any
bratticing?” Witness replied that these were more
enlightened times. On the following morning there was
a serious fire in the bord. Flames descended along the
bord in a wedge shape for a distance of 15 yards. This
incident occurred about tv:o or three weeks before the ex-
plosion. The gas was ignited by the lamp of his mate,
named Weir. About an hour aftei wards the late Mr.
Humphreys came into the bord and bratticed up close to
the face. Prior to the explosion the mine was not well
bratticed. He considered the mine a very gaseous one.
For fully a week prior to the disaster the mine was be-
coming more dangerous every day. He remarked to his
mate that the mine was firing too frequently. His fellow-
employ 4 did not apprehend danger, but witness was on
the look-out for other employment in consequence of the
constant firing.
By Mr. Mackinson : The flashes of flame did not injure
anyone. He reported the circumstance to the deputies.
On the other hand, Edward Weir was called
next day, and—
His evidence was almost a total denial of the assertions
made by Reynolds. Witness deposed that the ventila-
tion of the mine was, gopd, and there was nothing to
complain about. He had never seen a flame 15 yards long
as stated ; but during the fortnight prior to the explosion
he had seen a flare 18in. long, which he extinguished with
his hat. He was aware that Reynolds had complained to
the deceased Hetherington about sultry air in his bord.
It was not true that the ventilation daily became more
unsatisfactory during the week prior to the explosion.
Hitherto he had regarded Reynolds as a truthful man.
Judgment must, of course, be reserved pending
the conclusion of the enquiry. But if Rey'-
nolds’s evidence were false, what could be his
motive? And, if it were true —— ? .
“ H.F.” re “ Going on the Land ”
Dear Bulletin,— Despite pessimistic croaks to the com
trary, the land is all right—it gives as good average re>
turns for careful investment as most specs. The trouble .
is, the ignorance and poverty of would-be agriculturists.
Who would dream of starting a town business minus
experience and capital? Yet this is the kind of expecta-
tion prompting alike Government and selectors. Average
opinion will not recognise that agriculture is a compli-
cated trade, each district requiring a fresh apprentice-
ship, and a capital sunk in preliminary plant and work
far exceeding the value of the land. So the amateurs
burn their fingers unceasingly, and poor Cocky kicks him-
self silently for having bitten off more than he can chew.
The authority worth regarding is the local man who has
proved his facts and banked his profit; so-called experts.
Governmental and otherwise, are mere corner-men for
bush jibes, full of theories that ignore all consideration
of profit and loss and require an outlay of capital and
labor out. of all proportion to possible results. Without
fuss or frill, many of the local farms far surpass Haw.kes-.
bury Model Farm. It is stated that the N.S.W. Govern -
ment pumpkins cost half-a-crown a piece to grow. Cer-
tainly a Chinaman would stoush his Joss if his garden
looked like that at the College. A writer in the Sydney.
D.T„ inspecting the poultry-yard with a view to puff, ad=
mitted that the less said about it the better ; also, half
the orchard would have to be destroyed if the Noxious
Pests Bill became law. Some time since Prof.. Coup,.in '
the simplicity of his heart, proposed that the Department
of Agriculture should take a farm and manage it on
strictly commercial principles with a view to showing
that science paid. His colleagues, with a shudder, told
him to close his head. He closed.
The Pink-Un feelingly remarks of tho
recently - convicted Lord William Nevill that
“Bill Nevill has become the Bill of Portland.”
Bull’s commercial respectability is too strong even
for his rank-adoration.
Ed. Bulletin. —“ Miles” might have
spared his recent Bulletin lamentations about the
British army. The average British infantry
height is sft. 7in., and the minimum infantry
standard sft. 3Jin. ; whereas the French and Ger-
man minimum is sft. lin. Also, British soldiers
of the present day have seen more active service
than those of any other nation, and have, there-
fore, had better practical training. A few seasoned
troops make a mighty difference. The proximity,
for the first time, of a travelling bullet has a
peculiar effect on the diaphragm that makes good
shooting impossible and forward movements very
distasteful. And that’s where the seasoned man
comes in.— Hermes.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's. “Silver King.”
Royal “ Cotton King.”
Lyceum “ A Yorkshire Lass.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Royal Standard. “ The Eureka Stockade.”
Belmore Park Harmston’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWN FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess., ,u “ Babes in the Wood.”
Royal. “When London Sleeps.”
Bijou.. “Maritana.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
St. George's Hall.. Professor Kennedy.
Exhibition Building Albani.
The “ Yorkshire Lass,” MacMahon Bros.’
new military drama at Sydney Lyceum, isn’t
nearly so military, after all, as was generally
expected. There is one hurried serum with the
Muscovite—it lasts three minutes, and nobody
seems to be seriously killed, but a general under-
standing prevails that the Czar’s hordes retire
with their nose considerably disfigured. The rest
of the drama is a rather agreeable little story about
how Walner Gregory gets accidentally blown into
Yorkshire, somebody having left the duor open,
and falls in love with a coastguard's daughter ;
and how Diver sools him on to marry her with a
view to making trouble between Gregory and his
old man. Diver is next heir to the old man’s loot,
and his natural course, therefore, is to drop some-
thing tremendous on to Gregory, and thus clear
the way to the inheritance. But, instead, he takes
a long, stupid, wormy side-track that leads no-
where. He connives at the murder of the girl’s
old parent, and elaborately swears the girl s
affianced fisherman into gaol, so as to clear the
way for Gregory’s marriage. Then lie beguiles
that weak, thin husband slowly, by protracted
fi h-train, on to gambling and drink and
1 ini pies ami procrastination, and sows the
gradual century-plant of suspicion between him
and the old military parent. He also keeps in-
citing his weak victim to write futile letters to the
old man, apparently with the hope that he may
ultimately poison himself with the gum on the
stamp. When Gregory becomes a private in theCri-
im a Diver tries to keep him on sentry-go in a cold
draught; and once he wakes tosudden energy and
plants incriminating documents in the young
wife’s pocket-. But in the end a few words of
explanation burst up everything, and the slowest
villain on earth is chucked out. There are a
dozen places in the drama where an axe applied
externally would have settled everything at once,
but the axe is always otherwise engaged, and the
chance is lost.
• • • •
Walner Gregory, as the hero, is rather a
failure. He appears as a pile person with a thin
wisp of pallid whisker, and in thrilling moments
he suggests a gentleman who is leaping in the air
and tearing up bedding at the same time. The char-
acter he represents belongs to that painful order of
hero who, when he has lost his money, savs he will
clear his name (which has nothing the matter
with it) by going to the Crimea and hitting
a Russian with the butt-end, and will come
back with his innocence fully established. Miss
Williamson does the heroine in a rather shriekful
fashion and faints persistently. The best spots in
the cast are the clever and resourceful Diver, who
makes a very impressive villain, and would be a
good deal more impressive if the author allowed
him to go for his victim with an axe in the first
act. The new star, Miss Inez Bensusan, as
a bad, insinuating French character in evening
dress, makes a very large success. Her adventuress
is a finished piece of work with soul and intelligence
in it. Miss Lindahl, formerly a patch of beauty
m the luckless Opera House co., also Stan-
ford and John Forde, deserve a kindly mention •
and the scenery is vivid ; but the drama itself
suffers from a woeful want of purpose. Supposing
Diver had carried out his horrid scheme it is diffi-
cult to guess what the horrid scheme really was •
and the hero who clears his character, which has
nothing wrong with it, by standing straight up in
the snow with a gun at a very small salary, is
utterly unconvincing.
** * *
The oft-revived “ Silver King ’' re-appears
«r-, Her -^ Majesty ’ s ( Sydne y) on Saturday, with
Wilson Barrett as the intoxicated gentleman who
wanted the universe put back. The late lamented
Roman has a pretty steep hill to climb in a ttempt-
ing a part which has already been done so well and
so often in Sydney, and the public will probably
have made up its mind about him when he has
got through with the great drunk-scene in
the first act. The Silver King, when he
comes back from exile, always looks much
the same by virtue of the historic cloak and
tall boots and long white hair ; it is as the original
drunk Denver that he has the best chance to
assert his individuality. The most picturesque
and gentlemanly example of that inebriated wreck
seen in Australia during the last few years was
Scot Inglis ; the worst specimen was that of a
certain actor who gave a large and meaty ren-
dering of the part, and made Wilfred D
look like a broad, elderly person out on a
very stout kind of tank. Anyhow, this paper
waits in a state of subdued hope to see what will
happen. “ Claudian ” gives up dj’ing among the
ruins of his palace on Thursday night, and Friday
at Her Majesty’s is to be filled in by Walter
Bentley and the Ober-Ammergau Passion Play.
One probable result of which will be that The
Bulletin will always think of Bentley thereafter
as Pontius MePilate in a kilt.
** * *
Harmston’s Circus opened in Sydney a
day late, arriving under difficulties after a bad
passage from Brisbane, with the baggy elephant
encrusted with salt, and suffering badly from sore
throat and a feverish attack in the tail. Also
the large tiger was horribly sea-sick, and the bear
was in a state of collapse, and the baby elephant
—a quaint little beast like a worn gray portman-
teau in a hurry—was in very low spirits. The
new circus started in Sydney on Monday night,
and gave a very fine exhibition of horse, though,
unfortunately, the horse part of all circuses is
much alike. _ The mounted quadrille, however,
differs sufficiently from the usual run of horse
to call for some special commendation. The
clowns are very much as usual, which is about as
bad a thing as can be said of any clown. The big
sensational novelty of Harmston's combination is
undoubtedly Hashinoto, the Jap. wire-dancer.
This little hairy brown speck can give points to
Caicedo and the sensational lady of the Jordan
troupe, lie trots cheerfully up a stbep slack wire
anil slides frantically down again backwards —
also forwards and sideways and sitting down ;
and lie does the most despeiate zig zags
on his ste-p, loose thread with impunity,
llis performance .would be remarkable enough
if the wire were level ; as it is on the same
angle as a house-roof, the small, brown fiend
is a really astonishing person. The Warren
Sisters two ladies who do things on the
high trapeze—are also very neat and clever
artists, and when the big sister hangs by her feet,
and her vasty mane dangles below her, she is an
eminently pleasing picture. The small sister is
only a wild and reckless baby with her hair cut
short, but as a trapezist she is remarkable. The
Rio troupe made a success, especially with a
clever ladder act, and two more Japs, Hakataand
Kota, leave behind them pleasing recollections
of a graceful and finished performance. One
of them—the writer imagines it is Kota—is a fat,
yellowish scrap with a lot of horse-tail on top,
and the things that Ha ata does with him are
calculated to make his dinner digest badly in his
very brief stomach. The show also includes the
Strong Man, who breaks chains and humps
vast ironmongery, and does other dreary
wonders ; a clever act by two baboons and
that wrinkled little grey cuss, the baby
elephant; and enough other items to make a
highly satisfactory programme. Harniston has
an official forerunner in one Colonel C. B. Hicks,
a fine old gentleman of benevolent aspect, who
looks like a Jewish Cherokee from New York.
In fact, the Colonel is about the hardest man to
locate that this paper ever met, but lie gets
through an alarming quantity of tobacco ahead of
the show, and makes things pleasant all round.
** * *
Rickards has returned to the variety busi-
ness at Sydney Tivoli with most of the stars of the
late pantomime in the bill. Among* them are the
I iller quartette, the musical Hnlines, the three
Haytors, and Miss Lottie Moore, and they make
up a programme which should last over the holi-
day season.
** * *
The almost forgotten Criterion resumes
business on Saturday under Rickards’ manage-
ment. Charles Cartwright's co, which wasted
much very clever work on a sadly unappreciative
Melbourne public, opens with a double bill.
“Dream Faces” and “A Marriage of Con-
venience,” which latter is hereby cordially recom-
mended as a work of art and a production which
should appeal to the great intellectual soul of
Sydney.
** * *
Bland Holt, who has been long absent
from Sydney, returns to the Royal on Saturday
with the “ Cotton King,” described as a “thrill-
ing story of mill life in the Midlands of England.”
Other holiday shows in Sydney include a
Saturday and Monday Scotch concert at the Cen-
tenary Hall by Robert Kennedy ; the Newliiiry-
Spada co. on Friday'and Monday at the Town
Hall ; and a drama called “ The Eureka Stockade ”
at the Royal Standard. Also, various small items
are to be produced in the city and suburbs by
those strange, partially-dead people who bob up
for a day or two at holiday seasons, and publish
their ghost-like names on a small green bill, and
then bob down again, and are heard of no more
till next holiday. And what these strange, par-
ti&lly-dead people live on in the interval between
holidays the Lord only knows, but, after the
periodical eclipse, when tle-ir names appear again
on that sad, little green bill, they suggest that
this is a dismally hard world, and that there are
points about being an aboriginal, after all.
* * *
“Babes in the Wood,” late of Sydney
was produced at Melb. Princess’s on Saturday,
and will appeal to an admiring public every even-
ing until further notice. It conies a long time
after Xmas, but at any time a show of such
magnitude is in season ; also, it is especially suit-
able to Easter, when the festive excursionist comes
up from the country with a fine appetite for
scenery and effects. “Babes in the Wood ” is a
feast of splendor and a flow of frivolity. Quite
as amusing as the average musical comedy, it is
many sizes larger as an entertainment for those
who find musical comedy thin. The principal
figures are able to shine on their own
every now and then ; the strength of the
chorus gets opportunities to make an impression,
and the four spectacles that loom largest on the
programme seem to have a reasonable connection
with the. matters that happen in between them.
“ Babes in the Wood,'’ in fact, is a broken narra-
tive which hangs together somehow. The absence
of an irrelevant central scene (wherein everybody
is expected to appear as somebody else and con-
tribute a “ turnis greatly appreciated on this
occasion. All previous pantomime-extravaganzas
have had acrobats, or tame animals, or what not,
dumped upon the stage at 9.45 p.m., but “Babes
in the Wood ” rises superior to this ancient custom.
* • • >
Miss Ada Reeve and Bert Gilbert give
some valuable assistance as Maid Marian and
Uncle. The little lady’s sweet little voice is well
employed, and her ways are bewitching through-
out. Her French girls were good, her English
girl is. better. Also the constant inebriety of
Uncle is a new style of feather in Gilbert’s cap.
A long-sustained stage drunk grows monotonous
as a rule, but Uncle’s drunk on Saturday showed
a variety of phases as though he had mixed his
liquors, and was never under the same influence
for 20 minutes at a stretch. The Babes
here are played by two competent infants,
Lauri and Charles Berkeley being the dilapidated
ruffians who fall out. Berkeley's incidental mur-
der of Lauri, and horror at the crime, is a striking
bit of tragic burlesque. Miss Alice Rene, as
Robin Hood, takes her part in the spectacle in-
telligently, also Geo. de Lara, little Gulliver and
others, help to round off a performance which has
no weak spots in it. Two hundred and fifty
auxiliaries (the writer forgot to count ’em) are said
to be employed on this costly razzle-dazzle, and
their dresses are so rich in quality that the man-
agement was compelled, in many instances, to cut
them very short.
** * m
The Cartwright Comedy Co.’s ill-appre-
ciated exertions at Melh. Bijou came to an end on
Saturday with one extra performance of “The
Tree of Knowledge. Financially, the season
went up like a rocket and came down like the
stick, but from an artistic point of view the open-
ing show was sticky, and the last one a shower of
stars. “’I he Tree of Knowledge " had, seemingly,
grown out of managerial experience, and although
its Melbourne fruit was a failure, the same “Tree ”
may yield a good crop in Sydney if they plant it
early and apply plenty of liquid advt. to the roots
thereof.
** # *
“When London Sleeps,” at the Royal,
presents its bold array of cheerful impossibilities
to encouraging business, and is likely to run for a
month.. A youthful acrobat on a revolving globe
is the first item to catch the public eye in this
garish melodrama. The final surprise is an out-
break of spangled hero from the interior of a
heathen god, so when the staggered critic has
carried his thoughts back to the inaugural boy on
the rolling sphere, he must admit, with tears in
his eyes, that the plot is a harmonious production.
An air of travelling circus pervades its every scene.
Even the fallen sister who prowls around London
at night waiting for the pubs, to open, is a
joyous prowler, and the hat in which she
eventually gets married to Augustus helps
to adorn the tale, although it doesn’t point
a moral. The whole drama is, in fact, a bit “ off ”
as regards moral teaching, with the notable ex-
ception of a policeman. The policeman happens
to be on special duty outside a den of iniquity,
where his sorrow for all ladies who lose their good
name on the premises is vigorously expressed
Which reminds The Bulletin that Mr. Wilson
Barrett, as a champion of theatrical virtue, ought
to protest against the den aforesaid, con-
sidering that the Gaiety Girls —on the ex-
pert evidence of the drama’s author —go
there to dance and get drunk in the second
act - T he Bulletin regrets to notice that
the Gaiety Girls offer no objection to the heroine’s
threatened ruin, whereas an impecunious Tottie
takes measures to frustrate the villain’s fell inten-
tion. “When London Sleeps” is a drama that
gets giddier on acquaintance. A week ago the
present writer stated that the heroine walked
across a telephone wire with her own lawful child
on her back, but it now appears that the infant is
an offspring of somebody else’s “shame.” Any-
how, the small illegitimate sticks tightly to the
wire-walker, and no accident has occurred up to
time of writing.
£j£
Melbourne Alexandra, closed for the
moment, will re-open again next Saturday (9th)
wir.li Han. Barry’s own particular version of
Uncle loin s Cabin.’ Last Saturday there was
a stray revival of “The Kelly Gang,” and the
dauntless Ned (otherwise D. 8.) standing within a
semi-circle of dead policemen, repeated his solemn
promise to show them how a true-born native
Australian can die upon the scaffold in the hour
of need.
# * * *
iho Easter programme at the Opera
House will include a host of new attractions, no
doubt. Also the Bijou will off.. r an amateur per-
formance of “Maritana” by the Vic. Operatic
bociety, wlnch includes several good leading
voices and a chorus 50 strong.
** * *
Madame Albani and her concert co.
supported by the. Philharmonic Society, are to
v'f iv e i M u Siai ’ a,ld “Elijah” at Melb.
Exhibition building on Saturday and Monday
next. Albani, in oratorio, is understood to he a
memorable event, wherefore the prices will range
from (,s. (reserved seats) to 2s. per head for an un-
limited amount of accommodation in remoter
regions. 1 lie Exhibition building is a large place
and many distant views of Albani’s top note ina.
be obtained from away back. 1 y
Another soulful circumstance will bo the
reappearing of mesmerist Kennedy at St. George’s
Hall on Saturday. Kennedy suffered from a
something wrong with his emotional works at the
tiiimwh.n lie was managing a respectable horse-
show, and lie has decided to go back to the cantor-
' ,*n d ,>u ? l ". e "* for the sake of his
KvelS;,; deterred by the fate of
wnn •’ J" 8 "ifrepid professor believes that he
w ill b. g ,n to put on flesh, and recover his natural
2SSB. dd’s;*.*' “ " oon “ retun " “ hiB
The EQUITABLE LIFE ISSOR9DCE SOCIETY
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position, Ist January, 1898.
Assurance in Force
Increase IN Assurance in Force in 1897
Assets
Increase nr Assets in 1897
Surplus
Increase IN Surplus in 1897
Income
Increase IN Income in 1897
Few Policies issued in 1897 for
Increase IN New Business in 1897
SURPLUS, or excess of Assets over Liabilities, LARGER than
that of any Life Office in the 11orid.
t&T Notwithstanding' the enormous Increase in Assurance in Force and in New
Business the itenis of DEA TH CLAIMS and EXPENSES for 1807 show a
considerable DECREASE as compared with 1896.
LOCAL DIRECTORS
(with power to Issue Policies and Pay Claims)
WM. MCMILLAN, E«i„ M.L.A. (Chairman), Hon. HEN RV MOIIT, M. L.C., Hon, Oil AS. K. MACKEt.LAR. M. B„ M.L.C.
C, Carlisle Taylor, General Manager for AuetralaKia
S. W. D’Arcy Irvine, M.S., Manager for ,\'-w South Wale, and Qucen.l»nd,
£198,159,549
7,513,284
£49,349,231
4,187,992
£10,508,995
1,513,749
£10,119,223
461,580
£32,699,103
6,096,169
Zola lias no French blood in him. His
father was a Venetian and him >ther a Greek.
At Poverty Point .
Re the production of “ Sorrows of Satan ” by Herbert
Flemming’s co., a Transvaal paper said : “ It is to be feared
that those present will ever after think of Satan as a
highlv-moral, middle aged gentleman, with a pleasantly
modulated voice.” Well, and doesn’t Satan answer to the
description? From 40 to 50 is the Golden Age of Sin.
The story goes that Melbourne Prof. Marshall-Hall was
once frozen with horror at receiving a letter enclosing
255., and begging him to “ use to the utmost his genius
in creative art in order to buy a conscientious concertina
for the Leongatha l.abor Colony.” Blasphemy !
A pathetic sentence cropped up nightly in the course of
a play performed t,o an Australian metropolitan theatre
packed to the doors with gloom and desolation. The
leading man had to embrace vacancy and moan: “I
never realised my solitude till now ! ”
Dear Bullhtin.—George Lauri’s affected chill on sitting
down when in kilt attire in the second act of “The Gay
Parisienne” is said to be wildly humorous. But writer, used
as a schoolboy, and subsequently as a Scottish volunteer,
to the kilt and its accompanying short “breeks” was
slow to understand where the joke came in. And even
then he couldn’t find the joke. Where is the humor of
Supposititious indecency ?—Mac.
Theorbo: “Miss Elsie Hall now stands forth as the
representative Australian pianist. After Hambourg,
she is Spohr after Beethoven, or Sullivan after
Rossini, and she must not be braeketted with the
tremendous Mark. Nevertheless, she is more pleas-
ing to a general audience. I take it as proved that,
on the piano, the best woman cannot rival the best man.
She may give the art, but not the hand. Her flogging
powers are limited.”
As Tub Bulletin has oftimes remarked, we hear a great
deal about Melba’s debt to Marches!, but not a word is
said of poor old Pietro Cecchi, who taught the ambitious
Nellie for seven years—time enough to make or break a
voice! What he did could not be undone by a few
quarters in Paris. Moreover, we have the opinion of Mrs.
Palmer, and other cultivated Australian vocalists, that
Melba's trill ” was already perfect before she left
her native heath. Yet this is what Melba writes to
Madame : “ I trust that the career which your grand
teaching and loving guidance has opened out for me may
reflect honor on you and on your school’’!! Why
shouldn't the patient old maestro, who was so proud of
his pupil, have a leaf from the diva’s laurel-wreath
dropped on his grave?
Maud Jeflfiies, it is said, sat for the well-known picture
“The Pinch of Poverty” in the same dismal raiment
which she wears as Denver’s widow in “ The Silver King.”
Dear Bulletin.—Give us time to get our breath again.
A Poverty Pointer in last issue states that “ well-
known pros, from Maoriland ” include Walter Bentley and
Bland Holt! In what sense can the sons of Scotch Parson
Begg and London Actor Clarence Holt be said to have
come from Maoriland?—X.
Poor old Johnny Toole, at latest dates, appeared to be
sinking fast. So feeble that he could scarcely’ speak.
Lalla Miranda has fairly stuck-up the phlegmatic Dutch-
man on his own camping-ground by the Zuyder Zee. As
Ophelia, in “ Hamlet,” the Australian covered herself with
glory in the land of William the Silent-and received a
splendid reception.
Melb. ’Erald on an.Albani concert:- Nearly everyone
was encored. Sometimes about 50 people out of the 2000
or so present applauded, and the artists reappeared
smiling, as if deafened by thunderous manifestations of
general enthusiasm.” Which is very trying. But the
worst of these encores is the awfully long time it takes to
get them.
Charles Berkley, who plays so humorously in “ Babes
in the Wood,” is just now very much pulled down by ill-
health and domestic affliction. Trouble is apt to act as a
tonic upon any kind of professional funny-man—actor,
writer, or comic-artist.
Gethyn Darragh is an Anglo-Indian society woman,
wife of a military swell, who, being stage-struck, joined
the Cartwright co. She is refined in manner, and bids
fair to become an actress when she has ""vst off her
amateur restlessness.
It was the misfortune of Wilson Barrett’s iate brother
George that, even when he played Jaikes and other
popular parts, he was a much less notable artist than his
namesake, the light-weight rider. Jockey George P*rrett
died only the other day.
The present idol of Melb. girldom is young Rebottaro,
the handsome young Italian singer. And his charming
sister, singing “ Cornea witha Mea,”at St. Pat.’s concert,
looked so enticing that the male part of the audience
found itself grabbing at its hat to accept the invitation.
Part-singing of the Unnatural Anathema happened at
Melb. Pat’s-night concert. Mrs. Palmer gave the first
three lines solo, then six performers repeated them in
chorus ; ditto with last lines and final burst. Audience
stood with its hat off, and looked as if it liked it. Latest
way to sing the last line of Gorsave: “ Gohohododd-ho-od
subhave thehuh Queeheheen ! ”
S.S. : “ ‘ A Marriage of Convenience ’ at Melb. Bijou was
a sparkling gem in a beautiful setting, cast before—empty
benches mostly. The champagne of Dumas and Grundy
is wasted on a public that desires nothing better than the
smal beer of the up-to-date burlesque. It is heads versus
legs, and legs win. Calf-fove is incurable.”
Scotty the Wrinkler : “I went to see Wilson oarretfc,
not Maud Jeffries, in ‘The Silver King.’ That M.J. is
adorable, divine, and a splendid actress, no one can deny.
But if anyone says that she pronounces ‘love’ and
‘ come ’ otherwise then ‘ lawve ’ and ‘ cawme,’ then I have
no ears. I called the attention of a squatter of my
acquaintance to the fact, and he agreed, with the query
—‘ Where the devil does she come from ?’ ” [The lovely
Maud comes from way down Dixie-land, and started life
in 1870 on a Mississippi cotton-plantation. Whence, etc.]
Said that when a voice cried “ Bravo, Yarra-Yarra ” to
smiling Melba at the Metropolitan Opera House, New
York, the audience “ evidently took it as a great eompli-
fnent bestowed in the Australian language, which they
could not understand.” Well, “ Yarra-Yarra ”is Austra-
lian language.
Holdar M. : “What twaddle in the daily press about
the ‘perfectly spontaneous gift of the people’to Nellie
Farren, who ‘ had laid them under the obligation,’ &c.
A practical-minded public does not take on the deliber-
ate discomfort of camping outside a theatre all night
preparatory to a savage struggle for seats, merely to
tender a sentimental appreciation to a faded footli ht-
fascinator. No! the key to such situations is supplied
by the programme details every time. The theatrical
bill-of-fare and the restaurateur’s bulletin appeal to simi-
lar business instincts and draw according to their attrac-
tiveness or otherwise. The ‘obligation’ alleged against
the people in this particular instance wasn’t apparent a
year or two back when they allowed this same Nellie F.
to sacrifice her jewellery to, keep the wolf at bay. The
‘ spontaneity ’ really proceeds in a diluted form from the
still-shining stars who reflect anent the day of their own
waning light. If a Pink-pill party induced a like gor-
geous array of Thespian talent to appear for the benefit
of its wares, the same crowd and enthusiasm would
attend. Affecting to mingle watery sentiment with oily
materialism is a hollow device apt to provoke disre-
spect. ”
SIM P LEST—MOST DUKA HIM?-BEST.
Light
Running
[Jew Home
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Parts and
Pittings for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns,
Catalogues and Journals.
1..
A"
. I5
' .‘\
3"” I".
'1‘ vi";
. :- f ‘ '
\ t
“A"'.‘
"O
J. W. Johnston & Co.,
746 Georga Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swanston Street Melbourne.
C 7 Queen Street ... ... Brisbane.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Little Tasmania still keeps its boom going
merrily. In Raspberry Land, the financial year ends on
Slst Dec., and in the three months of the new financial
year up to 31st March, the revenue is already £25,143
more than it was for the corresponding quarter of last
year. Treas. Fysh is rapidly reducing the visible accumu-
lated deficit, which is something to boast of—though, in
the sinful rottenness of Tasmanian finance, the visible
deficit is the smallest trouble. Tasmania rises to the
d.gnity of possessing the most utterly infamous financial
system in the Seven Provinces. No other province, in
proportion to its population, carries to such a pitch the
great art of charging current expenditure to loans, so as
to save taxation and make its bogus public-ledger show a
balance. The theory on which all Treasurers more-
or-less profess to act is that loan-moneys should be
used only for the construction of directly reproduc-
tive public works, and they all diverge more-or-less
from this theory so as to keep up a fictitious appearance
of prosperity. But Van Dobson Land runs the swindle
more recklessly than any of the others, as witness these
figures;—
Spent on Spent on
Productive Unproductive Total.
Works. Works.
1592 .. £259,515 £302,145 £561,660
1393 .. 16,006 158,021 174,027
1395 .. 2,318 110,960 113,278
1896 .. 27,000 54,801 81,801
£304,839 £625,927 £930,766
The year ’94 is omitted owing to lack of the requisite
information. The total result at the end of 1896 was that
Tasmania had a debt of £7,583,725, of which £3,803,446
iiad_ been spent on revenue-producing works, while
£3,780,279 had been spent ofi the other swindle. On an
average, therefore, Tasmania has spent one-half its bor-
rowings on works which should have been charged to
current revenue. But as the Land of Bad Dreams is
now spending less than one-third of its loans legitimately,
it is obvious that the swindle is getting a great deal
worse than it used to be. Which is the reason why
Tim Bulletin is profoundly disrespectful towards Trea-
surer Fysh and regards him, in his public and financial
capacity, as the very worst delusion and fake in the
Seven Provinces.
• * * •
The N.S.W. revenue for March (.£950,309) was
£120,040 better than the figures for March, 1897, income-
tax, land-tax and land-sales being the chief causes of im-
provement. The revenue for the nine months is now only
£'ooo less than that for the corresponding three-quarters
of last financial year, though even that is a bad enough
situation, considering that the blessed state of prosperity
which was to arise through Foreign-trade should have
brought a large increase instead. Expenditure up
to date is £7,026,665, and revenue i 6,710,394, so
the deficit, so far, is £316,271. Meanwhile the
good old loan booms greatly. The only way a
financier of the Reid stamp ever attempts to make ends
meet is by charging more of the expenditure to loans,
and in the nine months £1,270,914 of borrowed money—
about £200,000 more than in the corresponding three-
quarters of last financial year—has been scattered around.
Within the last nine months the Reid Govern-
ment has added £2,833,919 to the N.S.W public debt, 1£
millions of the money having been borrowed in England.
This promises favorably to be the biggest loan year that
N.S.W. has had since 1892.
*• * • *
Premier Reid’s very latest financial outburst
was his announcement, in a Telegraph interview, that
the revenue, at the end of March, was only £209,000
behind expenditure. Considering that his own Govern-
ment Gazette figures show revenue £6,710,394, and ex-
penditure £7,026,665, and the difference between these
amounts is over £316,000, Reid’s financial observations are
the same fearful muddle, as usual.
* • « •
South Australia sends along its revenue returns
for the quarter ended 31st March. Receipts were £690,466,
which is an improvement of £4716 on the first quarter of
1897.
• • * *
Queensland’s revenue for the nine months is
£2,793,565, which is £35,000 more than the receipts for
the nine months to March, ’97. And, so far, the revenue
is £402,000 more than the expenditure—hut then the pre-
sent Banana Government has also some very curious ways
of keeping down expenditure, by shoving awkward items
into the peaceful gloom of the loan account.
• • * •
Westralia’s revenue for March (<£241,890) is
£15,387 less than that for March, 1897 ; and the revenue
for the quarter just ended (£697,523) was £74,043 less than
that for the first quarter of 1897. Which begins to look as
if the slump was becoming chronic.
* * * *
The Victorian revenue for the nine months of
the financial year ending 31st March was £5,121,131,
which is £155,612 more than for the corresponding period
of last year.
• « * •
The capital value of all rateable property in
N.S.W. nmnioipa'ities dropped another £5,000,000 last
year, despite the fact that new towns keep being incor-
porated and thus more and more property is brought, into
the account. Sydney and suburbs were estimated to
possess a cash value of £110,000,000 in ’94 and they are
now reckoned at £88,000,000 —a drop of £22,000,000. Ira
1895 the total value of rateable property in all N.S.W.
municipalities reached its top figure—£lsl,ooo,ooo. It
now stands at £122,000,000—a drop of £29,000,000 in three
years.
* • * •
The Mutual Life Association of Australasia
publishes a very gratifying report for 1897. It shows an
increase in premium income, a steady improvement in re-
ceipts from investments and a reduction of expenses.
The last five years’ record is as follows :
Premiums. Interest. Expenses.
1893 .. £146,104 £52,517 £40,959
1894 .. 141,944 53,230 40,698
1595 .. 141,822 53,536 38,114
1896 .. 141,501 54,580 41,912
1897 .. 150,262 57,365 41,676
Expenses are now 27;} per cent, of premiums, which Is
still a very high rate, though it is 2 per cent, less than last
year’s figure. Compared with total revenue, they' are
about half-a-fraction below 20 per cent., whereas last year
they were rather over 21 per cent. The amount saved
and added to the funds was £54,432, making the total!
pile £1,190,192. This is the largest addition made
in any one year for a very long time. The
interest realised on the funds (£4 18s. 9d. per
cent.) is actually a shade more than last year’s figure,
desuite the steady fall in interest rates, which is good
evidence that the paper value of the securities is kept
down to bedrock rates, and all inflation carefully avoided.
The Mutual Life Association writes off depreciation every
year in a vigorous fashion. The provision made in 1897
was £9832, and the amount written off in the last five
years is no less than £51,206. Losses are, unfortunately,
inevitable ; the apparently endless downfall in the values
of property is a trouble that can’t he avoided. But this
regular annual facing of the trouble is vastly better than
the process followed by some offices of keeping the in-
flated values standing in the balance-sheet with a large
reserve fund on the other side as a counter-balance ; or
the process followed by some other offices of keeping the
inflated values standing with very little reserve against
them ; or the method adopted by still a third class of
having a general cleaning up at the end of every five
years or so, w hen a very large clean-up is required to put
things straight.
There is no item in the list of the Mutual
Life Association’s assets that calls for hostile criticism-.
Foreclosed properties are a very moderate item, and over-
due interest is practically nil. No agents’ balances are
reckoned among the assets at all. This institution is now
making special reserves with a view to reducing its esti-
mated future rate of interest to 31 per cent., which is an
eminently wise precaution ; and, barring the high expense
rate, it is one of the most promising insurance institutions
in Australasia.
♦ * 9 *
The report of the Equitable Life Insurance Co.
of New York for 1897 shows an income of £10,119,223,
being £461,580 more than the receipts for 1896. The
accumulated fund increased by £4,187,992, and now
stands at £49,349,231. And the surplus of assets over
liabilities, assuming the rate of interest earned in the
future at 4 per cent., is over £10,500,000. If the assumed
interest were put on a 3 per cent, basis the surplus would
still be quite £6,000,000, so the Equitable has a big
margin—one that should mean absolute security to
the policy-holders even in the worst financial crisis.
• ■ • •
The shareholders of the South Australian In-
surance Co. duly endorsed the proposed sale of their co.,
the fire business going to the Norwich Union and the
marine connection to the China Traders’ Co. So another
promising Australian enterprise is wiped out.
• * * *
The ghost of Abigail’s Australian Banking Co.,
which most people imagined to lie laid for ever, turned up
in the Sidney courts the other day. There are 70 share-
holders still alive, and not in the insolvency court or
sleeping in the Domain ; and not one of them, it was
stated, had responded to the last call. So the ghost of
Abigail’s bank applied for an order to grind their bones in
the regular official process, and got it, with 10s. costs.
• * •
The Auditor-General’s report on the N.S.W.
finances to June, 1897, with re-uarks (scorching or other-
wise) on the awful alleged “ surplus ” at that date, is now
ready, hut the Reid Government has power, if it likes to
exercise it, to keep the document dark till after Parlia-
ment meets. And as Parliament may not meet till after
the general election, the Reid Government may, if it
chooses, keep the public from knowing the truth (awful or
otherwise) about its monetary doings till it is too late for
it to influence the election. And if the document is kept
back—well, the betting will be a good many to one that
the truth is pretty awful.
• • * *
Paradoxical but true that the late secretary of a
big and wealthy public institution who is " wanted ” by
the police isn’t wanted at all by those most interested.
Stranger still, more than one individual connected with
the same institution who might be supposed to be anxious
for the defaulter’s arrest, is asking the defaulter why the
deuce he uon‘t clear out of the province he is peacefully
residing in.
* * * •
The trust estate of a Melbourne tailor (lately
deceased) showed over £12,000 debts, 75 per cent, of
which are considered hopelessly irrecoverable. Actually
there is no loss to speak of, as he had been tailoring for
the majority of the debtors for the past 40 years.
• * » • •
The big Melbourne fire and W.A. building boom
have put the Brunswick briekeries in full swing again
after a long rest. Every yard is fully employed, and
prices are higher and profits correspondingly bigger than
even during the ever-to-be-remembered boom-time of the
late eighties.
• • • •
B.H. South does not issue its half-yearly report
until the eve of meeting, three months after the close of
the period covered. On the present occasion, the direc-
tors haven’t much to say ; they don’t even mention finance
iri their report. The position, however, seems to he that
they have paid £5OOO in divs. during the half-year(another
£6OOO was declared at the meeting), have added £1765 to
their debts, hut have increased their cash in hand by
£5035, have added to their stores, &c., £1302, but have re-
duced their stock of concentrates on hand by £1685. The
half-year’s profit was, therefore, apparently £7887.
Though the financial result of the B.H. South’s
last half-year’s work was fairly satisfactory, the prospects
are not bright, and certainly no more than justify, even
if they do justify, the chairman’s half-promise of quarterly
dividends. The strain has hitherto been on the upper
levels of the mine; and, although there are still fair
quantities of rather poor, but still triable and tractable,
ore there, it is from the lower workings that an increas-
ingly large percentage of 6tuff will have to be taken in
future. And, as to those lower workings, the report is
that their ore is hard, that it has to be blasted out, that it
is hard to crush, and much care has to be exercised in its
concentration, and that even then over 20 per cent, of
what was broken had, during the last half-year, to be
rejected as too poor to be even milled. Fortunately,
mining costs are being reduced, and slight improvements
are being made in the concentration, otherwise the out-
look would be very gloomy indeed. As it is, £1 a ton fall
for lead (and that isn’t much of a movement in the lead
market, all hough just now a downward movement is
unlikely) would snuff out the profit altogether.
B.H. South directors have a bitter word or two
to say about the woes of the Broken Hill director. And,
as they are wholly true and haven’t often (if ever) been
said so plainly in a B.H. directors’ report before, here they
are :—“ In face of a partial combination among European
smelters, and the monopoly enjoyed by the Broken Hill
Water Company, it is clear that the producers must com-
bine to secure proper representation and protection. The
■charge of ss. per thousand gallons for water is exorbitant,
and it seems most unjust that no distinction should be
made between mining companies consuming millions of
gallons annually and private consumers of small quan-
tities.”
Few trading concerns are giving such profits to
their shareholders as the Broken Hill Water Supply. But
tlie co. has not a long life under its B 11, and there are
fairly heavy expenses ahead, though it does not follow
that a more liberal policy might, not pay handsomely.
* * * *
White Cliffs opal-field has been demoralised by
an epidemic of typhoid, which, having killed one European!
representative, drove out every other opal-buyer.
• * * *
The most prominent thing about the Birthday
-mine, N.S.W., this week, is the awful long list of forfeited
shares advertised for sale by auction.
“Benedict’ on things at Barraba, N.S.W.:
“ Capital will be scared away from here unless misrepre-
sentations re mines offered for sale are followed by phe-
nomenal luck. Local knowledge enables me to say that
some prospectuses hold bundles of disappointments.
One specious document is cleverly drawn—almost every
sentence of it armed with a means of escape from
possible eventualities.”
• * * *
They have started in atCooma, N.S.W—“Mr.
C. 11. Davies left last evening on a commission from the
Bushy Hill miners to dispose of the Hill, if possible, to
Mr. Marks at something over £30,000. He took several
specimens of pyrites from the different claims.”
* • • *
Average wages of Wallsend coal-miners (includ-
ing Dudley, where 15 men were lately entombed) have
been for thus far into 1898, £1 3s. 7d. per week. S.M.
Herald thinks that, out of this, the miners should con-
tribute to an accident assurance fund.
• • • •
Orange, N.S.W.: “Rumored that rich gold has
been struck in the D‘Arcy Wentworth mine at a depth of
1010 ft.” Wrong again—the shaft is not that deep, in the
first place.
• * * *
Another good crushing from the Mt. David
mine, N.S.W., another shilling call, another drop in the
shares, and, alas ! another shriek from the barracker at
Bathurst.
* * * *
Once more the Overflow mine, N.S.W., has
changed its mining-manager. Also, “ the cyanide-works
have again started, and everything seems to be going
all right.”
• • * •
Mount Deddick railway schemers have suddenly
found an agricultural reason why the Vic. Government
should spend £120,000, or more, in providing a line to
connect their “magnificent mining district” with the
steamer service at Cunninghame. The new suggestion is
to carry the line to Orbost, and thereby provide an easy
outlet for 30,000 a. of maize crops hitherto transported
with difficultv along the Snowy River route. A possibility
of Mt. Deddick not “ proving to be a permanent field ” (!)
is now admitted, but the richness of those maize crops in
the vicinity encourages the patriots to hone that Govt,
will open up the country as desired. Humph! The fact
is that the Deddick specs, all of them, have been started
on a Government railway ticket, so to speak. The railway
was to serve as an advt. for an all-round working-off
of syndicate properties upon the gentle public. A while
ago they talked of dragging the Minister for Mines to
their Eldorado that he might measure the extraordinary
width of the lodes for himself. Now the gentleman “ has
been requested to visit Deddick and see as much as
possible of the country (the a-maizeing country) through
which the line would have to be taken.” The drop from
mineral to maize is pathetic.
* * • •
Very shortly Victoria will add beet sugar to its
list of manufactures. If estimates are realised, Australia
will have launched into this industry with just about 3$
times the vigor displayed by Uncle Sam when he began to
“ knock cane sugar endways.” The U.S. in its first year
started one factory in California and produced about
2,<)00,0001bs.; the Maffra (Vic.) people have laid their
plans to make 7,0()(),0001bs. in their first “campaign.”
The output from the Californian factory in ’92 had risen
to 8,000,0001b5., in ’96 it had jumped to 16,000,0001b5., and
in ’97 it turned out 25,000,0001b5. By then eight more
factories were at work in v arious States, with an aggregate
production of 123,000,0001b5. This year factories are
springing up in all directions, and it is estimated that the
U.S. ’9B beet sugar “ campaign ” will bring into existence
20i),000,0001bs., though the industry is still in its infancy.
Some of the States, to hurry the game along, offer Id. per
lb. bonus to all the mills that choose to start, on the
understanding that they will pay the farmers sdols. per
ton for beets. At present the best granulated beet sugar
can he produced in the U.S. for £lO per ton. If the
industry catches on in Australia at anything like the same
rate (even in proportion to population), there are “ rocks
ahead ” for the Mongrelian canegrower.
* • * *
A correspondent:—“The Great Western Coal
Co. (W. Vic ), about 45 miles from Geelong, seems to have
a future. The seam which outcrops in a iru.tl.v has been
stripped over a face 150 ft. long.and 6ft. to Bft. thick. Tihe
co. has sunk a 300 ft. shaft up the hill and cat the seam
Bft. to 9fr. thick after sinking 100 ft. The coal steams
well and is well spoken of by those who have used it.
The first of the output is about to be delivered in Gee-
lonK’ .
Wallaroo and Moontn copper co. (S. A.) made a
net profit in its last year of £22,294. The directors at the
animal meeting announced that still further attention is
to be given to silver-lead smelting for Broken Hill cus-
tomers.
• * • »
Mt. Morgan dividend will, it is said, be raised
to 9<l. in August. At the west works, for treatment of
low-grade ores only (19dwt. average) co. lias been putting
in new triple expansion engine 400 h.p. ; consequently
only one section has been working. The two sections
which worked last year are being over-hauled and re-
paired, and the firebrick lining of revolvers and fire-boxes
is being pulled down and re-built throughout. The two
new sections are nearly complete, and all four will lie in
full swing about the middle of April. The late slight
increase in gold-output is due to extra rich muudic ore
from deep levels. Excavation for the very extensive new
mundic works is being pushed on with great vigor. An
average of about 1700 men find work at the mine.
Mount Morgan North, chiefly held by staff of
Mount Morgan, is putting up a battery. The show is
said to have unlimited Joz. ore.
* * * •
Net profit of mining in Queensland for ’97 may
he set down at about 11,000,000. From four mining
centres only dividends of Q. mines for ’97 exceeded
£905,000. Oh. Towers from registered mining companies
yielded £340,000: from cyanide works, £40,000; Mt.
Morgan, £300,000 ; Gyinpie, £168,000 ; Croydon, £57,000.
This was an amount far exceeding the total of any other
province, and equal to one-half the entire mining divi-
dends of the rest of Australia, Tasmania and M. L. Geolo-
gist -lack -computes that, roughly speaking, one-half of
the province, or2oo millions of acres, are mineral-bearing.
• * • *
Just now Southern Queensland resounds with
the howl of certain capitalists re the stringency of mining
laws. One of the chief troubles appears to be that miners
in Q. can “ make from £4 to £8 per week as against £3 10s.
down South.” The 25-acre lease limitation comes in for
terrible abuse—inasmuch as “ it is responsible for capital
drifting off to West Australia.” (In VVestralia the mining
lease is limited to 24 acres, but the howling exploiter
doesn’t seen,i to know it.) Charters Towers was mainly
taken up, however, by men who didn’t even want 25 acres —
19 acres being about the average on that wealthy field.
Mount Morgan leases again average out 17 acres ; Gympie
and Ravenswood, 16 acres; while 20 minor fields run down
to as low as three acres. Average for the whole of
Queensland, 14 acres 3 roods. From which it is abun-
dantly evident that 25 acres is actually more than the
average company requires in Queensland —despite the
assertions of the garrulous gang aforesaid.
* • • *
The Forrest Govt, has ignominiously retreated
from the regulation re working alluvial on gold-leases. It
has cancelled the absurd 10ft. limit, and provided that
alluvial miners must work without interfering with the
lessee’s operations, shafts, plant, &c. —any dispute or
difference to be settled by the warden. The release of
imprisoned diggers is left to the warden who sent them to
gaol for contempt. Forrest deprecates any other inter-
ference with the Mining Act till the Mining Commission
has finished its work when Parliament will go into the
whole question. That is what it should have done over a
year ago.
• * • ♦
Westralian gold output for March, 75,3800 z. —
very good. “ This is 21,6400 z. more than February.” Not
a word about its being nearly 20,0000 z. less than the Jan.
return. “ 83960 z. arrived at Geraldton yesterday, too
late to be included in the return.” Not a word that March
got the benefit of over 9000 oz. produced in Feb. Of what
use this humbugging ? It sounds like a Reid financial
statement.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie: “ Market terribly depressed :
Alarming news from London respecting _ Spain and
ame rica causing a feeling of unrest. There is no desire
to purchase, and the majority of brokers are leaving the
field.”
• * * •
Golden Pike mine, Kalgoorlie, has cut the lode
at 400 ft.—proved, it is said, 17ft. wide, some of it running
lloz. per ton. “ The development is of immense import-
ance, as it has proved conclusively that the lodes on the
field go down.” It only proves that this lode goes down
400 ft. in this particular mine. Suppose the lode could
not be found at the 400 would it have been said that this
conclusively proved that the lodes did not go down ? Not
much!
• • * •
A Kanowna (W. A.) correspondent declares that
the alluvial gold-yield per month from that camp runs
from 12,500 to 15,0000 z., in lieu of the 6000 oz. with which
the place is credited. No statement is made as to what
becomes of the balance. Beyond doubt the finest alluvial
claims worked in VV.A. have been found in this lead, and
the yields have been grand, despite disabilities, but there
is nothing but assertion to show that they reach anything
like 15,0000 z. a month.
• • • •
From Coolgardie : “ All the goldfields here are
very sick— i.e., the people on them, and not with typhoid
either. The comp’aint is want of cash and absence of
business. The fields are overdone too many ‘ cats,’
mostly dead or dying; too many hotels, shops, camels,
and too many people for the work to be done. Mining
and business must now settle down on their merits.”
* » * *
Burbank’s mine, W.A., holds its own fairly
well —generally over IOOOoz. a month, and the work ahead
indicates that this return can be kept up certainly for a
year. To sustain the future of the mine, eight to ten
levels are usually kept going, with rises and winzes, while
the main-shaft sinking is not neglected.
* * * *
The opening of the railway to Menzies (W. A.)
was immediately followed by an “invitation” issued by
the mine-owners’ representatives to the men to meet and
“ discuss the question of wages.”
For the first 10 weeks of the year the Norseman
sent away per escort 44770 z. gold as against 15870 z, in the
same time last year.
* » * •
Auriferous wash has been found at the Norse-
man ; but the lead is, so far, not good enough to claim t)je
£5OO reward on.
# * * P
In practical work Murchison big mines pan put
just over loz. per ton. Taking the biggest gold-producer
in each sub-district for last year, the Cue One got 48980 z.
from 0638 tons, the Consolidated Murchison 45380 z. from
8613 tons, the Morning Star 69640 z, from 12,923 tops,
and the Champion 46590 z from 9603 tons. But for the
whole district the year’s yield was 63,0010 z. from 77,40,7
tons ; 33 batteries (405 stamps) were at work.
Kalgoorlie wire:—“The crushing from the
Boulder Main Reef gav.e ll,ooooz. from 830 tons, or lOoz.
jodwt. llgr. to the ton. T;he cyanide i-eturns are not
included ” Pyobablv the biggest average cashing, taking
tonnage into account, aqd yet it is not accompanied by
.the usual shriek. Why ?
• * .• •
lie the Adelaide market and Kalgoorlie mines
Our market about ten days ago turned, and there was
good trade for a week, but London suddenly dropped and
dragged us down again. No doubt there is some weak-
ness in the London market which is keeping things back.
Generally the cry there is that the market would quickly
respond to any movement from this side ; now, however,
it is entirely (he reverse. Adelaide supported London
well lately, and we are quite ready for a good market if
London would but back us up. Despite good reports from
the Australia, Associateds have been sold heavily
here on London account; said to be because
Bottomley is “bearing” this stock while he “bulls”
Northern Territories, in which co. there are 300,000
shares now worth about £5, a rise of nearly £4 in a couple
of months. The London papers say that Bottomley has a
scheme on to amalgamate all the Associated co’s and to
drag in the Dig Associated co. with all his other rubbishy
“ Associateds,” such as Northern Associated, Auxiliary
Associated, Southern Associated, none of which have any-
thing of value. r Jh . e seems little fear, however, of his
being able to carry any scheme through to load the big
Associated co. with his own special rubbish. Lake View
Consols returns should improve from this out; there is
every reason to think these shares have been deliberately
“ beared.” The mine is looking well at the 300. Con-
siderable energy is being shown throughout the field in
development work and equipment, which, with the pro-
mising developments of the past six months, must yield
big fruits before the year is out. I am confident regard-
ing the leading mines ; the worst feature is the uncertain
state of the London market combined with the possibili-
ties of war, though perhaps if a big war did break out,
money might be just as safe in the leading Kalgoorlie'
mines as anywhere else.
» • * *
A Coolgardie advt. : “ Ladies only.—Mrs. Ash-
lev, M.E., late of London, Paris and Melbourne, guaran-
tees to restore regularity.” Well, that is what most of
the mines there want, and if a lady M.E. can do it, more
power to her elbow.
*•* - •
A Pprth (W. A.) merchant found that a case im-
ported l>v him had been opened, valuable contents ex-
tracted, and the case repacked. Detection of the thief
seemed impossible, as it was first necessary to determine
where the case had been opened ; whether at the port of
shipment—London—at Albany, or in Perth goods-shed.
The quest appeared hopeless till an employ^—an enthusi-
astic entomologist—brought his microscope to bear. He
examined the sand used in repacking the case and dis-
covered a peculiar specimen of foraminifera only found
in certain parts of Australia. Result: prosecution of two
goods-shed men.
* • * •
Rap: “You ask where the Australian whisky
goes to, who sells it, and under what label it is put out :
nine-tenths of it goes into the pubs, tied to wholesale
wine and spirit merchants. It is sold by the hundreds of
Murphys and Sullivans who run the hundreds of ‘Sham-
rocks,’ ‘ Harps-of-Erin,' and similarly-named hotels
throughout Australasia, and the bottles are invariably
labelled ‘ Fine old matured Irish (or Scotch) whisky,
specially imported by ’—the wholesale w. and s. dealers,
who buv it from the fine old Irish and Scotch distilleries
of Collingwood, Port Melbourne, or Warrenheip.”
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEE!
93/103%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery,
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Mklkoi'rnk ;
II Pitt-gt., Sydney ; 74 Currie-st., Ad. 1. ; Queen-gt., Brieb.
R. BELL & CO.’S
- - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtninnble Everywhere.
Ars. | PHILIPS & I’lK’-l, Equitable Buildings,
liwi’S. \ Sydxkv ; and U'ki.uno ion. X./.
“Tbc R6ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
IXarriaon. & ikttwood, Sole Proprietors.
THE
Refreshment Department
OK TUB
House of Commons
(Unsolicited)
HAVE ORDERED
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.


Society
[?]lestin
COGNA[?]
On Easter Monday Chief Justice Way
(S.A.) marries Mrs. Blue, widow of a once well-
known Strathalbyn medico. The new S.A. Chief
Justice is a charming woman, petite and pretty.
It is stated that the story surrounding bride and
bridegroom is a very romantic one and that his
Honor has waited nearly 30 years to make the
lady his bride. Anyhow, Adelaide society is
delighted for many and obvious reasons, but
mainly in the hope that an antidote for Govt.
House chillsomeness has at last been found."
The Chief Justice’s engagement recalls that his
name was once coupled with that of an English
duchess, and it was printed that he intended to
settle in England and be permanently among the
nobijity which he so much adored. Yet, all the
time Samuel was patiently waiting to claim his
first love and be the central figure in a bee-.u-tiful
romance ! And Sammy marries Blue blood,
after all !
♦ * * *
In once more championing the distressed
damsels of Sydney Coast Hospital, Mr. Arthur
Hill Griffith, M.L.A., after firing off at the
N.S.W. Chief Secretary 10 categorical questions
about the matter, thus puts the seal upon his own
glorious Hibernicity :
Though I have put the above in the form of interroga-
tions, I desire you to consider them each and all as
deliberate assertions of facts with which I am personally
cognisant.
One of the “ assertions of facts” with which the
beautiful young gintleman from Dublin is “per-
sonally cognisant ” is that “as many as six nurses
sleep in one room.” If Mr. Arthur Hill Griffith
does not retract and apologise at once, he will be
accounted by the cap-and-pinny brigade a very
rude man.
* * * *
‘ ‘The N.S. W. female tram-detective should
be abolished,” remarks a Bulletin correspondent.
“ The conductors say that she deliberately lays
herself out to force the ‘green one’ to let her
travel free. And he, poor devil, rather than give
a nicely-dressed woman in charge, pays the fare
himself—and gets sacked all the same. In the
railway department females are not employed.
Yet the spy system is complete. No man knows
that his next companion is not a ‘D.’ On the
other hand, many of them are apparently not in
the service but travel as season ticket-holders and
trade-drummers.
* * » *
“ Barsac” to The Bulletin :
A lady of foreign birth, bringing a civil action before
Justice Stephen in a Sydney court, the other day, was
severely reprimanded for having, before the case come on,
addressed to his. Honor a letter, alluding in general terms
to herself as plaintiff. The Judge threatened to gaol her
if she again so insulted the majesty of Justice. It should
be remembered, however, that in this matter the majesty
of Justice is an affair of latitude and longitude. In
France both parties to a suit of any consequence pay a
visit of ceremony at the house of the Judge before whom
their case is to be tried. The custom, which is a very old
one, directs them to call in person, and the Judge receives
them in person. Nowadays, when either party is physi-
cally unable to call in person, cards are sent. No one in
France supposes this makes a rent in the robe of Justice ;
rather, it is looked on as a guarantee that, the Judge,
being personally acquainted with both, will act as a
friendly arbitrator in the dispute. Of course, at such
courtesy calls there is no discussion of the merits of either
side allowed. Australian Judges should think of this
when foreigners display a little familiarity. The Noli-me-
tangere Goddess of Australian Supreme Courts breathes
more of Egyptian antiquity than modern civilisation.
*'• * •
The Argus ‘ ‘ quotes ” Salvation Army-
titles in its reports thus: —“Commandant”
Booth, “ Brigadier ” Bloodanfire, &c. This narks
the Harmy warriors, and they now want to em-
brace Syme’s organ, which does not question their
right to the military titles.
* * * *
The sensationalism of the Salvation
Army seems to please its members, but it hits
an ordinarily worshipful outsider rather hard.
The Harmy showed on a limelight screen at Mel-
bourne last week the cross at Calvary with the Son
of Man nailed on it, and all around darkness and
desolation and thunder, save —a Salvation Army
of’ser, clad in cut-away coat, long trousers, black-
polished boots, S..A. cap—a hideous anachronism,
to make the ange s w'eep.
* ♦ * *
All the unemployed are not quite “ cash-
less.” S.M. Herald, 15/3/’9B:
pOUNTRY STOREKEEPERS.-Young man, aged
30, experienced keeping ordinary accounts and
selling, give services and cash bonus £25 for 12
months’ experience and board, lodging, and wash-
ing. Apply Hinchcliff, Holt, and Co., Wool Stores,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
Nearly 10s. per week for 12 months —for the
blessed privilege of being allowed to work !
* * • •
Once more, “ Australia for the Aus-
tralians.” From Sydney D.T., of 2nd inst.: —
SERVANTS WANTED.
A JAPANESE COOK wanted, 255. week (station).
A German COOK wanted, 255. (station).
A Japanese BUTLER wanted, 14s. (station).
An Indian LAUNDRYMAN wanted, 20s. (station).
A Japanese HOUSEMAN wanted, 10s. (station).
A Cingalese COOK wanted, 255. (station).
5 NEW ARRIVALS wanted (English, Scotch, or North
of Ireland), as Farming-men, 15s. week and keep
(station).
A German HOUSEMAN wanted, 10s. (near town).
SIMMONDS, 188 Castlereagh-st.
* * * •
The Japanese “ social evil ” has arrived at
Holy Adelaide.
“HE TOOK THE HINT."
SHE: “ What did your friend D’Auber do when the critics slated his picture? ”
HE: " Got his hair cut!”
Lawyer, to
plaintiff in N.S.
W. police - court
case : “ Did you
give anyone power
to act for you
while you were
away?” P. :
“Yes ; I give me
brother a power
of eternity till I
came back.”
* V
A little man
with a big head
was once brought
before Call, P.M.
(Melb.), as a
drunk. Call recog-
nised him as one
who had formerly
been pretty regu-
lar in attend-
ance. “Broken
out again ? ” he
asked. “ Well,
yer worship,”
said the little
man, “fact is,
I’ve been teetotal
for the last 12
months. But, up
at the library, yer
worship, I got old
of a book on long
life, by a chap
named Huffeland.
An’,yer worship,
he says—lays it
down as a leadin’
principle that
you should never
wholly abandon
an old habit, even
if it’s a bad ’un.”
“Defence good
this time,” said
Call, and the little
man went across
to the corner.
Close on 100,0001 b. of opium enters Aus-
tralia annually, of which 20001 b. go into medicine.
There are 30,000 smokers, one-tenth of whom are
Europeans, the balance consisting of Chinese,
Kanakas, aborigines, and Hindoos.
* • * *
From out-back :
There is the making of a nice little tragedy up this
way. One of the small “cookies” goes in for cheap
labor, i.e., Sobraon (N.S.W. reformatory-ship) boys.
Week before last the “ cockie ” had occasion to speak
sharply to the boy. The old man was ploughing at the
time, and, whilst he was going down the paddock and
back, the lad had got an old Enfield rifle from the house,
planted it in one of the furrows, and was standing by it.
The man told the boy to go and do something. For an-
swer he got a bullet over his shoulder, within an inch of
his head, killing the near-side horse in the plough. No
proceedings have been taken. The boy stays on, also the
man—for a little while, at anyrate.
An English girl, who recently
arrived in Maoriland, is stranded
there, with a bad grievance as her
principal asset. She answered an
advt. in England for a housekeeper to
a Maoriland squatter, salary <£so a
year, passage paid, comfortable home,
and other attractions. Her passage
was paid right enough, and she
reached Wellington, where she was
met by a faded-looking cocky of over
60, who announced himself as her
employer. This was a bad shock to
begin with, for the ancient hayseed
wasn’t at all like the affluent em-
ployer she had expected. But, when
she reached the comfortable home,
and found a two-roomed humpy, with
only one bed in it, she uttered a
shriek and then girded up her um-
brella and fled back to the city. And
now, she says, the old man wants
her to repay the passage-money, on
the ground of breach of contract.
* * *
An instance of the horrifying
uncertainty which attends the course
of true love in Australia. They met,
by appointment, at a suburban street-
corner. He had returned from the
country after a fruitless search for
work, and she had taken a position
as nurse-girl in his absence, and was
carrying a baby. They had “ words,”
and she suddenly swallowed some-
thing out of a small bottle, popped
the infant into his arms, exclaiming,
“ Hold the baby, I’ve poisoned my-
self !” and fell on the pavement.
The girl is in the hospital, not ex-
pected to recover, and no informa-
tion concerning the unexpected in-
fant can be obtained from her. In-
quiries as to its parentage have
proved futile ; no one has turned up
to claim it. And the young man,
thus saddled with an unaccountable
baby, is regarded with the gravest
suspicion.
When the inevitable and badly-wanted
reconstruction of N.S.W. Marine Board happens,
a liberal proportion of ships’ engineers should be
appointed. At present the boards consist entirely
of ancient skippers, mostly from sailing vessels,
although half the mishaps they have to deal with
are connected with steamers. A man may travel
for 30 years as a navigating officer and still know
nothing of marine engines. Yet Govts, persist in
entrusting knotty points of steam navigation to
seamen only educated in the rule of ropes and
canvas.
* * * *
A Melb. malpractice-case once more illus-
trates the cheerful irresponsibility of lovely
woman in the eyes of Australian Justice. A girl
approached, a quack-doctor to be relieved of her
abdominal “pains,” stayed in his house three
weeks, and paid him <£lo. The “ treatment by
instrument and massage—was unsuccessful; and
the girl demanded her money back. It was re-
fused ; and she complained to the police, who
prosecuted the “doctor” and his partner for
treating her with illegal intent. A jury found
/I j3DE:tv\oim
•v / 'ZBowle.r s
IT WOULD
33EEN
LT,CUSH» LE—g
Tk'NCE I
°f
LqTtROUSE
STYLE
Little, j
:Boy
Tuoro
f^RNLV
' .siLuy '
lILL-(
"Rolling- .
(X iDujok^
TWE - CHOHCA"
MORE LADIES’ CRICKET-MATCH.
them guilty; and Judge Hood, in awarding
sentences of two years and 18 months, said “ they
were both making a living by practising a horrible
crime.” And to the girl, who sought and paid
for the “ treatment,” nothing happens —as usual !
• • » *
Fine slab of hallelujah from the speech of
Commissioner Booth at the recent congress of
Happy Sarahs and Converted Janes in Mel-
bourne :
This Salvation Army business is a profitable concern ; it
is going ahead, and we will help it ahead. (Loud cries of
“ Hallelujah ”). And we will stick aboard of it. (Amen.)
We have to praise God not only for what He has done for
us, but also for what has not happened to us. You might,
for instance, have broken your neck. (Loud laughter
and “ hallelujah.”) All who believe it say “ hallelujah ! ”
(Loud cries of “hallelujah.”) You might have lost your
reason, and might have been there in the Kew asylum.
(Renewed laughter and cries of “ Amen.”) All who have
any brains say “ hallelujah !” (Renewed “ hallelujah. ”)
You might have been a poor miserable God-forsaken back-
slider, walking with those who have gone back from the
ways of truth and holiness, but, thank God, you haven’t.
Say “hallelujah!” (Loud “hallelujahs.”) You might
have been among the giddy crowd—among those ladies
—ah, ah, lardy dardy—the nice, painted, puffed, blown
out sort of young ladies. (Loud laughter and groans of
“Amen.”) You might have walked along the streets of
Melbourne with a sort of pneumatic tire on each arm, and
yet you are not among that gay lot. Say “ hallelujah ! ”
(Loud hallelujahs.) Some of you men here might have
been sporting men —you know, the real sport, the
“ good ” sportsman with a long-sleeve hat, a huge stick
with a great crook upon it, and a yard or two of collar
trying to climb over your ears. (Loud laughter.) You
might have been doing the toff. (Renewed laughter.)
If you are pleased say “ hallelulajah ! ” (Cries of “hal-
lelujah.”) You might have been a sort of “ cricket-ar,”
all gloves and pants and pads, and your great ambition
might have been to dump down, take your place at the
wickets, go off the “ cent-ar,” and wait for the first ball.
Your great ambition might have been in an easy living
world to make a great score, but, thank God, you have
got something better. (Amen and Hallelujah).
Then the audience, part of which had its nose
painted red to represent the converted drunkard,
or was otherwise got up in giddy rags and kilts
and bed-hangings, did a final hallelujah which
nearly blew the end right out of the Town Hall.
* * * *
The boss “ in-return-for ” advt. up to date,
from Sydney Telegraph of March 12
TVENTIST, high qualifications, wants Board and
As Lodgings, in return for artificial teeth. Aid,
Daily Telegraph.
In a word —My Teeth for Your Steak !
» • « *
“Eight Mormon elders have arrived at
Wellington. They intend to propagate the Mor-
mon faith in Maoriland during their stay of two
years, and will probably also visit Australia.
But Australia doesn’t want those Mormons —for
them to come here would be to gild the lily. True,
Australia doesn’t profess Mormonism. But deed. 1
are better than words.
The late GEORGE ROBERTSON, bookseller
Photo., Foster & Martin, Melbourne.
DAVID
/ Opposite \
\ U.P.O. )
ORIENT "
s CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
By far the Best Victorian Coal
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne


Little, by little the.clergy are losing the
grip of even their own churches. Fo-
the first time in any country the Bible
Christian Church in South Australia at its
annual conference appointed a layman its
president ; for some time past the same
practice has not been uncommon among the
Primitive Methodists ; and in the Wes-
leyan body the laymen are taking part in
the stationing of ministers and other busi-
ness which always hitherto
was reserved for the paid par-
sons.
* » *
One southern doctor,
whose herbal treatment
never does any harm
even if it does no good,
is seldom seen in pub-
lic "without an attend-
ant patient, the sick
man at the start look-
ing as if King Death
would grab him at any
moment. Each succeed-
ing day sees the patient
gradually recovering, un-
til at the end of a fortnight
or so he is as hale and hearty
as could be desired. ' He'is
then succeeded by another
decrepit human specimen
who, in turn, turns out a
remarkable cure. As an
ad vertising dodge the patient
who recovers in public beats
creation.
• * *
Jeff: “Notlong ago I was
dining in an hotel when the fire-
bell rang. Said the landlord :
‘ We’ll go and see the fun, if
you like, when we’ve finished.
I do like a damned good fire.’
Five minutes later the water was
pouring down upon him from the
rooms above, and 50 minutes later
the hotel was clean burnt-out. He had got what
he ‘liked,’ with a vengeance ! ”
• * * *
Topp, the Melb. lawyer, in giving evidence
before the Law Commission abused the “amal-
gams ” as the scamps of the legal profession :
No douht he’s right: “ Amalgams” have
A double dose of sin,
Since an “ amalgam” really is
A sort of devil’s twin !
* * » *
In Bananaland Tommy Tanna looks upon
the Chow as his shepherd and guide in the paths
of city vice. If Tommy wants to gamble Ah Sin
provides fan-tan, pak-a-pn, or dice. If Tommy
wants an intoxicant-opium or whisky is supplied
by the same hands; if Tommy wants a little
debauchery Ah Sin usually has “ fattee white gel ”
in stock who is partial to a jolly islander. Tommy
is never so happy as when, at the end of his time,
he packs his chest and carcase on to a Chinese
waggonette, and is driven into town by a bloated
Celestial spider.-
* * * *
DISHONORED.
My darling little country lass —
One dipped in beauty’s fount,
Who wandered off to town long since,
Returns, marked “ no account.”
R. G. S.
* * * »
Westralia maintains an aboriginal penal
settlement on Rottnest Island, where Gov. Jerry-
smith also has his summer residence. Under this
arrangement Westralia runs a serious risk of losing
its Jerrysmith by a violent death at almost any
moment. There are 80 aboriginal convicts on the
island, including murderers and procrastinators
and other dreadful characters. Three warders
and a governor look after them, and the warders
have an empty rifle apiece. There is not a single
speck of ammunition on the island, so the officials
are supposed to keep order by aiming road-metal
at the defendants when necessary. On Sundays
the convicts are allowed to roam loosely over the
island, and there is nothing at all to prevent them
calling on Gov. Smith and insisting on dining
with (or upon) him. They might even coerce him
with a chair-leg into pardoning the whole lot of
them. Boats are allowed to come as near to the
island as they like, and occasionally convicts seize
a boat and throw the occupants ashore, and leave
for parts unknown. Sometimes weeks pass be-
fore they, or some other niggers who look
reasonably like them, are re-captured and
affably flogged for their misconduct. Fishermen
come at times and live on Rottnest, and swap bait
with the prisoners on Sundays. The convicts are
turned loose on the day of rest with orders to
report themselves at the gaol by six, and in the
interval Gov. Smith’s cook is liable at any moment
to be soared out cf her seven senses by the large,
shook head of a nigger, who is doing 20 years for
murder, appearing at the window and demand-
ing provender. Probably if Gov. Smith was
obliterated the country would get on just the
same, but if such an event happened the Govern-
ment would certainly feel called upon to flog every
nigger within 150 miles, so the loss of even Smith
should be averted if possible.
* * » *
Dear Bulletin.—At benefit ball (in the
country). Midnight. Floor very dusty. Parson
ascends stage. “ Ladies and gentlemen, I think
the dancing could be continued more pleasantly if
the floor were swept. The gentlemen will kindly,
therefore, take the ladies out for a while.” You
should have seen the holy man when the laugh
broke out—but we went.—Fitz.
ORDHER!
P.M.: “I must have order!"
O.O: “ Have ’havior there, have ’havior; what
d’yiz mane by such conduction as those? ”
Scotty the Wrinkler ;
Dear Bullktin, —Your correspondent says that in
Sydney alone has he seen the dust-bins raked for scraps.
Everyone knows that in Paris the Chouans, or sewer-rats,
and their mates over the water not only live on garbage,
but collect and sell it. I have done the whole of the Mel-
bourne and suburban slums lately and find that those
who seek food there are nearly all broken-down “ swells ”
—men “ who have seen better days” and “to beg are
ashamed.” The “gamins” live on the undecayed part
of discarded fruit and supplement it by the remains of
the market-gardeners’ snacks, and a new class of beggars
has arisen. When the railway-men and sewerage people
are wending, &c., they are assaulted by “Any lunch left,
sir? ” from hoys and girls. This, however, is taken home
and rationed out by the parents. The feed of Melbourne,
however, is the pint of beer and lunch for 3d. ; and at
Tony’s, in Flinders-street, a pint of beer, a feed, and
a cigar— all for the tray. For 4d. a really good, three-
course meal can be had in several restaurants.
« • » *
The sister-in-law of a very newly-married
Victorian sky-pilot had arrived on a visit to the
happy pair, and next morning when the holy man
attended to “ Milk-oh !•” he signified that more
than usual would be needed, as “ we had an addi-
tion to our family last night! ” “My word ! ”
blurted out the astounded milky. “ That is quick
work ! Boy or girl, sir ? ”
SCOTTISH CAUTION.
SHE: “ And those soldiers in ti
without kilts, are they Scotch-
men?”
SERGEANT : “ O, aye; but they are
recruitys—and we awlways
keep them in breeks till the
hair grows on their leys!”
Lignum : In a country
P.O, one day, I overheard a
wealthy local squatter refusing
to take a letter charged with
deficient postage. “ Only from some
d d shearer, asking for a job,” he
said ; “ I’m not going to waste 4d. on it.” “Take
the letter, then,” said the clerk, “ and I’ll pay the
4d. The poor devil may be badly in need of
work ! ” Then the squatter cashed-up for very
shame.
• • » *
Holdar M. : “ Have been taking stock of
that poor, jaded, broken-kneed derelict, the Syd-
ney ’bus-horse,'with its load of care. The apathy of
wooden and callous authority in this respect is abso-
lutely criminal. Also, dastardly draymen savagely
sawing their horses’mouths with the bit, kicking
them in the belly, and even striking the unprotest-
ing beasts with blue-metal to goad them into im-
possible efforts, form a not uncommon city sight.
Has humanity becorhe so saturated with selfish
stoicism that the brutal bondage of this patient
animal can be complacently tolerated ? It makes
onedread that insuch adense, sterilised community
Suffield will be callously left to moulder unheeded
in his cell.
A feature of Melbourne life is the decom-
posed elderly recluse who is found in bed, when
the police break in the door, their attention hav-
ing been drawn to the case by the fact that six
days’ loaves and milk have accumulated on the
back step. Apparently a large number of Mel-
bourne people live alone in small suburban houses,
and die there alone, and are found under highly
unpleasant circumstances a long time afterwards,
with a great deal of back rent due. Two or three
such people expired during the late heat spells,
and the other day somebody noticed that an
elderly lone spinster in South Yarra hadn’t been
seen lately, so Policeman X drove his large pro-
fessional boot through the door and investigated.
She had been dead longer than anybody cared to
go into details about, and apparently her last act
had been to cover her head with the blankets so
as to obviate the fragrance of the open drain in
front' of the house. The great Fitzgibbon sewage
system hasn’t reached South Yarra yet.
* * * *
A peculiar bigamy case was heard in Mel-
bourne, the other day, when one Hobby was
charged with marrying No. 2 whilst No. 1 was
still in active operation. No. 2 took the witness-
stand and swore that it was all her doing. She
had been living with accused for some time, and
feeling that he was her Hobby she took him one
evening when he was so extremely drunk that he
had not the remotest idea who he was, what he
was, or how in thunder he happened to be at all,
and had him married to her by the late Nat Kins-
man. This is the second case of the kind that
has occurred in Melbourne within ten months,
and it goes to prove that, as a matter of self-
defence, it is expedient for a man to keep sober in
Yarrasinell.
* * * *
The played-out Caucasian ! Lady of pre-
tentious mansion, to white hawker: “ How much
are your potatoes ?” “Fourteen pounds a shillun’,
lady.” “ Oh, give me threepenn’orth, please ; I’ll
do with them till my John comes round.”
* * * •
Mac. : “Melbourne Charity Organisation
Society goes to great trouble to impress the people
whom it * assists’ with a sense of their degrada-
tion. The unfortunate man who drives its wood-
cart about the suburbs has his poverty flashed
before the public by a huge plate on the side of
the cart bearing the name of the society.
A few weeks back a Bulletin correspon-
dent reported that scores of carcases were floating
down the Darling past Bourke ; and he added —
“People drink the water.” Now, “there are 34
cases of typhoid at Bourke,” and hardly a down-
river township is free from the disease.
N.:“The
working
man’s wife is
usually a slave
and a cow. A
young man and
woman are seized
with romance. Then
comes the ever-ready
hungry parson for his
three guineas. A s
soon as the employer
gets hold of the mar-
ried man he cuts down
his wages, knowing the
poor fellow has his sticks, or
furniture, his wife, other chat-
tels, and children, to nail him. Every
additional child is an additional sinker.
Then the children go running down worse and
worse physically. The wife is a mere wretched
breeding-machine, and cooker of everlasting hate-
ful chops and steaks. The children get no educa-
tion, which is the only thing to fit them to grapple
with the world.”
* * * *
The young men who tumbled over one
another in their anxiety to get an easy job on the
Melb. trams ought to read the evidence given by
Drs. Woinarski and Williams before the parlia-
mentary committee. Woinarski was doctor to
two lodges, one being the Tramways Mutual
Benefit Society. In ’94 and ’95 about 68 per cent,
of the tramway men “ declared ” on the funds ; in
’96 about 50 per cent. In the other lodge, a
general benefit society, the percentages were 34,
26, and 18 for the same years. Oscillation of cars,
exposure, long hours, and irregular meals are sug-
gested as the causes of the excessive sickness of
the tram-men.
IN COMMON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wedded—they pass along the lonely street 1
His thin, pale face and weirdly-hollow eye
Tell why her shapely feet refuse to trip,
Why the red lips look desert-parched and dry—
The lips a little kissing had made sweet.
Storms towards them with a manly, swinging stride
A figure full of life and fire and youth !
Her eyes dilating and her trembling lip
Tell him a woman may, in very truth,
Forget the God-made husband at her side.
He thunders onwards home. (A frail girl-life,
A silent house, a smell of drugs and dust.)
And in the vision walking by his side—
That other’s full, sad eyes, her shapely, bust —
Forgets her husband, and his God-made wife.
Perth, W.A.
L. M. D.
<3
"Have You
FOR.GO7TEH
? n
uillm'S'
§T<
Wh/MUrt). s
as
X? OSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. J3F” Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of Imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shims
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, a'land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and Millett). _
CATANZAJtO LIQUOItICJE
Wholesale Only ' ' ■
from HY. MARKWALD,
11 Pitt-st., 178 William-sfc., 14 Currie-st.,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane. .
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
J.S. : “ The Bloke as said The Bulletin wood
give a quid ” for that poem was a base deceiver
llarnish : Picture of five opal-buyers pursued by a skele-
ton declined Kitty (Queensland): Too thin and crude
and unfinished Kitty Fudge : A far-too-long tale about
a great deal too little Wah Kee : Begins well with the
woman selling herself for love; ends ineffectively with
her selling herself for money and not getting the money,
after all Microbus : Purple shriek received J.D. :•
Dives bosses the municipal governments, and the want of
sanitary arrangements shows that Dives is horribly dirty.
True. But Lazarus has a good show in the Assembly, any-
how, and in the absence of any serious effort at sanitary
legislation this paper fears that Lazarus is none too clean
either ..M.B.M. : Don’t believe it R.A. : “Rough-cut
Love” is cut just a little too rough .P. Olex :“Success” —
it isn’t! .T. 8.0. : Built up of hackneyed verse-phrases
and ideas. Try more on your “own.”, Tripodens:
“ Memory ” pretty ; sorry unsuitable. Rest musical, and
fairly' imaginative, but conventional in tone and unequal
in handling A.M.: “ Lucretia ” acceptable Peli-
can: Will print Johnson I. Didit: Well, you haven’t
“did it ” this time, anyhow G.11.C. :Confused ideas—
in verse that alternately swings well and wobbles pain-
fully Amicus: Bulletin never “ sacrifices ” such
modesty as yours. Sorry not forcible enough Yinpah :
No time to puzzle out needle-tracks Pete W.: “Plenty
of spare time,” have you? That’s just the trouble—we
haven’t! Piscis : Very fishy C.R.W. : Half the men
you mention were of more or less English or Scottish ex-
traction —no more Hibernians than a man born of whites
at Hong-Kong would be a Chinaman Beatrice M.; Just
a toucli of strength here and there A.B.C.D. : Sorry
not class enough. Fear your “ pen ” will not do much
for you in the way you mention Rata : “ Perhaps the
corpse, when dead, was still alive.” No question about the
deadness of your “ pome,” anyhow ! M.B.P. : Learn to
spell; don’t trust in carefully-manufactured causticities
and you may yet do fair work F.R. : Thinly pathetic
treatment of threadbare theme Ethel G. : Small,
weak story, staggering under 3cwt. of unnecessary
preamble, but not quite empty of promise
W.P.L. : You are hopelessly long-winded Haw : Coals
to Newcastle—" Sign ” an old Bulletin subject J. W.,
jun., (S.): Hope to hear from you again Prompter :To
hand.. Alone: Unsuitable Kylee (W.A.): Dull
Libeo : No value in such unrealised imaginations 5.0.:
Fluent and stale E.M. : Declined “ Ramnah ” : Not
interest enough C.O : Good enough for the camp-
fire ; not for print K.M. (Kalgoorlie): No chop
J.W.E. : Can’t use W.M.F. : One returned; con-
sidering other Rapho : Acceptable if original
6xB: For egotists look among avowed socialists; for
sneak thieves among professed pietists ; and for sexual
monomaniacs among the Purity Societies F.C.K. :
Don’t care to boom the local Chow, even if he is aged 97
and has a “ wonderful pair of luminous eyes.” Moa
Received W.M.F. (Camperdown) : Below par Mac. :
“ Melb. men are chronic match-borrowers.” Great Scott 1
In the boom-days they used to borrow' the earth; now
they borrow matches J.M. (Oootamundra) : Scratch
(we .mean sketch) not good enough Benedict: Old
obscenity and very aged beastliness H.T.N. : Don’t
want to “ rescue it from obscurity.” Obscurity is good
enough for it Brendenyabba : Pale, staggery scrawl to
hand Her. : Loathe essays beginning “The time has
now arrived when it is the solemn duty of the people to
consider,” &c. The time w'hen it is the duty of the people
to consider, &c., has always arrived J. : The Tocsin is
trying to do good work, anyhow, and its internal dissen-
sions are its own funeral Fiz : Too gor3'. The office
looked like a slaughter-house when we had finished read-
ing it. .Artist: You aren’t one yet. Cobbler:
Thanks. Will print A. Harp : Your beautiful lie has
been anticipated. In the other perjury the snake bit a
’bus .... Gordon F.K. : We didn’t say the verses were
“ the property of The Bulletin.” We only said they
had been printed in this paper. When a man sends to a
newspaper verses in MS. it is assumed, in the absence of
any express statement by him to the contrary, that he
wishes them to be regarded as original Acid(Gobar):
This paper is not to blame. Its contributor has evidently
sent the same item to the Co-operator and to itself in
two different forms .... P. : Bulletin does not undertake
to say that “ So-and-so, the-actor, is divorced from his
w'ife and is engaged to a massive chorus-girl at the Prin-
cess’—at least that is what the lady herself says.” If
The Bulletin said such things no mummer would ever
work. He would simply live in and on the libel-court
Robin Studholme : Eve had a feed of apples,, the result
was a boy. Having been reproved for eating apples, she
naturally set great store by that diet and stuck to it. Re-
sult: another boy. Conclusive J.G.B. : “My Muse
is dead, the Poet said ” —and your muse isn’t born yet
H.J.H. : Mildly pathetic W.F.F. (Tas.): Sorry unsuit-
able in present form Murmur : Quite worthless
Widgee : “ Bar ’’-sketch promising, but neither up to
mark A.O.P. (Melb.): Not bad, but too long-winded
for B Kathleen D. : Rather clever, but somewhat
off our track Flash: Only “in the pan.” Ida:
Elegant inanity E.M‘F. : Too many cuss-words.
Strong language isn’t necessarily strong writing
7x7 (Nothing in ’em Fitzhoo : Some pars, may use.
“ Slooney ” unsuitable. “ Hinda ” ends well, but too
long and uneven. “Darling” will consider F. Rat
cliffe.: Graceful treatment of tired old theme:.....C.A.
Commissioner Chomley is one kind of man ; the ordinary
policeman is of quite another sort. But, tell us—do you
know any case in which the police have brought forward
evidence favorable to the accused? M.B. (Brisb.) •
Take the text and welcome ; and if anybody calls you a
pirate complain to the Marine Board J.J. O’M. : One
survey of Man doomed V.R.B. : One more unfortunate
—isn’t Tom Hood’s enough for you? Zad : Idea too
stale P.W. (M.L.): Don’t care for “Battle” T.J.
(M.L.): No use for sermons F.W.H. : Flat Wild-
rose : Very weak; where’s all your spirit gone?
Violet: You haven’t begun to understand what’s wanted.
..'...AVer : Tell us, who is that old identity, “ Jemmy
from the Wire Fence”? S.H.W. (C.Q.): Thanks
E. : Now and then The Bulletin prints “ facts,” but
“absolute facts” always go into the w.p.b Coona-
warra : May use one. Merobo : Make no mistake. Tub
Bulletin doesn’t profess to be “ truthful,” or “patriotic,"
or “ public-spirited,” or “animated by motives far be-
yond the venal mainsprings of,” &c., &c,, &c. It is pub-
lished, like all the rest of the papers, to make a
living for the people who run it, and to give them
the pleasure of hearing themselves purr when they like
to do so, and of hearing themselves swear when they feel
that they must swear or explode. In short, The Bulletin is
published—price 6d, advts. as per scale. If you like
to perceive patriotism and virtue in The Bulletin, all
right Winda : Will print .... A.C.A. : Every successful
dressmaker is the granddaughter of a Somebody and
niece of a Somebody Else Declined with thanks : You
were too sanguine. We decline without thanks
Klickerskiter : Ranji was the adopted heir of some Indian
prince, one of whose relatives has now jumped Ranji's
claim Umpire : Your satire makes us sad Trevel-
lyin : We regard all such people with the greatest sus-
picion ... E. : You are too obviously a lacquey to “the
profession.” P. : You really imagine that old man
Creswick went back from Australia to London with
“ blushing honors thick upon him ” ? Australia was then
an unknown country . .. J. O’K. : Received Veritas :
What you want is Somebody’s Special Potery Pill, guaran-
teed to cure the most obstinate cases. Unluckily, it isn’t
invented yet .. Aloe: Declined with sniff Neil:
Point poorly handled A.W.R. : Not good enough
F. : Perhaps one morsel from the mass Berthual:
Noted Eurub : The usual incapacity of an inch to
become a foot W. Barton : One might do Horizon-
tal : Not weight enough Monocle : Groundwork of
good character-sketch E. Treger : Will consider
Shaw G. : Some merit, but lacks dramatic force Gem :
Not “of purest ray serene.” Max F. : Characters too
puppety F.N.N. : Very old A. Dullard : Verse not
up, though it isn’t dull enough to justify your appellation.
Marsyas : Inauspicious name. Apollo flayed him for
his bad poetry.


A WOMAN 9 S LETTER.
Sydney, April 5, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
Albani’s first concert last week was a biting
illustration of the virtue of sticking to a good
thing while you have it. The audience was a
thing of shreds and patches, except where reserved
seats crowded together to breathe in royalty
again. Thin galleries and a scattered house
must have been ugly sights for the artist who
looked out last month on one of the densest Town
Hall crowdings. That month of absence gave
Sydney time to feel its pulse, and analyse its emo-
tions, and finally brought it to the second greatest
Australian adjective—Disappointed. So sudden
a fall in temperature isn’t healthy for a singer, but
the Albani played queen as brightly as if ice were
unknown out of England, and practically directed
her amiable smile towards the southern gallery,
where not even a friendly Town Hall rat showed
its responsive teeth.
But those who stayed away lost the best Albani
has yet given us, or can give us. For the first time
in Sydney she sang with the voice of a big singer,
as well as with the. airs and graces of one. Always
seductive, and subtly caressing, even when tiie
voice is tired to an echo, this night a youthful
liquidness was in her throat that justified her
fearlessness, and finesse, and vivacity, her un-
paralleled scheme of skipping, and bowing,
and hand-kissing. Watching that gaily frisking
figure trip up and down the platform, my mind
refused to conjure up a picture of the star, sans
frisks, sans sports, sans somersaults, singing
ballads to one serious old lady in a plaid arm-
chair with the Sabbath air of Scotland all around.
With the return of Albani, the vexed question
of artists’salaries comes up again. All sorts of
fabulous fees are rolled about on the public’s
tongue, and the singers themselves keep the
legendary prices as high as possible. The shortest
cut to the truth is to ask the artist what she or he
— for this is a case when a man can lie—gets.
Divide that by as much as you like, then add up
the, hire of the hall, cost of advertising, payment
of co., return-fares of the star, throw in something
for the management, and deduct it all from your
previous quotient. If it won’t deduct, the
singer gets a little more than that. But fictions
about fees are not the only ones that visitors
spread broadcast through this ingenuous land. A
nightingale who crossed the seas to warble here
some aeons ago was bad 1 y given away by her tenor
in a matter of this kind. Site described with a
piquant modesty View the Queen had commanded
her to sing in The White Room, and presented her
with heartfelt praise, a tear in her eye, and an
Indian shawl. But she made the mistake of say-
ing that her tenor was also commanded, and had
also received a shawl. The first extra encore to the
lady’s score broke up their friendship, and with
ravre and envy in his soul the tenor went about
telling everyone, “ I have never seen the Queen in
my life, and the Queen has never even heard of
her ! ”
To go back to the concerts, Wednesday’s would
have been an artistic triumph with nothing in the
liousebutAlbani’s angels, ever bright and fair. Her
alluringly supplicating tones must have fetched
the hoariest old archbishop in Lucifer’s coterie,
and we hear there is still considerable fluttering in
the upper dove cotes when it is known that the
diva wishes to be taken there. Orlando Harley
brightened up for the evening, but erred in
bringing “ Annie Laurie ” forward. Four or five
years ago he owned the most agreeable “ Annie
Laurie ” on record, with the brightest eye and the
longest neck Sydivy has seen, but dyspepsia has
worn her to a shadow, and it grieved me to lose
my happy memory of her charms. As for the
rest of the company, Sarah Berry and Nora
Clench performed as carefully as though their
school-marms were scowling over their shoulders,
and you finished with them when they had finished
with you—or perhaps a little sooner. The peculiar
Pauli introduced “ers”and “hahs”ond “haws”to
Gounod’s “Faust,” and scattered trills gener-
ously along the front rows. Pretty Nora Clench
gave color to the picture in a clinging frock of
white velvet, the bolero cut away snappily to
reveal an orange velvet waist and corsage, and the
Star was a black, white and diamond orb, with
red camellias on her shoulder and royaltv in her
hair dressing.
The Saturday matinee brought a bigger house,
but the galleries were still pretty sad and cold.
In pink, with her hair undecorated, Madame was
really adorable. Ropes of pearls hung from her
waist, and danced when she danced, and there
were diamonds somewhere. She herself was a
Sparkle : hands, eyes, lips, arms, all worked hard
for her, and I own I succumbed to the gleeful
smile with which she naively salutes her own
efforts. You want to know about her beautiful,
liquid voice ? Ah, treachery, it was gone again,
and the bows, and smiles, and general eccentrici-
ties were again an empty comedy without
laughter.
Albani concert No. 3 filled the house with en-
thusiasm, and encores, and a great crowd. Nora
Clench was a pale-green aesthete, with angel
sleeves and an Irish smile that never missed the
mark. The three ladies at these concerts have
all devoted special attention to the smile, and each
in her own way has brought it to perfection.
Sarah Berry beetles her brows and looks distrait
and worried while she sings, then breaks into a
dimple that would do Nellie Stewart honor.
Nora Clench puts a brogue into her smile that
only a Bridget or a Nora could achieve, and
Albani presents you with the largest, loveliest
facial illumination that was ever given away with
half-a-crown’s worth of music.
The ladies’ cricket match was a picturesque
object lesson in women. But first let me tell you
that the libel hurled at women all along this
century is now removed, never to be burled again,
and the truth triumphs that a woman can run as
well after a ball as before it. Ihe divided skirt
may here put in its claim, for the ordinary godet
would , neV( ? r l,ave twinkled about the field as
smartly as those cream serge knickers. Silly Billy 3
duuk « "'hicli was let out of a big box bat, was the
leading joke of the day-unless you think it a
J” ku 'bat 'be lady cricketers could not induce the
a , ctorß to tr , eat tllem seriously, and although it was
t ,e,r 'natch, never got a chance to show what
.V co *" d really do. I am told that the
das ‘". n ? female eleven is still sad, and a little sore,
to think of all the preliminary practice it wasted,
when any sort of a hit would have been good
®m>ugh for its buffoon opponents,
A large and beautiful actress is said to be very
restive just now over the fact that more than half
her applause is snared by another actress in the
same piece, who is so like her that the public
mistakenly claps one for the other. Ibe other
a< r‘L. ress wouldn t be so like if she did her hair
differently, but it is a fact from the Antique that
nc j woman alters her hairdressing to give her rival
a better s " ow *
At the Lyceum, Inez Bensnsan attracted a more
dressy house on Saturday night than that build-
ing has seen for a long time, and a huge crowd
hung over the galleries and sat on the steps of the
d.c. Maud Williamson attired herself allegori-
cally as Faith. Act 1., white; Act 11., green ;
Act 111., black. The gods were touched by this
attention to a favorite myth of theirs. I feel I
uni getting mixed, but must go on and say that
they loved her so she nearly died. Inez Bensnsan,
with a graceful carriage, and clear, delicate voice
was a telling little study of rench fiend*dom, and
looked as beautiful as only av. Harness can ook.
Her hrst frock was black and I? renehy, with long,
transparent sleeves and scarlet flowers and a >lack
ornament in her luur that looted ike a cloven
J lo<d » an( | Helped her along wonderfully. In the
J ast ? ct s ,e , wore a white gown worm admiring
for the s,,btl . e cut of th /‘ ak ' rt - , 1 hese dressings
S', ve one a tuc , e outlook on life. Faith begins
white and ends black; villainy begins black and
f lu J?. . w ‘ lte - ■J^ ack and blacker is the s age
tmd.tion for a she villain, and white, whitewashed
t,H the brush wears out, is i.nth s old style of
ra.ment-and the change is truly grateful,
The Metaphysical Society of N.S.W., whose
members cure themselves when ill by repeating
over a few thousand times that there is nothing
wrong with them, is, owing to a recent occurrence,
g°hig ahead “by leaps and bounds.” Ibe society
has a system of silent treatment with which it
cures all sortsof diseases, and a maturelady who had
the job of treating a smooth-faced youth of
eighteen treated him with such effect that lie went
off with the mature lady and married her. Asa re-
suit, marriageable females of all ages are rushing
the aforesaid society to learn the new way to catch
a man—or even a boy.
On the highest authority, I may tell you that
the time is coining when stationers will include
among their stock cards inscribed, ‘ I am
a t leisure for a btnefit on , 189 -. llie
filling up of the name-space, and a penny stamp
and envelope, will then be the only recommenda-
turns needed for the beneficiary. W e are not there
yut, but a local mother is leading us that way
quickly. She owns a son whom she is anxious to
turn into a prodigy.before lie passes the time
when prodigy can be no more. So she writes to
everyone she knows, or doesn t know, and invites
them to attend a meeting to arrange a benefit to
send my talented son to ’ well, no matter. Lven
a Gouli-Gouli would not cast a dart at a mothers
pride, but when, apparently, the parents of the
prodigy-to-be could send him abroad three times
over, and half his benefactors with him the bene-
At system is abused and insulted, and threatens to
on strike.
A rumor is out that a big tea-drinking establish-
ment is going to—well, do without all the
waitresses who “ are not ladies.” The wisdom of
this isn’t obvious. There are still yieople at large
who think it gives their tea a flavor to have it
served by bands that Govt. House has shaken,
but a large grumble lias long been loose among
Sydney mankind, and the grumble says that it is
pleasanter to be served by a woman who is only a
woman, than by a woman who has to remember
that she is a lady, and can t be hurried, and rnusn t
be tipped. Culture hands you a cup of tea with
a grace that strongly appeals to the eminine,
but the Mere Male likes a lot of Smile with bis
tea, and that is just what lady-waitresses won t
ff lve bun.
An uncanny combination of medicine and music
is the Bile Beans March, and no family should
ever be without it. F. H. Full ford is the proud
composer of the bilious strains that swing you
along as if the whole of the Bile Bean and i ink
Pill family were after you. Many musicians will
prefer it to the Dance of Death, but my health is
so brutally good that I can t distinguish between
the two, and could die as easily to either. Another
mareh-and this time an Australian national one
-is by Miss I ranees E. Walsh, but I do hope my
country will hasten to the battle-field less
languidly.
The Australian Works of Art that Miss Eadith
Walker is chaperoning through a Loin lon season
have not all produced the impressions expected,
The cable message about Ashton, Roberts, Fox,
and Daplyn is strangely silent about Lor.gstaff
and Sid. Long. Who sent the cable message is
the burning yellow ochre and carmine question
in the camps of the artists to day. While on the
subject of pictures, I would like to record a corn-
pliment I heard paid to Eadith Walker. It was
in our Art Gallery, and two brumbies from the
raw, green bush were doing pictures with open
mouths. The tags with the lenders’ names
attached to innumerable old and young masters
attracted them, and I overheard : “ Miss Walker’s
done a lot of big pictures, ain’t she ? ” So picture-
making is added to her artist-making.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Pretty May Wilson and happy man Ernest
Raleigh were turned off at St. Paul’s Cathedral
with the utmost decorum. In place of the antici-
pated free-fights one found a dismal array of
empty benches at the far end of the sacred edifice,
making it look more sacred than usual. The com-
paratively small crowd favored with admission
tickets were awed into Sunday manners by the
presence of muscular ‘men in blue’ who looked
ill at ease and out of place altogether, and by con-
spicuous notices threatening expulsion to any one
who dared to mount the seats. Outside a huge
crowd, had assembled on the off chance of scram-
bling in somehow, but a double row of police kept
the path from carriage to door quite clear,
and prevented the unticketed from charging
the doors off their hinges. The cathedral was
considered beautiful enough to be let alone,
excepting the chancel which was one mass of
palms. The bride, in richest of white satin,
looked pale and nervous on entering, and some-
thing had gone wrong with her bouquet which
was conspicuous by its absence. Presently it
burst upon the ceremony, having been smuggled
up a side aisle and passed along to its rightful
holder. On coming out, though, it was a case of
Galatea, for the wedded statue had warmed to
life, and Mr. and Mrs. Raleigh made a perfectly
radiant couple, greeting every friend with smiles
and bows. Four bridesmaids sported white
satin and chiffon and carted pink rose posies
tied with blue ribbon. The bride’s mother
aired black and white silk fixed up with white
chiffon, a little bride of a year or so ago
whose own wedding created a furore, looked
tip top in all-black get-up. Certainly, it was a
well-behaved wedding, but the steel gauntlet be-
hind the stage management's glove was uncom-
fortably apparent. Even old Jaeky, the carriage
attendant, was buzzing about inside during the
service, not content to leave the constables on
duty to look after their own work.
“ Both Liedertafel societies got their respective
concers off their minds in the last week of March.
Speaking generally, the Metropolitans chortled
chiefly of religious topics with one frivolous
‘ Ha-ha ’ item thrown in. The Melbournians
(Hon. Conductor, Marshall Hall), on the other
hand, concerned themselves principally with ban-
ditti, battle, love and darkness. The last-men-
tioned warblers were first in the field and caught
their worm, otherwise Mayoress M‘Eaeharn, in
high-priced heliotrope array. Premier Turner's
bemuslined daughter displayed an unlooked-for
sequel to her sensibly sunburnt face in the shape
of a nice white neck. Another identity in the
audience was the Vic. Speaker, fondly styled ‘the
musical Maecenas’ by local society papers. By
the way, admirers pronounce Mr. Mason ‘the
living image of Charles I.* U-m-m-ph ! after all,
p’r’aps, Cromwell wasn’t such a bad fellow.
Amongst the performers, boy Toy, a 17-year old
A. R. A.M., fiddled and also dressed years beyond
his age. With so many aldermanic lads waddling
round in Eton jackets, the small-sized violinist
might surely have staved off swallow-tails a
little longer.
“ At the Metropolitan L.T. concert, each singer
was swarthier than the last. Grey-eyed Maggie
Stirling, in such peculiarly dusk surroundings,
shone out as the ‘ white-headed girl ’ of the party.
Beatrice Kelly won much applause and tipped the
ghost of a nod each time by way of acknowledge-
ment. A Halle pupil, who wore pink and black
and dished up Chopin and Grieg, was also some-
what unconventional in her salutation methods.
She got all her bowing done, time-saving little
matron, coming up the steps, and as soon as she
reached the top made for the piano without
further delay. People whose seats did not com-
mand a view of the stairs found fault witli her for
supposed remissness, but no doubt her own con-
science applauded her for her economy of time.
“ Liedertafel audiences are simply huge. Like
cricket-matches, these gatherings represent the
joy and excitement of life to many slow-goers ;
and at the metropolitan demonstrations in par-
ticular, one sees the. total population of certain
suburbs. And the girls go to vast pains to deck
themselves for the approbation of hordes of sister-
women, a minimum of patriarchs, and just a sus-
picion of bachelors.
“ The other night one damsel, Ido believe, in her
anxiety to do justice to her seldom-worn evening
frock, had radically revolutionised her natural-
hair hues. Pale gold her tresses were for the time
being, such a sweet, uncommon color, not a scrap
tawny. But her neck looked so vivid and clay-
cold. \ Ugh ! Onlookers shuddered and thought
of legendary grave-maidens and death-brides until
the comforting suggestion cropped up that her
complexion was just the smooth, creamy sallow
made to match a certain shade of decidedly dark
hair.
“ The Bijou ‘ Tree of Knowledge ’ hasn’t
tempted the public appetite to anything like the
extent which its name would imply ; if Eve had
only been as temptation-proof to the original
fruit, frocks would never have been invented, and
Beatrice Lamb wouldn't have had that high-
priced gold brocade and fur cloak to whisk off in
at the end of act four. The ladies of the Cart-
wright co. have shown new ideas in frocks all
through the s ason. As the bold, bad adventuress
who smothers her conscience and most of the
stage-furniture with her clothes, the leading-lady
had ’em all on in the last play. Her pink-and-white
morning-gown suggested unmerited affluence,
also gores only gores could have caused
those skirt - seams in unexpected places. The
gown rustled with silk and flopped correctly round
the feet and behaved exactly as a well-buiit gown
of this season should. Another triumph was a
muddle of yellow with a spangled black hat.
Also, her evening-dress was saffron, with her
waist-line under her arms and nothing above it.
In this she posed against a jumbo scarlet cushion
as big as a feather-bed. The scene, a drawing-
room, was set out to show this newest caper in
room adornment—gaudy silk pillows ami lamp-
shade to match. All the sets were uncommonly
good, and a treat in these days when comedy of
pretty-parlor order is so rare, and the ambitious
bride lias nothing but the cheap furniture window
to guide her in fixing her household gods.
“ Mrs. Mellon, of spook-celebrity, now calls
spirits from the vasty deep in a house on St.
Kilda-road. Among her treasures is an illuminated
address from her Sydney disciples in testimony of
her ‘ mediumistio abilities having assured them of
a life belong the grave.’ What sort of an immor-
tal soul must a man have when he rather thinks lie
has one, but isn't quite sure until lie has his own
opinion backed up by the competent authority of
a middle-aged lady who goes through a little
hanky-panky in a dark room ! What feeble
seraphs the signers of that illuminated-address
will be ! Why, you could make as good angels
out of a litter of whit* mice 1
“ A complaint arises that the babies at that
champion mismanaged institution, Melb. Women’s
Hospital, frequently get inextricably mixed, and
that as little care is taken to see that the right
mother gets the right baby as at a charitable dis-
tribution of pounds of tea. As long as every
woman gets a baby the hospital seems to imagine
its duty is accomplished, and, a little while back,
an ungrateful Caucasian girl had the impertinence
to growl because a woolly-headed little nigger was
thrust into her arms, the committee of society-
ladies who run the show held up their hands in
horror. One of these days some abandoned
mother will refuse to accept any unauthenticated,
infant, and the little fashionable clique which runs
the place will suddenly find itself with a dozen
superfluous youngsters on its hands.
“Melbourne’s older ‘ commercials ’ have been
forced to admit lately that their craving for sea
breeze (and marine drinks) passed away with the
land-boom. The bike, of course, keeps the
newer generation of men employed in getting hot
instead of cook and the girls—ah ! woe is us !
can’t be afloat on the Ozone or Hygeia when the
other sex is ashore. A combination of circum-
stances has accounted for the absurd spectacle of
leisured Melbourne sweltering in town these 100-
in-the-shade times when one might have been feel-
ing happy down the “ Baiy.” It is a very absurd
spectacle. Federal delegates from Sydney are
unanimous in denouncing our men as a congrega-
tion of land-lubbers. Nobody, or scarcely any-
body, appears anxious to get off the street and
plough the wave on a pleasure steamer.
“Australian Governors’ wives usually choose
dear girl-friends from the ranks of local heiresses.
Lady Hopetoun took a violent fancy to one of
Salmon Wilson’s daughters, who was afterwards
engaged to Mr. Ralston, the Countess’s handsome,
though not very gilded, cousin. Later inmates of
Govt. House have all along been hand-in-glqve
with the one fair daughter of a moneyed trading
clan. Onlookers wondered long and wistfully
whether or not the ‘ Squire of the Sorrowful
Countenance’ was to receive consolation at the
hands of Mam’zelle aforesaid. At present the
‘ Noes ’ have it, and the heroine referred to is said
to be still harping on the tiresome old string that
she’s ‘ so afraid of being married for her money.’
“ While Ben Tillett abuses Mayor M Eacharn
for offensively refusing to preside at his lectures,
Laboi-members Trenwith, Maloney, Sangster and
wives appear in the Sassiety paper’s list of guests
at M ‘Eacharn’s farewell jamboree to Governor
Brassey !
“ At the last recital at Glen’s (April 2nd), ( joor
Elsie Hall’s too sympathetic nose played its owner
false again. Mr. L. L. Lewis came to the rescue
with ice, and the over-heated performer took
French-leave from the platform while her mother
refrigerated her spine. The little pianiste looked
very nice that afternoon in cream cashmere, the
blouse drawn in with a belt of passementerie.
Miss Hall is to perform at the Exhibition Easter
festival, and faint rumors fly about of possible
Conservatorium enployment. Anyhow, everyone
hopes that her talent will soon be paying divi-
dends, if only for the sake of her devoted mother,
who taught music all those years in Germany, and
in every way had a hard fight to earn high-priced
advantages for her gifted daughter.
“ For weeks past pantomime-loving juveniles
have been pining for the advent of the ‘ Babes in
the Wood.’ Awhile back the horrid suspicion
began preying on their little vitals that the longed-
for orphans were to be ‘a grown-up lady and
gentleman.’ But that cat has ceased to fight since
the arrival of the Lilliputians, Solomon and
Hendley, than whom sweeter Babes ne’er drew
breath.
“Local kiddies are already in love with mis-
named ‘ Ruffian ’ Lauri. So benign and innocent
he looks, even when caught red-handed at his bad
tricks of baby-snatching, that the most apprehen-
sive infant spectators are no more alarmed at the
sight of ‘Sweet Will’ and ‘Little Jane’ in his
clutches than they would be if the scene repre-
sented instead Bishop Goe distributing tract* to
Catechism Charles and Grace Good-girl.
“ Ada Reeve is prettiest in her brown veivet
bloomers, though as a school-brat she doesn’t look
a day more than 13, in brief white muslin over
fluffy scarlet under-wear, red hose, shoes, and
baby bonnet perched askew on touzled curls. All
her frocks are effective, and Alice Rene (Robin
Hood) is the dearest outlaw extant.
“ The gorgeous wedding-breakfast makes audi-
ences feel quite hungry, all its delicacies repre-
sented by girls, everyone of them pretty enough to
eat. Salads seem particularly toothsome. Lettuce-
leaf skirts are powdered with crayfish coral and
garnished with realistic slices of hard-boiled egg.
Big pile red lobsters top the crowning faces seduc-
tive as mayonnaise. The wedding cake beats
Banagher for magnificence, but I don’t like the
bride. For this particular role she seems bizarre,
though true to life. Altar victims swagger to the
sacrifice nowadays in court trains, decolletage,
passementerie, blossom boas, and whatever else
they can get hold of to make themselves theatrical
and garish. Then they complain because sight-
seers poke their heads in at the window of the
bride’s brougham, try to raise her veil for closer
inspection, and altogether treat her like a penny
peep-show.—Yours affectionately, Gouli-Gouli.
Our Attention to Details
GOOD BOOTS
Wp want to Double
the number of our Customer#
by Jan., ’yy.
is one of the most satisfying features
in our business. We spare neither
time, trouble, nor expense in meeting
our customers’ needs.
Visitors at Easter are
specially invited to call
to inspect and to leave their measures.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
Sellers of Good Boots and Shoes,
396 George-st., Sydney.
Persistently rumoured that the-man-who-
is-dead isn’t defunct at all. Cos why? (1) Strange
that he died at the seaside near where a certain
steamer lay at anchor, which steamer sailed the
same night oversea, and a launch from which
is said to have visited the place under cover of
the gloom. (2) Strange that Wragje saw him in
Belgium. (3) Strange that his wife left for
Belgium shortly after the fm era .
The Mutual Life Inst r nice Co. of New
York issues a pamphlet of hints about tours jn
the Kosciusko district —“ The Roof of Australia,
and How to Get There.”
Pattison’s, Limited, of 16 O’Connell-street,
Sydney, are landing another big shipment of the
superb Morning Dew whisky. And, whoever
wants rest and peace and forgetfulness of the
awful orations of Lyne and Want and Johnaynes
about the alleged horrors of Federation, find
oblivion from the strident voice of Reid saying
that his big deficit is a surplus, should buy 12
bottles and be at rest.*
Among the most interesting exhibits at
N.S.W. Agricultural Show is the collection of
National Cash Registers shown by the National
Cash Register Co. (W. A. Lingham, general
manager), of 393 George-street, Sydney Lvery
class of hotel or store lias a register adapted to its
requirements, and these machines seem so
thoroughly suited for their various duties that it
would not be surprising if theco. were to bring out
an automatic bank-teller, warranted “revolver-
proof,” and able to withstand the requests of
unlimited bushrangers, and, at the same time, be
of unblemished character.*
THE BIG DRUM.
We need not beat it. Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes advertise themselves by their pure and
delicate aroma.*


Personal Items.
“ Geyser Wilhelm.”— Bulletin copyright.
Per Chief Justice Samuel Way: “ Sam-
ivel, Samivel, beware of the vidders.”
Criticism of Montgomery’s “Sword of a
Sin” in Melb. Leader : “ From a literary point of
view, the story is well written. ”
W. lj. Newman, M.L.A. for Oran ; \ is
the only Frenchman-born in N S.W. Parliament.
He first saw the light at Nantes.
John Kildahl Richards took his degrees as
Medical Doctor at Melb. University the other
day. The Kildahl, of course, is unaccented.
The demise last week in Melb. of Mr.
Edward Chisholm makes the fourth death in the
Bank of N.S.W. directorate within about a year.
Chief Justice Way is (i 2 and his prospec-
tive bride 46. Prima facie a sensible marriage.
She has four children, but no other possessions.
A man once put forth the theory that fat
is dead microbes. The huge proportions of one
Australian sewerage-official tends to confirm this
view.
Barr-Smith, since Thomas Elder’s death,
is credited with being S.A.’s wealthiest citizen,
with Angas close up. 8.-Smith is Elder’s brother-
in-law.
Poor old Helen Hart, full of hope that in
a province where women had a vote she would
find sympathy, has been lecturing through South
Australia. But the result has been bitter.
The two oldest Australian ex-Governors
living are George Grey (S.A., 1841) and Henry
Barkly (Vic., 1856). Of N.S. Wales ex-rulers,
four live—Belmore, Loftus, Carington and Jersey.
H. E. Brookes, the curator of the Adelaide
general cemetery, has been in the Government
service 58 years. And yet residents outside its
borders want the graveyard shut because it is
unhealthy.
A member of the N.S.W. mounted brigade
recently tendered his resignation in the following
characteristic letter. (Solemn fact.) :
i begg to resine from the corpse as i fined it to exxsite-
tag for my nervs.
Dr. A. Mueller, of Yackandandah, follows
up his much-discussed strychnine cure for snake-
bite with, a similarly assertive specific for typhoid.
He promises a six days’ cure by means, mainly, of
perchloride of mercury.
HE STOOD CORRECTED.
DAD: “ Look 'ere, sonny, they're the most stuck-
uppedest crowd in this 'ere bloomin' Sydney I
ever saw. We’ve bin 'ere a week, and not a
soul’s had the manners to bid a cove good-
day.”
SONNY: “ Yes, there was, dad. Yer forget the bloke
wot 'ad yer fur th' five quid !"
A recklessly-extravagant Australian Gover-
nor spends much of his spare time writing leading
articles for London Standard. And he must do
a good deal of scribbling judging by the regularity
and size of his cheques.
Proposed in Adelaide to erect a statue to
Thomas Elder, the deceased millionaire, of many
benefactions. The idea has taken on, whereas
Chief Justice Way’s proposed Marcus Clarke
memorial came to nothing. Adelaide has only
two statues—a large, ugly, bronze effigy of Her
Graoious, and a smaller one of Burns. Old Tommy
Elder was one of the homeliest-looking men in
S.A.
Not so very long ago, an Australian Gover-
nor begged off a flunkey of his who had been
selected as a co-respondent in divorce. His Ex.
conducted negotiations in person, and paid a con-
ciliatory visit to the disturbed domicile.
Last week the N.S.W. Premier appeared
in a breach-of-promise case on behalf of a rich old
hunks who had promised to marry a servant-girl
and then backed out. The hunks was sued for
<£looo and “ struck ” for .£750 and costs.
John Norton is being hauled before
N.S.W. Full Court for contempt—in commenting
on a certain very unsavoury Cootamundra case of
alleged criminal assault, side-issues of which have
been ventilated to some purpose in Truth.
Abraham Harkness, Mayor of Bendigo,
joined Ballarat’s Shoppee in declining to counten-
ance Ben Tillett’s visit. “Br’er ” Harkness is a
godly local ironfounder. The old goldfield has
rarely had more fun than when, 15 years ago, he
contested a party election.
The editorial - salary vicissitudes of the
compilation known-as “The History of N.S.
Wales from the Records” —First editor (G. B.
Barton), £l2OO per annum ; nominal second
(Galton), £l5OO for three years, or at the rate
of £5OO ; third (Bladen), £l5O.
J. P. Abbott is now in his eighth year of
N.S.W. Speakership, thus exceeding in length of
office all his predecessors, except W. M. Arnold.
Arnold was Speaker for nearly 10 years, and his
reputation in the House would have sustained him
in the position longer, had he not been accidentally
drowned.
A Queensland inspector of State-schools
found, on a recent visitation, that, in one large
school, his own preceding annual report had been
given to the boys and girls as an example of
faulty English, which it was their business to cor-
rect in their home exercise-books. The daring
pedagogue received a holiday.
N.S.W. Col. Secretary Brunkerhas a son,
an auctioneer, who is not half so “good” as his
pa—though 25 per cent, of the old man’s piety
would be a fair stock for any man. Brunker, jun.,
was selling a male sheep the other day, and made
a joke about one of his dad’s colleagues which is
now on tap at every club in Australia.
A clerk with five Christian names has filed
his schedule in Sydney. And yet we have known
more than one many-named man (from England,
of course) to live on his “ monnikers ” in this
beastly country. And when K.C.M.G. P.C.’s are
thrown out of office they should all be able to live
a-while by, as it were, chewing their own tails.
The late Ernie Parker, managing director
of Huddart, Parker and Co., was a popular boss,
anyhow. The employees of the firm volunteered
to attempt the task of carrying his coffin all the
way from his house to Boroondara Cemetery, and
although this was considered too heavy an under-
taking, some of the volunteers were told off to
bear the burden from the cemetery gates to the
grave.
When John Forrest was in Adelaide, the
other day, returning from the Convention, there
was some banter between him and a prominent
S.A. lawyer-politician, who offered to bet that, if
Forrest went to Ka'goorlie, he would be knocked
about. The latter laughed at the suggestion ; he
“ could do as he liked with them, and wouldn’t be
afraid to go there without escort.” Apparently,
Forrest tried it, with unexpected results.
When Lord Belmore was Governor of
N.S.W., it was said (perhaps untruthfully) that
he caused the vegetables grown in the grounds of
Guv’ment ’Ouse to be sold. An old Frenchman,
who started a restaurant in Pitt-street, distributed
handbills, on which appeared the legend : “ The
vegetables offered to the patrons of Monsieur X.
are the product of the vice-regal gardens. Mon-
sieur X. has secured a monopoly of these distin-
guished legumes.”
Melb.: “Obituary. Ernest J. Parker, of
Huddart and Parker, one of Australia’s best busi-
ness men, cut off at much under 40. A clear case
of the business-kill, most familiar in places like
New York. Apoplexy in the early thirties !
Why, it is innocent mistaken suicide—the dollar-
disease, as a U.S. medico will say. Parker, a
man of grand capacity, was seized with the busi-
ness demon, and died of a desire to use his life
for the best advantage.
Lady Atkinson, wife of one of George the
Fourth’s knights, held her head up in old Hobart
society. “ You and I, my dear,” said she to Lady
Denison, “are the rankest women in the town.”
“ I concede the pas to you, Lady Atkinson,” said
the Governor’s wife; “you are ranker than I.”
“Oh! dear Lady Denison, you flatter me,” said
the old woman. And then she went around and
repeated the compliment paid her. And her hus-
band, with a grin, said she deserved it.
Some notable birthdays in April : Bis-
marck 83, on Ist; N.S.W. Opposition Leader
Lyne 54 and Edwin Smith (S.A.) 67, on 6th ;
George Coppin 79, on Bth ; “ General ” Booth 69,
on 10th ; Jimmy Tyson 75, on 11th ; Hori Grey
86, on 14th ; Dr. Quick 46, on 15th ; Bishop Sam
Thornton 63, on 16th; James Martin (oldest
member of S.A. Parliament) 77, on 23rd ; Dele-
gate Glynn (S.A.), on 25th ; and Papa Brunker,
on 27th. Chief Justice Way also has a birthday
in April.
In the early sixties Geo. Fawcett pro-
duced a dramatisation of “Barnaby Rudge,” at
Melb. Princess Theatre. John Dunn played
Dennis, the hangman. One night, after the per-
formance, Dunn came into the bar of the theatre
pub. A respectable-looking man accosted him,
with a complimentary reference to his perform-
ance, and asked Dunn to drink, which the old
man did several times. Then the respectable-
looking man bade him good-night and departed.
“ Know who that is ? ” asked Dunn of the bar-
man. “Yes, Mr. Dunn. That’s the hangman ! ”
John stood aghast for a moment; then he said :
“ Well, I thought he knew more than the average
critic ! ”
The alleged astuteness of the Mongol cab-
bage-man is mostly bosh after all. F’rinstans, a
yellow horror came ashore in Melbourne lately,
and gave the name of Ah Chee, aged 33. He also
presented a naturalisation paper issued in 1882 —
16 years ago —to Ah Chee, aged 35. Being asked
why he wasn’t 51, the bogus Chee did long sums
in arithmetic for 30 minutes, and even then failed
to see where the discrepancy came in. He is now
on his way back to China and still struggling with
the mystery.
H. : “ One cannot help sympathising with
Ex-Pastor Potter’s persistent potter over the Von
Mueller memorial. The amount he has collected
is surprisingly large, including much from foreign
parts, the London Geographical Society, for
instance, giving >£lo, and subscriptions are still
trickling in, not by shilings, but guineas. If
Mueller had not been a little bit of a snob as well
as a great botanist, one would go on discouraging
this, but, with tears in his eyes, the self-denying
old fellow implored Mr. Potter that he might
have the stone.”
An interesting peculiarity of Archdeacon
Gunther, lately of Parramatta, but now off to
England on a visit, was his standing invitation to
all and sundry who listened to his preaching to
ask him at the close any questions they pleased.
Sometimes the questions asked were relevant, but
often they were far-fetched and impossible and
frequently they were downright silly. Sometimes,
too, the answered party jumped up to prove the
insufficiency or error of the answer, or, as hap-
pened in a few cases, to demonstrate that the
preacher was “bogus.” Altogether, the experi-
ment wasn’t cheering.
Captain Scott, an old-time Sydney P.M.,
was a martyr to gout. One day a dilapidated-
looking man was brought before him, charged
with drunk and riot. “ Beg pardon, your Wor-
ship,” said he, “ but the fact is, I’d a fit of gout
awful yesterday, and I drank a bottle of gin to
ease her off. That’s how it was.” “ I know,”
sighed Scott. “ Discharged. But, my man, gin
is no good ; I’ve tried it. If you call upon me
after the Court has risen, I’ll give you a prescrip-
tion.” “ Thank your Worship ; but gin’s the only
thing that cures my gout. It’s in the blood, your
Worship.” And the old man hobbled out to get
his medicine.
The late Q. Lieut.-Governor, Arthur Palmer,
was manager of Dangarßros.’ Gostwyck station,
New England, in the early fifties, where he earned
the sobriquet of “ Bully ” Palmer. Many stories
are told by old hands of his masterful manner.
But he sometimes met his match. One shearing
he was raising Cain, as usual, in the shed when
some of the men quietly put down their shears,
and, seizing “Bully,” carried him out and dropped
him into the washpool. Shortly afterwards a
message arrived at the shed for the culprits to call
at the office. They went, fully expecting the
sack, but were agreeably surprised when “ Bully,”
after a bit of breezy advice in language that
reached their hearts, gave them a stiff nobbier
each and ordered them back to work.
Champion objurgator Winter, of Melb.
Herald, once met a reporter on the stairs, and,
being in a jovial mood, stopped to chat a moment.
“There was rather a queer thing at the morgue
this morning,” said the scribe. “ A brother of
the corpse said the spirits had given him warning
of the accident a week ago, when he was up in
Queensland.” Winter smiled. “Yes, yes! I
suppose you let the formal stuff go, and spread
yourself on this ? ” The reporter looked thought-
ful. “Well, n-no. I didn’t think it was worth
while; I ” Winter glowered. He rushed up to
his office, and, dropping on his knees in front of
the trembling youth, raised his hands in supplica-
tion to Heaven, crying, passionately : “ Oh, Lord,
what have I done that Thou shouldst afflict me
with blanky (&c.) fools like this ? ”
Poor old bullocky Palmer, late President
of Queensland Legislative Council, who was un-
ceremoniously interred on the 21st March, was,
vide obituary notice in Q. journals, the son of a
lieutenant in the British navy, and received his
early education from “private tutors.” The old
warrior, however, never displayed any of his
pristine erudition in later life. Some years ago,
the hoary and gory ancient presided at a
Queensland Club banquet, given in honor of an
itinerant nobleman, and, after making many
abortive attempts to comprehend the French
menu, turned to his friend Drury, who sat on his
left, and asked, in stentorian tones, “if the
blanky English language wasn’t good enough for
a blanky English gentleman ? ” After that the
learned President was always provided with a
special bill-of-fare.
The late “Bobby Towns,” of
Towns’s Wharf, never quite ’forgot his
old shipmaster’s methods. His language
on occasion was lurid. But one day he
struck a snag. He let loose at a carter
a perfect torrent of blood-curdling objur-
gation. The carter listened quietly until
Bobby had petered out. Then he calmly
took up his whip and flogged the old man
round and round his own wharf. Towns
was laid-up for a week, and had time to
think it out, with result that he sent the
carter a fiver, and ever after specially
exempted him from blasphemy.
James Bonwick’s publication in London
of a life of Australia’s first preacher recalls a
quaint bit of ecclesiastical history. Rev.
Richard Johnson, the preacher in question,
having failed to induce the Botany Bay Govern-
ment to erect a church, set about building
one himself. When, however, it was completed,
he billed Govt, for the cost, making out that he
spent £74 7s. 9d. on the structure. Major Grose,
the Acting-Governor, repudiated the charge, and,
in forwarding the account to England, described
Johnson as an untruthful and troublesome
character who was trying to rogue the State.
Rev. Johnson’s little bill, the original of which is
now in the British Museum, runs thus :
Paid for in 20)4 gallons spirits, 116 cwt. flour, 18%lbs.
pork, 33Ubs. beef, 31b. tobacco, 51bs. tea; real price,
£7 14s. lid., but estimated value £l4 9s. 9£d.
Paid in dollars... ... ... 69 18 0
Real price of building ... ... ... 67 12 11
Computed price of building ... ... 74 7 9
Dundas, the Secretary-of-State, put the incom-
prehensible bill aside, but Johnson furnished it
againand again, and obtained in his favor high cleri-
cal influence; and, after four years’ nagging, got
an Admiralty order for a portion of the amount.
Thus Australia’s first church owed its corner-stone
to 20|gals. of spirits.
“ Cobbler ' to The Bulletin :
Your par. about Dr. On Lee is so misleading that,
although your red rag dislikes the “Yellow Agony,” I trust
you will be liberal enough to publish these corrections.
Can the writer of the par. tell me when the Chinese
Government created Dr. On Lee a Mandarin ? or what
public services he rendered to the “Chinese” of this
country to deserve any special mark of favor from the
Chinese Government ? The fact is that Dr. On Lee is a
Mandarin of the third rank, as his ancestors were before
him. Also, can the writer tell me of another “ pure
Chinese” resident in Australia? I don’t know of one,
and I think I am a better authority on the matter than he
is. The “Yellow Agony ” you abhor is not “Chinese."
■lt is Harkar, Tartar, Mongolian, &c., &c. ; with a Chinese
strain probably enough, but no more to be called
“ Chinese ” than the offspring of aboriginal and European
can be called either aboriginal or European. The pure
Chinese of rank are the most conservative and select
people conceivable, and as I dare wager that Dr. On Lee’*
family do not socially know any Chinese, Harkar, Tartar,
or Mongolian in Sydney, it is hard to see how hi*
daughters can be “ belles of the Anglo-Chinese com-
munity.” Quong Tart (properly Quong Mo.v) is a Man-
darin of the Crystal Button or sixth rank, which
is as different from Dr. On Lee’s rank as would be
a soap-boiler’s purchased knighthood from a 300-year-
old baronetcy. [There are no 300-year old baronetcies,
but a little thing like that may pass.—Ed. B.] Only On
Lee’s pedigree dates back a trifle of 2000 years or so. Re
the Chinese Consul-Generalship, I fancy if a Consul-
General be appointed at all it will not he the man who,
at the moment, imagines he has the position in his grasp.
With regard to Mr. Tart’s costume at the parting shivoo,
I may mention that the “ Australian ” portion of it, if
worn in the neighborhood of Pekin, would have ensured
him a speedy introduction to the headsman.
“ Q. ” : The Bulletin says :
Curious that Australia, always ready to give native
musical talent a handsome monetary send-off to England,
is supremely neglectful of its native artists. Minns,
Streeton, Spence, and others were allowed, so far as the
general publie were concerned, like shadows to depart,
with no more financial assistance than the trifle produced
by art-unions or clearance-sales of their own works. Does
Australia prefer music to painting, or is it that singer*
are better “ pushers ” than painters?
Not so curious when you think of it. Australian
artists are, for the most part, fools or Don
Quixotes of the brush. Rotters are not backward
in working the commercial community for all it is
worth ; the more high-and-mighty pretend that it
is beneath their dignity to earn their living by
their art. The musician courts the public : the
artist professes to despise it. Most of our juvenile
Little Billees think they do enough if they wear
fringes on their foreheads d la Phil May and Beard-
sley ; wear flowing muslin neck-ties d la Byron ;
and generally do anything but honestly battle and
work d la every artist who has ever been any-
thing. They have not the pluck and patience to
go through what the highest artistic success en-
tails, subsisting on journalistic pot-boiler incomes
meanwhile. They scorn journalistic work (which,
of course, may be of the highest order in the black-
and-white line), and only dabble in it spasmodi-
cally. Consequently, they do it very badly, and
keep on doing it badly till they die—or are driven
to sign-painting. This is mainly why artists don’t
arrest public attention and get public patronage.
As a matter of fact, however, a comparison between
singers and artists is worthless. Singers must per-
form in public. Such performance is the public
exhibition of their private toil, just as the artist’s
pictures are. What T growl at is that so few of
our artists produce any pictures. In this respect,
Minns, Streeton, and Spence are not quotable, as
they have justified themselves, and have not been
denied public encouragement.
A Simile
For The Bulletin
lH{o° r shallow KearH Ike spark of;
\* 3, sought lb kindle'nfo hot surprise 6
Was but fhe image ofrr\Lj.Qwr\ desire
(C aught m Ike starllecl mirror ofijour
gig- ° - eqes
fgfhus boundless nighfreveaMner^
TPQfflecfed in the shallow mere,fill oh.'
Jht seems cis if illimifable space ,
A universe, Icil| quivering below
VON K[?]ze
BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull’s Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £8 Bs.
The Premo Hand Camera, £lf
Catalogues Free.
_ . ”’3'7/
' .‘Ei ‘ _ ,' ‘ ‘7
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
375 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
—— • • ———_
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.


Aboriginalities.
Female “swaggies” are becoming com-
paratively common in South Australia; and it is
printed of one of them, who has been interviewed,
that she expresses a preference for cemeteries as
“dossing’’places. They’re quiet, she remarks, and
generally sheltered, and if you spread out small
cypress boughs and grass between a couple of
graves you’re as cosy as you could wish to be.
* * • •
Up North : “How’sthis for the ‘working-
man’s Paradise’? Wages at Maryboro, Bunda-
berg, Isis, and elsewhere, 15s. a week; married
men, 3s. more. Slaved for sugar-planter once;
15s. from jackass to jackass. Sleeping compart-
ments separated from kanakas’ bunks by low wall.
Effluvium lovely ; fleas and other ‘ quadrupeds ’ in
armies. Heat in cane-field hellish ; water supplied
in kerosene-tins jagged at edges. When thirsty,
kanaka drops on hands and knees and laps like a
dog; few minutes later, white man ditto. Grand
country, this Immigrate ! —immigrate 1 ”
* * * *
F.R. : “Near my house is a paddock
wherein half-a-dozen magpies have nested for
several years and in which a stallion is at present
running loose. Early in the morning I have heard
the magpies imitate to perfection the stallion’s
neighing. Is this a singular occurrence? ”
* • * •
Mungo Park, in his travels in Upper
Egypt, mentions a village named Doutah Gallah.
Melbourne is built in the parish of Doutah
Gallah, the native name of that district. Why
the similarity of names in places sn far apart ?
9**9
jPassing through the drougnt-cursed Vic-
torian mallee country the other day (a Bulletin
correspondent writes) I saw a grimy youngster
driving six horses in a stump-jumping plough a
few miles out of Hopetoun. The youngster said
he was 11, and certainly didn’t look a day older.
This, he told me, was his second year of that work.
In the next section his father was ploughing, so I
went over. I found him to be an educated man,
who, getting out of a city place, had listened to
the popular cry six years ago and ‘ ‘ gone on the
land.” Talked to him about the boy. He said he
could hire farm laborers for 8s a week and rations,
but he didn’t have the Bs. In two years he had
sown 170 bags of wheat and had harvested 90 bags
the first season and 20 this last. And his ex-
perience, he added, was not unique
*** . *
Jimmy Ah Foo, the Chinese publican of
Longreach (Q.) is gradually acquiring a provincial
reputation. A while ago a miscellaneous white
crowd in the bar were discussing shearing in
general and champion shearer Howe in par-
ticular, when the proprietor chipped in : “ Jacky
Howe welly goo’ shealer; he spendee one pong one
shout, an’ no pulley girl about. Oh, Jacky Howe
all li’!” On another occasion Jimmy’s daughter
was agitating the piano for the edification of
sundry drovers, when Jimmy jerked his head
through the window and pleaded pathetically:
“Ah, Maly, my gel, play that old song, ‘The
Dear Lil Shamlock,’ and make your poor old
father’s heart bleed ! ” And the Ould Sod haß to
put up with that!
* » * *
Ah Fat’s pub. was well patronised by
shearers during the last big strike, but when they
found that Ah Fat employed a fellow-countryman
as cook, they got their backs up and told Fat that
things must be altered. “ All li,” said Fat, and
the cook was duly ‘ ‘ fired. ’ ’ There was no diminu-
tion of supplies as a result —in fact, the boys voted
the puff paste lighter, and the stuffing a bit im-
proved. Speculation as to the identity of the new
cook led to inquiry of the proprietor. “ Oh,”
calmly said Fat, “me clea’ out that dam China-
man— me cook now.”
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. — Last Sunday I officiated
as parson at the christening of the six-weeks child
of King Combo, of the Wurroola tribe, and Sarah,
his wife —in the last waterhole of our decadent
creek. When the mystic rite was at its crisis:
“ What name, Combo ? ” I asked the proud father.
“By G ! you callem that little black
Ranji 1 ” And Ranji it was. Thus does one black
prince deserve another. —Back-o’-Bourke, March
11.
* * • *
Amongst the poorer German settlers in the
Vic. mallee, staple dishes are a bucket of wheat
boiled whole, and pollard pudding and treacle —
the “ quickest ” pudding ever cooked: Half-fill a
bucket with pollard, pour in boiling water, three
stirs with a stick, and there you are ! But one
good harvest puts a totally different menu on the
mallee man’s table.
* • * *
Popgun: “Be shearing tallies. One
scarcely ever hears of low tallies, as people have a
liking for records and big deeds. At many sheds
it is quite common to see a team of men averaging
from 70 to 80 sheep per man for a day’s work.
This, too, when every shearer is working at his
best. Yellow-woolled, hard and wrinkley sheep
bring them all up with a round turn. This kind
of work ought to be spoken more about than the
large records. The latter are few and far between,
and give people who don’t know an erroneous idea
of the joys of shearing.”
THE GAUNT STEED.
SWELL: “ Look here, dwiver, your confounded animal attempted to bite my arm, and has torn
my cuff.”
’ANSOM CABBY: “ Garn, boss; didn’t think the blessed ’orse was as ’ungry as all that !”
Dear Bul-
letin. Did
you ever hear
of the Godiva
act played in
the early days
of the Palmer
rush ? A num-
ber of carriers
were camped
some five miles
outside of
Cooktown
about 22 years
ago. Two of
them made a
bet of <£lo
that they
would strip to
the buff and
ride their
horses at mid-
day at a gal-
lop down the
main street in
Cooktown,
and get back
to camp with-
out being
caught by the
police. The
only things
between them
and absolute
nakedness
were their
boots and
spurs ! They
won the bet.
All the police
and dogs in
the town went
after them ;
but they were
never identi-
fied.—Toby.
* 9
Dear Bul-
letin. — Saw
curious strug-
gle recently
between cen-
tipede and
frog. Frog
squeaking
“ Murder ! ”
and centipede
clinging hard
all round
frog’s body,
.vhioh was
puffed out to
utmost in en-
deavor to strain the insect from its hold. Use-
less, of course, till I slew the enemy, which
measured full 6in. Also, near Rockhampton
once, my attention was arrested by the squeaks
of a small green frog in the clutches of a large
mantis, the “native lady” kind, which was
devouring the little reptile piecemeal, and had
already eaten away all the flesh of one of its hind
legs. I was much astonished to find a cruel car-
nivore in what I had always supposed a harndess
vegetarian. —W. H. F.
* * * *
A certain old bachelor squatter was sorely
troubled by selectors. They had peacocked his
run till it was hardly worth holding, and they had
a weakness for killing his sheep instead of their
own; but when nearly all the “ oockies ” had
shorn their small flocks preparatory to helping to
shear the squatter’s, he thought he’d get even with
them. “ They’ve been living on me long enough,”
he said to the storekeeper. “So to-night you and
I will go down to Mallins’s place, knock one of
his sheep over, bring it up here, bleed it, skin it,
and no one will be the wiser.” Down the pair
went accordingly, collared a good fat beast, tied
its legs, slung it'on a sapling, and got home with-
out being spotted. Having butchered the sheep
m the back yard by candlelight, they had set to
work to skin it, when the old man suddenly ex-
ploded in such a storm of blasphemy that the
other anxiously inquired if he had cut himself.
“Cut myself! Look here! The wretches are
shearing my sheep as well as their own ! ” It was
his own ear-mark !
* * * *
Dear B. —Can any of your correspondents
definitely say where the Q. black cockatoo nests,
and in what month it lays ? I have made various
unsuccessful attempts to get this information from
the Burdekin and Don River blacks, and have
spent days trying to find out for myself. Also,
let me state that within the last two months I saw
a jackass pounce on a tree-snake, kill it with a
couple of fierce pecks, try vainly to swallow it,
and after 15min. aimless wandering, drop it and
fly away. The snake measured sft. 2|in., and was
what is commonly known as the “ yellow-belly.”—
Nardoo.
* • • •
In a N.S.W. police-court. Squatter J.P. :
“ What’s the next case, serjeant ? ” Serjeant :
“ Trespass, y’r Worship—Brown against Green.”
J.P. (to Green): “ Ah, at it again, Green ! What
do you mean by trespassing on Brown ? ” Green :
“ I never trespassed, y’r Worship.” J.P. (to Ser-
jeant) : “ Serjeant, what do you mean by telling
me he had been trespassing on Brown ? ” Ser-
jeant : “ I never said so, y’r Worship ; I said
Brown says so.” J.P. (to Green): “Well, it’s
no good you saying anything, because I’d sooner
believe Brown than you ; and, besides you’re
always trespassing on my paddocks, so I’ll swear
you were on Brown’s—and I’ll give Brown =65
damages. And, mind this ! next time I catch you
on my run I’ll give you in oharge. Call on the
next case. ”
* * • *
R.H. : “It has come. Met a bullocky
the other day who had a Ranji in his team.
Though his ‘ Ranji ’ was snow-white, the driver
yelled, ‘ Ranji (large stream of adjectives), blanky,
git up ! ’ ”
* * * •
Dear B.—There is a bird in Gippsland,
Vic., of a dirty-grey color, and about the size of a
soldier-bird, who is called the “ native cuckoo.”
He earns this name, the story goes, because he
resembles his English cousin ; only, instead of
being too lazy to build his own nest and hatch his
own eggs, he is too lazy to look for his own tucker;
and, by flapping his wings and crying out like
AN ARABIAN INSPIRATION.
STREET ARAB No. 1: “I say, Ginger, did you ’ear about the Australian eleven?
They’re goin’ to ’ave their physogs put on stamps.”
STREET ARAB No. 2: “ Why?”
STREET ARAB No. 1: “So as to give the Englishmen a chance of lickin’ ’em!"
young nest-birds, he abuses the sympathy of simple
little titmice and tomtits, who busily carry him
worms, flies, and other food. Is this a fact ? And
what’s the proper name of the bird ?—6 xB.
♦ * * *
Dear B.—Can anyone tell me how the
grub from which the locust or cicada emerges gets
into the ground ? They are often found 10ft.
down, and they bore a round hole up after rain,
when you can watch the locust emerge and its
wings grow in a few hours.—H.S.R.
The ghoul championship goes to a Scotch
gravedigger, who has, in 57| years, planted 14,321
corpses. The runner-up has a record of 12,000,
for 37 years.
Thus the Meat Trades Journal (London,
of course)ln Queensland and N.S.W. over
100,000,000 sheep now find shelter in a region
which 30 years ago was a sandy desert. The sheep
gradually trampled the soil into firmness until it
grew a dense vegetation.” Any man who has
traveled over droughty sheep-country in W.Q.
in the last 18 months can appreciate this joke.
N.S.W. regulates the import of fruit so
closely that it is with difficulty S.A. fruit gets over
the border into Broken Hill, which is hundreds of
miles from any orchard. Per contra, when Broken
Hill people have attempted to send Sturt’s desert-
pea and other native plants into S.A., the
packages have been detained on the border, and
word has been sent to the addressees that they
might have the plants if they first paid the cost of
inspection by the Government botanist resident at
Adelaide.
W. . “Re record loads of wool, the number
of bales is no criterion even of the bulk, as size of
bales varies considerably. Some, again, are well-
dumped and heavy ; others, badly pressed, are
light and bulky. Thus the carrier’s natural in-
quiry is : ‘ What’s the weight of these big loads? ’
About the best load from out-back last season was
one taken from Onepah (N.S.W.) to Bourke— 83
bales of scoured wool, weighing 11 tons.
“ THREE GOOD THINGS ”
. . Madf, in England.
Holbrook’s “>» Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Pure Malt) Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce has BEEN AWARDED MORE Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES i
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
A Church Officer
Of the West Melbourne Presbyterian Ohuroh
Recommends
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
In 1887, at which time I was residing at Kirk-
stall, I was prostrated with liver disease, which
caused a coating of the tongue, a bitter taste in
the mouth, bilious headaches, dizziness, loss of
appetite, frequent nausea, sickness, and continual
drowsiness. I seemed completely prostrated and
absolutely broken down. I followed the advice of
two good physicians, but they failed to relieve
me. Then my attention was drawn by a friend
to Warner’s Safe Cure, and I procured and took
tablespoonful doses four times a day; and im-
frovement was soon manifest. I continued until
had used three bottles, when I was completely
restored to health.
Now whenever, owing to severities of climate, I
feel out of sorts, or run-down, the only medicine I
resort to is Warner’s Safe Cure, which I can con-
scientiously say never fails me.
The acquaintances and friends I may have made
during my forty-six year’s residence in Victoria,
know that my natural conservatism would deter
me from praising a remedy unless thoroughly con-
vinced of its merits, and I am confident that their
experience will be equally as satisfactory as mine
if they will try this valuable specific for liver
disease, whenever troubled with any of the symp-
toms which affected me.
Jambs Clark, Ex-J.P.,
476 Lonsdale St., Melb. Jan. 14, 1898.
FRANZ JOSEF .
PILSEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LA6ER B€€R.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Out West they have a way of protecting cycle-
tyres ; an ingenious covering of buffalo or bullock hiue is
soaked in a solution of salt, soda, and saltpetre, which
removes the hair and makes the hide pliable. •)_ .
then pumped nearly hard and the damp
neatly- ever the rubber. The edges come over the rira.
This contrivance makes it almost impossible to puncture
and also prevents twigs or dry sticks from tearing the
rubber or pushing their way between rim and tyre.
• * * *.
For the enjoyment of the Sport of Kings— and
Other Thieves-in its most primitive and lnnooent form,
commend me to a Maori race-meeting (writes a Bullbtin
correspondent). At Hamilton (Auckland), the other day,
an impromptu gathering was got off; total stake £B, cut
up into many prizes. There were six competitors in all,
and, as races were held every few minutes and all the
nags started every time, saddles were not removed until
the end of the day. As none of the prads had names, the
mushroom books laid odds against owners, which
answered satisfactorily. Plenty fun; no rows; no in-
consistency. The most important offioial was the judge,
who wore an oilskin coat as emblem of office.
*** . .
The lamentable ignorance characteristic of bush
racing-stewards recently prevented some cute Maoriland
sharps from making a little haul. Their horse was such a
certainty that its price shortened to 6to 4. They took
all the available tens to one about an outsider and told
their own jock, to “ pull.” So that their moke shouldn t
be declared winner if the rider went “on his own, they
abstracted two leads from the bag. The beat
the favorite, but the unsatisfied stewards, while giving
the stake to the winner, wrongly ordered bets to be paid
out on the favorite (whose jockey was censured) ‘in the
public interest.” Then the cute push wanted to object
to its own horse because he was short w eight, but was
informed that the time for entering protests had expired.
• * * *
P.S. : “Re the ‘system’ (backing the favorite
and doubling). I tried it long ago. Result —carried my
swag all over Western N.S.W. for two years. Your calcu-
lations pan out exactly as I found for myself, on the vari-
ous courses around Sydney. The best ‘ system ’ I know
of is to invest in a loud check suit and a bag. Lay the
favorite till ‘the cows come home,’ and then, if you can’t
‘ stiffen ’ the boy, the horse, trainer, or owner, and can’t
possibly arrange to have the ‘ pot ’ bumped at the home
tum —well, make a break for ‘ home, sweet home’ at your
best pace. Delays might be dangerous.”
The story of the sale of certain polo ponies,
owned by a departed vice-regal flunkev, will be interest-
ing when it can be told in full.
* * • *
In the grandstand at a certain Australasian
racecourse they run a half-crown tote for ladies, thus
robbing Ikey Mo and other children of Israel of the silver
they in the dear dead days of long ago used to bag from
the fair sex. The Governor and suite were at one meeting
15 months ago, and the ladies of the Vice-regal party
had a mild flutter to the extent of one ticket each in the
‘ ‘ half-caser ” tote on each race. After one uncertainty
had romped home and was declared to have paid 275. for
2s. 6d. in the ladies' tote, one of them, a Government
House lady, discovered that she had meant to back the
outsider, but by accident had invested in a ticket on the
beaten favorite. “ Would the tote clerk accept her word
for it?” she enquired naively. “ Would he what” —was
the tote clerk’s reply. “ Well,” with a toss of her head,
“she’d see about it,” and she saw the secretary who
listened to her plain and unvarnished tale of woe, believed
it, and proceeded to act on her behalf by endorsing the
ticket in pencil: “ Pay bearer dividend on ; —j
275.” The tote clerk obeyed. The investments received
and dividends paid, after deduction of percentage com-
mission and fractions, wouldn’t balance by 275. at the
end of the day.
* * * *
It is always supposed to be the telegraph-office
at fault. The (Queensland) drawer of a horse in a big
sweep once complained that the information of his luck
had been divulged to the horse-owner, from whom he had
received, almost immediately, the usual “ What will you
lay?” wire. The sweep-man himself came to the
telegraph-office to complain. The two wires were hunted
up, when it was found that the horse-owm r’s message to
the drawer had actually been handed in for transmission
before the sweepist’s.
Another example of the same kind of thing. In
N.Q., once, the local butchers were after a chance mob of
cattle, for sale at a station inland. At 10 a.m. No. 1, who
wielded a pen with difficulty, after wasting several tele-
graph-forms, wired his offer. Later on, No. 2 came in,
picked up one of the wasted forms, read No. l’s offer, im-
proved on it, and secured the bargain. All things con-
sidered, it is astonishing how little news leaks out of the
telegraph-office. * * *
The Union Bank
has ukased that none
of its cycling officials
will be allowed to
compete for cash
prizes. Clerks wish-
ing to race must con-
fine their riding to
the ranks of lily-
white amateurdom.
• *
In Maoriland
and Victoria the
sport of t otting is
making good strides,
but since the closing
of the Sydney Driv-
ing Park all attempts
by the various Syd-
ney clubs to keep
the sport going have
ended in failure,
owing to the many
palpable swindles by
horse - owners. In
the home of the
trotting horse (Am-
erica) they now have
eleven stallions and
six geldings who
have paced a mile
in 2mln. ssec. and
under.
• •
“ J.M.H.” sug-
gests in a letter
to one of the dailies
that N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Sooiety make a trotting-track of its cycle-
track by the use of some tar and a few loads of sand,
“ when no doubt Mr. Buckland would show what his
masterpiece of trotting sires (namely Fritz) could
do.” Fritz happens to be a gelding; and the Hbrald
publishes in all seriousness the suggestion that Mr.
Buckland should bash his wonder round a quarter-mile,
highly-banked, adamant bicycle-track.
* * * *
One of the biggest punters N.S.W. has had for
some time is a certain pill-pounder, who has decided that
he can crack the ring. There is no mistaking the way he
strikes winners, but, as he has his little bit on five or six
horses in every raoe, his wins are not enormous. On a
certain raoe, at a recent meeting, writer saw aforesaid
punter plank £3OO, at 2 to 1, on a certain animal, and,
altogether, lay out £7OO on the race. The first-named
animal won, but the other speculations took most of the
gilt off the gingerbread. His chance of breaking the ring
is not causing "much anxiety in the ranks of Ikey Mo.
* * * *
The way in which the Dreadnoughts have
galloped in Maoriland, so far, gives the impression that
they will prove far better over short courses than long
distances. But staying ability may develop with age.
Bures : Re that “ tall but authenticated ” 41ft
fiimn nut up bv Laddie, the Auckland (M.L.) J aunter.
The P 4lft. was done down a cliff. Probably, as the hor
escaped with little more than a cut lip, the greater per-
formance. _ *
* * * *
Smith has a considerable reputation as a racing-
writer, and is credited with knowing as much as is good
for any mortal to know about horses. Even mh'syou g_
days he was somewhat of an authority, hating early
learned to keep his mouth shut and look knowing
qualities that go a long way towards making a reputation
Once, however, he was perilously near exposure, hisnative
wit alone saving him. He tells the story himself when
in liquor. “ Old Jim Driscoll had got a horse down from
the country, and one afternoon, when I was out at his
place, took me into the box to have a look at him. Of
oourse, 1 was enthusiastic over the improvementhe had
worked in the nag, and was running my h a nd , o Jf e r the
brute, in a professional way, when Jim Feel h a
brisket,’and I went cold all over. Couldn t, totolife
of me, think at the moment what part of a horse that
was. The rug had been thrown loosely on, so I passed
my hand under the rug and over his withers when Jim
said, ‘No, his brisket! Feel his brisket. I said _Yes,
yes,’ but I knew I was lost, and then I had an inspiration.
I ran my hand down under the girth and pinched hard
once, twice ! I was out of that box like lightrungforthe
brute kicked like and Jim didn’t ask me to go m
again. I was saved. But you can bet your boots I got
hold of a ‘ Book on the Horse ’ when I got home.
Brisbane (Q.) bookie, at Harmston’s Circuß
when Signor Comez entered the tiger s cage . I wouldn t
go in there for all the Australian Cup ‘skinners mi the
world.” Years ago, in Adelairt;, a pressman privately-
interviewing wild-beast tamer (Jonkling.ofCole sgreat
cirous, and being well illuminated with whisky, went into
a lion’s cage with the professional, attendants^ only being
present. He got out safely—and sober ! Conkling dar.d
him to come in at the public performance. Not for a
million,” said the scribe. “Why? youre not afraid?
“ Afraid ? No, but the animal stinks. I think 111 go and
wash my mouth out.” And he tottered oft trembling in
every sinew, and never mentioned his act of daring (?)
in his account of the lion-tamer.
• * * •
A mighty cheer went up. “ What’s happened ? ( ’
asked the lady of the naice voice and no manners. He S
out, clean-bowled,” said the small boy. How was he
bowled ? ” “ Because he didn’t play with a straight bat.
“ Silly man,” quo’ the maid, “ with so many to choose
from, too.”
Cloncurry is grieving because never a
priest or sky-pilot buries or blesses the Oloncurry
dead. “ Even the blacks ” (Clonourry wails)
“ perform certain rites over their dead. . . How
oan we expect to thrive if we do not, on such
occasions, pay homage to our Creator ? ’
N. : “ Miss Willard is said to have died of
grief through her difference with Lady Somerset.
The latter saw that the British army would be
physically ruined, on the Willard lines of resist-
ance to the C.D. Acts. This subject led to a
breaoh of their relations in philanthropy.
Thus Paris correspondent to Brisbane
Telegraph on the Dreyfus case :
Zola has addressed a letter to President Faure, filling
eight columns of a morning paper ; it is certain not to be
read, save by the bedridden and the senile. (
Then follows a brief epitome of Zola s letter,
showing that the correspondent had read it.
Premier Turner’s amendment on the
Federal Constitution, providing that the capital
of the Commonwealth shall be on Federal terri-
tory, knocked Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide
equally out of the running, as neither of the three
provinces oan afford to cede its only big city. But
the Little Cornstalk Party rises up as fresh as ever
to state that Turner’s amendment was probably
only a subterfuge, and that the first act of the
Federal Parliament will be to get this clause
amended out of the Constitution, and to fix the
capital in Melbourne, after all. There is, the
Little Cornstalk Party lugubriously points out,
no guarantee that some such mean conspiracy
against N.S.W. won’t break out at any moment.
There is also absolutely no guarantee in the Con-
stitution that the N.S.W. Federal members won’t
conspire with S. A. and Tasmania to pass an Act
providing that the W. A. representatives shall be
shot on sight, and their country seized by military
process. But this equally grave danger seems to
have somehow escaped the notioe of the provincial
crowd in Botany Bay.
HEARTLESS.
“ He used to say I wets the apple of his eye."
“ And now? ”
“ He says I've got codlin moth —that I’m without a heart !”
Ginghie Jack : “The residents of Moree
have been for some time agitating for a faster
train-service between Narrabri and Moree—6o
miles in 3h. 45min. is the present wild rate of
speed—and the departmental reply is always that,
as the line is only up to light- line standard, and
is consequently unfenced, no higher speed is safe.
Yet freight-trains between these two places often
do the whole distance in a little over two hours,
and nothing is said re danger.”
Unexplored Australia.
Writes Ernest Favenc—
It is customary to consider our continent as
explored throughout. Roughly speaking, this is
so, as no geographical discovery of any import-
ance can be anticipated. There is not another
Murray waiting. Pastoral and mineral country,
and permanent water, are the only results likely
UNEXPLORED AUSTRALIA.
to reward the pioneer who first traverses the
isolated patches still left virgin. Private ven-
tures have done far more towards obtaining a
detailed knowledge of the interior than the larger
semi-public expeditions that have departed with
costly equipment and a flourish of many trum-
pets. The use of camels of late years has led to
much careless and slovenly work. The distin-
guished explorer, who leaves in a blaze of news-
paper glory, feels himself bound to give the public
“ a run for it,” and, consequently, relying on his
oamels, makes straight for his point of destina-
tion, or, failing that, any other point where there
is likely to be a telegraph to proclaim the arrival
of the party. The need of examining the country
passed over for geographical purposes does not ap-
parently strike him. His track, therefore, is simply
a black line on the map, with few or no divergences,
and this represents the country he actually sees—
which on an ordinary map is almost infinitesimal.
Compare the tracks of modern camel-explorers
with the work of men like Sturt and Mitchell,
and the truth of this is at once apparent. It by no
means follows, then, that because there is a black
line drawn across a huge area that area has been
explored in the true sense of the term. On the
other hand, the work of private parties hunting
out the details is seldom or never made publio.
* * * *
Strange to say, an area of unknown and un-
traversed land exists not very far from New
South Wales. It lies to the west of the Queens-
land N. and S. boundary, north of where this
meets the S. A. boundary proper running E. and
W. ; and the two boundaries form a right angle.
Into this space of (roughly speaking) 10,000
square miles flows the Hay River, which, with its
tributaries, the Marshall, the Thring and the
Arthur, forms a stream of considerable length ;
and though the course of the Hay has been
approximately marked as flowing towards the
great depression of flooded country which swal-
lows up the Diamantina, and it consequently
finds a final outlet in mysterious Lake Eyre, the
marking is only guess-work. What may be found
in this unexplored space is possibly another large
salt lake, or a group of small ones, and, very
likely, good pastoral country. Amongst the
aborigines would probably be discovered some
new weapons, implements,. &c. (This epaoe is
marked INo. lon the map.)
• * * *
In Western Australia there is still a consider-
able amount of unexplored territory (No. 2). The
Fitzroy River, in the North, flows through the
formidable Leopold Range; but its sources to the
Eastward of that range are unknown ; and mineral
oountry would probably be found on examination.
• » • *
From the great Northern sandy desert which
Warburton struggled through ; which turned baok
Frank Gregory when he made a desperate sally
from the West; and which also lately witnessed
the deplorable death of two members of the, 1 Cal-
vert ’ expedition; there is not much to be hoped
—although the alternations of good and bad
country in the interior are so rapid and abrupt
that no reliable deductions can be drawn. It
would be interesting to determine whether Sturt’s
Creek, the only large, continuous watercourse in
the Western interior, re-forms south of A. C.
Gregory’s furthest. Warburton affirmed it dfid
not; but, considering the state of his party and
the possibility of his crossing the outflow in
flooded oountry, where there would be no dis-
tinguishing channel, the point cannot be con-
sidered as finally settled. On the whole, however,
it is extremely probable that this area (marked
No. 3) will prove to be unavailable for settlement
aooording to our present ideas; but, as the reclama
tion of the Sahara is looked upon hopefully, the
matter is not to be despaired of.
• * * *
The Southern desert, traversed by the late
Ernest Giles from east to west, and subsequently
in a diagonal direction by the Elder expedition,
presents another and more hopeful aspect. It is
most likely that large areas of both pastoral and
mining country (Nos. 4 and 5) will yet be brought
to light there; for it is a region where good an
bad country alternate sharply. There is not.
likely to be any large supply of permanent water
discovered, as the rainfall is exceedingly meagre;
but the artesian-supply may be traced thither, and
that would at once alter the face of the country.
* ->'t *. . *
In spite of the continent being practically
known, it will thus be seen that there exist many
isolated portions of land which are likely to repay
the man who enters on their exploration with the
view of thorough geographical research, and doe*
not merely push across it as quiokly as possible.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
Us advertising the “D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky so
largely unless we were prepared to convince the
public of its absolute purity, by supplying only an
article which they will ask for again and again,
and refuse all others.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been . chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
“SURPLUS.”
The term “ surplus ” is applied, in life insurance
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities.. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate.
The natural tendency of distribution is to diminish
the surplus for the moment; but in the case of a
prosperous company, the decrease is speedily more
than covered by accessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company withholds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. Of course it
is easy to keep in hand more than the future will
require under any possible circumstances; and,
when that course is followed, injustice to Dresent
participants is inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while
careful to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they are entitled to claim. The
Company has never sacrificed the interests. of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was .£6,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominent
instance —of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual’s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
24 millions sterling 1 This is not guesswork. The
figures are based upon the official report issued by
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisati on, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
.£44,445,244, which is more than twice the amount
paid for similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured —a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid interests, of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
thiscourse, the Mutual Life of New York .has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing,
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the w orld as the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,”‘ r the Co. which does the most
good 1 ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in excess of
any possible needs of the generations to come.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
Fit EE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Se SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
X
Soft Cal) VaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. 1 IKE EROIIIEIi>,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.


AT THE LADIES' CRICKET MATCH
PWZA& I
£>
®\*f.**
I
Hie fiirtgrHp i^k»
A fkik ’i~£. j>
QYruntuaa
<ar^~- 7
•■*=- ffieal @veporai =>
V slow. f/Ato».
d2?
gr 2 V
'/n j.n J^
A>jf
j yf/b
J° r “ “w?^
,ot e
&V S "
64 „ .„. /-S p ..
/yunJ-
i<&/ ,o/
% frat/15.7 sécﬁ
±£-> r~~s
everyJzfae
JLt ~
k 95
(^jPare^td
4^|e^
Ul<L£3 e s?‘> nt /
■ At/ S *
A
[%s‘ n '—■ -*-<
yAf’Mtwtck&F'
&t*/i
ShauteaL Sfi/endocC
UfrlA
Nicies e£ She UJietfee^
*^ivy
I /Benton 97
'//ybattiy '’nofkr
wiSirePsh. me
/2 \ / 4>w\ -\ A
aSMßy^*
mashes
,~S>lhe r/ ====== ’
i
L/rtp
OJ
4%2c.' KJgsr-_
/^«thrtfe 1
i **
6‘ o I 27
16 I] o
\ ﬂéﬁ
>fr p @
Z y
AT THE LADIES’ CRICKET-MATCH.


A o ' _ Sa^\
fix
-t&a*! »-*
STRANGE BEDFELLOWS. v -
Stuart Town, Saturday rughV
A large and important meeting
He w? met with almost unanimous j
support from Freetraders and Protectionists , 6 .inst the pr.ee.
this meeting of el “ tor j ° emphatically declares its opposi-
te principle of Fed ® ra • ’ nwe alth Bill, as being opposed
tionto the present Comm and responsible
W th.pri.e.pl. of to lead «>
Government and tool 1 o<l taxation, and
asrist.-*; ■». •*>«• -
the defeat of the Bill.
Member for Goshen Plat (ad-
dressing “monster” meeting): “Yes,
I am opposed to this ’ere Federation,
and for why?"—(A Voice: “Because
it means that you will have to go back to bull-whacking, old
man ! ’’) —Here the speaker changed the subject, and spoke
feelingly of a much-needed, nickel-plated railway for Goshen
Flat.
Mikado (Sir John Forrest) • “ It’s a shocking i
/▼ law, but make your minds easy, I
I —-—and take your punishment calmly, f ■
[ may have it altered one of these fine -
days. What is the punishment again
for breaking this law ? I know it’s
something with boiling oil in it,” &e.,
<kc.—“ The Mikacli ’ as played in t
Westralia. ' /
The Great Anti-vention Move
ment—Lyne for Leader !! Cab-
bage tree Jack Want a bad third !!'
Tapering down to nothing— i.e., Crick,
Johnaynes, etc.
Some great speeches that were never deliverer!
MOSTLY FEDERATION.


A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 5s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, 8s 6(L
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 12.. 6d.
Links to match, 12s 6d; Silver, 4s.
oTO°
q r>
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold ~ ~ 455.
0-0
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Redstone, 355.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £3 ss.
5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
3-Bird Heart and Chain Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Latest London Style.
15c. Gold 2-Heart, Opals
and Diamond, £2 10s.
Six Different 'Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 16s;
Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
18c. gold, o.a t yptiires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
15c. Solid Gold.
4 Diamonds, 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold, 7/6; <
18c. Gold, 20/-
sxtra strong, 10/- 15c. Gold, 15/-
Silver, 3/6. Any Name or
Initial Free.
Gold 2-Bamboo Bars Scroll Pearl Set, 15s 6d
15c. Gold, 32s 6d.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
M
M
Tiie 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£i 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Sen<i for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c., £2.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.
255, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £6 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
A. Saunders.
Good Wishes Lucky Bone Gold Brooch,
10s 6d ; Large Size (plain), 6s 6d.
Pearl Set Bird Centre, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10b.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
15c., £2 15s, £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
Hand - made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for
card.
M
Ladies’ Ourb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 15c. £3, £4,
Send for Pattern Book
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
(Post Free).
"VPIL
E?)-
P ‘j
‘
$0:
; mai
3‘ 5.x
3 1':
9%.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Gold Brooch,
Pearl Heart,
12s 6d.
m
—3rs ;
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £8 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
6 f uarantee you the same satisfaction as if you were here to choose for yourself
Our Stock is Large and Up-to-Date, and at PRICES FAR BELOW ALL OTHERS.
“All articles sent Post Free to any address required.” Send for Price List.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price Book of Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery and Silver-plate. Post Free.
A. SAUNDEBS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.SW.
SAW MILLING . .
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. UVEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling
Outfits
for Artesian Wells.
Tools and Tubing.
Drilling
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes .all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/Is, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
ReMjser.ivia.im Hollow Ground
K*OPP
M
M
M
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. W.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
De hcious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
. rTiJT t l ie f^P° ses Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
“P , c I / n The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and cfnrecom
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial
cl . . . _ j Proprietors: GOODALL, %ACKHOU§E & CO., LEEDS. ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNFV
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
_XHB MOST REFRESHING, COOLiINGi & HEAGTHFUE BEVERAGE.
fnftd« Hark)
J'i
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
• . M ?^ TS ,?, RRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
r Sydney— Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co. aUan
fit
***JEJIr2)3E
SbND *.,UR ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
®r
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
-m
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 los., f o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
i 2 ‘° s * Description t Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-loned r. eds, 13 slops.
j t a ? d eft knee swell ' Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
Fin^ r J arge , catal ° KUe ' T kich we send free on application.
£ . 6 “ p t 0 f ,< >- Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co..
T TTTI 1 mm mm mm ■
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
Toronto Hotel,
Lalce
Macquarie «
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating-, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swi.timing Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrpbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Crpbrocatiop.
NEW MUSIC.
“ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms," a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse ”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, fV.
PAXTON" & CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatio Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diablo,"
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell," “Faust," “Un Ballo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Lea Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
rv
*
S 8
- Ballet fiirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Pout Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.


A New Warehouse.
Extension of Business.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS
Respectfully announce the Completion of their NEW PREMISES for
GENERAL DRAPERY, CLOTHING,
CARPETS, Sc., Sc.
And since the OPENING of the NEW BUILDING, a large and increasing business has been done in every department,
Splendid Show of NEW AUTUMN and WINTER GOODS.
Each section has a thoroughly efficient manager, and everything is marked at the liOWGSIi RCflidy-IVLoUCy PriCG,
from which there is no abatement. : ; •
s9«:Miisa
lillipil 11
1 ,|, ji l !| >i..i .n'i
i, 11 '■
sill
ajld
m
isl?££ ::???; ff
Smother
s
UNI
WIjQLESAi
■
FAMILY
D
drapers
44
tUZCERALD
40
S 3
FITZCERALD
m
SJ
mm
lINW
mnPTH MELBOURNE
EBB
LIST or DEPARTMENTS
MILLINERY
MANTLES
SILKS
EANCY DRESS STUEES
VELVETS
CASHMERES
ELOWERS and EEATHERS
RIBBONS and LACES
GLOVES
UNDERCLOTHING
HABERDASHERY
UMBRELLAS
PRINTS
CRETONNES
MANCHESTER GOODS
BLANKETS
CLOTHING
HOSIERY
HATS
SHIRTS
TAILORING
BAGS and PORTMANTEAUS
CARPETS
LINOLEUMS
Dress & Mantle Making on the Premises.
Orders by post are carefully and promptly attended to, and the Goods or Patterns
forwarded without delay.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS,
40-44 ERROL STREET (directly opposite Old Premises),
NORTH MELBOURNE.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Now, they call Premier Reid a “contor-
tionist.” Formerly he was a “clown.” Still in
the circus.
Rather over 9f per cent, of last year’s
births in Sydney were illegitimate, being the
largest proportion on record.
N.S.W. general election of 1891 returned
34 Labor men ; the following election returned 15
Solids ; and the last, that of 1895,18 Solids.
Sydney Telegraph is beginning to realise
that it may not pay to bang Federation, after all,
and recent issues show a notable softening towards
that Hunter-street traitor, Premier George Reid.
The Federal Executive, which, accord-
ing to the Bill, will consist of seven members,
will draw <£12,000 a year in salaries—that is,
about £lOOO less than the Executive which now
governs the single State of N.S.W.
How on earth can N.S.W. Protectionist
leader Lyne oppose Federation, in view of the faot
that he allegedly represents a Border constituency,
and, presumably, hopes to be again returned
therefor ? Lyne will have to be careful.
Understood that the Q.N. Bank prosecu-
tions'will be delayed until the return of ex-director
Webster from Europe. The demise of Palmer has
lifted a load off Attorney-General Byrnes’ mind.
How to get the late Lieut.-Governor, who was in
an advanced state of physical decay, into the
dock, and the pathetic and painful figure he would
have made there, were considerations that caused
Byrnes much trouble.
WEIGHT WILL TELL.
THE MAN FROM TOWN : “Do you think cycling will affect the horse-trade much? ”
COOKIE (as lady of quantity goes by) : “ Well, there oughtn't to be so many of those
hollow-back brutes bred now !”
Suggestive that the combined majorities of
four of Queensland’s most prominent Ministers—
Dalrymple, Chataway, Dickson, and Foxton—
should be under 30 votes. It shouldn’t take much
to shift that Cabinet on to the doorstep.
FORREST.
His country’s growth he marks with pride.
Afflicted with perception dim,
Not all the truth has he descried,
And still his faith is justified—
His country grows too big for him l
London Times starts to play the game it
played 45 years ago, when it hounded Britain on
to the Crimean war. Every day there used to be
a Jingo article. How appalling was the ignorance
of Editor Delane and co. about the state of the
army !
Another coup spoilt ! Why did not the
N.S.W. Protectionist party adopt the Common-
wealth Bill as a sure and certain step towards the
realisation of the national policy ? Such an oppor-
tunity may never recur, and Protection may never
occur. The party is all at sixes and sevens
over it.
Setting at defiance Advertiser - editor
Bonython, 9. A. Ministry has determined to go
solid for Federation, and is supported by the
leaders both of the Opposition and the Inde-
pendent parties. So far, the citizens are apathetic
on the subject, but all 10 delegates have started
an awakening crusade.
There are, after all, a few men who make
money out of politics and manage to keep it.
The Bulletin can point to one Leg. Councillor
who lives on what he saved out of his official
salary during a long term of office ; and there is a
N.S.W. Minister who has saved and stuck to
=6lOOO a year since he took charge of his depart-
ment.
N. : “ There is not room for Trenwith and
Hancock in this world, i.e., their world. These
two men have just struck Melbourne Trades
Hall aghast by quarrelling over Federation.
Hancock is going to play the game of those demor
crats who don’t know what is the matter with
them, while Trenwith sensibly says, “Let us
shape it.”
THE EASTERN CRISIS.
We thought the Chow a stolid man,
But, marking this and that “ concession,”
We now perceive that all the clan
Lacks one thing most —’tis self-possession.
Dn.
Premier Salisbury, the ‘ ‘ lath painted to
look like iron,” is apparently losing ground over
the Chinese trouble, and even the Tory press now
talks of his approaching downfall. Meanwhile
Rosebery is a lath that isn’t even painted, and
Gladstone is dying, and it is difficult to imagine
who is the strong man for the occasion, unless it
be Judas Chamberlain.
THOSE WAR CLOUDS.
They loom, and fill the troubled sky,
They lower, like fire their fringes redden,
And then they’re softly wafted by.
The Powers the Bible justify—
They fight a monthly Armageddon !
Premier Kingston has already started a
crusade against S.A. Legislative Council and
intends to make household suffrage the first
Ministerial plank next session. His cunning
argument that he is only following the precedent
set by the Convention in shutting down on sec-
tional representation has knooked the wind out of
the sails of the Ass. crowd.
A few fig-
ures on the
opium trade.
One Chinese
storekeeper in
Brisbane pays
in opium duty
between £6OO
and <£7oo per
annum. Cairns
alone pays in
.£5OOO per an-
num to Bana-
naland Trea-
sury for the
use of afore-
said drug, and
Queens land
altogether
raises .£50,000
yearly from
same source.
It will soon
pay Q. Govt,
to grow pop-
py, and make
the manufac-
ture of opium
a Govt, mono-
poly as in
India.
Jack Want
(King Cab-
bage-tree II.)
will lead the
N.S.W. anti-
Federal party.
Vote for Dis-
union—and Want!
According to the Vic. Govt. Statistician,
the population of Melbourne and suburbs increased
last year by 7500. The population of Sydney in-
creased by 300, but the increase in N.S.W.
generally was far bigger than that of Victoria.
Three years of drought and the great rise in
manufacturing industries are apparently shifting
the Victorian population citywards again.
The political morality of Q. may be gauged
by the matter-of-fact way in which Premier Nel-
son’s intended grab of the Leg. Council Presi-
dency— <£looo a year—is treated. Since Premier
Griffith bounded into the Chief Justiceship, after
adding £lOOO per annum to the ample £2500 screw
of that office, Bananaland politicians have ceased
to even affect disinterestedness and patriotism.
A correspondent swears that the following
is a true copy of one of the rules of the Victorian
railway service . .
Employes are prohibited from taking out patents with-
out the permission of the Commissioner. In the event of
permission being granted to patent any article which
may be brought into use on the Victorian railways, the
Commissioner shall have the right to so use such article
without paying any royalty.
Reads very like highway robbery.
T.D. : “Notable—the failure of so many
criminal prosecutions of public men in N.S.W. and
elsewhere. So long as a man has worked into
prominence he is certain to have some section of a
jury with him. But put an inconspicuous person
(instance Suffield) into the dock, and he is almost
inevitably jugged—the jury never heard of him,
and knows no particular reason why he should be
out of gaol. The police say that, whatever the
merits of his numerous cases, John Norton would
probably be languishing in prison at the present
moment were he not John Norton—the assump-
tion of every average chuckle-headed juror being
that no man could be so frequently before the
oourts without having done something to deserve
it.”
A LOUD SILENCE.
DISTRAUTED SCRIBE: “ What do you want to give
the kid that infernal trumpet for?”
HIS WIFE: “To keep him quiet, of course!”
Melbourne Trades Hall reckons that it is
against the Federation Bill because too much
power is entrusted to the Upper House. Which
doesn’t look logical, somehow. Yic. Upper House
is a dozen times more despotic than the Federal
Senate, and when the Trades Hall crowd asks the
people to remain apart from the Federation it
simply asks them to reject the chance of partial
escape from the iron tyranny of the 48 Rich
Landlords.
So far as is known, all the Yictorian
Cabinet, barring Allan M‘Lean, the honorary
gentleman who holds the portfolio of nothing-at-
all without salary, will support the Federation
Bill. In Victoria they have a weird custom of
appointing two or three unpaid Ministers without
office, and M‘Lean, being one of these, doesn’t
count. He is chiefly known as a Scotch High-
lander, aged 58, who takes a great interest in
vegetables.
A .N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge recently
rejeoted the testimonyof an 11-year-old boy because
the boy didn’t know that if he told a lie he would
go to Hell. Yet the Judge’s own theology teaches
that the person who tells a lie won't go to Hell,
unless certain aggravated circumstances of non-
repentance are added to the original sin. Also, the
Judge’s theology teaches that the person who tells
the truth will go to Hell, unless he repents of his
other sins. Therefore, The Bulletin proposes
that that Judge be fired off the Bench as a person
who doesn’t know the nature of an oath.
Sydney Telegraph was so hard up for
authorities to quote against Federation that it
dug up that ancient relic Alfred Allen, who
guttered out of politics with a horrible odour of
burnt grease ever so long ago. And this voice
from the past remarked sagely that the surrender-
ing of “ our railways ” was a very dreadful thing
—every one else knows that the railways remain
strictly the property of the province, but poor
Alfred isn’t expected to understand a little thing
like that. He also remarked that we were “ sur-
rendering our birthright.” This latter phrase is
just as sonorous as if Alfred had said we were
overwhelming our hippopotamus, and it means
exactly the same.
THE USUAL RATE.
LITTLE IKY MOSES: “A cake of carbolic soap ,
please, sir; doctor ordered it for father.”
CHEMIST: Containing how much carbolic acid,
my boy five, ten, or twenty per cent.? ”
LITTLE IKY: I'm afraid father won't look at
anything under sixty per shent !”
Opponents of the Commonwealth Bill
wrestle with the disquieting reflection that if the
Bill be carried they cannot reasonably expect to
be elected to seats in the Federal Parliament. It
would look like making a murderer a member of
the jury to try him. On the other hand, friends
of the Commonwealth Bill will, equally with
enemies, continue to be, in the event of the failure
of the Bill, eligible for seats in the respective State
Parliaments.
Extract from a S.M. Herald interview
with Mr. Frederick Lassetter, the eminent iron-
monger, who is against Federation :
The fact was that the great clamor for Federation arose
from the native-born Australians.
That settles it, of course. The idea of the native-
born Australian, who constitutes a vast majority
of the population, wanting to have any voice in
the management of his own country, when his
doing so is offensive to the imported British iron-
monger, is too obviously preposterous to require
comment.
Dickson, C.M.G.— consistently monoton-
ous gabbler—the classically-inclined auctioneer, is
mentioned as likely to fill lethargic Nelson’s shoes
as Premier of Mongrelia. A fitting successor.
Dickson, in addition to being the most ponderous
and agonising speaker, is the baldest man in Q.
Assembly. He slunk into the present Parliament
for a suburban constituency by a majority of
seven votes. And the fact of being beaten by a
man like Dickson completely unhinged the intel-
lect of his unfortunate opponent, who is now in
Woogaroo.
Beautiful extract from the report of Yic.
Women’s Franchise League annual pow-wow :
Mr. M'DonaUl observed that he would limit the vote to
women over 21 years of age, and would exclude women
who had been convicted of crime and who were known to
the police as drunkards. He would allow all the lady
teetotallers to vote whether they were 21 or not, as there
was no fear of them going wrong.
When the pallid Cold Tea crowd gets together,
and starts presenting itself with testimonials
about its own purity and intelligence and how it
is the salt of the earth, it certainly do 'S know how
to be a monumental ass.
The private interests of their proprietors
are said to be behind the altered attitude of one
or two big Australian dailies toward Federation.
The newspapers of the provincial capitals will
have to keep special literary staffs in whatever
city is constituted the Federal metropolis, and
may even then stand a risk of losing their
present prestige. In New South Wales, Federa-
tion will also, no doubt, carry with it aboli-
tion of. the free-postage swindle. These altered
conditions may mean a yearly difference of
several thousands sterling to the journals in ques-
tion—and the national development of Australia
must be blocked at any price, to save the sacred
pockets of the newspaper bosses !
Over 40 years ago, when N.S. Wales
began to fall into provincial pieces, the Imperial
authorities made a suggestion which, if acted
upon, might have given an Australian Common-
wealth equal to that now in view. The Colonial
Office then advised that a General Assembly
should be established, the services of which would
be bestowed on the affairs of Australia generally,
leaving to provincial Parliaments the management
of the internal affairs of the provinces. The local
objection to the Imperial scheme then was that
any central authority for the whole of Australia
was impossible on account of the distance of the
towns apart and “badness of the roads.” The
“badness of the roads ” was the main standby of
the anti-Commonwealth people of those early
days, and on it they successfully repulsed an
inspiration of genuine statesmanship.
About the most pitiful thing in
the now famous letter of Premier Nel-
son to ex-Premier M'llwraith is Never-
mind’s abject admission that action in
the Q.N.B. business was forced on the
Govt, by public clamour and press out-
cry. “Many of our supporters were
afraid to face an election unless action
was taken in the matter.” Brisbane
press asserts Nelson has in hand a
“ slashing reply ” to Tammas’s epistle.
The curiosities of politics are
always in the electioneering field
months before anyone else, and N.S.W.
(for her sins) nows suffers a re-
crudescence of “ Boy-politician ” Caul-
field, Richard Dean-case Meagher, and
several other aspirants whose political
reputations were lost before ever they
were made. The latest is Capt. Strachan,
whose only claim to political notoriety
seems to be his recent connection with
a big libel-action against a Tas. daily
paper.
The N.S.W. anti-Federal party wails in
the capital that under Federation the trade of the
southern (Riverina) districts will be lost to Syd-
ney —which trade, by the way, is already lost to
Sydney. And it sends Ashton M.L.A, down to
stump Ri verina and point out that Federation
will abolish the cheap differential rates with Mel-
bourne and compel that district to trade with
Sydney against its will. So the argument,
apparently, works both ways.
Queensland Ministers, in view of their
party’s possible annihilation at the polls, are
hurriedly providing themselves with fat, per-
manent billets. Premier Nelson will certainly
clutch the Leg. Council Presidency—.£looo a
year—with both hands and all his teeth.
Railway-Commissioner Gray will probably be in-
duced to retire on pension, to make room for one
of the Ministers as Commissioner—salary, <£lsoo.
Yet another Minister is anxiously looking for a
vacancy on the judicial bench, to be created, if
necessary, by the appointment of a resident
Northern Judge salary, <£2500 a year. An
attempt will be made to shunt Speaker Cowley in
favor of Minister Dalrymple, and certain of the
remaining Ministers of the Cabinet are gravely
thinking of constituting themselves a permanent
Court of Appeal in Industrial Disputes ! Ruat
Coelum 11!
Smoke
MANUFACTURED IN AMERIOA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Secrets of Success-
Poor Stoddart’s “got the needle,”
'Cos a win he didn't see;
How different it might ha' been
Had they trained on BILLY TEA..
We hope that soon he may regain
His usual good humour;
But the Secret of Our Boys’ Success
Is FOB AII and GBANXJMA.
Drink “BILLY” TEA
“ nd Eat GRANDMA.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers, ’
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conduoted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*


A REFLECTION
• •
There are many Sorts
of BOOTS and SHOES; but those
that FIT, that WEAR, that are
XtIADE right and SOLD right, are
what a discerning public want. We
have ’em. The block at side repre-
sents a double view (all for one price)
of our inimitable “J.H.” Brand of
Footwear—every pair of which carries
A Guarantee of Wear.
John Hunter $ Son, [td.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
George and Market Streets, Sydney;
and 75 BRANCHES
in the City, Suburbs and Towns
in New South Wales.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
■ '"*
-rft «iiasßai;»fe-Mg
:: • •
m
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [ead m Copper Ores $ produste.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (lake Hlawarra), 56 miies from Sydney. N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REF TN TNG, etc., etc !
under direct supervision of G. H. Bt,akrmore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorab
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal. Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cosh Settlement on af/reerne.nt of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Mancu/iwi Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
MUTUAL Lire ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTRALASIA.
TWENTY-NINTH ANNUA L RETORT
Adopted, at General Meeting, Monday, 4t,h April, 1898.
Increase of New Premiums to
Increase of Renewal Premiums to
Increase of Interest Revenue to
Increase of Total Income to
Increase of Accumulated Funds to
Increase Of Policies in force to
£21,650
£128,612
£57,365
£208,576
£1,200,406
£4,788,247
Reduction of Claims and Expenses.
J. C. REMINGTON, General Manager.
pbim:ipal office : GEORGE & WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
Hatfuls »f Money
K
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
- CASN -
R€<SIST€R.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’ machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, and
amounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
*.• See our Exhibit in Main Pavilion at the Show. *.*
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
W, A. LINGHAM, General Manager .
Make No Mistake!
Ifil
inn
HI!
liSJi
mm
IllllJ
null
min
imii
HI
s^l^2BM
lIIIIP
i •
O
Paling’s
'Ts undoubtedly the
best house in Austra-
lasia for Music and
Musical Instru-
ments of every de-
scription. Then-prices
are the LOWEST,
their goods are of the
LEST QUALITY;
they always give
(^SATISFACTION.
VIOLINS . .
Well-made Models of all the Best Masters at lowest pos-
sible prices ; also a large stock of Old Instruments.
CORN€TS . .
Besson & Co.’s “New Star,” Boosey & Co.’s “Victor,”
Couesnon’s “Student’s Model,” a marvellous instrument
at the price—viz., 555. in ease.
(aUUARS . .
Spanish, French, German, and American.
STRINGS . .
For Violin, ’Cello, Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar or Harp,
specially suited to this climate.
FLUTES . .
Boehm and Pratten Systems; also Boys’ Band Flutes at
very lowest prices.
AUTONARPS . .
Meinhold’s —Three and Six Bar —the Best Instrument in
the market.
3'" be Sgé:~.; ~ 155:1;
waaeslaaea'q I];
WWW/g
uni-7:913; ‘ﬁjﬁgwgifriﬁ r&
20%
a??? ‘ %
«@2 Q) g; 7 {39,
MANDOLINS . .
Genuine Neapolitan, with Perfect Scale.
CONCERTINAS . .
Very low prices. German, Best Anglo and
English by the Leading Makers of the World —
Lachenal & Co., London.
ACCORPCONS . .
“ The Imperial.” These Instruments are beauti-
fully finished, and the quality and volume of
tone it is impossible to surpass. Our prices are
extremely moderate.
The polyphon musical Box..
The Latest Novelty. Repertoire of Music un-
limited.
Catalogues and all particulars will be sent by Return Mail.
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited
338 George-st., Sydney;
and at BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE.
Record Breaking
Extraordinary.
Megson Lowers World’s Record.
Sydney, March 28, ’96.
•T. Megson, theN.S.W. Champion, made an attempt
on Stocks’ World Keeord of 231-bth sec. for the
quarter-mile (flying' start), at the Sydney Cricket
Ground on Monday last, and succeeded in putting up
a phenomenal performance—he riding the distance in
213-5 sec.
beating the recognised World’s Record of
23 l-sth sec. by 1 3-sth sec. # Megson was paced
by a Dunlop-tyred Quintette, and rode the only com-
bination capable of accomplishing this feat, viz. ;
Dun IQP Tyres
Dunlop-Welch Rims.
Always to the Front.
Always Reliable.
* .1. S. Johnson is credited with having ridden the ahove
distance in 20 2-sth sec., at Nashville, I'.S.A., in October,
1896, but credence has never been given this time, and Stocks’
l-Sth sec. has been recognised as the authentic World's
Record.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
480 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at
Bwanston-st., Melbourne; Franklin-st., Adelaide;
King-st., Perth; and Litchfleld-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
!


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
iiiitniKu kaiks.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEUEAGH ST., SYDNEY
(N‘ xt St. James’ School, between King- & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
i ions Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
Gd. per month for every ,£1 to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
THE
CITY
MUTUAL
LIFE
Assurance Society, Ltd.
, HEAD OFFICE:
INTERSECTION
HUNTER, BLIGH & CASTLEREAGH SIS,
SYDIMEY.
099 9 9 9
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PRO-
GRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
999 9 0 9
ANNUAL INCOME AND INVESTED
FUNDS
EXCEED £lBO,OOO STERLING.
. GEO. CHOWLEY,
Manager.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should he read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Cable Address— ItIEMSIiIL. TELEPHONE No. (>O5.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 2:17, G. 8.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUiIER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALfIOOIILIR.
Ayents in London and throughout the Colonies.
lai ticulais of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free o i application.
USE
Spooler’s
i ROYALNAV.V DfiESSiNOf
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
4 BOATS & SHOES
; ; OF Ml, DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), Gd.'and Is.
Black Oil,
Th T for harness
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivailed Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, &c. b ’
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
iffsgs
\J\J WU
foreign stamps.
"COLLECTIONS of 1000 Varieties
J complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s.
Se ! ?Jl 0 , n ,'. eo \ ls - 6d -: set 10 Brazil, od.
set 12 Heligoland, ls. Packets :30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 60, ls. ; 100, 2s. (3d.: 150 5s
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps
.rrice Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
£150,000 0 0
£60,000 0 0
£44,975 0 0
£6,021,410 0 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. '.l
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company 's business ..
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
December. 1897 x.o.uzi.aiu u u
DIREGIORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer’
vl - ’ on ‘ *7* Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
IREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. ... £1,712,058 14 2
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 37,941 510
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
.. 2,805,78 b
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M; Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuekett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acting Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw; acting
Accountant: VV. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manager: T. A. Edmeades. New South Wales
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill Local Director;
Hon. VV. M‘Millan, M.L.A. Manager: Georye Turnbull.
estern Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R. Waylen-
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager: A. W. Cunningham.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500|000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital
Paid-up ..
£4„S00,000
£2,0*4,501 I Os.
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Cu.rie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Mean s Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Tho-. lev,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. VI. I .C.
General Manager: Henry. Gyles Turner, j. P.
INSPECTORS: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol»
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD RANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE: -
Manager: John M’Gutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne. ■
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers. The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES’
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuc iar.
11 ay market, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TljiS Con^paijy
T ~ United Australian
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
Mutual Five Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, 'Guarantee,
Plate Gllass, Fire, &.
Aocidemt Insurance.
Authorised Capital . £500,000 0 O'
Paid-Up 31,407 10 O'
Subscribed 251,260 0 O'
HEA© OFFICES : 7!) Fitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
® T -» Melbourne. a. WEBSTER, General Manager.
D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOODS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/ j
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. §|b O 6 T I) £-■
DICKSOIM & BURBIDGE,
VV. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Bltrbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,,
31 OH KEN ST., M ELIiOVItNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties
London Agent-B. R. HARRIS, Montague'House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD and
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for 1* hK®?? 6 , f e AZORS '
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5 -, 6/- 7,6
SSiSS. bpards ’ 5 6/6 > B, «*
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes,J, |, j, 10 -, 12 6.
n AU lia ?'P Net and Read!/for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2,6, 3 6, 5/-, 7/6
aii o aZO U? Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
lWcf-lr n rP !i 0n reeeii.t of postal note from Andrew
Hairdresser, &c., 6 Castle'reagh-st, Sydney.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors, Habit & Breeches Makers.
NEW SEASON’S GOODS
JUST OPENED.
IMBOKTEKS OP
Vickerman’s Serges.
LADIES’
At Reform Prices!
At Reform
Prices !
7
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing:
David Braham and Co.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George & York Streets).
. Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, April 9, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 12, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 16, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Tues., April 12, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Konoowarra, Tues., April 12, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, April 9, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, April 12, 5 p.m.
Barrabool, Tues., April 12, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 9, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tues., April 12, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 16, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST Clllt It ENT FAItES TO ALL POItTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Building’s, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MARIPOSA
MOAN A
ALAMEDA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 4 p.m.
3158 April
4500 May
3158 June
Leave
Auckland,
at 2 p.m.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco^
11 April
9 May
6 June
16 May
14 June
11 June
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their -journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San 1 rancisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide hooks showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Sire'l : Rnihoh Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Sireet
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
&
AND
J 4fi>
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TtESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
®IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. INI . Ooy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
THU PO PULA ll PASS PNG HI! I,INK.
Despatch their IVlagmificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON -Bi"-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, CooktOwn, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cit isine u nrivalied.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
.'SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddele.v & Co., Collins Street
ADELAIDE—B. W. Mac D maid, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing- Agents.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, Melbourne 1,
Meftourne 0™ Toting & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of* Ores
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores
...
P£
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
Bd. per 1000.
A. OrEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
TO FAT PEOPL€.
Wheh you have tried all known preparations to reduce
supeifluous fat, and have failed to get permanent relief
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ'S OBESITY
POWDERS. A Reduction of Gib. a week is guaranteed to
anyone, young or old, by their use.
PRICE, 6s. and 7s. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Read
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. ’
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
wvpt ■ Austra *ian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melbourne
Friday, April 15.
S.S. Marloo(from Sydney)Tuesday,
April 26.
ALBANY,
PREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Friday, April 15.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, April 26.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
April 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bvtllarra, Tuesday,
April 26.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
p.
AND O. COMPANY!
The Ro3'al Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows '
FOR MARSEILLES AMD LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate
Mel-
bourne,
1.30 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
April 12 April 14
April 26 April 28
May 10 May 12
May 24 May 26
June 7 June 9
. ’Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, 135 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, 137, £4l, 55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
mo Sir *■™ terms for passages from England. EDWARD
, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge sts., Sydn ey.
Huddart, parker g (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE HO 15 ART,
LAUNCES'J'ON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Rates,
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS Dooked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles Erglish interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
H|‘|liumtEi, (|)‘Caebarß S go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates. Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotai ions, apply
BURNS,' PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
FOR —
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS to CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requireinents of Ihe Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Go
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
" No. 139.—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130.—15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 ss.
few
No. 145.—9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
's*-.
No. 102.—9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. 117.— Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17s 6d.
No. 101. —9-ct. Gold Brooch
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
No. 335.—501 id Silver Child’s
Cup, 3in. high, £2 10s.
No. 308.—Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s 6d.
No. 136.—9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 201. —Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, £lss ; 15-ct. Gold, £2, ss; Silver, 6s 6d.
jTYi
No. 134.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 235.
15-et. Heart, Key
ail I Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 289. —Cut-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2|in. high, 11s 6d.
No. 332. —Electro-Silver o>
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3in.
high, 16s 6<L
No. 150. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
£4 7s. 6d.
.<fo. 3XI. —Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dijh,
6|in. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
No. 263. —Cross.
9-ct. Cold, 8s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 17s 6d.
No. 200.—Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. s}in. long,
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s ; ditto to hold three, £2 ss.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong. llin. hi„h,
£1 10s.
* atQSzr** .
No. 337. —Six Solid Silver Tea Spoons,
in morocco case, £ 110 s.
(' Ag}? / 7
) 2? 3'54}
1“?” ‘ " 5
i
No. 197.—Set Gold Lniks.
9-ct. Gold, £1 ss; 15-ct., £2 5j ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
. m
No. 196.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ; 15-ct., £l lss ; Silver, Is 6d.
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Eulay,
16s 6d.
‘)~,\
" ' 51“
$5“ (:9)
V‘r‘é‘ 9“ '
, “v
‘ \
‘ W
, .. 1H
" ‘ 95:53} “‘9‘
. V I“ “‘
No. 200. —Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d ; Silver, 5s 6d,
No. 284.—Cut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 21s.
o gjßfe
CoHDoN
JSo. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, i'l ss.
•p 9 sgx ‘azis 'fauiqiso ‘jaAps pips
‘auiaoj xii'B.gaia—’9BZ 'OJsT
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entrde Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.)
mi
mu
No. 297.
Solid Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6d.
No. 133.—15-ot. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set Pearls
and Diamonds, ££ 17a 6d.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
No. 118.—15-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Sapphires and Rubies, £ ll- j 6d.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7.
\L; - a "i "77
{(W-
W l. pu:=—o]' ‘
'b %i‘ - ' "e- i
H _ r \, ’lmgw :%
No. 319.
Silver Button llooks and Shoe Lift,
16s 6d.
‘ (w)
,w ' u.( )1 , ‘
2?;@,lﬁ K3
”is“? {MluM-V ‘
6kg: 1», mm 1
lg/ L ‘ 1%
fan/K: "9
$36237 -,3@4%\ _
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Cold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £1 15s.
2 arm": '1 ’7.” ~ ‘ v ; .jv; "
m? r-FE '?*ri__g~?‘é%:£‘~’tl:§_f :75 ‘ ‘
\x ”—:L‘v—«szfﬁr: l-T‘s‘om L 5-0.- \"- “;
‘ LJHDON ' '\\‘ I
"-<;-;;.:‘+_ \ g ‘ 7- , _‘ ‘33:“);‘11‘13‘
‘74 , If *m ,9 2, .’\l\.
5* / gr, . ,w r;
5" » 1’ 3;: 1 / i=2 % <‘ ,7“ 2%/ ‘
Q&_A,_f€jx.’”“i ' «I 725%; 1
“If ;:‘{._E§i. _.__;:.L;:; 72%" ‘ "
HM » ‘A‘NI‘H H“ ‘ y
W- -“‘:%“1HL w , ‘
.‘Kﬂi'gﬂ'u’c‘meJJLlbuild“;H HM! H H” ‘ Ian“
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette Kings.
2 in case, 8s 6d ;. 4 in case, 16s 6d
6 in case, £1 5s
No.' 336.
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
4 ’ jrf -" ‘
K; AT: ? ix,_.,§y,..
, ‘ , a... 3%“ "355%.
(A. 33' A' ‘4‘?“ ‘3‘?
$135 3‘ _ T" K ‘31-}
1—— v at? , ’. Wm: .)
3‘! "L :‘ QR}
L“{. :5.“ ‘ A ‘3 2::
6"r ' “a? 1“ "E‘
AV
No. 261. — Medal. Silver, 3s 6d.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £ll7s
NOTE.—The various illustrations shoupi above are engraved from the articles
goods, any of which will be forwarded (carriage-paid) on receipt of remittance. NEW
direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
1
Anri at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH


John Robert.-!, nowadays, seems to be under the
necessity.of handicapping; himself with a pound or two
more weight than he can carry. lie lost a couple of
matches to Peall last season by a “short head’’ on each
occasion, and now it seems that his attempt to give 6000
in 20,000 to Australian Champion Weiss (spot ami push
strokes barred) was defeated iy 263 points. The old un
just failed to get up in the last stride. Probably he is on
the downgrade at last.
« * * •
W.T.T. : “ Little doubt that a baseball pitcher
can curl a ball in the air, or that a cricket-ball can be
made to perform the same parabola, the Woolwich experts
to the contrary notwithstanding. Many of your readers
must remember the renowned M. Carm6, the French
billiard-player. That grand cueist could strike a ball
from the baulk-line of an ordinary billiard-table, drive it
round the red ball on spot, and, without letting it touch '
the top cushion, it would come back to the starting-point.
Can any of the Woolwich experts demonstrate this appar-
ent impossibility in physics? Again, any player above
the ordinary can place the three billiard ball’s along a
cushion, and, striking one, miss the middle one and hit
the top one, forming an arc of several inches. Another
experiment in point. That wandering Bohemian, ‘The
Australian Roberts,’ will stand at a distance of several
feet from a billiard table, and throw, or bowl, a billiard
ball on to the table. The ball will proceed for three ot
four feet straightfalong the middle of the table, form a curve
to the side, then run along the cushion, and scuttle into
the top pocket like a rabbit down a hole. All done with
check, side, bias, or whatever you like to call it, with a
perfect sphere.”
About the most uncalled-for item ever forwarded
by Anglo-Australian cable was the news that Lord Rose-
bery h<d scratched all his horses for the Lincoln meet-
ing in consequence of the death of his uncle. Not one
reader in a thousand would be likely to care twopence
about Rosebery’s ’osses or uncle.
• » * •
An idea for a Ranji picture reached The Bul-
letin too late for illustration. Ranji passing through the
pavilion gate at Adelaide C.C. ground, and, being about
to face the barrackers, is stooped by Captain Stoddart,
who stuffs wadding into his Highness’s eais, and chants :
“ Bowler Jones may break his bones, but names will
never hurt him.”
♦ * * *
Ben Wardill, taking time by the forelock, ex-
tracted a promise from Ranji to bring out the next
English team. Whether Ben wants to again secure the
dollars for the M.C.C. and Sydney ground trustees is not
stated, but io is rather early to be on the job. The next
team will not be out until 1901 at the earliest, and before
then Geyser Bill of Yarmany may be running this con-
tinent, or Jones may be President of the Commonwealth
and impose an ad valorem duty of 1000 per cent, on his
old enemy.
• • * *
Certain memters of Stoddart’s team gave an
awful exhibition of rowdyism at Beaumaris on the Sunday
previous to their leaving Melbourne for Adelaide. The
row they made at the hotel, and certain other circum-
stances, proved that they had given up all idea of making
a respectable finish to the tour.
• * • *
The long gap in the English figures between
Hayward and McLaren speaks eloquently of the place
where Stoddart, Druoe, and Mason ought to have been
and weren t. Druce was selected as another edition of
McLaren, and Stoddart, on old records, should have done
better than either. Hayward was to have been sixth bat
in the team. Since Ranji started to display unreliability,
he has been practically its second. But for the providen-
tial appearance of Storer in the capacity of a punishing
bat on Australian wickets, the team would have been all
tail after one wicket down. Nothing can get over the
difference between English and Australian batting, but,
in considering the steady failure of good English bowling
all through the season, it is well to remember that no
visiting team has ever played on such a succession of cast-
iron pitches, or through such tremendous heat as prevailed
unbroken this year. The English bowlers of Stoddart’s
last team showed no such collapse, nor was there any
marked inferiority in English bowling results compared
with Australian—in spite of a prolonged failure by
Richardson at the .beginning of the season. English
bowling is always at a discount on Australian wickets.
But Australian wickets are not always as brassy and un-
sympathetic as they have been all this summer.
• * • •
Victor Trumper continued his phenomenal run
on Saturday, playing for Paddington against Leichhardt,
when he made 162 not out.. He has now completed
four consecutive centuries, six in eight innings, ami 1000
runs in competition matches. Alec Mackenzie was un-
fortunate enough to he run out for 1, but Noble kept
Trumper company by running up 144. This sort of.
thing is right enough for the century-getters, but how
about the tail of the team, who Saturday in and Saturday
out do the fielding and never get a strike !
• • • *
The eventual superiority of Australian cricket
will be fixed by our players' natural all-round
capacity for the game. English “cracks” are highly
trained specialists who, by persistent restriction of
themselves to one department, have passed rivals
by a hair’s breadth in it. The English ideal of a test
game is for six carefully selected hats to win it by them-
selves, the rest of the team being non-batting experts in
other departments of the game. If two or three men
fail it means leaving three men to do it ail—which gener-
ally they don’t. In the last 13 test-matches they came
into only one match with a string of eigtit lirst-class bats,
and lost that in hollow fashion through having
no change bowlers. If they could be guaranteed
to all get going, six men of the calibre of
MacLaren and Darling would doubtless be equal to nine
of the all-rouud stamp of Hayward and Node as bats.
But the crackest of crack batsmen is as liable to accidental
failure and to rot as the most emphatic secoud-classer,
and, when there are only six ot him, the chance of
stopping a rot is less, and the damage done by it, while
it lasts, far greater. Australia is used to the experience
of winning matches by the score of its wicket-keeper and
bowlers, after the failure of every man iuuluded only as a
batsman. English conditions of training and selection
give no reserve of this kind.
The whole question of specialism in cricket
seems to demand investigation. Nothing is clearer than
that from the standpoint of the performer— of the man
who aims at shining individually—the first essential is
specialisation of effort. Not a single all-round man is
near the top of either bowling or batting averages in either
English or Australian play—the apparent exception of
Mason being disregarded. Mason must count witoliy as a
bowler since Xmas last. The man of severe confinement
to one department will head the department—by a frac-
tion—and thereby catches the public eye as the first in
that line. But, from the standpoint of the team,
it is highly questionable whether the specialist
is a profitable investment. The difference between
the very good man and the very best man is
generally only a tritie-and a tritie which has to he won
by wholesale suppression of every tendency to other
forms of excellence. Competition is so keen and quality
so close in the first rank that the very little gain of extra
capacity which puts a man in front of the first rank can
be bought only by sacrificing everything else to it. Make
up a team of Jones and Richardson, Hill and Ranji—men
from the heads of the averages. Against these put Hay-
ward, Trott, Giffen and Noble—all all-round men. Winch
is the stronger four ? Expert opinion would plump for
the latter.
The rationale of the thing is obvious. Let the
highest degree of proficiency attainable by a single player
in two departments be represented by 50 in eacii. Then
the law of diminishing returns applies. By concen-
trating all his energy and patience on the one department
he surrenders the 50 lie is capable of scoring in tlie one he
abandons and adds only 15 or 20 to Ms value in Hie one
he adopts. Noble may be regarded now as an inferior
bowler to Jones. But the difference in value to a side
between Noble’s bowling and that of the S.A. man is
much less than the difference (the other way about)
between their batting. If Noble abandoned batting alto-
gether, he might become head of the bowling averages.
But his side would lose by having him as a passenger at
the wickets. Similarly Jackson, who can bowl, would
have done the English better service than Ranji, only an
iota his superior with the bat, who cannot. Cricket is
essentially a game of teams, not of individuals, and the
solid team will beat the brilliant but spotty one. Another
reason listrusting averages.
Unfortunately, the three races in which the
Maoriland crack yacht Meteor has started in Port Jackson
have been sailed in light airs, under which conditions the
Meteor has evidently no rival in Port Jackson. The two
races with the Bronzewing were next things to walks-over
for the Meteor, and in the race on Saturday for yachts of
10-rather and under, she won by Satin. 3Ssec. from
Bronzewing. Jess, 10-rating, was only just able to finish
ahead of the Maorilander by a couple of secs., so the
Meteor by time allowance beat the big-un by over X2mins.
Boating men would have liked to see her show her quali-
ties in a spanking north-easter.
* * * •
Editor Bulletin.—Sir, —ln your issue of 10th
inst. you quote a statement that the “ Lucky drawer of
Loch Leigh in Tattersall s sweep had to lay the owner
£l5OO out of the 4500 nett.” In justice to the owner
and Tattersall permit me to state that I was the first to
open up communication with the owner, and that I had
considerable difficulty in finding out who the owner was.
—Yours truly, Lucky Drawhr.
* * ■ *
Is another tug-of-war boom coining ? A tourna-
ment, with 20min. pulls, has just drawn crowded and
tumultuous houses at Broken Mill ; and, from Weslrulian
fields, talk of a similar engagement is reported. There's
a mint in it there, too.
• • * •
Wonbobbie Buckland and Dubbo Fitzgerald did
not appear at Bathurst show this year, but Dr. Slate and
Harry Knight gave the townspeople good sport. In the
mile trot llarold B beat Silver Cloud in 2min. 3lsec., but
the Cloud turned the tables in the two-mile handicap, in
which Harold was conceding her ssec. start. Silver Cloud
did her two miles in 2.3t>£. Huon B trotted a mile in saddle
in 2min. 31)sec., and the exhibition of trotting, as usual,
formed the most interesting portion of the show. The
trotting contingent went on to Orange show, where Silver
Cloud won the time handicap trot.
• * • »
Mr. J. A. Buckland, N.S.W., invades Maori-
land with II trotters, including champion Fritz. Eleven
horses and trainers, &c., will mean a big exes, account.
There is a really first-class programme for the
A.J.C. meei ing beginning at Randwick to-day (Saturday).
Cornet or Miss Gladstone should prove the winner of the
Hurdle Race, and t.hal sterling filly, Mirella, looks like
beating Battalion and winning the Autumn Stakes. La
Carabine, Foliage, True Blue, and Adoration seem a
likely quartette for the valuable Doncaster Handicap,
and maybe Adoration, by winning, will avenge her last
year’s unlucky overthrow. The St. Leger looks a good
thing for Amberite, whose most, dangerous opponent may
be found in the improved Phillip. On Monday, Ormuz,
Cocos, or Essex may be found capable of landing the
Champagne Slakes, and the Sydney Cup, a presumed
certainty for Amberite or Battalion, may be secured by
Cravat or the outsider, Phillip, who is a better horse than
most people imagine.
• • * •
No surprise can be expressed at owners pre-
ferring the mechanical tote to Ikey Mo, particularly
when one peruses the big divs. paid in Maoriland (writes
a Bulletin correspondent). A man with a “no-chance”
horse would be generously offered 10 to 1 by a met., who
would look suspiciously if the backer wanted much. The
tote s odds are made by the public, and “ no-ehancers ”
are apt to pay anything up to a few hundred to one.
Also, the machine doesn’t look suspiciously at patrons, or
want to know anything about prads, and it’s “settling-
day ” is a few minutes after the div. is reckoned.
• • •
A study in Federation. South Australians
flock by excursion trains to Broken Hill (just over the
border in N.S. W.), where betting over races is practised,
while “totes" are repressed ; and Broken Hill people
flock by excursion trains into South Australia, where,
though betting is repressed, the totalisator is permitted.
As usual, both crowds want just the thing they haven’t
got; and the railways are the only gainers every time.
* » '» »
The large attendance of youthful blackguards
and loathsome “bookmakers” at the Vic. Amateur
Cycling Union festival last Saturday suggested—not for
the first time—that Melbourne’s rising generation is none
the better for the “healthful moral influence” of the
bike. A shocking lot of young faces scowled around
the St. Hilda track, and more especially in the
re erve, where the riders’ friends and sup-
porters did mostly congregate. Shabby “ books ”
bawled the odds in shillings right * under the
nose of the perleece : flashly-dressed “ tarts "stood listen-
ing to foul language with admirable composure:
one aged person was uproariously drunk. The general
desire seemed to be to “give away the show”
by snorting at the management. In the live-mile cham-
pion-hip race a pallid, hungry-looking youth, misnamed
Tucker, did all the pacing for about 10 laps and was still
a likely winner when the bell rang. But, because he had
been sometimes looking over his shoulder, the authorities
ordered Tucker off the track when the pinch came,
whereby they (presumably) saved the expense of a pacing
prize and caused an uproar among the people.
* • • •
Q. amateur-crack Goodson finished a poor second
to New, of N.S.W., in ihe Five-mile Championship, at St.
Hilda, on Saturday. New reversed the cycling maxim by
pacing the last lap and winning—seemingly, he could have
won by much more than his 4 lengths had he been put to
it. Park, the Vic. champion, could get no nearer than
fifth, but in the mile scratch (New not stalling in the
finab he beat Goodson, after an exciting head-to-head go
for a couple of hundred yards.
The best item of the afternoon was the bad lan-
guage used to the officials by a person who objected to
their ruling. It was quite audible to the crowd at the
fence, who cheered him on to “deal ” with them, hut he
contented himself with putting his fingers to his nose and
retiring. This move may have been due to the fact that
Acting-Gov. Madden was coming up at the time, H.E. s
reputation for “willingness” when bother is thickest
preserving peace wherever he goes. Meanwhile the
officials limply said “ Haw ! ” and “ reported ” the
matter.
* * • •
A splendid day, a bigger crowd, fine racing and a
party from Govt. House smiled on the N.S.YV. Wheelmen’s
second day’s racing. The Agricultural Ground never
looked better.
The four back men, Walne, Body, Parsons and
Clinton rode a splendidly-managed race in the first heat
of the Hampden Wheel Race, and no scratch man ever
rode better than Walne did for first place. In the second
heat the back men, Green, Barker, Megson, Forbes,
Payne and Chapman, all waited for one another, while
Megson and Green were talking. Finally Megson went
out and burst hiimelf and Green up with a terrible lap,
and lirown, a 130yds. man, won easily. Hunt’s splendid
sprint in the third heat was discounted by Ainsworth's
finish. This whilom English amateur is an old boy at the
game, and, like Green, seldom tries to win except in the
straight.
The first four heats brought three accidents, and
there were one or two other falls, but no one was seriously
hurt. Buck and O'Brien, the two veterans, escaped
rather by riding well than by riding fast.
Parsons’ struggle in the second heat of the First
Class Handicap won first place from a very fair field ; the
other old stagers, Megson and R. Lewis, also won a heat
each during the afternoon.
Gov. Hampden came and raised his hat respect-
fully when the band pla,\ed “God Save the Queen ; ” he
also fired the pistol for the final of the Hampden Wheel
Race. This was a grand race. Body’s tremendous lap,
followed shortly by a similar one from Hunt, broke these
men up, but not Walne. He rode with a clear, game head
all the way, and when it came to the finish—“ l was done,
hut I could feel them all dying beside me in the last half
lap," says Walne. And he won easily enough from Ains-
worth and Barker.
The Multicycle Handicap was rather a pro-
cession, and the League made another blunder in not con-
verting the two heats into one final race. When the
conditions are that the first three teams in each heat are
to run in the final, and when there are only two heats,
and when only three teams come out for the first heat, it
is mere wearing out of public patience to send these men
for nine times round. Only four teams came out for the
second heat, and so, if the final had been run straight off,
there would have been seven teams on the track instead
of six, and, in all probability, a better race. As it was,
by the time the multicycles had gone round 27 times the
public was more tired than the riders.
• • • •
Private J. M‘Gregor, winner of the Maoriland
rifle championship after a six days’ contest, led from start
to finish in aggregate. In ’l)6 he would have won the
coveted belt but for a miss in the very last shot. That
year he represented M.L. well at N.S.W. Association
meeting. Lieut, ltoss, the runner-up, has already won
the championship three times -’B4, ’B6, and. ’B3 and ten
years later he is shooting as well as ever. Ross is a tough
nut with a ride, and fires lying on his buck. Private
Robinson, third man, is a commercial traveller, brother
to the redoubtable “Possible’ Robinson, who created
such a sensation the first year the Association instituted
possible prizes.
* • * *
A strong team of Maoriland miniatures, en-
gineered by J. C. Booth, is to be tested at Sydney small
horse meetings shortly.
» • * *
A IG-year-old Chinese half-caste lad, rejoicing in
the out-of-the-way name of Ophir Kong Sing, recently-
won the swimming championship of the public schools of
N.S.W., and also the lOO.vds. championship of Coogee
Swimming Club. His breeding must have been (as they
say on the turf) a good “ nick,” as his elder brother, Otto
Kong Sing, the Chinese sol’-'tor, was, during hispupilage
at Newington College, one of the athletic dons of that
nursery of learning, and he is still reputedly one of the
handiest amateur boxing middle-weights about Sydney.
* * * *
They do play it up in the West. At little better
than a scratch meeting got up last month at the White
Feather, the original racing club having petered out,
there was a LISO cup event, two other handicaps of £6O
each, and a couple more decent prizes. The, at present,
luckiest Westraliau turfite, C. N. Kidman (of the inter-
provincial grazing, butchering, cattle-exporting, coaching,
&c., firm) got most of the coin.
• • * •
A certain sport correctly tipped the result
of the final test-match, for the Schnapps £5O-trophy.
On the result of the match becoming known, the sport,
in whose eyes £5O loomed large, with a few pals, pro-
ceeded to play it up. Mr. Public House chipped in;
things were kept going until the numbers went up. Div.
3s. Then Mr. Public House shut down.
* * * *
Cabin Boy also proved a bitter pill for the many
who had early fancied him for the Hawkesbur.v Handicap.
To their disgust he was pulled out for the six furlongs
flutter, the Clarendon Handicap, for which he started a
6 to 4 favorite and won easily.
* * ‘ * *
Sydneyite Sam Fitzpatrick’s latest find in
America fights under the high-sounding moniker of
Geoffrey Lorrimer Thorne. Thorne, who stands over 6
feet, turned up for his first tight under Sam’s guardian-
ship, arrayed in dress suit, silk hat and patent leather
shoes. The dude fairly smashed up Brooklyn’s best
middle weight, one Harry Fischer, much to the surprise
of the crowd who had seen him before he doffed his
bang tails.
* * • *
A prominent Australian cyclist, who has had
several big wins lately, has fingered not a cent- of the
cash, all being captured under a garnishee-order as it
was won. Such are the complications which now hedge
cycle-racing.
A Melb. correspondent :
R-C. Archbishop Carr lias made a most liberal cash
offer for the Wesleyan College within Melb. University
which the Wesleyan.? find themselves unable to maintain.
The R.C. reserve at the University is a blank waste, anti
there has been much wonderment why the Archbishop
does not build. Here is the explanation —his advisers
are convinced that Queen's College must come round
to them if they are only patient.
She got into the train at Beaulieu, and as
she sat down there was a glimpse of black stock-
ings seen below crimson silk skirts. “ Rouge et
iioir,” said the old gentleman, meditatively, who
was sitting opposite. l ’ Faites votre jeu,”said the
lad}', who was by no means averse to enter into
conversation. “ Rien ne va plus,” the old man
groaned as lie dropped into gloomy silence again.
—Pink Un.
By the cleatli of George Robertson, at 73,
one of the few remaining successful pioneers of
Vic. trade passes away. The man’s face indi-
cated his possession of the pluck and enterprise
which enabled him, during the 47 years of his
career in that province, to become one of
Melbourne’s wealthiest business men. Quiet, un-
assuming little man as he appeared to be, his
administrative faculty was remarkable, and the
business training he gave to the many employes
who have been associated with his firm- since its
inception undoubtedly laid the foundation of the
success of almost every bookseller of note now
in business in Australasia. As far back as ’B3 he
formed his business into a limited eo. with a
capital of in 50,000 shares at £5. The
directorate comprised John Blyth, W. H. Calder,
R. J. Jeffray (Win. Sloane and Co.), Hon. John
M'Gregor, David Sytne (Age), and Henry Gyles
Turner (Commercial Bank), the last-named of
whom had been a fellow-apprentice of Robertson’s
in the old country, G.R. was about the first Aus-
tralian trader to grasp the fact that a good busi-
ness can’t be run so well by a company as by the
founder himself, and after a short trial of company
management he bought back the shareholders’
interests at an advance, after which he simply
coined money. Bought also the freeholds of the
immense block of buildings facing Queen-street-
Little Collins-street and Bourke-stroet, and ac,
quired the premises now occupied by M'Lean
Bros, and Rigg, Ltd. No mercantile venture of
any promise in the three principal provinces
lacked his name on the share-list. During the
boom he told the writer that lie had so much
money coming in, that he didn’t know of any fresh
concern to put it in.” He had then shares in 58
Vic. cos. and banks alone, was a heavy sufferer by
the Davies group of ventures, and when the bank-
ing crash proper came was a contributory to every
•one of the reconstructions. To his credit, be it
said, he paid every call made upon him to the
uttermost farthing. Did Vic. possess more men
of the same calibre, its general reputation would
be of much better odor.
The Swift and Beeston-Humber bicycles, fitted
with Dunlop tyres, had anot her series of victories at the
N.S.VV. Wheelmen’s second day of the autumn meeting.
The four finals terminated thus : The Hampden Wheel
Race was won by Walne on a Swift, with Barker third on
a Swift; the First-Class Handicap saw Parsons and Clin-
ton on Swifts run dead heat for sec nd place ; the Inter-
national Team Race was won by the Victorian represen-
tatives, Walne on a Swift, Parsons on a Swift, Baikeron a
Beeston-Humber ; and the Multicycle Handicap was won
by Cliff Boyd and Tucker on a Beeston-Humber triplet.*
The Atacama Enquiry.
If the proprietors of S.M. Herald really want to
understand why their journal is going to leeward
in popular estimation, they can compare sth-inst.
Herald’s report of the Atacama enquiry with the
Daily Telegraph’s. Here is a case of the pro-
foundest interest to the shipping fraternity and
the general public ; and by slurring or omitting
important passages of the evidence the Herald’s
report of a whole afternoon’s Marine Board work
is compressed into ten inches of space; while the
Telegraph has 17 inches in smaller type, and even
then does not profess to give the matter anything
like verbatim. The consequence of the Herald’s
inadequacy is that its readers—who are not told
of the captain's admissions regarding the condition
of the vessel during the voyage to Port Jackson,
or of the Marine Board President’s extraordinary
attitude, or of some other leading features of the
enquiry—receive altogether an inaccurate impres-
sion of the whole case. The President’s remarks
are particularly noteworthy. Says the Daily
Telegraph report :
Mr. Wilshire said with reference to the witnesses to
whom he had issued subpoenas, they were all experts who
would give evidence with regard to the repairs effected on
the vessel. It was important they should hear the evid-
ence which was being given, and he would, therefore, like
them to be in the court.
Dr. Slv (who represented the owner and captain of the
vessel) objected to this.
The President : YVe know there has been an unfortunate
loss of life, but whether that loss lias been caused wilfully
or not
Mr. Wilshire : Oh ! I don’t suggest that.
The President : Then what is the use of this enquiry?
Mr. AVilshire : There may have been carelessness.
The President: Because loss of life occurs at sea, it does
not follow that everyone connected with the matter is
guilty of carelessness or neglect. So long as ships go to
sea there will be lives lost. Permission was th n refused
for the witnesses to come into court before they were
called.
“ Then what is the use of this enquiry? ” As if it
were not the bounden duty of the Marine Board,
a chief reason for its existence, to ascertain why life
is lost from any vessel under its jurisdiction—
whether by accident or from preventable causes,
from negligence or recklessness or in spite of
the utmost care and caution. And this without
any reference whatever to “wilfulness.” The
oases are, fortunately, rare in which a vessel
founders by the “ wilful ” act of anybody. But,
what the Board sits to ascertain, and should sit
without prejudice to ascertain, is whether the life
of one man who stretched despairing hands to the
dark as he sank, of one boy who called to
his mother before the waves swallowed
him, could have been saved by the exercise
of ordinary foresight—of natural precaution.
“Because,” said the President, “loss of life
occurs at sea, it does not follow that everyone con-
nected with the matter is guilty of carelessness or
neglect.’’ But the Board sits to inquire if there
was any carelessness or neglect on the part of any-
one, and it does not lie in the President’s mouth
to ask “ What is the use of this enquiry ?” before
witnesses have been heard and the enquiry is
closed. It is the Board’s duty to try and get the
fullest light on the reasons which lead to the loss
of any vessel in its jurisdiction. And when, as in
the Atacama case, it interposes obstacles by refus-
ing or delaying to exercise its power of subpoenaing
important witnesse-s, when it appears to suggest &
priori that any enquiry must be fruitless, and
when it appears without sufficient reason to fail to
second the efforts of the Crown to arrive at the
truth, then it seems to The Bulletin thatN.S.W.
Marine Board, as at present constituted, badly
needs wiping right out.
Melbourne is again-plastered with bills of
the Eight-Hour Art-union and fete: and again
they hold their annual procession, celebrating—
what? Thousands' of workers haven’t got the
eight-hours, and make no effort, nor does the
Trades Hall help them to get it. Meanwhile, the
condition of the monument in Spring-st. is a by-
word and a reproach among scoffers. Surely the
societies could raise the few hundreds necessary
to complete this. But it is emblematic of the
whole eight-hour movement —unfinished. Pro-
bably by the time it is complete seven hours—or
fourteen—will be-the order of the day.
One of the sights of the Victorian capital
is the vast new drapery establishment of Fitz-
gerald Brothers, at 40-44 Errol -street, North Mel-
bourne. It is a huge building, erected directly
opposite the firm’s old premises, which latter, had
to be abandoned as utterly inadequate to the
growing business of the firm. Fitzgerald Bros,
run 24 separate departments in their new building,
and everything that is clothing, or that bears the
most remote resemblance thereto, can be found
on the premises in quantities that are practically
unlimited.*
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
* ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE ( HliSI IiVT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell V Kiiis-streot t'ollcc I’aliiee,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“RED BIRD” Cycles are Indestructable.
The secret process to which all
‘Rsd Bird* Franks
Are treared, ensures the STRONGEST CYCLE
FRAME in existence. There has never been a
broken RED BIRD frame in all Australia out of
the many thousands in use.
@\ A
“BETTER PAY TOR QUALITY THAN PAY FOR REPAIRS.”
Manufactured, Sold, and Guaranteed by tub
GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.,
CYCLING SCIIOOL-
Waverley Road, Woollahra.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH—
-64 King Street, SYDNEY.


K! ASS EY-H ARRIS BICYCLES
Won’t Slump.
Our factory two months behind their orders. 400 men working 1
lohoursaday. No slump there. Good quality don’t go begging.
.... It's cheapest in the end ....
Honest Cycles at Honest m
That’s where we stand in “The Slump.”
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Est-aht.tshed
1K47.
Australasian Branch : 163-169 William-et., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Stre t, Melbourne; 885 Oeorirp Street. Sydney
Queen street. Brisbane: ( ranford Street. Dunedin'.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Here To-tSLav!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ' We know a good-wheel when we see it! and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 18S4. 234 Pitt-street, SY UNEY.
B£T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to tlie Govt! Electrical
Department.
,‘» /: .2-
,w’ .' 322p \.,—-"
‘ “y - ’\ ‘41.»
,w’ 1 «3‘1 '67}; In:
w“ -ﬁgé, ,AL} 39%;»
A“ :55 ’A’/5‘73 - —. 13:1“ ,_,...
“A: V/ ‘v :»\ ' ~~\‘Mé\
V 2’: #21 Ge ‘5"? ' ‘5i—jiﬁ5‘“ 07:31 h
_,/‘:}’,f“' 7‘3 ‘ ‘. 3"»; f: r $535325»
IM‘IK’Q», .. 5a ‘\:§::;
"* ‘ ‘32::- V ._ 4° ' 25;,»I -Agﬁ;
~ 5/»? ' ,A: a 7‘ N:‘.".. ‘t
/ I ’4' - ‘<
f ‘.fr;<;A :‘E‘
W. W. GREENER’S
Renowned
Guns & Rifles
Can now be obtained through all principal dealers in
Australia. BEFORE BUYING A GUN, LOOK AT THE
NAME, and save trouble with all Li r e Insurance offices.
Address enquiries —W. W. GRJ3ENER, Isox 326
G.P.0., Sydney ; or to C. \V. BUCKEAND, 16 CuiTal-
road, Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. Rep.).
3 Gold (Hatch for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE :
BT’V’Ft B * W* T* O'T
-A. W’T * H.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Wat hes. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 16s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will he
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ DO WRIDGE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(Ijolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
1
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, Unsurpassed for quality
and speed. US’ Everything fancy but the price.
English $1 American paries
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-cl-ti-s Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WA V Eli LEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
31A CK LTN
HE3 LEY
GIL3TLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
203 CL A REXCE STREET, SI’DXEY.
PIPING THE PitAISES
PATTISONS’ LIMITED,
LEITH and LONDON.
K
J
m*r^'
Branch Office :
16 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
PATTISOINIS’
Morning Dew Whisky
a
|iiii
li
1
■ a
f -J
She was a Poster-Maiden,
With a wonderful Poster hat,
I was a well, no matter,
We need not go into that.
I questioned the Poster-Maiden,
As Poster-people do,
II Why do the Poster Races
No longer interest you?"
“ Becausesaid the Poster-
Maiden,
“ The dollars are just a gift —
Simply a gift for Walne
You know he rides a * Swift!
RIDE A
or
For SPEED
For STYLE
For STRENGTH
For SAFETY
These Machines are guaranteed to give Cyclists the most graceful and most
comfortable position possible, and they may be relied upon for long journeys on all
kinds of Australian roads. They are fitted with Dunlop Tyres, specially made by
the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company to meet Australian requirements.
■ i - - .11.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Bundle-street, Adelaide. Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Charters Towers.
Warmambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.


“According to Bishop Stone Wigg,” says
Sydney Daily Telegraph,
There are only two authorities on missions to the
heathen—the Bible and the Sydney Bulletin, while the
Bible is only trustworthy (according to its journalistic
censor) so far as it agrees with Tub Bulletin. Mission-
aries had a message to the bodies as well as the hearts of
the heathen. Their only message to the bodies, accord-
ing to The Bulletin, was to teach the natives to “ cover
theni up. ” Mention was made of a missionary cartoon
which had been copied from The Bulletin by an English
magazine, accompanied by the assurance that it might, be
taken as a reliable photograph, seeing it had appeared in
an Australian paper which deeply sympathised with
missions.
In return for which gentle wigging The Bulletin
has only to remark that the picture in question
was from a reliable photo taken by an amateur
then visiting the islands, but now in England,
and, probably, producible, if necessary, in testi-
mony to the existence of our reverend black
brother exactly as depicted—with about half-a-
stone of the Worrd under his arm, and “ nodings
on but a portentous top-hat, a long-tailed coat,
and a waistclout strongly suggesting a white
choker fallen from grace.
Steff Cassander, ’ on the guilelessness of
a certain Maori sportsman :
Dear B.—Re sporting proclivities of the modern Maori.
One whom I will call Wiremu Takeini, and who is quite
European in his costume —long- coat, polished topper, big:-
link gold watchchain, &c. —attends every race-meeting of
note. Sometimes he appears to own horses, and some-
times he just appears on the course for pleasure. But he
always wins. The tote people know him well, and
always smile as the big brown hand thrusts the tickets
into the pay-out pigeonhole. No man ever gets the
strength of any stable better than W.T. Of late he has
been much put out by hungry punters following his
movements, and, consequently, shortening his divs., but
sometimes his followers “fall in,” because VV.’s dodges
for choking them off are many and varied. The other
' j I _ vv i tnesse< * a hack-race of 13 horses, and, scanning mv
card before the race, I noticed that two of the horses were
owned and entered in the name of a well-known Maori
chief Over this event W. and the chief were seen in
great, korero in the stables before the start, so the two
horses in question-Tetpirtie and Piktiwhie-attracted
i?Tiru- a u ention, and the question was frequently heard •
Which one are they sending?” Tetpirtie was
the most likely-looking of the two. Presently W
was seen to enter the stable, and, taking a
large medical bottle from one of his pockets, he
proceeded with a feather to paint Tetpirtie’s nostrils
with some yellow liquid. Every now and then he would
turn round to the gaping punters to remonstrate with
them for blocking out the light and interfering with a
racing man’s preparations. When the “ come out ’’ bell
sounded and the tote-bell denoted that backing had
begun the hon. chief came up to W. and handed him a
roll of notes which W. surreptitiouslv handed on to
while the P ublic saped and thought
that that little heap was for Tetpirtie, the Maori stable’s
l* v ® Un Y T , hen W - and the chief led Tetpirtie, and
had such a long korero with the Maori jockey that the
starter had to hurry them up, and it wasn’t surprising,
after all this, that Tetpirtie was the favorite. Round
they went—the usual hack-race string, but as they came
IPivJu 6 . sf ' rai >cht was seen that Tetpirtie was done.
Why, it’s that ugly Piktiwhie,” was the cry. “ Oh"
Lord, what, a skinner ! There’s no one on him.” And
Piktiwhie it was—with Tetpirtie fourth. Then the grief
of the owner and W.T. was pitiful to behold ; and the
way they pulled the boy off Tetpirtie was painful to see
the owner giving him (apparently) a fearful lecture (in
Maori). Piktiwhie paid out a dividend of* £49 3s —there
were only 20 investors on the horse, 10 tickets being held
by the chief and 7by the wily T. The way the latter col-
lected his divs. was by sending seven different Maories up
to the machine at intervals with a ticket each. I heard
the rascal in the evening bewailing his hard luck in having
backed the wrong ’un.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.
• • •
Cleanse your blood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla the most thoroughly
reliable alterative ever compounded.
For scrofula, boils, ulcers, sores, car-
buncles, pimples, blotches, and all
disorders originating in vitiated
blood, this medicine is a specific.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is equally bene-
ficial as a remedy for catarrh, rheu-
matism, and rheumatic gout. As a
Tonic, it assists the process of
digestion, stimulates the sluggish
liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated
by excessive fatigue or wasting
illness. Physicians everywhere con-
sider Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the best. It
is a skilfully-prepared combination
of the most powerful alteratives and
tonics. No other blood-purifier gives
equal satisfaction or is so universally
in demand.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE BILIOUSNESS
gECOND-HAND
AND
■KfEW FURNITURE
•” (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£ 1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
telephone 1023.
q a ... s
5 V “\ 4:]
V _ 7179‘.
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite
LADIKS.— Call and
see our CH EAP
ai ACHINES,froin 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekty.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
,etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
New Markets, SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC
TER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
TER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution 10 resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases of-
anaemia, Influenza and
general debility.
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil
dren I
LANCLT •• A beautiful and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. - « It has all
the goad effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
lo!
Deafness
and HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Believe all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
.skill fails. The only Scientific
|Atjral Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Relied
W 5 '
y}
. ’sj
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lone, 6/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzcll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe Lisfc.
Prompt attention'giyen to Country Ordtrtt
;(.
,.
I”;
l b |
"0'3; »
;{ w
it E ’
111‘ SI?) ' (r '
" ‘14“
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
3.
I" .VI
‘LNW‘ ’2. 4
w y
‘; _.‘;;;:x\\x
waW"
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
Wh te Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/a. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect Safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
]Mnan wrote that constituted
had not yet recovered from the shock
self-inflicted by the murder of Jesus,
the Chosen have not. Ever since tin
authority
of the blow
Certainly
e tragedy of
Calvary the Jews have been the victims of mob
massacres. And, even at this advanced epoch of
civilisation, men like Max Nordau and the Chief
Kabbi of France dread a general continental
slaughter of God’s own.
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites
o- . x . . Invigorating in Hot Cli mates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and
SCRUBS & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
M
. egﬁf .7 k
u $91,“th
§ (43;;
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s. *
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List.
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
_ 0 MELBOURNE-ST., concord, Sydney.
Th e Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
_ ff???
. 3’4 .
‘29!
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
Presto
r o te
C sharp
uivut
IMITATIONS OF
OGDENS
GUINEA-COLD
CIGARETTES
BY B.OY-A.L WARRANT of ABBOIKTXMIEKrT to “ THE QXJEE3XT,”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE
99
Schwepp
ASK FOB
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE
99
SODA WATER, &c.
UPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, ANDSTEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD FOR
INFANTS
691%?
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere,
Wholesale, of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


seas
-
Herr Hassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist,
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OP THE
fllfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOB THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys,
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet J
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of lifo
suddenly
Stagg-er in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur dailv, and an
INFALLIBLE" CURE
is found in taking the
Alfa line Herba
Remedies.
mwi
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging 1 to
Business,
iii, arm
taking little interest in
topics of the day who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th i Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffer i n g,
which keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of ■
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, theyespy
%
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning np the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Medical
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER EELT BETTER in their lives.
rmM
i
c/VM
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
w
ID
. \
r?"- 1;
“HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULEN C Y are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The AT "a me
Fat-Reducing 1 Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, 6s. i
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
SUM
O
sr. t
SiZ*
v
!#§
IP
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Bassmnsseu’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. (id.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every linde
disappointment or tifD,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves;
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as Well as from the most obstinate cases.
'tv£A
w J
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, exoert, and politician,
<fcc., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the mahy NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is lei,- to,
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone;
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 65.. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double.
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days, ago a. wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Kassminsen’s Alfaiine VitaliLy tills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
/
How to Obtain Free Book.
m When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his.lntercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FB EE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaiine Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaiine
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishment's, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
6£; v
.A W'
a m
v
£
■N.i
K
v %gfl
k
m
<a&
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE ]?OtJND
The ALE ALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prie s include ail advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLoOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Poweiful Course, 435, 6d. Ail advice sent free,
and all particulars d( sired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. - ,
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at tne same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65,, 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t ouulis, Colds, « onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxm iant beards and moustaches.. Posted,. 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 23e. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children arid Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranty d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcaus
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street;
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington ,
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie —Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
sraaj
30IAQV
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c,'o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters'thus for privacy sake
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Gbnkral Post OmcK,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, W.TIIOUT I AIL.


Amusements.
ROYAL STANDARD THEATRE SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereairh-st.)
Sole Lesse* and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
7 (Ith \
WKKK f
HENRI”'S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
7 Hth
WEEK.
The Great Australian Historical Drama, in 4 acts, TH E
EUREKA STOCKADE, by E. W. O’Sullivan, Esq.
Wed., N. Svdney ; Thurs., Waverlev ; Friday, Petersham
A NEW PLAT EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
mUWN HALL, SYDNEY. APRIL 8 and 11.
Good Friday!
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT OF THE
NEWBURY SPA IJA CO.
Selections from “STABAT MATER," Oratorio Gems.
Easter Monday!
3IGANTIC NATIONAL AND POPULAR NIGHT.
Popular Prices-Is., 25., :;s.
QENTENARY HALL (York Street), SYDNEY.
Easter Saturday and Easter Monday!
AT 8 O’CLOCK.
Mr. ROBERT KENNEDY,
Scottish Vocalist and Entertainer,
Only representative of the Famous Kennedy Family, and
foremost exponent of Scottish Song and Story.
TICKETS, 2s. and ONE SHILLING, at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
J®'” GRAND EASTER RE-OPENING.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, 9th APRIL.
BLAND HOLT
AND HIS PREMIER DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
First Production in Sydnev of the Thrilling Narrative of
English Mill Life,
Th.o Cotton King.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Power’s.
HARMSTON’S
GR9DD CIiCUS $ ZOOLOGM
Location : BELMORE PARK.
MATINEES Every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
This All-Conquering’ Show
has achieved an Electric Success, proving a perfect revel-
ation in tented amusements.
‘‘THE WORLD’S GREATEST,” The Best Appointed,
and Finest Equipped ever seen in Sydney.
OUR ADVERTISEMENTS TO THE LETTER
FULFILLED.
The Grandest Company ever Organised. The only
Complete troupe of Lady Acrobats in the world.
Superb Stud of Arab Stallions. The Baby Elephant
and its Mother. Peerless Equestrian and A£rial Artists
the wonder of all beholders.
KSF” SPECIAL Holiday Matinee Performance EASTER
MONDAY.
Prices of Admission:
Private Boxes, (6 chairs), £1 4s ; Single Seats in Boxes, 4s;
Dress Circle Chairs, 3s :Stalls, 2s ; Pit, ONE SHILLING
Box Plan at Elvy &Co’s, George-st., Sydney. Perform-
ance commences at 8 p.m. Doors open at 7, to enable all
to visit the grand collect ion of wild animals.
Children half-price to Matinees only.
Mrs. HARMSTON-LOVE, Sole Proprietress'; ROBERT
LOVE, Manager; COL. C. B. HICKS, Representative ;
JOE BROWN, General Agent.
QUIJIELL’S Fla id IHsi nf'ictaat is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
Amusements.
TTEtt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
LAST NIGHT! LAST NIGHT I
CLAtTmAKr.
Play in 4 acts, by W. G. Wills anti Hinry Herman.
SATURDAY, April 9-THE SILVER KING.
Plan, Nicholson’s. jy PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
T YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
"Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
•A- Yorkshire Lass.
This thrilling story of war, of woman’s devotion, and
the eternal fitness of things, with all its wealth of realistic
surroundings and “ artistic verisimilitude,” will hold the
boards of the Lyceum to night and henceforward.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, ls'»
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, 9th APRIL, GRAND
OPENING NIGHT OF
Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT ~f
And his Complete London Company in the Great London
Haymarket Success, by Duma’s
A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.
Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
rp IVO Ji l TIIE A T RE, SYDNEY-
Sole Lessee ... Mr. llarrv Rickards.
AN UNPARALLELED STAR PROGRAMME.
The lIU LINKS. The lIATTORS.
The TILLICHS. BELLMAN and MOORE.
THE KELLINO FAMILY.
An original Grand New First Part, Federia,
THE GRAND BELL BALLET,
AND A BRILLIANT ARRAY OF TALENT.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
_ the World.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
Mr. JOHN COLEMAN. Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN.
Miss AGNES HAZEL. AUSTIN RUDD.
THE THREE HEGELMANNS. WILL WHITBURN.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
OVERWHELMING AND MAJESTIC TRIUMPH!
EVERY EVENING !
Mr. Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Drama,
When London Sleeps.
Interpreted bv
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And His Specially Augmented Dramatic Company.
POPULAR PRICES! Plan at Allan’s
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
SATURDAY, 9th APRIL.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
In order to prepare this great production with un-
paralleled magnificence, the theatre will be closed from
2nd April to the 9th.
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In the Intensely Exciting and Thrilling Story,
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
The prettiest Easter Show in Sydney.
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
Half Hoop.
6 Fine Diamonds,
W
9%
£7 108.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 8
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £6.
6 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
H
KING
STREET
00., IS'6 pair;
16c., 27/6 pair.
20 other Pat-
terns from 10,6
pair.
$
Watches a Specialty.
Gent’s (fnll-wze) Silver Hunters
Our Special Levers, 455, 60s, 80s.
WALTHAM, 47s 6d, 655, 90s.
ROTH KBH A MS, 70s. 80s, 100 s.
Genf j Solid Gold Hunters.
£5, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Hunters.
£llos, £3l, £4, £5, £7 10s, £lO.
Ladies* Silver Hunters.
25s*, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
18c. G-ipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
9ct., 23 6 pair; 15e.,37,'6patr
Silver, 5,-pair.
Our Gold Novelty Brooch., 20s.
Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
15c., 18s 6d; 9c., 18s 6d.
New Gold Scroll Brooch, 9s.
'TO
&
im
English Hall-marked Alberts.
9c. GOLD SINGLE, 50s, 60s, 70s. •
150. „ s „ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
SILVER „ 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
9c. GOLD DOUBLE, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. „ „ 110 s, 130 s, 1508.
SILVER „ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Post Pree.
18c, Mvpqtrse.
Set vt'itb 14 Diamonds
irrH 1 ttrflj yror Sapphire,
Emewftfl or Tonjnrtise
centre, £4* 4s.
M
Plain
Gold.
78 6d
pair.
Our New
Twin
with
Amethyst
Hearts,
13S 6<l.
Bird
Br oches
15c.
Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or
Sapphire, 21a.
Diamond, 86s.
v/l/i
NOTE Ovx OifLY AnSTRAtiIAS Addrms—
-90 KING STREET. SYDNEY,
Amusements.
X>ItINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
” Sole Lessees anrl Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING!
The Brilliant., Spectacular and Amusing 1 Extravaganza
Tbs BabsS ii) tbs Wood.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box I'lan at Allan’s and Monties'
Day tickets at Steginanii s, and Princess’s Cafe
gT GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
FOR A SHORT SEASON.
Commencing Easter Saturday, April 9.
T. A. KENNEDY,
HYPNOTIST
KING LAUGH-MAKER OE THE WORLD.
Under the Management of J. Kennedy.
LAUGHTER!
LAUGHTER!
FUN l
FUN!
LAUGHTER!
LAUGHTER!
FUN!
FUN!
T. A. KENNEDY’S
Hypnotic Entertainments would compel Laughter
in a thousand-year-old Mummy.
People’s Prices—2s-, Is- and Sixpence.
Doors open at 7.15 ; Begin, 8.15.
Public Notices.
To the Members of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society.
I‘ ADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—My second
A term of office as a Director of your Society
will terminate at the ensuing Annual Meeting,
and I now respectfully beg to intimate that I.shall
be a Candidate for one of the seats then vacant.
I shall be glad of a renewal of the confidence
which I have so long had the honor to hold, and
assuring you that no effort on my part shall be
wanting to justify a continuance of the same.—
Yours faithfully,
March 31st, 189 S.
JOSEPH ABBOTT.
Q
UI BELTS S Fluid IHHnfectn nt exterminates
Bugs, Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish & Fevers
Estab.ished over 50 Years.
All Descriptions CHEAPEST PRICES.
Stocks in Australia. Of Ironmongery.
MACINTOSH & SONS,
307, 321, 276, 2SO PITT STREET (N.S.W.) SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
CjAMUEL JEI’P, the Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W.,
last heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father’s will, conditional on the
trustee, before the 23rd JULY, ISOS, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive, information as to the above-
named to be sent to
HILL AND SCOTT,
194 Hereford Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
CIGARETTES.
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
Royal Sweets’
• •Aii
ROYAL SMOKE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brevjerv, SYDNEY.
WHO ARE THE" HAPPY;
WHO ARE THE FREE P
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPINC THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT’ henow ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro hono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.-1 remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S * FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
— Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle, and see
Without it, you have been imposed on by a
CAPSULE is marked ENO'S *FRUIT SALT.'
WOE T/l LESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.


“The meanest case I ever knew,” writes
“E.K.”, “was that of two innocent men cori-
Victed oil a capital charge (rape) at thb old Melb.
Supreme Court years ago. A cabman; who had a
male friend with him in his vehicle, was hired by
a respectable-looking young woman tt> drive her
to St. Kilda. It was after hours, and the fare could
not find the house, so she said, and she ordered
cabby to drive back ; on a lonely part of the road,
she said, both men outraged her. The police
found her on the road. The papers of the day
tried and convicted the two men. At the first
trial the jury could not agree (eleven for guilty
and one for acquittal). Ireland, then leader of
the Bar; was retained for the next trial, and under
his cross-examination the woman broke down, afad
confessed that one of the prisoners promised her
money and had not kept his word, but put her
out of the cab ; that she was not what she ought
to be; and that she had been suffering from a
disease which she had charged the men with com-
municating to her. Nothing was done to this
perjurer. The Crown said she was mad, poor
thing, and let her go to hang some other innocent
men.”
The decline and fall of Women's Clubs in
London is freely predicted by Scornful Man.
Already the most toney and exclusive of them —
the Green Park Club—has modified its original
constitution to admit of “ mixed teas ” in the
afternoon. The three rooms now in use will re-
main sacred to the —er —nobler sex as before, but
a new sitting-room is to be thrown open to any
gentlemen friends of members whose names may
have been duly approved by the committee. Any-
one can foretell the fate of the Green Park
Club. Envy, hatred, and malice will follow
at the heels of the first marriageable lord
who drops into the new room for afternoon
refreshment, and the club will split into two
sections until the bone of contention has been re-
moved. When Man is sent back to outer darkness
the club will pine away like a cannibal condemned
to vegetable diet. “You have no idea what ex-
citement a brother creates —in a convent,” says
the young Comtesse to her bridegroom in “A
Marriage of Convenience.” A ladies’ club is a
convent as regards the exciting effect of Man’s
occasional presence in its midst. Having once
entertained Him at tea no congregation of females
can evermore run its show contentedly without
the disturbing element.
“The Patentees —Macniven & Cameron Ltd. —
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions.” — Dover Chronicle.
The Waverley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen. The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Grif: “Be Melb. tote-shops and their
barricades to keep out the police. What about
the two score or so of groggeries which flourish by
Sunday trading, and which the police acknow-
ledge they cannot get within cooee of to obtain a
conviction —so well are the back-yard approaches
arranged and guarded ? There are usually three
gates to pass through, each with a spy-hole (and
all conilected by electric bells with the bar), from
Which observations are taken of applicants. Gate
No. 1 is easily negotiated; and then a full view
and siziiig-Up of you is taken before portal No. S!
is passed. Past No. 3 you simply can’t get unless
your credentials and general appearance satisfy
the experts in charge. The slightest suspicion
that a fox may have gone through is known at the
bar per medium of the gate-alarm ere you get
inside the house. There is not the slightest chance
of a policeman getting a civilian to aid him in a
conviction since a Colliiigwood trader backed Up
the police evidence. After the conviction the
trader’s cart-wheels came off mysteriously; then
his horse became a chronic invalid, whilst; if he
ventured out of an evening, a half-brick or some
other hard substance always sought his acquaint-
ance. The witness could not afford this continu-
ous resting for repairs, and, finding the hand of
Providence too much for him, shifted to other pas-
tures without leaving a successor. In any case,
Sunday trading, apart from the hundreds of Melb.
pubs, which do it in a limited, shy way, takes
place in open defiance of the authorities, who
declare themselves utterly beaten.
MELUH’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong- as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
[lascotte
TOBACCO.
7+tAT
yo*S Get
IT
Sole Agents—S. HOFFHtIIIG- ts CO., Brisbane,
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <ST AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 <t 682 George Street, Sydney.
Voun Life o* thatSi&alet tobacco ;
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
“I'U Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken,6Bo-682 George- st„ Sydney
sm
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLI& BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
z\
m
\ '
t 4
A A ‘1‘ ‘
A _. 533*
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme*
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS.
12 of the best
you ever rend, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.
SECRET
Photos
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
1 Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
s RK°MW
[Aedicai. /\m
f lNDioe;Tio/j
HcioiTya,
4 '■ \is <*\
>•l*^
sHriSuw/
Jo 3WM3g]
J 3 foio) Sw?nq)
SaUooM foivfefcjC
|
flCKWflia
lo^Wcf.
n
©
MELBOURNE.
HUBS?
POST FREE-k-p-
V&TOIeS-CLOCKS-JEWELLERY-BIRTHDAY*
Weddii\lg i CHristealipJc Presents
HNey/MAAI- 1755177-ELIZABETri Si*
OPPOSITE G:RQ.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligli Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
BEE
HIVE
KNITTIHG
WOOLS
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,) Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
theworld for quality, colours, softness and durability.
SEE
"th7s trade'
Trade Mark Registered.
Establishedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also " Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beeliive'Woois.
J. *J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
CH Wi!
MPA
-
Trade
Mark
w Distillers Companyl?
*■ EDINBURGH.
pgsMaa*
l. ~fy,r,\M/Ih'lsU-'
»•«/. -”'W;
//:>u Ami: ihJi&v A
>C /.IJ/rrW^*
1/ "W Art, i:tC f.iA /’
St *
j)rink
P)oderately.
Take a little Whisky
“forthe stomach’s sake”}
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L/
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
M
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Explosions Impossible
Always Ready for Use.
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
8? CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure, What we use is Nature’s own
m
4
si
m
*
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), living illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address j
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in anj
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. (ribbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l-
- in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, : n 1 in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS ,
at 137 Elizabeth Street , SYDNEY.
NcrVo6S Weakoe&S • - •
AND
Ccrebro-SpiQal Diseases,
are. specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describo
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price.
1/-; posted, 1/3.


YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i -, and 2- eacli.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO,, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY
THE PLACES
WH€R€ THIEVCS BR€AK THROUGH
A.KTD STEAL
WITH IMPUNITY ARE BECOMING FEWER EVERY DAY, because
BTDERMOTTS BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address.
The Bi[‘DERMOTT BURGLAR & FIRE ALARM CO.,
CASTLEREAGH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’S Baking Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiogtOQ H.SoCil &Co.,m’sp.s.
158, ISO, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
Cliurcli-atreet, Parramatta.
9
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney.
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Centra], the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best. A Broad. Well
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable Dressing
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants.
THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA.
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE.
12 Cabinets, with a 12x10 Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
H 10/6
To celebrate the opening, we give an Extra Position FREE to each Sitter, and, as there is no charge for re-sitting,
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of our Work.
No Disappointment.
The Swiss Studios.
No Delays.
King Street
(between Pitt & George Sts).
Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios.
Jim is
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated "Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per lllustr’n., il4 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
I
227 Lit. CoHins»st.,
Melbourne.
AGENT FOR F. BESSON &. CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Cellular
Athletic
Shirts.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling,
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/-and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New"!
Address :)
73 & 5 5 King Street,
(near York Street),
Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO.,Sole Agents for New South Wales.
m
i
m
m
Itai
imm
fldams’s fattmall’s Hotel,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
This Establishment has recently undergone the most EXTENSIVE ALTERA-
TIONS, and is now one of the MOST COMFORTABLE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS IN SYDNEY. The following Additions have been made:—
NEW ENTRANCE HALL and GRAND STAIRCASE:
COMMODIOUS SUITES OF ROOMS ;
DRAWING and .READING ROOMS ;
SMOKING ROOMS, &c. &c.
BOILING WATER for Baths, &c., and
ELECTRIC LIGHT all hours of Day and Night.
Tariff Moderate.
This Establishment has TWO Entirely Separate KITCHENS and TWO DINING ROOMS-
thus giving to Visitors an advantage offered by no other Hotel in Sydney.
For further particulars apply to
WM. J. ADAMS,
Telephones 728 and 1938. Manager.
12-
TiOOK OF NATURE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid hare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
fHE
‘ Plum
“iPI
THE
‘Plum’
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings lilae a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Btfing practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an e#.Sy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
■p • J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
i rice |Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle' 1 in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
2*
CO
Cs>
P
C/J
H
-<
o
CO
P
00
o
©
3
cr
o
D)
O
o
o
H
O r
O
o
:r,o
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulaje.
STE AM
Cultivating
Machinery.
\
5'
.‘r ant/x, . , ‘9] I
‘ h:ru‘3~'~1‘ . .. ‘4
.... K£4".z-t"'.l:: ‘. . (Cf; ._ ‘g‘v ( .~
‘ NWT“: :fv.-“T."‘::;r7 7- 5, [“93 .‘1 i
” (I: 1-.“ FEM” I“: "53‘ '. “56;... w ,.-.’J.;.. v {‘1
2:34.23? ‘5f3a‘rzqrn- ,_ ,\ "=4 ‘4'- " ‘
3‘1‘75‘55— ﬁ‘liﬁv’i’ﬂquJ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘11:}‘~ if“- . >
«M. £7: ”‘.”"" .‘ ﬂ ‘ U. a /.‘ "V [7R1 V
**1 >~wv - w «a» = } \‘ﬁ «'
" ﬂ»- . .1 .‘ (M. ~.» - ~ . 4
N‘w’ﬁ‘f‘hu ,v, .fﬁjL‘E‘W-fVVV > / [1/ A“ “will“: , A. 4““
r ' " . E? v.5 ".V .‘1 ‘~.'.. "7b: '43:? a; ' 4 1..
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
.Electric-: Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRiS ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
11 rA T) COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Care nee Street, SYDNEY.
Walt 15 it m. noakks, jm.i.m.e., colonial manaokh.
Also Represent vtive for tlia >TI.E " JIL ENGINE.
“The Last of Six.”
TRICE, ONE SHILLING ;
Per Pest, Is. 3d.


After All!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The trooper threw the door wide open, so as to
get more light upon the face in the bunk —rigid
and ghastly white. The whiteness Was simply
chalk, but the corpse-like set of the features
Crozier couldn’t help admiring.
“He does it splendid,” he told himself.
“ We’ll pull this thing through, if the bally trap
doesn’t get feelin’ of him about. That would give
the show away all right.”
“This morning, you say?” asked the police-
man, reflectively stroking his brown beard as he
stood with his sword under his arm and his booted
legs well spread out.
“ Yes; all in a twinkle. Never got such a scare
in all me life. Talkin’ to me, he was, at
the time. ‘Jack,’ says he, ‘if this blanky heat
lasts much longer I believe I’ll peg out! Me art ’
—what he was goin’ ter say about his ’art, I
dunno, for, at the words, down he goes all of a
’eap, an’ when I tries for ter pick him up I sees
he’s about as dead as they make ’em.”
“ His heart, eh ? Did you ever hear him com-
plain of his heart before?”
“Many’s the time.” Which was the truth.
“ Bin under five doctors for it, he ’ad ! ” Which
was an embellishment thereof.
The trooper let down his sword with a clatter,
and took out his note-book.
“ Well, don’t meddle with the body till I come
back. I’ll have to report the matter to the
coroner.”
“An’ what” —Crozier’s ferretty little eyes
blinked rapidly—" what might he have been
‘ wanted ’ for ? ”
“ Don’t matter, now ! ” the constable curtly
answered, as he closed his note-book with a snap.
“ He’s given us the slip right enough ! ”
He turned to leave the hut, then turned sud-
denly again to say something more—and trapped
a look upon Crozier’s cunning countenance, which
set him thinking hard for about half-a-minute.
Then he walked suddenly over to the bunk.
“Phew !” was Crozier’s thought. “The fat’s
in the fire, now, an’ no mistake ! ”
He backed to the door, and stood with his mouth
screwed up, while the constable passed his hand
inside the dead man’s shirt.
“Not cold yet! Couldn’t well be, though, at
103 in the shade ! ”
Then the policeman put his hand over the heart,
and Crozier’s breathing grew fast and loud as, with
distended eyes, he awaited results.
“ My oath ! ” he said to himself, “ don’t he act
the stiff ’un first-class. I wouldn’t a-give him
credit for ’arf the nerve.”
“ What's the matter ? ” he asked, with a sickly
smile, as the constable came towards the door
again. “Did you think he was shammin’ a
croaker ? ”
The trooper walked to his horse before he
answered ; then he turned round with his foot in
the stirrup. “It don’t matter what I thought
about him,” he said. “ But what I think about
you, my friend, is that you’re not much good ;
and if you’ll take my advice you’ll clear out of
this part of the country as soon as the inquest’s
over.”
He threw his other leg over the saddle and rode
away, pursued for at least a minute by a torrent
of artistic blasphemy.
Then Crozier, having thus unpacked his soul,
turned into the hut again. -
“Now then, ’Arry !” he shouted. “Up you
gets, me joker! Are you goin’ to lie there till the
blasted crowner comes an’ sits on yer bloomin’
carcase? Why, what the blazes are you up to?
The cussed trooper’s ’alf-a-mile away by this
time ! ”
He went up to the bunk and shook the other by
the shoulder.
“ Burn me if he ain’t fainted ! That’s what kep’
him so quiet while the trap was messin’ him
about!”
He stooped to have a closer look, then stood
suddenly up with a gasp as he noticed how the
lower jaw had fallen flaccidly away from the
sandy moustache.
Crozier couldn’t sweat any more than he was
doing, but the moisture turned suddenly cold upon
him as he felt at the chest—listened at the mouth
—lifted up an arm and let it fall.
“ Strike me purple,” he said, then, in a scared
half-whisper, “if it ain’t a case for the crowner,
after all f”
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
“Britishers flatter themselves on their
treatment of their women. In this they are beasts
as compared with the Germans,” says BenTillett.
A daughter of Dr. Bevan, writing from Germany
to a friend in Melbourne, some months ago, ex-
pressed her indignation at the enslaved condition
of German womankind. Tillett, presumably,
speaks of the masses. Miss Bevan gathered her
ideas among the middle classes.
The great heart of Cooktown (Q.) is rent
by the proceedings of the local Salvationists. It
seems the Blood-and-Eire Brigade supported a
publican at the local elections. After declaration
of poll, they likewise held a meeting before his
pub., prayed for him, and gathered a collection of
145., of which Bung contributed half. . . . And
Cooktown, which is fairly Godly for so hot a town,
is weeping in sackcloth and ashes for the fair fame
of the Boothian devil-dodgers.
One result of the Tocsin’s crusade against
the bagnios in Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, is that
the police have summoned numbers of the occu-
pants as “keepers of houses of ill-fame.” The
summonses were withdrawn on defendants agree-
ing to clear out, so a dozen or so of houses in
Lonsdale-street or thereabouts are now to let, and
the boss-Tottie has carried her establishment else-
where. This sort of proceeding doesn’t make im-
morality any less ; the summonses were not with-
drawn because the Mrs. Boss-Tottie promised to
give up her evil ways and to take in plain-sewing,
she and her flock, but simply because she promised
to go and sin in some other street. If the Tottie
is harried out of a sufficient number of streets she
ends by taking the billet of old faded girl to a
Chinaman, which is about the worst possibility of
all. Does the law pretend to imagine that fre-
quent removal to another street is a great reforma-
tive agency, or what is its idea?
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The Tohunga’s Talisman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Tohunga lived alone, as was the custom of
holy men, Christian or Pagan, if the latter can be
holy. It was impossible to tell, by many decades,
his age; he had apparently dried up half-a-century
before, and been preserved in consequence. He
wore a korowai mat only, and used a taiaha toko-
toko as a walking-staff. Round his neck was a
leathern strap, stiffened behind by passing
through a small human bone, and having a dingy
little bag in front, where the Tiki in ordinary
hangs. That contained the Talisman.
His quarters were eminently desirable from an
aesthetic point of view. Evidences of former
cultivation were everywhere observable—in the
trailing vines of the trumpet-flowered bigno-
•nia, in the drooping branches of the weep-
ing-willows, in the peach-trees, gay in their
vernal mantle of bloom, and in garden-
flowers run wild, which peeped from behind
both native and exotic shrubs. The turf was kept
close as a machine-shaven lawn by the continual
cropping of the neighboring squatter’s sheep;
native bush sheltered one side of the long ridge,
and a small lagoon bordered the other. The
whare of the Tohunga nestled beneath a clump of
peach and fig trees, about half way from the com-
mencement of the ridge, whilst his tuahu, shaded
by willows, stood at the further end. This shrine
was a crude slab of volcanic rock standing breast-
high from out a thicket of pendulous-blossomed
veronica, and was apparently the work of nature
unsophisticated. What purpose it answered was
the Tohunga’s secret; his incantations were
not exoteric. Two parallel lines of smaller
stones a short distance away told a different
story; they had been placed there by the
missionary, and were the piles of the church in
which had been preached a religion now, in that
district, dead as himself. The older pagan shrine
was untouched by ruthless hand or decaying time,
whilst its leafy adornments were annually re-
newed, and its pagan priest flourished in unison.
There was no sign of recent cultivation; the
Tohunga toiled not. More than sufficient food
was periodically brought from the neighboring
villages, and placed on a whata at the foot of the
ridge. The ridge itself was tapu, profane feet
never wantonly trespassed on it —except pakeha
feet, which don't count.
Now, though the amulet had worked wonders
of many kinds, no living eye save the Tohunga’s
had ever seen more than the outside of the bag.
Had it become necessary to remove the tapu from
a sacred spot, required for secular purposes, by
the aid of the talisman the Tohunga would
whakanoa it in a single night, without help of the
malodorous elements of wizardry employed by
the common or garden kind of Tohunga ; he was
a Tohunga-Ariki of the inner circle. So much
feared was the old fellow that none of his tribe
visited him casually, and at length it became
evident that he welcomed my occasional presence
as his only ordinary connection with his species.
We got quite chummy, and he told me the history
of the mission station.
When the missionary first came, he said, the
tribe was under the spiritual direction of two
Tohungas, himself and another. They had been
rivals, but they combined against the common
enemy. The pakeha priest soon got a following,
and built a church and a school-house and started
a farm. , The farm grew into a sheep-run, and
there was talk of land titles to be obtained from
the Governor of N.S.W. This strengthened the
hands of the Tohungas, who had been lying low,
giving the enemy rope. Pakeha workmen came
about, runaway sailors and the like, and although
the missionary did his best to conserve the morals
of the women the rising generation waxed
mysteriously light in complexion. That made the
Tohungas omnipotent. They did not oppose the
white priest in open warfare, but they were inde-
fatigable in their esoteric denunciations to the
chiefs ; and when the chiefs saw that their mana
was Usurped, their lands in danger of being
alienated and populated by the women “ on their
own ” —the missionary was killed, the church,
school-house and farm-buildings were burnt d, the
whole domain declared tapv, and the tribe re-
turned to paganism and wicked prosperity.
When the missionary was slain, the chief opera-
tor, Kereopa, swallowed the eyes of the scareely-
dead priest. But the event proved that the
Tohunga I am telling you of was the real Tohunga-
Ariki, for the eye of the paheka priest turned to
stone in the other’s gullet, and for his presumption he
died. Still he was a Tohunga of a kind, and for the
mana of the order the surviving expert preserved
his head in the orthodox manner. The trunk was
buried, and, when the time arrived for the removal
of the bones to the mausoleum, the Tohunga-
Ariki had his reward, for, whilst exhuming the
skeleton, he found the talisman ; that invaluable
amulet which had given him mana unequalled and
foresight unknown.
No argument, no bribe would induce the
Tohunga to let me handle the little bag or obtain
a glance at the contents. But it was my fortune
to discover the old fellow lying prone on his mat
when death at length had claimed him, and, before
calling his people I took a peep at the talisman.
It was the glass eye of the missionary !
Maoriland.
ROBIN STODHOLME.
The marrying-business of the late Nat.
Kinsman is still carried on at the old shop in
Moor-street, Fitzroy.
Irreconcilables like the Licensed Victual-
lers’ Association, the Church of England Temper-
ance Society, and the Salvation Army sent repre-
sentatives to a convention held in Melbourne, the
other day, to consider, “How can habitual
drunkenness best be dealt with ? ” Result, a
resolution to the effect that the existing method
of dealing with drunks is unsatisfactory. The
Bulletin is of opinion that this question should
be discussed by a convention of matrons. They
have to deal with the “ drunks,” and their
methods are so very various that it would at least
be interesting to hear them comparing notes.
Writer knew one wife who always put a malignant
blister of ten - horse - power cantharides of
strong mustard-leaf, on the soles of her lord’s
feet—he was a man of means and could do with-
out work—when he returned home incapable.
This kept him from wandering abroad for a few
days. N.B. —The writer is a single person:
“ APEKrTA,”
The best Natural Aperient Water.
.Relieves the kidneys, unloads the liver, and
opens the bowels.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Co., Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W. #
yya/n
Nutritive, Refreshing 1 , Economical in use. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing.
POKER MACHINES.
CICARS
FREE
Cl<
ON
DROP 3? IN THE SLOT
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Yalue
in N S. W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
* *
*
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
5%7/41'» 1%
s
E
L
P
P
E
E
D
I
N
G
For
Coun or
Use.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
(flick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
Fresh..
Cooling.
Sparkling.
VELTEN LACIER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
f-
Best Value
In the Trade!
We have to beat the other fellow.
We do not worry about the pre-
sent Losses.
The Profits will come afterwards.
Our Motto: “ Keep the Mill Going.”
If you want to BUY in the CHEAPEST MARKET, we are ready with LARGE STOCKS in
Pure, Healthy, Sanitary Bedding,
Superior Woven Wire Spring Mattresses,
PATENT COMBINATION BEDSTEADS.
1000 Bales of Best Java Kapok, in 80lb. Bales at 6d. per lb.
AMERICAN & AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
FURNITURE, &C., &C.
To give you just the kind of value which will enable you to offer your own Customers. Bargains, and
also to largely increase your turnover.
Write for Designs. Our Prices will induce you to give us a share of your trade.
Telephone No. 66. Established 1860.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
Warehouse : 6CB to 610 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Factories: Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8 and 10 Union Lane (adjoining Warehouse).
iiim
Wi'tlMisr
MARK ;|
Corset
W'tt’oWAiST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
P ERFECT in sha pe.
LE N GTHENS THE WA IS T
BEAUTIFIES THE FIGURE.
W'li/owa'ST Corset
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W's.i»qwA'ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY"
F. w. LEE, Camden Buildings,
218, GEORGE STREET , SYONIY,


Abandoned Selections.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the crimson breast of the sunset
The gray selections lie,
And their lonely, grief-stained faces
Are turned to a pitiless sky ;
They are wrinkled and seamed with drought-fire,
And wound at the throat with weeds,
They sob in the aching loneness,
But never a passer heeds.
I pity you, Gray Selections,
As I pass you by in the light,
And I turn again with the shadows
To take your hand in the night;
In homestead and yards deserted
’Tis little the world can see,
But the wail of your endless sorrow
Throbs under the moon to me.
I come to you, Gray Selections,
When the crickets gather and croon,
An hour at the back of the sunset,
An hour in advance of the moon;
How eager they are to whisper
Their tale, as they hear me pass !
Twenty at once in the oak-trees ;
Ten at a time in the grass.
The night-winds are chanting above you
A dirge in the cedar trees
Whose green boughs groan at your shoulder,
Whose dead leaves drift to your knees j
You cry, and the curlews answer ;
You call, and the wild-dogs hear ;
Through gaps in the old log-fences
They creep when the night is near.
I stand by your fenceless gardens
And weep for the splintered staves ;
I watch by your empty ingles
And mourn by your white-railed graves;
I see from your crumbling doorways
The whispering white forms pass,
And shiver to hear dead horses
Crop-cropping the long gray grass.
Where paddocks are dumb and fallow
And wild weeds waste to the stars
I can hear the voice of the driver,
And the thresh of the swingle-bars ;
I can hear the hum of the stripper
That follows the golden lanes,
And the snort of the tiring horses
And the clink of the bucking chains.
It is night; but I see the smoke-wreaths
Bloat over the dancing haze;
I can hear the jackass laughing
When South winds rustle the maize ;
I can catch the axes’ ringing,
And out on the range’s crown
I can hear the red fires roaring
And the great trees thundering down.
I pity you, Gray Selections,
Dim hearths as cold as a stone,
For days you must pass unaided,
And nights you must brave alone ;
But most when the wailing curlews
Call over the drear lagoon,
And out of the ring-barked timber
Comes blazing the red, red moon.
They fought for you, Gray Selections,
The battle of long dry years,
Through seedtimes of sweat and sorrow
To harvests of hunger and tears ;
You turned from the lips that wooed you,
And Justice, awake on her throne,
For sake of those brave hearts broken,
Is watching you break your own.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Foreclosed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The father read the letter silently, and handed it
to his wife. “No good,” he said, in answer to her
look. “He won’t do it.”
Then she, too, read it slowly, for the words were
blurred in her sight, and when she had finished,
and her eyes rested again upon her husband,
standing at the window motionless, she went
softly to him, and placed her hand upon his
shoulder. She could not speak, but she wished to
comfort him.
They had only asked for one year more—the bad
seasons surely could not last for ever—one year,
and this was the answer. He was very sorry, this
mortgagee; he did not wish to be harsh, but he
could not allow more than another month . . .
must arrange to reduce interest owing, or he
would be compelled to foreclose, as previously
intimated.
That was the position, and the husband and
wife gazed silently into each other’s eyes and away
beyond into the vast, uncertain future, just as they
had done one night long years before. But that
night they had been tremulous with joy.
“And so,” he said, with an effort, presently,
“ this is the end of all our planning and our work
—to start again ! Where is the pen and ink ? ”
“ What are you going to do ? ” she asked.
“What can I do?” he answered, bitterly.
“ There is no hope of paying anything for months,
and then, God knows ... I will tell Goldman
toToreelose and be done with it.”
“Wait,” she rejoined, quietly. “We have a
month.” And the man went out.
She watched him as he walked slowly up the
sunburnt paddock, over the field where last
year’s seed-wheat rotted underfoot; then she
turned from the window with a sob, and when the
children came from school they found her crying.
But there was a son, the eldest in the family, a
lad of 17, of vigorous mould ; and when he came
home from work and saw the signs of tears it was
his turn to be the comforter. It would be all
right, he told his mother: they would pull
through. The drought had passed now, and
wheat was bringing a rare price. Next harvest
they would make up for all their losses, and then
with the land all fenced and so much of it ready
for ploughing as there was now, and good dams
made, why they would pay their debts and become
rich in no time ! The woman smiled sadly and
shook her head.
“ Some one else will gather the next harvest
here, I’m afraid,” she said.
“ No fear ! not if I know it; ” and he moved to
the door.
“ Where are you going ? ” she asked.
“ To catch Darkie and give him a feed,”
he said, and then, after a moment’s reflection :
“ Poor beggar, he’ll want all the feed I can put
into him. This season’s pulled him down a lot.”
And he went away whistling. “ Well, old boy ! ”
he said as he held the horse by the mane a few
minutes later, “ it seems a pity to ride you, but it
can’t be helped this time. If I had the money I’d
get you a bag of oats and travel by train, blowed
if I wouldn’t. Take you two days to carry me
there, I suppose,” he continued, leading the lean
black animal towards the shed.
He gave the horse as good a feed as could be
scraped together out of the depleted bags, and
rubbed him down carefully. “ I’ll borrow half a
bag of chaff off Casey to-night,” he muttered,
pinching the horse on the wither and examining
the saddle-marked back. Then he stood off, and,
eyeing him critically, soliloquised : “ Well, con-
sidering your age, you don’t look half bad, poor
and all as you are. What’ll you fetch, I wonder ?
About thirty bob, I daresay—thirty bob. Darkie,
you’re worth more than that.”
But the horse was busy eating, and the lad left
him. “Just been giving Darkie a feed,” he said
as he met his father at the gate. “ Am going to
ride him to Ballarat.”
“ To Ballarat ? When ? What for ? ”
The son came closer to his father, and his voice
had a touch of tenderness. He had been thinking
this over for some time now, he said. They were
making nothing out of the land, only getting
further into debt, and there was no need for them
both to stay. He could go away and get some
work and help with his earnings—it would not
be much, but he would live very cheaply and save,
and perhaps he could save enough to pay the in-
terest, anyway. He would see Goldman in
Ballarat.
The man stood with his elbows resting on the
fence and his face in his hands for a while, then
he said : “ Where will you look for work ? ”
“ I will go to Mr. Renshaw. He will put me
on at the mine—for your sake.”
“ Yes—yes, of course, he told me.” And again
there was silence.
Presently the lad touched his father on the arm.
“There is one thing more to mention,” he said
in a low tone. “I want to sell Darkie, in Balla-
rat. It would come to that, anyway,” he added ;
“ there is no feed here.”
It was long before the father answered, and,
when he did, his mind had wandered back to a
night, years ago, when sickness came and a
doctor’s help was needed. He remembered how
he had gone to the paddock in the darkness, and
how the horse came to his call. He felt again the
strain upon his hands, the hot foam in his face,
and he heard those quick, firm hoof-beats waking
the stillness of the night. Darkie was young then,
and a life hung on his speed. “You had better
sell him, if you can, Jim,” the man said, hoarsely,
and, when they turned to go inside, the sun had
set.
So the lad’s meagre outfit was got ready, and a
day or two afterwards the dawn met him riding
eastward over a dusty road.
The father settled down again to work when Jim
was gone. There was plenty to do, and in the
long hours he put in mending fences and cleaning
dams out a fortnight passed. Every day for the
last week of it one of the children had waited at
the post-office for the mail, but Jim had not
written. Then there came a letter from Ren-
shavv. “ Jim had slipped on the brace and was in
the hospital. Spine injured, the doctor said.”
The father started to follow, but he took the
horses out of the plough when the news came,
and that night he wrote to Goldman.
And thus it happened that when nearly a month
later a black horse wandering along the road,
jumped the slip-rails and went straight to the back
of the house, there was no one at the old home to
welcome him back.
DARGO.
Grievous teeth-gnashing amongst English
duchesses because Her Gracious has given formal
precedence over them to Princess Victor Dhuleep
Singh, the daughter of a mere earl.
The value of the “respectable” reference.
A man lately convicted on a theft-charge pleaded,
in mitigation of sentence, the usual “ previous
good conduct.” Produced two certificates of
character, dated some time back, and the Judge,
taking this “testimony of prominent citizens”
into consideration, came down lightly. Possibly
his Honor was ironically humorous, or maybe he
didn’t know that one P.C. was then doing hard
labor for a shady financial transaction, and the
other had been also “ in trouble.”
The Victorian Ladies’ Work Association
worked a geographical word-competition recently
—entrance fee one shilling, prize of £5 for the
person who correctly transposed 24 lots of letters
into the names of well-known towns. Several com-
petitors were correct, The Bulletin surmises, in
22 answers, but only one lucky mortal—a South
Melb. hosier —converted Ooitk into Kioto, or
Sclodut into St. Cloud. Even Saint Cloud, as the
Erench have it, isn’t a well-known town. And
where is Kioto, and, if it be the name of a town, is
it well known in comparison with Tokio? The
triumphant hosier who arrived at Kioto, after
escaping the Tokio pitfall, ought to reckon himself
fortunate, and place an order for home-made socks,
handkerchiefs, &c., with the Ladies’ Work, Asso.
Meantime, a lot of people who dropped their shil-
lings would like to hear somethin? about Kioto.
C.P. : “ -Be the Sarah Sands. She was a
large ship Conveying troops somewhere in ’55 or
’56 ; and, in a hurricane near the Mauritius, was
dismasted, lost her bowsprit, had her rudder dis-
abled, and then a fire broke out below, where
there was much gunpowder. Some of the timbers
being started forward, however, she took in im-
mense quantities of water, so that the pumps had
to be kept going. The powder was got out and
jettisoned, and a spare main-yard was got over the
stern as a jury-rudder. The crew eventually
bested the fire, and worried the ship to Port Louis
with chains round her bows to hold the working
timbers together. Commanded by Capt. Martin,
who, 10 years later, went to his doom in the Lon-
don. The tale as I heard it, from one of the
crew, was a thrilling record of cool courage, re-
sourceful seamanship and discipline.”
Ladies and Gentlemen in the Country.— lf you should
come to Sydney at Easter for the great Agricultural Show,
(which promises to be the great event of ’9B ; over £3OOO
worth of prizes will be given away), call in and lea,ve a
record of your measures with our dressmakers or tailors.
(No charge for registering measures). Many ladies and
gentlemen have already taken advantage of this free
registration of measures, and find that it is most conve-
nient, and a saving of time and trouble when ordering
garments of any description from us. — Hordern Brothers
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
IF YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT YOU WANT,
~ BILE BEAMS for BILIOPSNESSI
. . . THEY POSITIVELY CURE . . .
Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Debility, Female Ailments,
LIVER TROUBLES, &c.
A Woman’s Sufferings Ended.
TORTURED FOR 13 YEARS.
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS SAVE ANOTHER LIFE.
ANOTHER NEWCASTLE MIRACLE.
The neighborhood surprised at the remarkable recovery.
THREE LEADING DOCTORS FAIL TO EFFECT A CURE, AND PATENT MEDICINES
WERE UNSUCCESSFUL.
To prove the truthfulness of the following case, we will refer the reader to the Newcastle
Herald management for the following astounding facts which are just as interviewed and written up
by that journal:
(Interview published by the Newcastle Herald.)
Mrs. Jane Colman, of Beaumont-street, Hamilton, who resides in that suburb of Newcastle next
I
to the Post-office, is a grateful woman. She had been a sufferer for 13
years from various forms of internal complaints, and now she says she
is as well as ever she was in her life. It is no news for a big portion of
the people of Hamilton to be told what has wrought this wonderful
change in her health. They all know it—for Mrs. Colman, in a spirit
of gratitude, has not failed to speak about her marvellous cure. But in
simple justice to those to whom the gratitude is due it should be men-
tioned that Bile Beans have been the saviour of .this lady’s life.
To thoroughly realise what a remarkable cure has been effected in
this case, one but needs to mention the subject to Mrs. Colman, and she
will at once relate what, to her, are facts of the most pleasant kmd.
When the case was first reported at the Herald office, a representa-
tive was despatched to inquire into it, and he found the facts to be of
such a startling character that he asked the lady to allow her story to
be published.
Mrs. Colman, it may be mentioned, is well known in Hamilton, having been a resident there for
the last six years. She is now 57 years of age, and the mother of 11 children, most of them being
grown-up sons and daughters. She is a native of Kent, England.
“My first symptoms,” she commenced, on being asked about her case, “were in the hea,d. At
times I would be seized with most excruciating pains at the base of the skull, followed by retching and
periodical pains in the temple and the back of the head.”
“ And how long did these symptoms remain? ” inquired the reporter.
“For years,” she went on, “I was in a delicate state of health, receiving only temporary-relief.
At last I became restless at nights, and suffered from an almost total loss of appetite, only taking a
cup of tea now and then.”
“ Did you take any remedies meanwhile ? ”
‘ Yes ; I had several of the best doctors in Newcastle in attendance on me from time to time, and
tried many kinds of patent medicines, but I could get no permanent relief; in fact, it became a com-
mon thing for me to have to get out of bed and sit up for an hour or two at a stretch. It seemed, too,
that what little I could eat I could not digest. Dreadful pains would now and again come in my back
and kidneys, and especially under the shoulder blade. The pain in the shoulder seemed to stab me
like a knife. Often I would tell the neighbors that I could hardly believe I was myself.”
“ Any languid feeling ? ” said the reporter.
“Oh, yes,” replied the lady ; “I used to feel helpless for anything. To merely walk about the
was hard work for me, and I nearly always felt sick. My eyes grew dim—everything had a
AW _
,6 5-? 3-1 ”:2 'f'I‘i'" u I “'A
”ILA?! ‘ WM ~- .2:
; ..-, «AM/[>5 1?
blurred look, and I really felt ‘ like a log of wood.’ The least
exertion prostrated me. I could not stand for 10 minutes with-
out getting restless and fatigued, my feet becoming numb, as if
pins and needles were being stuck in them. I would often ex-
claim to my daughter, early in the morning, ‘ Oh, Emma, my
head ! You will have to stay at home to-day.’ And, after a
day’s washing, I would be prostrated for several days.” _
“When did you notice any real improvement in your
health ? ”
“ Well, the first change came after a few doses of Bile Beans,
but it was not until two days that I began to feel an improve-
ment.”
“ And you have steadily improved ever since ? ”
“Yes; the various ailments disappeared one by one—
gradually, of course —but they are all gone now, and I have never felt better for 20 years. My friends
say lam looking extremely well. I suffer from nothing now. It is a pleasure for me,” she added,
“to get about. The hottest day causes me no inconvenience. My brain always seems clear, and 1
can sleep well at nights without ever feeling a headache or any pains.”
“ What about the appetite?”
Splendid ! lam always ready for my meals. My daughters are astonished sometimes at what
I can eat.”
“ How long have you been taking Bile Beans ?” queried the reporter.
“ It is now about eight weeks, I think.”
“Now, Mrs. Oolman, do you attribute your cure solely to Bile Beans?”
“I do absolutely,” was the emphatic reply. “I have used no other remedies lately. Of the
beneficial effects of the Beans I cannot speak too highly. They have done me a wonderful amount of
good in every conceivable way ; in fact, lam to-day quite a new woman. I have not the slightest
objection to my name being publicly referred to in connection with this matter, because I realise that
the facts should be known by those who have suffered as I have.”
Our representative thanked Mrs. Colman for relating her experiences, and, being again assured
that there was no objection to the facts being published, he congratulated her upon her marvellous
recovery, and came back to Newcastle.
+
What Bile Beans Are.
Bile Beans owe their existence to the discovery by an American medical man of a, certain vege-
table substance that has the effect on the digestive organs of Nature’s own animal bile. This dis-
covery is revolutionising all the present methods of treatment
for digestive ailments. The old theory of pepsin, bismuth,
starving, purging, etc., etc., is to be done away with. This
great vegetable substance is compounded with other ingre-
dients to facilitate the working, and to-day this remedy can
be purchased the world over and in Australia, under the name
of Bile Beans for Biliousness. This great specific possesses
the peculiar property of acting on the bowels without purging
or otherwise weakening the patient, being so compounded
that the substance that relaxes the bowels has about the same
action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are manufactured in
one of the largest and best-equipped laboratories in the world
at Detroit, Michigan, U.S. A., and are an undoubted specific
for Biliousness, Headache, Constipation, Indigestion, Debility,
Piles, Sallow Complexions, Female Weakness, Dyspepsia,
and All Liver Troubles. BILE BEANS are a perfectly safe
remedy, and may be taken without medical supervision, and
were it not for the sales amounting to millions annually they
could not be sold at the price. They are obtainable at all
Chemists. Australian depot : 19 Macqaurie Place, Sydney,
Victorian Agent, Rocke, Tompsitt, Flinders-st., Melbourne.
ILE
ms
FOf\
ILIOUSNESS


DEBILITATED BY HOT WEATHER.
TIRED OUT AND ILU.
Toole. (go»c.l|e<l) do no good, but Ayer’s Sarsaparilla builds op sod restores to beallb M
J. Gough of Cape Towo, Cape Colony, who sends his portrait and writes as follows:
s
1
;v
///
mm
r
m
Ws
m
sr
, ;/• <7»
!v,' i ■ ' /
l v
.•is"
ill the past summer the extremely hot weather made me seriously
1 J°7 a 1 could not sleep, was incapacitated for work, and
mo t, x ? m , se J ere P ains in the head. I tried several tonics, but they did
me no good whatever. A friend, who had been similarly affected, told me
° a > e s Sarsaparilla, as he had done. I followed his advice, and
soon began to regain my strength, and after using three or four bottles my
wealth was completely restored.”
ery many people suffer from the effects of a prolonged season of warm
weather in the same way as did Mr Gough. Their blood becomes thin, food
distasteful, and life is positively burdensome.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“t S .“ ew ’ p ” re bl00d ; restores strength and vitality, and has been the
® thousands who, prior to its use, were, as they expressed it,
both tired out and worn out.”
See that the name-Ayer’s Sarsaparilla-is on the wrapper and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., U. S, A.
fflcgSEft ■
s
For GENERAL DEBILITY, NER-
VOUS IRRITABILITY, & LIYER
DISORDERS.
k om Pl ain ts often arise from Indigestion,
which may be the result of a naturally Weak
Stomach, from drinking ardent spirits, mus-
cular exhaustion, worry, or over mental work
causing Depression of Spirits. A Bottle of
Liver Tonic
BONNINGTON’S Liver Tonic will put all such matters Right,
A Splendid Appetiser. 2s. 6d. per Bottle.
•*“ p overty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland-
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR. HOTEL.
Headache
this paper should
know that Bishop’s Citrate of
Caffeine, which obtained the
highest award at the Chicago
Exhibition of 1894, is an imrriej
aiate cure for headache. It i$
'pleasant to take?and will be]
iound .; tnosta refreshing after,
shopping, or as a momihg-'Ve-
storative.' IThe Lancet com-]
mends it. Of all Chemists id
twpsizes. A Booklet on Head-
se n fc post free on applica-
is A'n their „ Australian Oepat,
O Connell - street, Sydney'
Inventors and Sole Makers—
-48
tJUBEDV
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil
buy the
or Extract ,
BEST. '
___ __ lH E BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents
Messrs. ELLIOTT BRO'L, Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart. *
Visitors to _
- Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centra
of City. _ First-class Board and Residence <£l per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
_ W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
I* 7 "' A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, rag" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious J
SOMETHING NEW
THE SUN.
The
LATEST
CURE
And
GREATEST
FOR
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Bruises, Cuts, etc.
Post Free ... ... 2s. Bottle.
The DON CASH TRADING 00.,
206-214 J ohnston-street, Colling wood,
MELBOURNE, Vic.
<&
©
m
MUST BE ENDURED
■t
butUavfe yoatned
w
m
I'V
3
'JS 2
sa
J*
egg#
fl§3
:
i
V
• •
fHE.V<VIA& ilF£ W?RTH llVllte.
m
7
\jK
f
tH
'7f,
V
I
i
AND IT DID.
Hostess : “ Miss Thumper will now execute one of Wagner’s best compositions."
Fogo (sotto voce) : “I hope it will die easily ! ”
BoQQifygtoo’S
(Registered)
IRISH MOSS
Unequalled as a Specific for the CURE of COUGHS COLDS TNFLTTEN7A
PNEUMONIA, SORENESS and TIGHTNESS of the CHEST ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, DIFFICULTY OF BREATH
!NG and all other LUNG COMPLAINTS tending to Consumption. In We
and Small Bottles. b
Boi)OiDgtoi)’S Pills
CURE all LIVER DISORDERS, BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE, DIZZINESS, CONSTIPAITON ’
X>o not Grripe.


OLEfIC”
<<
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H R H.the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
%
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
“OLEAC"
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOB THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
‘SAMBULINE,’/?^.
Or Elder, Glycerine and Honey Jelly.
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat. Chafing through .
Cycling, Riding, Rowing; Exposure to the Sun at Seaside,
Fishing, Cricket, &c.; Sun Blisters, &c. Delightfully Cooling
and Refreshing. In Metalli. Tubfes If-
“NAFATHA SOAP,”/?#,
A DISINFECTANT SOAP, specially prepared for Tender
Feet, &c. Most Useful to Travellers for arresting Gnat,
Mosq Ito, and Insect Bite Irritation. Recommended by the
Medical Profession. Wrapped Tablets, 6d.
The above sold by Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers :
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
L Perfumers to the Queen,
18, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W -j
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- O- IBXiIDIR-lIDa-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Order* by post from dll the colonies promptly
attended to.
WortbiQgtoi) PGnjpirjg Eogifyc Conjpaijy-
(Australasian Brcmch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street,- LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
*
What is Health?
Jfheumatism, Sciatica,
'* * - - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 VIOTOKIA PARADE,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
>these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake ifs sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET— THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Aseutfl Every where. H. PA.TESON, MANAGER.
Have in Stock—
Ingersoll Air Compres-
sors and Rock Drills
of all sizes,
Knowles Pumps for
all services,
Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans,
Rockbreakers
and Rolls,
Pulverisers,
Sample
Grinders,
Ore
Feeders,
*9
A?
Af
Forges,
Screens,
Horizontal
and
Vertical Engines
and Boilers,
Horse Whims,
Water Wheels,
Engine
Governors,
Dynamos,
Electro-Copper
Plates,
r w
mm
jßfr
<V
S 9
Retorts,
Bullion
Moulds,
Shafting,
Pullies,
Belting, Oils,
All kinds of
Engineers’
Tools and
Fittings, and
Mine and
Mill Supplies,
£y
&
a;
t 9
&
&
c>
A#
*3
<3
to
to
Sole
Agents for
“ Three
Bullet ”
Brand
Mining Steel.
THE - -
YIBRATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES,
THE - -
OSCILLATOR CHAW STITCH
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
Batho’s
Baking Powder .
1» :.».;_»;t.»;._-;¢:-a»»<
. , (“nag-“PE: 1:: _ ~ »
Q- P: , '53:»?3' i’f ‘2 :3
. W
ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
JL & Co., Gumnakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s fid each, complete.
k’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and Cleaners complete. Usual price HOlos, reduced till 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
harrel full choke bore right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced ,C 5 each, co,nplete. .
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with a impwv e.
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price 121, icdivctd £7 lOSea. compkt t.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Uoading Guns at 0‘ (id per 100 m any size shot.. All (hdeis Deliveied
Free, cm r.wo' paid to any address in any of Ihe Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given
»Ljitr I'nNnnN" CMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
T H A^Jsy N §&{L TOibia for IHCVCLES) B.S.A.* SETS, PARTS and CYCLE
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 0 gross), Nipple’s,2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross , R.. . Washe s (IKL grossX
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 06) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 b Biooke s
Saddles 66, Blenmel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S. A. Racing Sets 00- SSStßSifSin
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house ill Australia. 1 neuina*tc-3.j re BICYCLES,
up to date, 137, £B, £9, 1310, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bonrke-st., Melbourne.
■
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
All our Engines are fitted with The Pickering
G over nor (for which we (ire Sole Af/ents) 9 the
most Verfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
