

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
M The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
lancet.
R. G. WA.TKIN-S & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
nir . —for—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVATT.ATtT.TB.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
& CO.
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
-1,000 Tons “ OrTo 99 and. “ Pyramid ** Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Caslis Kniglit Bevan’s Cement.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
»
<RAck A rocK>
°
GIBSON, BATTLE & Co.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Kixed Engines
of all descriptions; Boilers, Pumps.
Rukton’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Itrsaox,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BRO ADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating" Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broabbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elbcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
jgg Colonial-made Wire Netting 1 .
Ami see tlaat you get it.
PROOF
eYJS
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The. Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices -Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
pk De-
pro of
$
b°A/E^
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGIRETTES.
v Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
What is Health?
Tfheumatism, Sciatica,
Fwmbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA UK Fit, lib Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
(these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
i
Before virifing the City write to the Manager for
©rd of Tariff, ©rrypondence promptly amended to.
TSIE - -
Hotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYI3KTEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
PIONEER
LEATHER
»ELTBNC
The Leading I-elt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness-
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Pi ices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth,
W. Australia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide,
S. Australia.
THE WOBLD-BBN OWNED
E diswan
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE Ell & IW
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch -16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
K3F” Poverty Idolaters
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
BOBAHT.
Hadley's Orient fiotel.
T
HE LAST OF SIX: TALES
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE ls - Post,, Is. 3d.
OF
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM,
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N,S,W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 18.—No. 936 |
| Saturday, January 22, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robirtson & co.,
George Street, Sydne-y.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S 'TORIES (from The Bwllb-
tin) ; price. Is. 6d. ; posted, is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Waning; price, 25.; post-free
2s. 6d,
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderio ; price, 2s. 6d. •
posted, 2s. 16d. ’
Write to us for any Boole or Magazine you want.
G. STEPHENS' 7
J ITERARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Dub-
Usher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
‘ BULLETIN ’ PAMPHLETS.
No. ll.— The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, 6d. ; post-free,
7d. in stamps.
.JANUARY
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
MOTTO for
SMOKE
CAMEO
CIGARETTES.
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
THE RED PAGE.
ON*E S opinion of Le Gallienne’s ne
1 Omar’ is considerably bettered 1
perusal of the whole. Doubtlee
Fitzgerald’s version remains supreme
there is a masculine strength in it whic
Le Gallienne cannot reach ; but it is no
therefore necessary to say, with Lone
‘ Times,’that ‘there is only one thing fo
Mr. Le Gallienne to do. Let him tur
his.attention to Malory’s “Morte'd’ Arthur
and re-write “The Idylls of the King.’’
One can gather flowers from every bush
and many of Le Gallienne’s quatrains are
welcome addition to the Omarian stock
And he pays very agreeable court to th
Girl who helped to make the Wilderness
Paradise enow—Fitzgerald rather neglectet
her. borne touches and embraces—
Mine is a passion that can never change,
It is so sorrowful and sweet and strange
That even from the very nightingale
I must conceal it—’tis so very strange.
For lo 1 I love a woman this strange way s
To he as dead without her, yet to stay,
A stubborn exile from felicity,
Far from her side until the Judgment Day.
O Love, why say so oft— ‘ the world ! the world !
Have we not put it by—the world ! the world !
That cruel thief of all our dearest joys,
Hath it not all but murdered us—the world !
Who brought thee last night lovely to my side f
Who drew thy warm veil cunningly aside ?
Who snatched thee back again so soon, so soon f
Who set this hell-fire burning in my side ?
Dike a dead man within thine arms I lay,
Entranced beyond the bounds of night and day—
-0 cruel breath of the dissevering dawn
That bids me fly who would for ever stay J
O Heart, my heart, the world is weary-wise,
My / only resting-place is your dear eyes,
O wrap me warm in their illusive love,—
For well I know that they are also lies.
Dong have I sought, but seldom found a lover ;
To love aright is to be nought but lover;
He who would love, yet eat and rest him too t
Is still an animal, and not a lover.
For love is a great sleepless, foodless fire ;
Lave never moves his eyes from his desire /
Were love to sleep — awaking, love were gone;
And what gross sustenance should love require t
1 Where are the fair old faces gone a-hiding ?
Where is the far-off place of their abiding T ’
I asked the wise, and thus the wise to me:
‘Drink, they are gone—and there is never a tid-
ing.’
A ight with a sudden splendour opens unde
Her purple robe, and bares her silver side ;
The moon, her bosom, fills the world with light, —
Only thy breast is lovelier, my bride.
With twilight dew each rose’s face is wet,
Morning was grey upon them when we met,
Stitt, must I drink, and still must drink with
thee, —
’Tis many laughing hours to bedtime yet.
How wonderfully has the day gone by !
If.only when the stars come we could die,
And morning find us gathered to our dreams, —
Two happy solemn faces and the sky !
A learned writer in ‘ The Academy ’ places
in order of merit Fitzgerald’s version, then
Whinfleld’s, then Le Gallienne’s ; but each
has its best points. A new translation, too,
is, promised by John Payne, to imitate
more closely the original and very various
Persian rhythm. A verse or two published
in ‘The Corn hill ’ maga., some years ago,
will give an idea how that rhythm meanders :
Lord ! to my heart trepanned, be merciful !
Lord ! to my breast grief-spanned, be merciful!
—Pity, oh Lord, this tavern-haunting foot !
Tc this goblet snatching hand, be merciful !
Or—
Be gay ! for the world will onward plod in time
to come ; *
The soul still cry for its fleshy pod, in time to
come ;
This skull thou seest so sprightly will be lying
Under the foot of the potter trod, in time to come !
By pondering such literal versions one gets
an idea of the true might of Fitzgerald’s
magic.
Arthur Symons’s ‘ Studies in Two Litera-
tures are the work of a young writer, who is
not yet quite sure of his prose style or his
critical judgment. The varying style is for
tue moat part imitated from Pater ai
otevenson : the judgment, where one ca
toilow, does not always seem the true thin
well said. And the papers tend to scrapp: -
ness. The note on James Thomson f
example, gives little help ; and in insisten
on the husk of phrase the essentials of th
man and his message are slurred. Bu;
Stevenson is correctly seen : “in comparin
him with the great names of literature w
cannot but feel all the difference, and all th
meaning of the difference, between a grea ;
intellect and a bright intelligence. . .
Stevenson remains charming : his per
sonality, individual and exquisite as it was
had not the strength and depth of great
ness.
* • • •
Some of Symons’s ‘ Studies in the Eliza
bethan Drama ’ —that on Massinger, for ex-
ample-have been made with pains, to profit
and, as S. is first and foremost a poet, hi
rhetoric often rings agreeably as well a
truly. E.g. —
Not the highest art only, bub all art, if it is s
much as to come into existence, must be emo-
tional ; for it is only emotion which puts life int
the death-like slumber of words, of stones, of th
figures on a clef. But emotion may take anr
shape, may inform the least likely of substances
Is not all music a kind of divine mathematics, anc
is not mathematics itself a rapture to the true
adept ? To Patmore abstract things were an
emotion, became indeed the highest emotion o
which he was capable; and that joy, which h
notes as the mark of fine art, that peace, which t
him was the sign of great art, themselves th
most final of the emotions, interpenetrated fo
him the whole substance of thought, aspiration
even argument. Never were arguments at once
■o metaphysical and so mystical, so precise
analytic, and passionate as those ‘high argu
ments ’ which fill these pages [of ‘ Religio Poetse v
with so thrilling a life.
• * • •
This is kin with the local idea that the
essence of Art is its dynamic, compelling
quality ; that this quality represents actual
life which the artist throws from himself
into his work ; and that if he wants his work
to carry far he has to make effort to give
impulse—just as a speaker who wants his
voice to carry far has, as it were, to take it
with his whole strength and fling it at the
audience. And again, comparing Maupas-
sant, Symons says—
A tale by Mr. Kipling is merely an anecdote;
an anecdote of the most vivid kind, but nothing
more. What is lacking? Just that which seems
to count for so little, and whieh really counts for
so much : the moral idea. With Maupassant, the
moral idea is always thore, at the root of what
may seem a mere anecdote [Not always; some of
the Norman sketches are purely objective and
detached]; it is there, permeating the whole sub-
stance of the story, giving it its vitality, and its
place in the organism of nature. Every story is
thus rounded, and becomes complete in itself by
becoming the part of a great whole.
Prefer, instead of “ the moral idea ” (which
Is mixed with baser associations), the uni-
versal application (asked for in Symons’s last
sentence). That —the all-human reference,
the accurate judgment, placement, of every
detail in due proportion and relation to the
widest conceivable synthesis—is the secret
of imperishable Art, which sees never a
flower without the tree, never a tree without
the landscape, never a landscape of the eye
without the illimitable landscape of the
creative imagination.
-+ .
Writes George Pearce regarding Tambaroora in
N. Queensland :
Drinks being nearly everywhere 6d. each, a sweep of
* Is. in and the winner shouts ’ means the winner pays for
drinks all round and pockets the other half of the sweep.
This is a Tambaroora, and mast frequently occurs when
half-a-dozen or more acquaintances meet in the only
club-room of the North—the pub. parlor. It is the
least objectionable form of the ‘ shouting ’ custom. Say
a dozen persons meet thus, and one stands drinks all
round : it often means that all stay and drink twelve
‘shouts ’—result, more whisky i.n and more cash out than
some can carry and afford. The tambaroora obviates
this, and gives you a drink for Is., with a chance of 6s. in
pocket.
By the way, another curious result of ‘shouting * is the
contempt which a drinker-alone (or ‘ Jimmy Woodser
incurs. This, with sensitive people, involves asking the
bar-tender or publican to share your thirst, though you
never saw him before and never will again. One Oa
rington is known all through the North for the peci
Jiaritj of always insisting on paying for his own gla
wherever or whatever the company. I mention this at
showing how any deviation from * shouting ’ is at on
remarked.
And, on the same subject, “ Dipso ”
The essence ®f tambaroora is gambling and econom
combined. Say two mates go into a pub. 'We
they are prepared to liquor up. But, lo I they meet tw<
more coming in at the other door, and while g rectify,
are exchanged, two more enter, and again two more, ti
there are rather too many for one single purse to shou
for. The etiquette of conviviality, however, insists tha
all-these foregathering “ blithers’' must drink togethe
Apparently a Tambaroora (N.S.W. gold-rush) genius in
vented the “ shilling in and winner shouts ” —blessing
ever on his head ! Here is at once a difficulty solved and
a fair chance for a gamble. Each man was going to spent
at least a bob, so he willingly ris sit in the sweep. E
loses nothing “in his mind,’’ and if he wins the swee]
he gains 6d. per man! But tambaroora is not “
Queensland game.” It’s Australian.
The referenoe to ‘ tambaroora muster ’ should surel
be to a ‘tarpaulin muster,’ and that was when
drouthy crowd was ‘stony,’ or rather *n.s.f.,’ excep
perhaps one or two. Then the despairing cry of th(
breaking-up sma’ hours was, ‘ A tarpaulin muster, boys !
It would have been a mortal sin against the godlik
Thirst for the small Orcesus of the crowd to have declined.
Each man threw in his ‘all ’; from the Dives with eigh
teen-pence to the Lazarus with nixey. Then the crowd
consumed, as per results of collection ; and then, ah
Sorrow 1 ganged awa' drouthier than ever.
All casuists against shouting notwithstanding, a Jimm
Woodser ‘on principle ’ is a Bad Man—a soulless skunk
But, if you go into the bar alone, and find no mate there
it doesn’t follow that you need shout for the beer-puller
unless you know him as a decent fellow. Again, i
•morning’ is an exception to the anti-Jimmy Woodse
rule ; that is ‘medsin ’ —a pick-me-up.
♦
-®- n Summer Isles,’ by Burton Dibbs (son oi
Sydney Commercial Bank manager T. B, Dibbs)
readably pictures in four stories the Samoa of to-
day, with its beach-girls, tourists, and mis-
sionaries. The writer has some dramatic instinct,
and a good deal of humor; but his book wants
literary quality—the material runs to waste in all
directions. The best yarn, “ The Psalm-Singer,”
is full of breezy, candid passages like this—
Far away in the New Hebrides lay the little cutter at
anchor, her black hull and tall mast reflected in the
mirror of the sea.
Under an awning reclined Rigley in a hammock;
Rutherford and Parsons lounged on the hatch.
‘ I wish I had this cargo in Samoa, * said Jack ; ‘ it would
be worth something there, but here it is simply an essen-
tial article of commerce which every French packet in the
group carries, and that with impunity. The idea of our
handing over the whole trade of the place to a handful of
Frenchmen simply beoause a lot of psalm-singing hypo-
crites make a fuss about our selling firearms and spirits
to the natives! Either stop the game altogether, as in
Samoa, or allow both nations to play it. Start fair, I say,
and then pluck and enterprise come out on top.*
A languid 1 Hear, hear! ’ came from Rigley in the
hammock.
‘ Now then, Billy, oome out of that,’ said Rutherford ;
' it's your watch, and you know you can't depend on
those cursed Kanakas to keep a look out.’
Billy growled something about stuff and nonsense, and
began leisurely to fill his pipe. Rutherford rose and
scanned the horizon. '
A thin column of smoke ascended almost perpendicu-
larly. A burst of profanity came from Jack. Billy was
out of the hammock in a moment, Eric was on his feet,
the sleepy Kanakas Jumped up, and the little deck was a
scene of bustle and excitement. The hatches were
ripped open, the boat was lowered, and long case after
case was handed over the side. Eric and Rutherford
worked like Trojans ; even Billy displayed a wonderful
amount of aotivity, and the first boat-load of arms was
soon on its way to the shore.
‘Good old Newcastle coal! ’ said Billy, as he wiped the
perspiration from his face ; ' you can see it coming.’
The column of smoke grew denser: the masts, the
yards, the yellow funnel, and finally the hull of the ap-
proaching steamer appeared, whilst boat-load after boat-
load of Sniders was conveyed to the shore.
‘Let us straighten up things a hit,’said Rutherford,
when the boat came back after her last load. ‘Have a
bucket of water or two over you, you fellows ; put on a
clean suit of pyjamas, and look cool.’
The man-of-war steamed slowly up to near where the
cutter was lying. She stopped, the engines went astern,
and the big unwieldy ship lay still. Her wash set the
empty cutter rolling.
The sun shone on the black hull of the man-of-war, the
paint blistered on her side, and her crowded crew gasped
for breath. Like most British men-of-war sent to the
tropics, she had evidently been designed for the Arctic
regions.
A boat was lowered, and a tallow-faced, unhealthy lot
of seamen manned the oars.
‘ Aw,’ said the officer in charge of the boat, ‘aw—what
is the—aw—name of this cutter?’
1 1 really, said Rigley, who had gone to receive him
and was sorely tempted to mimic him, ‘can’t pronounce
the name’—it was a long unpronounceable Fijian one—
‘ but if you will come on board I’ll write it out for you.’
The officer clambered on board.
‘ Where is the—aw— master ? ’ he asked.
‘The captain,’ corrected Rigley, pointing to Eric, 'it
there.’
‘Aw,’ said the officer, ‘have you any—aw—arms or
ammunition on board ?’
‘None, except our Winchesters,' said Eric.
‘I noticed—aw—that your boat was very—aw —active
as we were approaching' said the officer.
‘Yes, answered Eric, without a blush, ‘getting fuel
and water oh board : we are just going to make a start.’
‘Yes aw —yes,’ said the offioer, and, afler refusing
Erie s invitation to go below and have a look round, and
Billy s to have a oocktail, he got over the side into hi
boat.
And he was once a missionary ! ’ mused Ruth erf ore
as he pondered over Eric’s unblushing lie; ‘well, he's i
man now'.’
By Laurence Hmmnan—
You, the dear l rouble of my days,
W hen life shall let me cease,
Turn once ■ side from tinder ways
An 1 loo* upon my peace.
Let your feet rest upon my roof,
An l for the love we bore,
Forgive tire heart so far aloof ;
You cannot trouble more.
For if the dead man had his will,
Doubt not that be would rise
And waste his soul in passion still
With looking in your eyes.
So come when you have lost your power,
And pardon my release,
And set your feet to rest an hour,
A seal upon my peace.
Some little items :
H. G. Wells solves the problem of his ‘The War of the
Worlds ’in a perfectly characteristic w'ay. He has to kill
his Martians somehow, yet their heat-rays and poison-
fumes make them practically irresistible by humanity
So he recollected his science —and slaughtered them with
earthly microbes, which, like good watch-dogs, only bite
st.angers. The whole story is another very clever and
interesting tour deforce ; but, like Kipling’s ‘Captains
Courageous, it isn’t literature. Wells’s imagination pro-
duces effects as prodigious as Kipling’s observation and
description, but both are too objective to last. . . .
The fellow Book ’ seems to have died suddenly and
missed the usual newspaper obsequies: at all events, Syd-
ney booksellers don’t seem to have seen a number for nine
months. It was conventionalised, and isn’t much missed.
. . Dr. Walter Roth’s aboriginal book has won him a post
as medical assistant to Commissioner Parry-Okeden, in
charge of N.Q. aborigines. Thus the prophet is not
always, etc. . . . S3'dney School of Arts Reform Asso-
ciation should begin by trying to sell the white-elephant
building, wiping out the debt, and leaving the icome
free to improve library and reading-room. At present,
with some thousands of yearly income, all the institution
oan touch for really profitable purposes is £5OO or £6oo—
rest goes in up-keep and interest. Such a sale
would be desolating to a number of old fossil members
who practically live in the reading-room—come first thing
in the morning and go away last thing at night—but
these will presently learn to go to the Museum, their
proper place. As the S. of Arts is at present carried on,
the Govt, endowment has no justification whatever. ...
Viator: ‘Would like to say a word for “ Scribner’s Maga-
zine, most readable of the higher-class Americans, and
often uncommonly well illustrated. The editor seems to
have sense enough to buy live matter, instead of—with
Harper s and ‘ The Century ’ —for-the-naost-part re*
surreotingelegantcorpses belonging to people with Names.’
. . . Owing partly to W. E. Henley’s failing health, and
partly to his desire to leave, if possible, more than a
magazine-editor’s mark in literature, ‘ The New Review ’
has ceased publication. It was always readable, and paid
more attention to style than the other magazines. . .
Joseph Conrad’s • Nigger of the Narcissus ’ is a Loti-iike
vision of the sea, and contains some astonishing descrip-
tive work. But it remains too detached and impres-
sionistic-needs an epic idea to fill out its epic grandeur
of form. . . . Stead asked Labouchere what hymn had
helped him most! Labouchere! . . . Helen: ‘My
ohildren are in the habit of using “ betten’t ” in plaoe of
“had not better.” For example, “Betten’t Igo soon,
mother?” “You betten’t touch that, baby.” Short,
you see, and easily understood; and I have seriously
thought of adopting it myself—what do you think ?’—
You betten’t!


Medical.
DR.
iSYLNEY’S LEAKING EPECIALfST) and
■J
MU,
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Emms DSof sufferers
Second to Noise in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE
(LEGALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head Of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt, 'that
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SYDNEY - ,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
If you are troubled with
pimples, basbfulness,
aversion to society,
stupiduess, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r'en.
hidblhgeb a glo m,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment, in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous, debility and premature
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
CoMPt.AtNTs. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
detention from business.
rilllTl
without pain and
By this
means
you
✓flf.
m
3MTt
-Vi-
uSsS
cnu describe your
troubles to tbe
doctors if living
away from tbe
city and unable
to come, to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-
lises, NEKVOUS
AND PRIVATE
DISEASE 15, post All Trains stop at the Door.
free on applica-
tion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
your life. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we will at ®nce send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
Drs. FREEMAM and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure you, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN PACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
ERRE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABori; PljySiciai).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung- into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Ilis name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where ot her
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if yon are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly' too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
ohysieal power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
andjkidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully'.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding y'our case
elsewhere, consult .the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., ling.,
121 Collius Street, MELBOURNE.
Mhntion iu is Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
7 "ST ork, Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root, of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ; if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and suooess.
2C’S.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyarcl-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
,j®
ssi
S W
Si till?
><■ * r S tf'V
a a
&$£
FULL 'OmECTCOUS.-j
o ENCLOSED? j
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN ’EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Dr.
Sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
7 York Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS.
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st,, MELBOURNE.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
RICORD's
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rioord's Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for JGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope .
Agents for Australasia —Perry A Co., Baring Chambers .
Market Street. MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st. .Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
New, Up-tc«Date
Publications.
BOOKS!
The Soiled Dove, the History of a Young Lady who ran
away from her parents and eventually ‘ ‘ went to the dogs ”;
Miss Skittles, the girl with “ six husbands ” ; Sappho, Life
and Love in Paris —each post free Is. 6d. The Ballet
Girl, her natural history, “ gay life behind the scenes”—
post free, Is. Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of Love ; Don
Juan— each post free. Is. 9d.
r. W. SKINNER, Bookseller and Publisher, 105
OASTLERE AGIT-ST., SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
A stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
Will be Pleased to Welcome liis Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Eooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or. a-xzojsoisrs,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received jiis education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, ftc.,
&e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will send
(POST FEES)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing bow all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CUEEB, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Hr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their eases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed-
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—.
The Proprietor, Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours :
9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday'
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical,
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
•WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
'' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king- among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak-parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Churoh,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the winters
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
SMS*
IBs
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes:—“l can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend* to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do avvav with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
ITindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ 1 will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
I *:
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes
“Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness 1 was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
1 should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : ‘ The only chance vou
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and 1 am thankful 1 took bis
advice, for since 1 took your remedies 1 am as well and as
strong as ever 1 was in my life. 1 cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY,
Mr. J. W. AITCIIISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes : —“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming' a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over J2OO
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuwao.


TATTERSALL’S
•.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
LAUNCESTON C. February 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address,
£ . .
-shares in. the above.
HOBART C. February 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
s
COOTAMUNDRA C. Feb. 9.
10,000 SubscrUaers at 5«
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
t
NEWMARKET H. Feb. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, —_— shares in the above.
Name.
Address _
e£ s t
Australian C. March 1.
50,000 Subscribers at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
shares in the above.
Address
NEWCASTLE C. March 17.
50,000 Subscribers at 5. ~
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _shares in the above.
Name_ _
Address
£
x
SILVER CITY C. March 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
in the above.
Name.
Address
JS
£
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
• i i
c . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
(JET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USE
Spooler's
pROmWDREHIIC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
! DF AIL DESCRIPTIONS
ii;: DIREC LIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing-Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing for Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
P.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
PILES.
mHE Advertiser having suffered for years from Piles and
x tried all sorts of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
D. C. DA VI-', Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE
WANTED AT ONCE, in every locality, an
intelligent person to act as our Agent. No special
knowledge required, and without interfering with
present occupation. An excellent opportunity for
a capable young man or lady.—Address, Morse
Manufacturing Company, 3, Red Lion Court,
London, E.C.
:he finest tonic
[FER BRAVAIS
| FER BRAVAIS
'FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, I
and enabli g the consti-S
cution o resist climatic
iniluences.
Invaluable in all cases o r J
anaemia. Influenza and \
general debility.
Highly recommended for t
weak and debilitated chil- &
dren #
LANG T‘ A beii'i 11/ at and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
the grind e/lctts of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
wr
, Prof. DDRCOT’S MUSKAL
Speedily produces a luxuriai t growth of
i Hi, iron Smoothest Pace or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. I lie only Remidy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d., Double Size, 10s.
s. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet, it has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s -knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential SURGEON LANBBTON, M.R.6.8.. Encl
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
An interesting difficulty has occurred
between the Broken Hill hospital and the Govern-
ment. The hospital derives most of its support
from weekly contributions made by mine work-
men, who, in virtue of these contributions (they
amount to in the £of wages), are guaranteed
admittance, provided beds are available. Govern-
ment now sticks at subsidising these payments,
on the ground that they are not subscriptions
“ within the meaning of the Act.”
KTewman & Snelaon,
. . Thh Gotbrnor’s Ohbmists . .
78 KINO STRUT, SYDNEY,
Hare edmed aU other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific, gale, ears end speedy. IS doeee by peek, 1/1.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
8 ' A ° GA 8 ?73* SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies' Saddles,
y ADI !^ E .f’ s £ 9 ', LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
HILLIUjU, ISS r€' 137 Sussex-st. , Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
colony B T r he a nrwlal Gen^ emen -, ~T henanJ ?’ Hillier -” Is to he seen on nearly all good saddles used in tha
Advertisement T win J° i tl ? e , < J u f exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
sement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOB A CATALOGUE.
Send f or a Catalogue.
EDWARDS
I
*
WORLD-RENOWNED
air Brodueer #
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
ii
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey If air
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
I/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4 6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
(HncßoßEitTson's mm giiih-
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
its use
Sustains Athletes , Cures Indigestion ,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath .
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
&
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Pull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works :
- Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
W E 'iKm ° TI lI V cust 2 m^ ra ti)at b J'
b«,e,.»„7,ta th tU'!. Mr «?& S'JS
2 SX' "“•£* boards, £ll.
•™. o 5 S ffig IS K,lsS ine
SEAT SITTR I v an? i ps ’ £ I 15 u S ' • our S P ecial 3 SPRINgFi STICK
i sllver flash rail splash-baards and lamris f 8
£2l 6d iBEoTT B ™ATS’riS break andT^pt
AB POTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather
lamP B’ LADIES ' PARIi
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices -
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
en or and compare our illustrated catalogue and prioe-list with any other house in Sydney.
Specially prepared as a Beautifierof the Skin & Complexion
Or. MACKENZIE’S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
P^i d . Wl ‘ h , S w C u l l b , eau ! lf y in g ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciouslv
au d perfumed. One Sh.lling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake
certifying to its harmless™ ss, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr Mackenzie’s
s^Dennmr^Street, Bridge, Eng.
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRDS
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED I
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Bigg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE REDEMPTION OF DIVES.
Hown in Hell lay Dives burning,
Given over to perdition,
Oft to Heaven his sad eyes turning,
Filled, too late, with vain contrition.
Abram on his throne was sitting,
All around him Heaven lay shining,
Dives’ hapless case unwitting ;
Lazarus on his breast reclining.
Carne a voice of sad complaining—
Father! let him dip his finger,
Lazarus—and not disdaining,
Slake the thirst in which I linger ! "
Son,” said Abram, “ thou enjoyed’sb
In thy life-time all thy pleasure ;
Every appetite thou cloyed’st;
Lazarus now shall have his measure.”
Father ! if I here must languish,”
Came again the pleading mournful,
Leave me lonely in mine anguish :
Save my brothers ! ” Abram, scornful: —
M They have Moses ! ” cried the father,
Let them hear the prophets’ teaching;
Vain it were to think that rather
They would hear a dead man’s preaching ! ”
One there was, who, not unheeding,
On the Great White Throne in glory,
Lent an ear to Dives’ pleading,
With compassion heard his story.
“ Dives damned ! ” He cried, “ and Dives,
In his torment, thinks of others ;
Hopeless, hopes where hope alive is;
Cries for mercy on his brothers ! ”
“ In a soul where love is living,
I live still, and T condemn not;
To the heartless, unforgiving
Prayers like Dives’, I contemn not ! ”
Then, swift wings sped down from Heaven,
While he lay with grief oppressed,
And, because he loved, forgiven,
Dives stood amongst the blessed.
A. NUGENT ROBERTSON.
THE MAN WHO HAS MEANS.
(As sung by himself.)
I’ve a trotter and trap trim and natty,
j I’ve a villa of brickified red,
I’ve a tile of dimensions terrific '
(To allow for the swell of my head)•
I’ve an affable smile for the ladies,
And a wink for the work-a-day queans,
And everyone knows by the cock of my nose
That I must be a Man who has Means.
They talk about Shakespeare and Byron,
They jabber of Learning and Law,
They stick up their silly old statues
To waggers of Parliament jaw ;
Why, most of these famous old buffers
Have hardly a fistful of beans,
And I haven’t a doubt I could buy ’em all out—
Por you s°e I’m a Man who has Means.
And then there’s the Party Artistic,
The fellows who fiddle and draw,
Those Poles who go banging pianos—
All thunder and thumping and paw.
Art? Well, if I want it I’ll hire ft,
I’ll pat for their Yellows and Greens ;
But let ’em sing low or I’ll soon let ’em know
How Great is a Man who has Means !
The Women ! They know me—God bless ’em !
They prize a man just at his worth.
I could just have my pick of the beauties,
So proud of their splendor and birth ;
But I’ll wag a free leg till I’m forty
Then wed a sweet thing in her teens,
For winning in marriage, like driving a carriage,
Is only a question of Means !
For Life (as I take it) is nothing
But a music-hall ringing with chimes,
With the whole human race a-performing
For him who has Dollars and Dimes ;
And Heaven—who wants any Heaven ?
While Earth with her gold intervenes
With her skittles and beer and her circus down
here
Which she runs for the Man who has Means !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
THE ROSE OF MEMORY.
O, brave grey head and pleasant face,
Gay heart and wholesome mind, —
What makes you turn upon the road
To cast a look behind ?
He said, “Inear the night apace,
The day draws to a close,
But, where my twentieth milestone lay,
I found a tender rose.
“ She scented all the air around,
She drooped a shy, sweet head ;
I gave a young love to my rose
Because my rose was red.”
“ But you are old —time-worn and old,
And age hath power to pain ” ;
He said, “ When darkness closes in,
I seek my rose again.
“ They merrily tread and merrily tread,
Nor feel the bitter wind
Who backward look from sunset hours
To see a rose behind.
“ But woe for them, and tears for them,
Who in a time of snows
Strain dim eyes down a barren past,
Nor see, behind, a rose. ”
RODERIO QUINN.


TiCiStraliao p .
B Wr % The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established V 8 Cl L OOBCt y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR. #
Directors The
JOSEPH
J. T. WALKER,
A nual Income
Accumulated Funds
Exceeds Two Millions Sterling,
rairteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One i ear 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £123,797. yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,0 „0. ’
Head Office : 87 3Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
RATES:
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &e. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Cagtlereagh-street, Sydney.
AND
/
i
ss
r
n
p&iß
'lfciP'jU'Ri&fe
DA
\
x
K
m< TIVE
pA> f,T
RUBEROID
DAMP-GOURSE
BUU DINo
P^ER.
AGENTS : E-Rich & Co. Ltd. 24& 26 O'ConneIISt„ SYDNEY.
Every "Variety of
rjg*fii
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
257 George Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH, la
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., Gd., & 11- each,
GOODALL’
CUSTARD POWDER.
m MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Deli ious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious aloue.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
meud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent m the preparation of a good Cus' ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL,. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
JOSHUA. BROS.’
As Supplied to the British House of Commons, War Office, London County Council
Asylum, and many of the leading Hospitals in Great Britain and Australasia.
ANTWERP EXHIBITION, 1894 - - - GOLD MEDAL.
BORDEAUX EXHIBITION, 1895 - - - BRONZE MEDAL.
AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION, 1895 - - GOLD MEDAL.
BRUSSELS EXHIBITION, 1897 - - - - 2 GOLD MEDALS.
OtotalaaDle of all Wine & Spirit Merchants.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
m
mm
TEETH EltOM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
9S King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER.
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Flutes, by means of JivUlye work.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
98 3BZ±:ra.!sf-s-fc.., Svtiney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
mmm
16 ’-i- ! SSS ft
1
sLs»c
sdiiiiMEa
‘ ;•■
Wfflm&fb
»a fi o
- SsB*
&*£
uilu.l, ;i^ii, i, ■■*&=■&
iuiiiij
M ELBOU R NE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms ; and Oaf 4 open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOB
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Asrents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£\ Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Fufclio Companies.
THE
Insurance Company I»td.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Office: 95 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Victorian Branch :
EMPIRE BUILDINGS, 416 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
Guaranteed Security to Policy-holders nearly
£3,000.000.
Rates: . Settlements
Lowest Current. Prompt and Equitable.
EST INSURERS RECEIVER S AR _
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes 067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Tire Insurance at Lowest Bates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual -Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors:
Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed 12,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,072—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
C63/X1
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo^- 1 it.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kinp. Ijiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, eic.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiby, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassali, ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C- ZEUIDIRjaDGi-lE] & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRUIiT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
60 ToqS njore Exported Leaf
tB>ai) all tbt other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by BIXSOH & SOM'S for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of BlllSOll’s
Brands. DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
tiling made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PEE CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cl?an)piot7-
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CoijqCi^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir R@gcr D
Choicest Dark Twist.
Ccotcooial.
Dark PW and Twist.
O
(Imported). The Club Favorite E-Coiiopole
Rothschilds.
Bonanza — 4 Havana and A merman Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and ali Tobacconists’ Ware.'


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 18.—No. 936.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1898.
Price, 6d.
THE GRAVE OF GOVERNOR PHII.fF
The Revi,:F. B. Boyce received by the last m*i|
th» following letter from the Vicar of Bathamp.
■ ton,. Bath, the Rev. L. J. Fish, relative to tlj*
discovery of Governor Phillip’s grave. He says-
—"l read of you as being one of the pioneers t»
a proper appreciation of Phillip and his wonder,
tul work, and so I venture to write to you con-
ceming the discovery In our church of his grave.
The fact I made public In a letter to 'The Times'
of November 3. although the colony had official
Intimation of the fact first by wire, and then by
letters. I am now much concerned at the very
unworthy memorial of him which the present
grave presents to Australians and others who
have already begun to visit this church to see
where he lies.
fy State of
Our payees
affanj allffjat'a
able Coi*(3Sf Could emcf
jny U S o> pr^t:
r
for it
He. had never concealed from himself the
thanks he owned to the labor party for the part
they had played. There would be good feeling-
.-between the two.parties as long as the Govern.-
Went honestly tried to carry out its pledges
when they failed to do that it was time for
everybody to fall out with them.
The freetrade party and the labor
party were at one in their belief in broad and
liberal principles, and it was the game of the
latter to get the Government to go faster than
they would otherwise go. The only difference
between the parties was that the labor party was
more prepared than the Other, to makp ran id
changes and rapid developments.
Gj H K. Sfjec^ ft'
V ,
A PHOTOGRAPH OF THE QUEEN.
The Premier has just received a photo gravure
copy of a portrait Of the Queen as she appeared
on diamond jubilee day. It bears the Queen’s
autograph "Victoria R. 1.„ June 22, 1897,” . “
t f /«* h *zz ?*
z:r «*. -^-iSsrx^
Vsa v
\<tsX
yff
//rt£<rSvf tic/aria Sifanq
i,ur 7*S & r«“ty aY/^'
//bf/r&i'f #/
'(/fmeer&fa
&r/> J/y'//z/r//?y' /& tfs?A d's/zS'^
‘ /rZif/zVy d/zd V s C /jy
datt "
d s /
<r / s \ <rT/u>/c/j
0/j 7) o 77^7fzg' //?y£?ar/i£& Z&f
/ 7/~ cfesr? S' <7f #6rr S !, /r7v’/>S‘/S//7$ O'ss*.
MOSTLY GEORGE REID.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians. ”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N-.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Tivcnty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing .with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
<Sc Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in. Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Ilf aorHand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside" N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscripts. *
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
vaper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TT^T^xxlle&Ji.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1898.
The Reformed N.S.W. Council.
A few days ago, in the course of that famous
political address at Mudgee, in which all his
figures were wrong, Premier Reid expounded
the details of his scheme for the reform of
New South Wales Legislative Council. Some
weeks ago he furnished the public with an
outline of his plan, and the plan (reviewed
in a Bulletin leading article of January 8
under the title of “A Reform Not Worth
Having ”) was chiefly remarkable because it
left the Council very nearly as bad as it is at
present. And now that the particulars are
filled in it appears, on Premier Reid’s own
showing, that his plan of renovation is many
degrees weaker and more worthless than it
originally appeared, and leaves the Council
in a worse state than ever. In fact it is so
absurdly and incredibly weak that, but for
the fact that all the Sydney papers give the
same account, it would seem almost beyond
belief that any man could design such a
thing. The following is the great democratic
reform for which New South Wales has been
waiting so long, as outlined by the great
reformer himself: —
S.M. Herald report: “ He was in favor of an Upper
House as a check upon legislation, but it must not have
power to deal with money bills, and at any rate a fifth of
the members must retire each fifth year.” Daily Tele-
graph report: “He would remove a fifth of the members
every fifth year, and replace them.”
* * * *
As a scheme of reform, this is the very
saddest wreck The Bulletin ever heard of.
If one-fifth of the councillors are to be re-
tired every fifth year, it necessarily implies
that the new class of temporary nominees,
who are to replace the old life nominees,
must be appointed for twenty-five years.
When the reformed Council gets into fair
working order it will take twenty-five years
before there is a complete change of per-
sonnel, and the member appointed this year
won’t fall due to be fired out till 1923. The
object is to keep new blood circulating in the
Stagnant Chamber—to waken it up by the
constant introduction of new men and new
ideas ; and it would do this so effectively that
if all the present councillors had been ap-
pointed under it the only result would be
the prompt fii'ing out of George Henry Cox.
He is absolutely the only individual in the
Legislative Council who, under Reid’s re-
formed system, would have finished his term
and be replaceable by a bright young Demo-
crat of the new school. The next oldest
fossil would not be removable for two years
yet, and another ancient would be due for
removal in 1902, and three more in 1905.
There are now 64 councillors, so, roughly
speaking, the great scheme of Democratic
renovation provides for the removal of 13
every five years, and the substitution, if
necessary, of younger and more up-to-date
politicians. Under the present arrangement
there are now in the Council 13 members
appointed in the last five years, and 17 ap-
pointed in the previous five years, so,
judged by the figures, the present system is
more reformed than the reformed principle
which Premier Reid would establish in its
stead. The great new Democratic idea is to
empower the Government to send up 26 new
nominees in ten years. The old, stupid
Tory idea created over 30 new nominees in
the last ten years, therefore, in its results,
the old system is wildly revolutionary com-
pared with the new one.
• • • •
Premier Reid’s new system involves
making the number of councillors fixed and
permanent. If it were applied now, the
Government could appoint no more progres-
sive Democrats to the Council until 1900
(the last batch of appointments being in
1895), except in the case of death vacan-
cies ; whereas, under the present order of
things, it can appoint a new batch any day.
If the people decided on an absolute change
of policy, and created a new Government and
a new Assembly with that end in view, and
the Legislative Council went solidly for the
old system, it could block the popular will,
under the proposed “reformed” constitu-
tion, for 15 years. Unless there was a very
great mortality among the old men, it would
not be till the third batch retired, at the end
of the third period of five years, that the
new Government could command a majority;
whereas, under the present system, it can
get a majority in the Council almost any
time, if it has a sufficiently strong popular-
mandate behind it. All that is necessary is
to get the formal sanction of the Imperial
figurehead to the necessary new appoint-
ments, and that can almost invariably
be done if the Government has a
big enough following, and makes a big
enough disturbance, and appeals with suffi-
cient vigor to the British authorities ; also,
it can often be done amicably if the Premier
introduces the Governor to a nice girl, or
otherwise makes himself socially agreeable.
Under the proposed “ reformed ” system the
Council couldn’t be swamped by new
nominees until a certain fixed date, and then
only in a very small way, and it could howl
derisively at the Government and the
Assembly and the huge popular majority,
and tell them all to wait five or ten or fifteen
years, according to the circumstances of the
case. And as no Government or Assembly
lasts that time the reformed Council, if it
had a decent majority to start with, could
damn everything and everybody more than
ten times as enthusiastically as it damns
everything and everybody now.
* # * *
The only reason why things might pan out
better than this is that the popular clamour
and the fear of being mobbed in the street
might, in any serious case, break down the
Council’s opposition long before the five or
ten or fifteen years, during which it could
legally hold the fort, had expired. But that
doesn’t make Reid’s proposed “ reform ” any
less infamously stupid. The idea is to create
a useful and intelligent second Chamber
which will be more in accoi’dance with the
national sentiment, and if, instead, there is
created one which will be bigoted, Tory, ob-
structive, useless, uttei'ly out of accord with
public feeling, from five to 25 years behind the
time, and far less amenable to popular pres-
sure than the unreformed Council now exist-
ing, the fact that its worst features may be
alleviated with bricks at a very bad crisis
makes the foolishness of its creators none
the less glaring. A Constitution which is so
created that one-half of the legislative
machine may have to go after the other half
with a club to prevent a fifteen-years’ dead-
lock is hopelessly rotten, whatever success
the party with the club may meet with.
* • * *
Even if it was proposed that one-fifth of
the Leg. Councillors should retire every
year, and thus the whole Council be renewed
every Jive, instead of every twenty-five,
years, the idea would still be very crude and
stupid and unworkable. Supposing that
party strife narrows down at any time to a
bitter conflict on any one issue—Protec-
tion v. Freetrade, Federation v. Provincial-
ism, Bimetallism against Monometallism, or
anything else. If one party remained in
office through two consecutive Parliaments,
it would have appointed the whole Upper
House, and would naturally have appointed
men who were of its way of thinking on the
great party question of the moment. Then
that party—call it the Protectionist party or
anything else—would probably go down
with a thud, and a strong Freetrade Govern-
ment would come in, and the province would
find itself with a strongly Freetrade Assembly
and a strongly Protectionist Council. Even
if the whole Council was renewed every five
years, one-fifth of the members retiring
annually, it would be three years before the
Council majority would be in accord with
the popular sentiment, and before anything
could be done to put the popular will in
effect. This is, no doubt, better than having
to wait fifteen years, as would be the case
under Premier Reid’s proposal; still three
years is the whole tenn of a Parliament, and
if the country had to wait three years for
everything very little would be effected.
* * * *
Premier Reid’s Council of 25 - year
nominees is, by his own account, to be a
“check upon legislation”—a thing for
obstructing and holding back and blocking
the way ; in other words, it is not to be a
machine to do useful work, but to prevent
the other House doing it. But it isn’t to be
a check upon money matters ; it is admitted
that a check is needed, but the finances,
which most want checking, are not to be
checked. At the same time, the new Coun-
cil, while too much of a rogue or a bigot
or a fool, or too unrepresentative and
undemocratic, to be trusted in any matter in-
volving the expenditure of Is. 6d. of the tax-
payer’s money, is to have vastly larger
powers—if it likes to use them—than the
Assembly in matters relating to the hanging
or imprisonment of the taxpayer. Its
powers will be larger because the M.L.A.
who is an outrage on popular sentiment can
only hold his office in defiance of the people
for three years at most, while the M.L.C. is
to hold his for any period up to twenty-five
years. The reason always assigned why the
Council should not have co-ordinate powers
with the Assembly over Is. 6d. of the public
money is that it doesn’t represent the
people, yet it is proposed to give it co-or-
dinate powers to execute the people, to make
tariffs for them, to make laws for stealing
the land from them, to flood them out
with cheap nigger-labor, to order them 15
years’ penal servitude and two floggings,
and other things, and to give it far more
than co-ordinate powers to block every re-
form the people desire. The idea of entrust-
ing such vast authority to an irresponsible
body which is admittedly so degraded, or so
incapable, or so unrepresentative, that it has
to be absolutely prohibited from touching
the public cash, is weird indeed.
* * * *
To sum up : No power whatever should be
entrusted, either for five years, or twenty-
five years, or five minutes, to any House
which doesn’t derive its authority from the
people, and which isn’t directly responsible
to the people. No House which can’t be en-
trusted with the public money is fit to be
trusted with the public life and liberty. It
is absurd to talk of any nominee House being
a “check” upon legislation; if it merely
agrees with what the people’s representa-
tives do then it isn’t any check : if it is a
check it can only be by disagreeing with
what the people’s representatives do—as
when it threw out the Probate Duties Bill,
which is just what all the row is about. The
whole objection to the present Council is
that it is a check upon legislation, and if the
Reid Government creates a new unpaid, ir-
responsible Council which can’t be swamped
as the present one can, it will be a still
worse check. The only way out is either to
have no Council at all, or to have one which
can be trusted with full powers over all
matters —one elected on the widest possible
suffrage by the whole country voting as one
constituency. A nominee chamber with no
power might as well be dead, and one with
any power at all is an outrage upon every
principle of Representative Government.
Berry’s Pension and Berry’s Wife.
Now that Graham Berry has settled down to
the quiet enjoyment of his annuity—such en-
joyment as a deeply-embarrassed old man can
extract from that very moderate sum—the
people of Victoria may possibly have time to
realise that they cut an inexpressibly mean figure
over the whole business. Graham Berry is very
old. He was a great man in his day ; at one
time he was probably the greatest and strongest
Democrat in Australia. Public opinion has
moved on a good deal since the era when Berry
was a really active volcano, and, to the people
who look back now, he may not seem so very
remarkable a Democrat after all. But every
man must be judged by his own period, and the
great Democratic leader is the one who is dis-
tinctly ahead of his period, and keeps there,
and who has the power to keep the people
moving after him. A hundred years later
another man may be far ahead of that high-
priest of Democracy, and yet be a bigoted Con-
servative and reactionary, simply because the
community hasmoved agreat deal in the interim.
The man who consistently strikes six when his
contemporaries are striking three is the one who
keeps the world moving, and the man who
strikes nine when the rest of the world is
striking twelve is only a drag and a stumbling-
block. The mere fact that nine is in itself a
good deal more than six alters the situation not
at all. And it must always be remembered that
if the first man had lived in the second man’s
period he would probably have struck fourteen,
simply because it was his nature to keep ahead,
and if the second man had lived in the first
man’s time he probably wouldn’t have struck
at all.
* * * *
The Victorian people know that Berry, at
his best, served them bravely, honestly, and
well, with a strong will and a powerful brain
and a generous purpose. Whatever the old,
burnt-out cinder of the Tribune may or may
not be, it must be remembered that no man
lasts for ever, either physically or mentally,
and if the worn-out Berry is not wholly a
Democrat the real Berry of twenty- ve y .
ago certainly was. Therefore, the ic
people decided that it was not well to e
Tribune be a penniless, pathetic wreck in
last days, and that, though there was no ung
to that effect in the mere letter of the bargain,
he had a moral claim upon them whic i was
beyond all dispute. They acknowledge! 11s
by giving him a pension ; that act settled tn
matter so far as it could be settled, H>e
tion of whether Berry has or has not a claim
on the Victorian people can’t now be re-opene( ,
the only authority which could give, a decision
on the matter has admitted his claim, and there
is no honorable way of going back on t a
decision. And, having decided that the old.
war-horse deserved a quiet pasture and a decen
water-supply in his last days, Victoria turne
him into the smallest paddock it could find, and
economised the grass to the best of its ability.
Berry’s annuity of <£soo a year cost the
country £.3100. If it had been paid out of the
Treasury instead of being bought from an assur-
ance office it would not have carried with it
such a painfully direct intimation that the
recipient is only expected to live for years
still that is a mere detail. But the harmless
little annuity dies with Berry —and the ancient
ex-Premier has a wife who will probably sur-
vive him.
* * * *
The law, or the code of Christian ethics, or
something or other which this community pro-
fesses to recognise, holds that a man and his
wife are one. For the sake of a small economy
however, the Victorian law, in this particular
case, holds that Berry and his wife are not
one. If Berry has any claim on the com-
munity—and it is formally decided that he has
—then it is impossible not to recognise his
wife’s claim also. The purpose of the annuity
was to make Berry happy in his old age. It
wasn’t really to provide him with food and
clothes and a dwelling, except on the ground
that these were incidental to his happiness ; if
there was any reason to suppose that he would
be perfectly happy without food and clothes
and a dwelling then true benevolence would
consist in leaving him without these things lest
they should disturb his mind. And the Vic-
torian community proceeds to make the old man
happy with the knowledge that when he dies
—and his chances of life are officially estimated
at years—he will leave his wife utterly un-
provided for. So far as the world knows
Berry’s wife is as absolutely devoid of private
fortune as he is himself, and, probably, even in
his old age, with his worldly experience to back
him, he is better fitted to hustle with the world
than she is. a
» * * *
The people of Victoria practically invite tneir
old hero to dine with them. They lay a knife
and fork for him—a small knife, perhaps, and
a cheap iron fork with three prongs, but still
they do lay these implements. And they don’t
ask Berry’s wife to dinner, or lay any knife
and fork for her, which is a miserably shabby and
discourteous and unmanly, not to say ungentle-
manly, proceeding. It wouldn’t cost much more
to provide that Berry’s annuity should last his
wife’s lifetime also, should she survive him, and
Victoria, having acknowledged that there is a
moral responsibility upon it, can’t decently
leave it half-fulfilled. It can’t now refuse to re-
cognise its obligation in the matter of Berry’s
wife, unless it holds that Berry has no right
to have a wife—that only the prosperous publi-
can, and the affluent pawnbroker, and the
large, fat, bloodshot, successful land-grabber
should marry and replenish the earth with des-
cendants like unto themselves, and that the
patriot who never had the leisure or the dis-
honesty to make money should leave no heirs to
keep his name alive. In that case the re-
plenished earth is likely to become even a
harder globe to live on than it is at present.
* * * *
Of course there is the hard-driven Treasury
to be considered. In the old glorious borrowing
days every Australian Government was
generous ; the large, strong men of great
circumference and great drinking-power who
ran things with a shovel in those times never
needed to take any thought for the morrow.
It wasn’t their morrow, anyhow. Now Vic-
toria is making a harder effort than any other
province to go straight, for the time at least,
and money is very scarce. But Berry, at all
events, was less responsible than most of his
contemporaries for the sins of the old days, and
he was more responsible than the majority for
the few good things that were done then. And
if Victoria behaves meanly to one of its very
few good servants so much the less is its chance
of getting good servants. Even the narrow re-
sources of the Melbourne Treasury are not so
narrow that it can’t afford to discharge this
obligation, it having been practically admitted
that the obligation exists. And if it is dis-
charged there is always the pious reflection,
which should adapt itself to the mind of so
painfully godly a community as that of Smell-
boom city, that things often come right for
those who do justly and chance the conse-
quences, and Providence will probably see fit
to kill off some millionaire so that the probate
duty will make the loss good. Anyhow, the
situation is this : Victoria has decided that it
is the right thing to ask Berry to dinner. It
has asked Berry to dinner. And a community
which asks Berry to dinner and doesn’t ask
Berry’s wife is no gentleman.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Chinese Colony.
S.A. Ex-Gov. Kintore has been prattling
gently to London World about “a great
northern tropical settlement, stretching right
across the Australian continent, and developed
by Chinese labor,” which labor he “ doesn’t
think there would be much difficulty in con-
fining to the Northern Territory.” This
mainly goes to show how very little Kintore
learned in his travels. If the great North was
developed by Chinamen, and cut up into farms
belonging to Chinamen, and the wealth it pro-
duced belonged to Chinamen, the Australian
people would be no better off for the develop-


nient. And the Chow would no more stay, if
he could help it, in a purely Chinese settlement
in North Australia than in a purely Chinese
settlement in China. He wants to have the
white man to sell his cabbagee to ; in a Chinese
settlement, with every Chow in the community
growing cabbagee, there would be no one to
buy the noisome vegetable. Therefore, it
would be necessary either to perpetually guard
every inch of the border-line along the Chow
boundary—a work which would employ nearly
the whole male white population—or else
every Chinaman found down South must
be assumed to be an escapee from the
northern Mongol settlement and be treated
accordingly. That would mean imprison-
ing him for (say) six months at the cost
of the wdiite citizen, and then painfully
humping him back across his own border, also
at the white Australian’s cost. And when he
got across his own border there would be no
guarantee that he wouldn’t break out again
next day. It would probably cost £2O or £5O
or even more to board and lodge each captured
Chow, and then escort him back again across
the line, and there might easily be 1000 or
2000 to be thus dealt with annually. In other
words, it would be the same struggle on a vastly
larger scale which Queensland is pretending
to maintain on its w'estern frontier. The Chow
will come over from the Northern Territory ;
there aren’t gaols enough to put him in, or
money enough to pay his gaol expenses, or
police enough to haul him back to his own
place after he has done his six months, and if
lie is hauled back he simply comes over again
ad infinitum. Also, he can’t be fined because he
has no cash, and so the authorities have practi-
cally given it up. They simply let him come.
And Kintore wants Australia to deliberately
cultivate this trouble on a much larger scale,
with noprospectof gettinganythinginparticular
out of it. The S. A. ex-Governor shines here as a
particularly luminous ass. Personally he is
talking on behalf of some syndicate.
More Freetrade Blessing's.
In his last week’s speech at Hamilton (N.S.W.),
when he manfully shoved the political campaign
a step further forward, Premier George Reid
made a lamentably poor and inaccurate apology
for the fiscal faith which is in him. The
Bulletin presumes that it is in him, partly be-
cause he says it is, and partly because there is
so much room for things in George Reid that
this is as likely to be in him as anything else.
Commencing on the usual weary comparison
between N.S. W. and the awful example across
the border, he said, according to the Tele-
graph’s report:—
They had now, on the authority of Mr. Fenton, the
Government Statistician of Victoria, who put the figures
of N.S. Wales and Victoria together and compared them,
a statement that in the year 1896, which was the first year
of all this Freetrade, there were as many hundreds
(hands) employed in factories in N.S. Wales as in
Victoria.
It is almost needless to say, as a commence-
ment, that this statement is wrong, because no
one ever knew Premier Reid’s figures to be
otherwise than wrong, provided he could make
his case look better by not having them right.
The figures which Mr. Fenton actually did
issue showed 50,096 people employed in Vic-
torian factories, and 49,609 employed in those
of New South Wales. The N.S.W. statisti-
cian, however, only claimed 49,055 hands, but
either way Fenton didn’t say what Reid says
he said, and again the unreliable fat man is
convicted of a gross inaccuracy which tends
to help along his own political purpose. The
surprising aspect of the case is, however, that
he should have taken the trouble to make the
miserable assertion at all. New South Wales
is about half-a-century older than Victoria. It is
nearly four times as large, and mainly by reason
of its extra size and its extra age it has a much
larger population. And, in addition, it has the
inestimable blessing of Foreign-trade which
helps along industry, and makes the community
jolly and fat, and accumulates wealth in the
land, and abolishes the unemployed, and does
all manner of good things, while Protection
produces nothing but ruin. And all that Pre-
mier Reid is prepared to allege is that the far
larger and older and more populous province
which is booming under his great, enlightened
policy, finds work and wages for as many indus-
trial toilers as the smaller, younger, and less
populous one which is blighted by the bar-
barous policy of the other fellow. He can’t even
prove that, but he alleges it. If Freetrade is
only as good as the other thing, N.S.W., by
reason of its extra population alone, and saying
nothing of its extra size and age, should have
nearly 5000 more industrial workers than Vic-
toria. And if Freetrade is a lot better than the
other thing, then N.S.W. should have 10,000
or 15,000 or 20,000 more workers than Victoria.
The Foreign-traders’ theory is that their policv
is so many miles ahead of the other one that
the latter isn’t visible on the horizon by com-
parison. And in proof of it they declare that
their great and magnificent system, combined
with a start of about 50 years, nearly four
times the territory and 100,000 more popula-
tion to provide producers and consumers, just
enables them to keep up with a new micro-
scopic competitor who is ruined by the horrors
of an effete system. FiVen if that very humble
statement had been accurate, which it isn’t, it
is so very small and abject that it is a wonder
anybody should haye thought it worth his while
to make it.
- —-—-
No Hope.
The N.S.W. general election is supposed to
take place in June, unless it is sprung on the
community a little earlier, and the hopes of the
Protectionist party are high. Just by way of
being prepared for emergencies, however, the
Protectionist party may as well let its hopes
down again. It is quite possible that it may
get into power next June, but it can’t keep
there for any length of time. The situation it
has got to face is briefly this : Three-fourths or
more of the community get their information
from the four Sydney daily papers. Three of
these lie consistently in favor of the Freetrade
party ; only one—the weakest and distinctly
the least convincing of the four—lies for the
Protectionist party. These three papers, every
day of their lives, tell the great bulk of the
people all the incredibly awful things that the
Protectionist leaders didn’t say and didn’t do,
and relate elaborate fictions about their debts
and deficits, about the ruin of the people under
their management, the decay of industry,
the falling of wages, the increase of the
unemployed, and all manner of other in-
genuities. They report the speeches of
Treetrade politicians at length, and call a
gathering of two men and a dog a stupendous
outbreak of popular enthusiasm, and, as nothing
is so contag ous as enthusiasm, the news of the
gigantic gathering, which didn’t take place, to
welcome some Freetrading nonentity at the
hamlet of Bogged Cow', gives rise to real gather-
ings elsewhere. They briefly report large
Protectionist demonstrations to the effect that
“ a few people gave a cold reception to Mr.
Jinks, M.L.A., who made some unconvincing
remarks with the evident uneasiness of a man
who knows he is upholding a weak cause; ”
and, as the next most contagious thing
to enthusiasm is depression, this alleged
frost leads to real frosts later on. They
issue bogus statistics and state facts that never
existed, and avoid contradiction by the
simple process of not publishing awkward letters
in reply, and the public assumes that the reason
why no reply appears is because the case is too
strong to be rebutted. The one feeble and hope,-
lessly Tory Protectionist daily isn’t strong
enough to make any headway worth mentioning
against this avalanche, and until the N.S.W.
Protectionists have a Sydney morning paper of
their own, with lots of money behind it and a
brainy autocrat to run things, they may as well
give up hope of any long continuance in office.
No party can keep in power whose leaders do
the dreadful things which the Protectionist
leaders do—or which the three big Sydney
papers say they do, which comes to practically
the same thing.
The Thrift Curse.
“ Old Jack ” re the Victorian Charities Bill:
Dear B.—ln connection with the Vic. Charities Bill
there is much talk about the deserving and undeserving
poor. The Argus in particular has no mercy on the
pauper whose past- has been thriftless. And yet, come to
think of it, the improvident have contributed more to
the building up of the country than the prudent. We are
so apt to associate poverty of the individual with his im-
provident habits, as cause and effect, that vve forget that
what he failed to keep for himself was distributed
amongst the many. The spasms of abnormal prosperity
Victoria has enjoyed have been due to an easy flow of
money into the hands of the working classes, which
money, as a general thing, went into the pouch of the
trader who, in turn, invested it in some form of exchange
or production. If the original possessor had practised
the much-lauded thrift, imports would have been
confined to the barest necessaries of life, and the
intellectual character of the people would have degene-
rated. For the habit of thrift so-called frequently
degenerates into the habit of parsimony, than which no
vice more certainly kills the intellectual life of the indi-
vidual or of the community. In times when Poor Richard
was an honored prophet, the stupendous lie that a penny
saved is a penny gained might have carried weight. But,
with Socialism in the air, the converse of the maxim is
suggested. A penny spent is a penny’s worth gained.
You have had its value yourself, and have given another
a chance to enjoy its value also. The liquor revenue of
Victoria pays for police, gaols, judges, courts, and hang-
men, and the whole paraphernalia of justice ; and the
tobacco-tax more than half-pays for public education.
Here we have two items of thriftless expenditure which
are of vast service to the community. Thus do the
reckless and bibulous and smoke-dried confer a
public benefit in which their critics and contemners
take a share, yet to which these critics have no
claim as contributors. What, then, becomes of the
cuckoo-cry about the improvident poor? Where would
the rich be but for those who spend their wages
as they earn them? Is the wage-earner’s life to he
an automatic sweat from birth to grave, with never a
breath of ease, or pleasure, or generous aspiration? Is
he born for Savings Bank returns only? Is the theatre
barred to him, merry companionship, a good dinner ? Yet
these things cost money, and, being enjoyed, leave him
at last on the list of the undeserving poor, while his
fellow, who has screwed and starved himself body and
soul, put his money into a Gobung Bank, and so come to
the same pass as his thriftless brother, is stuck upon a
pedestal as a deserving pauper! For the average idiot—-
who is generally, for obvious reasons, successful in life —
is insensible to the argument that but for our follies the
world would thrive ill, and that out of the “vices” of
improvidence and recklessness society reaps a harvest of
profit and advantage.
+
New Australia— Lane’s Socialistic heaven on
earth—as pictured by James Grove, in Wel-
lington (M.L.) Post of Jan. 5 :
I resided at t*he settlement three months. I worked
with the members, lived on their coarse and inadequate
fare, mixed with them, attended their meetings and enter-
tainments, and learnt all I possibly could about their
methods, their grievances, their prospects, &c., and I
could only come to one conclusion, viz. That it was not
the country or the climate, nor the Paraguayan Govern-
ment, or the members themselves that were at fault, but
simply the social and political conditions they had set up
for themselves. . . . The whole community seemed in a
state of anarchy and confusion. The single men com-
plained that they were keeping other men’s wives and
families. The married women said “ their husbands kept,
them in old Australia, and they should keep them in the New
Australia.” This led to difficulty in the single men getting
their meals, and their washing and mending done, and they
threatened to take a day a week for each—that is, one for
mending and one for washing. Every one was calling
everybody else “ a loafer and a bad Socialist,”and anyone
who paid heed to what they said of each other would set
them down as a very low-minded, bad lot. . . . The
children roamed about the day long playing with frogs,
killing serpents, and gorging 'themselves with oranges
and other fruits; and corrupting the native children
with their bad manners, bad language, and precocity
generally, and if corrected by their parents they told their
elders that “ they did not belong to them, but to the
State.” (!!!) And the privacy of the home was destroyed,
for every little private affair under the Socialism or Com-
munism (for the members differed even about this) that
flourished in New Australia became public property,
and the women quarrelled and fought over the joints
of meat. I was domiciled next the butcher’s shop, so
I know what I am talking about, and many a time
I was awakened by the women assembled thereat at
break of day waiting for the door to open to get the first
choice, and the various male members, who rapidly suc-
ceeded each other in the official capacity of butcher, had
a very hot time of it. And written' complaints were
handed in at the weekly meetings while I was in the
settlement, showing that the complainant was served
with nothing but bone, and short quantity at that. Then
at these meetings, which the women had a right to attend,
being members the same as the men, the ladies would
occasionally call one another liars
Quotation may as well stop here. It is well
understood that to eradicate the old Adam is a
tough job ; but wdien he joins forces with the
old Eve, who will say, after this, that the
combination isn’t irresistible ?
THe point as to whether police-magistrate
Panton, of Melbourne, is a fit and proper per-
son to have a voice in issuing “ colonial ” wine
licenses will come before Vic. Full Court next
month. Justice Hood has (unwillingly) granted
a decree nisi calling upon sundry parties to
show that the said Panton is not disqualified
by bias, or risk of bias, from sitting as a mem-
ber of Licensing Courts, and the result should
put an end to much distempered discussion. Pan-
ton, P.M., is not accused of a desire to license
every person who wishes to open a wine-shop,
but he is accused of a fervid desire to encourage
the sale of Australian wine for the advance-
ment of the wine growing industry. And the
accusation may be accepted as proved. Mr. Pan-
ton liimself would be the last man to deny it.
He is biassed in favor of the “ colonial ” wine
t rade to much the same degree that magistrate
Lormer is biassed against the liquor trade in
general. Therefore, seeing that Lormer has
been removed from the Licensing Bench, ought
Panton to be similarly dealt with ? This pins
the Law, the shifty, straggling Law, on the
point which fanatics have not been anxious to
recognise as an all-important one. Is the Law
a teetotaller or a moderate drinker in senti-
ment ? If it deems the temperance doctrine a
thing worthy of national acceptance, then must
Panton be disqualified as a faddist. If it holds
that alcohol is a wholesome food for the public
body and mind, then must Panton be accepted
as a wise magistrate, whose enthusiastic ap-
proval of the wine industry amounts to patriot-
ism. A man may have an unfair bias towards a
false philosophy, but not towards the Truth. Is
teetotalism Truth in the sight of the Law ? If
the answer to this question is a negative, the
case against Panton falls to the ground with a
sickening thud. He cannot be “incapable of
justly appreciating the value of the objections
lodged by residents, or ratepayers, to the
granting of new wine licenses,” if he knows
those teetotal objections to be founded on
error, for anything founded on error has no true
value whatever. In cases where the objection
is not of a teetotal character, and the would-be
licensee rather than the license is protested
against, Panton’s notorious fondness for the
wine-industry cannot be supposed to influence
his judgment any more than the appetite for
meat disqualifies him for passing sentence on a
butcher.
The jury-foreman in the Carruthers v. Lons-
dale and Norton criminal libel case states
emphatically that—
“ There were ten jurors for a conviction and two for
an acquittal. Five of the ten desired that no punishment
should be inflicted, not because defendants had justified
the libel, but because they thought the press should have
larife freedom in dealing' with such matters. Ten were
willing to bring in a verdict of guilty, but five wanted a
rider added that the defendants should not be punished.”
That is, five jurymen thought Norton and
Lonsdale deserved punishment; and seven—a
majority of two —thought they did not. Apart
from the merits of the case, the five who
wanted the rider showed sound sense. The law
is full of technical traps and pitfalls, and a
juryman who thinks a defendant only tech-
nically guilty has no business to deliver .that
defendant to the tender mercies of the Judge—
even of such a soft-hearted judge as Judge
Rofe Backhouse. A jury has a right to say
not only whether a man is guilty or not guilty,
but also to say—if it finds him guilty—just how
guilty he is. In hundreds of cases in the past—
notably in many of those over which Judge
Windeyer presided—a jury has allowed itself
to be impressed by the Judge’s heavy jaw, or
by his masterful personality, or by its
faith in his fairness, or by its veneration
for his office, into merely recording its opinion
that a man was technically guilty according to
the law. Then the Judge arose in his might
and crushed with years of hard labor a man
whom a jury-majority thought deserving of only
a nominal sentence. The Bulletin is glad to
see that a more sensible habit is growing ; and
it now tells every man who reads these lines
that as juryman, and to the extent of his power,
he is individually responsible for the sentence
as well as for the verdict—and that he sins
against citizenship if, by failure to impress his
view of a righteous sentence upon the jury and
Judge, a sentence is passed w'hich he regards as
unrighteous and unjust.
Item from report of an election meeting held
last week in Sydney by G. Black, M.L.A. :
A wrangle followed over the questions. One was, “Is
it not better to tax foreign products than our own land ? ”
Mr. Black replied that only the unimproved value was
taxed.
The Bulletin believes in and has ajways advo-
cated a land-tax, but, all the same, this cant
phrase about it not being the land that is taxed
but only the unimproved value makes it feel
very hot and tired. Is there anything to be
ashamed of in a land-tax that the people who
advocate taxing land should try to avoid say-
ing straight-out that they do advocate it? Of
course it is the unimproved value that is
taxed; it must be either that, or the im-
proved value, or the area, or something,
and if taxing the unimproved value isn’t tax-
ing the land, then taxing the improved value
or the area isn’t, taxing it either, and there is
no possibility of taxing the land. To be more
beastly accurate still, it isn’t the unimproved
value of the land that is taxed, but the im-
proved or unimproved fellow who owns it.
Also, as a similar piece of accuracy, Dibbs, ex-
cept in a very few cases, didn’t tax any imports;
he put 10 and 15 per cent, on the unimproved
or imported value of a lot of things, but, accord-
ing to the Single-taxer’s phrase, that wasn’t
taxing the things themselves at all. Yet the
Single-taxers keep on saying that Dibbs did
tax imports. Anyhow, it takes a great deal
too much time to call it “ a tax upon the man
who owns the land, said tax being levied ac-
cording to the unimproved value,” and people
will probably go on calling it a land-tax—
which is near enough, anyhow.
All admirers of the great doctrine of cheap-
ness should seriously consider the Sydney ’bus-
horse. Ten years ago, the price of a ride any-
where in Sydney was 3d. Then the ,old ’bus
co. paid respectable, though not lavish, divi-
dends ; the drivers worked long hours for a
moderate wage ; and the two animals in the
shafts preserved a semblance of cheerfulness
while they hauled a vehicle licensed to carry 11
passengers. Then came the era of penny and
twopenny fares, and the driver’s hours were
lengthened and his wages cut down 30 or 40
per cent. Also a seat was stuck on the roof of
each ’bus, and two gaunt, staggery horses now
drag 20 passengers instead of 11, and drag them
longer hours on less rations. The average ’bus-
horse now is an animal that can’t be stopped
without serious risk of his falling down when
he stands still he mostly hangs suspended
by the harness, and the driver holds him
up, partly by main force and partly by
dreadful threats of what he will do if the
animal drops. The Jehu is soured by.
long hours, and very brief pay, and the diffi-
culty of inciting his half-dead team to its
destination in reasonable time, and the dire
necessity to keep the takings up to a certain
average. He knows that if he takes his eye off
the team it may fall down dead at any moment,
and if he keeps his eye on it he will miss possi-
ble passengers, and'if he doesn’t have a' con-
stant eye on the people inside they won’t pay
their fares, and if perdition was anywhere
handy he would feel more than half-inclined to
drive the whole outfit into it and be done with
the business.
The Great Half-Caste Conspiracy.
Thus writes “Yours languidly, C.J.T.,” from
“ Hell End,” Queensland :
Dear B.~That Queensland will rather lose than gain
by federating, is a bald-headed assertion which the
writer will attempt to prove. The seat of Federal Govern-
ment will be nearer the Murray than the Q’sland border.
The general tendency is to the lengthening of Parlia-
ments. Humanity is in the habit of conforming to its
surroundings. Now, as the Federal members will pro-
bably put in most of their long term of office at the
Federal city, our Northern members will, by becoming
imbued with the sentiment and methods of the South, be
alienated from their trusting constituents in the North.
And it is not well that the ways of the South should
supersede the wa3's of the North, because little but the
language is common to the two di visions. Because Nature
omitted to put a mountain chain from Sandy Cape to
Cossack (W.A.) some people persist in wanting to run this
country on Hinglish principles. It would be just as
reasonable to federate India and Siberia, and govern the
former from Tobolsk. The South doesn't know the North,
but we Northerners do know .you, because we troop down
once a year to give you some of our surplus cash.
* » * *
Commercially, you are a rushing sort of folk, and
beastly particular, spelling* business with an aggressively
large B; demanding “references” and introductions;
and being insanely anxious that your individual clocks
and watches shall all keep the same time as the town
clock. We are a sit-on-the-counter-and-talk-politics sort
of people, spelling business as badly as we can ; thinking
nothing of “characters” arid “introductions,” and not
caring a damn if no two timepieces in the district agree,
because our great unwritten philosophy is that Life is a
beastly nuisance, to be taken as lazily as possible. The
Exeter Hall element has a large and emphatic sav in
your policy, whereas we are comparatively free from'the
medueval taint—barring such times as ToV.er gets a touch
of hysterical virtue, and plays to the family circle. Our
justice also is not of the Botany I lay variety. Our
benches may be a bit hot in times of storm, but in
normal times we don't go in for Mount Rennie or Suffif.ld
sentences, and no one gets three years for stealing 9d.
worth of baking-powder. We have no Wikdeyf.rs,
Stephens, and so on, and we don’t want them,
which is why we have to borrow a Jeffreys from
you when we have an exceptionally bad case on
hand. Again, we have no “ Rocks ” and “ Colling-
wood” “pushes,” our larrikins being Y.M.C.A. chaps
to yours. And the much-wailed-over Queensland worker
is really more independent than his Southern fellow. We
can always tell a southerner by his aggravated respect for
the boss, and his tendency to “ spoil the job” by “rush-
ing.” And the boss from the South is conspicuous on his
part by the amount of “ side ” he puts on.
* * * *
Granted that our northerners touch their hats to the
Chows, and our southerners get off the sidewalk for the
Kanaka —surely The Bulletin w ouldn’t have us so un-
grateful as to treat our saviours with public contempt.
Granted that there is an awful smell in Brisbane, the
victims are not so ill-able to stand the shock as was the
case when your Sydney and Smellbourne banks closed.
There is even a redeeming point about our fraud, in that
it was worked in such a large, airy, if-you-don’t-like-me-
chuck-me-out sort of way. Also, Stoddart lost his silver
watch in Brisbane, but it was not taken by a Queens-
lander, for to be a successful pickpocket argues energy
and enterprise, and no one but a newchum would accuse
a Northerner of those vices. And, anyhow, no one born
under the shadow of the Q.N.B. would go in for a silver
watch. Besides, these things belong to Brisbane, which
is in Queensland, and the writer is whooping for Queens-
land— with the largest “Q” you ever said. You are in
the habit of anathematising our leading men—that is
because you take them seriously. We don’t!—in fact, we
take nothing seriously—Parliament, judicature, Society,
churches, or Labor-party. Nelson is dear to the hearts
of Queenslanders as being the embodiment of the “ never-
mind ” national sentiment, and even Tozer and Barlow
are all right if you make allowance for the Ananias in
them. The Bulletin has always preached the gospel of
Irreverence, and the North is the only comfortable home
of Irreverence on this earth, yet the B. wants
us to conform to the old-fashioned ideas of the
very hotbeds of tin-god worship—the Southern pro-
vinces. It is a pleasing Australian custom to sneer
at the ignorance of our affairs displayed in the
British press, but the Australian press and public
show a far less-excusable ignorance of Australia.
Sydney D.T., for instance, recently stated that “Thurs-
day Island is practically a Japanese settlement," an
announcement which is about as new and surprising as
that “Captain Cook is dead !” And vet you pretend to
know all about the North. Also, the D.T. goes on to say,
“ There is scarcely an inland town but has its Japanese
brothel . . . thus disseminating unspeakable diseases.”
Now, there s scarcely a Queensland inland town that ever
saw a Jap., and in any case the Japs, are proverbially free
from disease as compared with whites. Also, the fact,
that the North imports Japs, for the hysterical!y-adjec-
tived purpose proves that we haven’t enough degraded
white women to supply the demand. Also, you Souther-
ners should shut up your heads on this subject, for you
can afford to export degraded women—and not because
the demand is small, either.
* * * »
The Bulletin is often impartial enough to publish
matter antagonistic to its pet ideas. Take a step further
and let us have a cartoon by Hop. entitled “Queensland
after Federation” —various beasts of prey representing
the Southern provinces, picking the bones of a baby-'
alligator. In the background a “returned” Kanaka
working for his missionary at the typical Christian salary
of one fig of bad tobacco per annum. And the Kanaka’s-
best girl with a half-caste infant amazingly like unto the
aforesaid fat missionary. Kanaka soliloquises, “No booze,
no white Mary ; can’t even have my own Mary to myself.'
Damn Federation ! ” We can’t take Federation seriously ;
it’s too thin. We are going in for Separation, and then a
United Northern Australia—the three Queenslands, Nor-
thern Territory, North W.A., and New Guinea, with the
seat of Government in the Never-Never. You go ahead
and federate—like to like. We ain’t pining to be bossed
by the Botany Bay provinces. Also, you are herewith re-
quested to cease from your irreverent remarks about our
Queensland burlesque co. You annoy the performers, and
they are very sensitive. Besides, if we choose to 'sup-
port them, that proves us satisfied with the show.
Some day, we may feel cool and serious enough to
decorate the Brisbane lamp-posts with the members of
that co., but there’s plenty of time, and, as you’re not
paying the piper, it’s none of your business, so never-
mind. Finally, life in Australia'is. already verv dull, and
under your scheme, it will hardly be worth while to get
out of bed. But, with two great, antagonistic Federations ;
no extradition treaty ; exclusive Immigrant Acts, strictly
enforced ; and two big standing armies yearning for glory
—well, there will be fun in the land !
Premier Nelson in ’96 : “The total rents
of the new grazing farms amount to =£19,588, a
welcome addition to our income, seeing that the
settled policy of the province is to look for revenue
from our lands more by facilitating settlement
than by sales.” And now the Centralian lands
are going wholesale. And the worst of it is that
for every 10,000 acres sold you may say 20,000 are
rendered unavailable for settlement, inasmuch as
the 10, COO are always selected “ strategically.” so as
to give command over twice the amount' of sur-
rounding country.


Experience
and the largeness of
our operations
in High-grade Boots and Shoes
give us very great advantages. They enable
us to sell a gentleman a pair of
High-grade Tan Boots for 22/6,
with broad or narrow welts, straight toe-
caps, fast color eyelets, well-shaped heels,
firm, solid soles.
1 11 Black at 22/6 and 25/- a pair.
These Boots are made on lasts of very stylish shape, and
should satisfy the most refined taste. Try a pair !
We want to double the
number of our customers
before January, 1899.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
305 Georgre-st., Sydney.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY
aiistrausiax department :
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
Assets (December 31, 1896) - - £50,000,000.
Public attention is called to the following special forms
of Policy issued by this Company
Twenty-Year Distribution Policy on continu-
ous life and limited payment plans affords the
maximum of security at the minimum of cost;
Endowment Life Option Policy provides a guar-
anteed income, secure investment, and absolute
protection ;
Consols combine insurance, endowment, investment,
and fixed annual income;
Five Per Cent. Debenture furnishes the best and
most effective form of investment, indemnity,
and fixed annual income to survivors;
Continuous Instalment Policy so adjusts the
payment of the amount insured as to create a
fixed income during the life of the beneficiary;
Annuity Policies offer an excellent opportunity for
persons advanced in years to obtain a high rate of
interest on their capital for the remainder of life ;
an income safe beyond peradventure. This form of
investment is particularly recommended to those
who desire to make provision for declining years,
and to be free from business cares.
For detailed information concerning these exclusive
forms of insurance policies apply to the Manager, at the
Company's Building, Martin’s Place, Sydney, or at any
of the Branch Offices—
-289 COLLINS Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
lrj Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
1 3 Kino William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
93 Macquarie Street. Hobart. Tasmania
/
A 'V
NOTHING
MORE PERFECT
in the shape of a
\
Photograph
has ever been produced
than our
Ideal Portraits.
Everyone is pleased with them,
and pleased too in the way they
are treated at our Studios.
We make it our special study to
please you by
Six Enamelled
Cabinet Portraits
with Beautifully
finished Enlarge-
ment in Perman-
ent Bromide or
Opal. Any style
or pose. No extras
COURTESY
PROMPTITUDE
FIDELITY, and
GOOD WORK.
Tbe IDEAL Portrait Go.
480 GEORGE STREET,
(ground floor, no stairs).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood.”
Lyceum “ Work and Wages.”
Royal “Jack the Giant-Killer."
Criterion. Frank Thornton’s Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Combined Co.
Fitzgerald’s Circus Redfern Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Manxman.”
Royal “ Dick Whittington."
OrBRA House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Co.
Near Princes Bridge... Harniston’s Circus.
Frank Thornton announces, in a painfully
sudden fashion, that his last appearance in Aus-
tralia will be made on 2nd Feb. “Charley’s
Aunt finishes on I riday, and the brief remain-
>ng fragment of the season is to be devoted to a
very short spell apiece of “ Sweet Lavender,”
Private Secretary,” and “Miss Brown.”
Whether the farewell is absolutely final, and
Parson Spalding shakes the alluvial deposit of
Australia off his boots for the rest of his life, and
proposes not to come back at all but rather to
see this continent hanged first, or whether the
Secretary and his Bun may be expected to drift
along again in the saddening procession of years,
are tilings that do not definitely appear. The
Bulletin hopes for the best in a shattered frame
of mind, and reckons that it will have a drop of
something short to keep it up. This country
isn’t growing brighter. Some of its gods are
getting very mouldy; and some have got into
trouble through being out late with a girl; and
some have been licked through the other fellow
getting in on the jaw ; and some have paid £d. in
the £ ; and some only made 10 runs at a crisis,
and said the wicket had crumbled. Most of the
others are now pretending to be dead, so as to
avoid explaining where the deposits went to.
Under these circumstances, if the Secretary and
the Bun are really going for good, it will be a
severe blow.
* * * *
A dramatic season commences at Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday, and that establishment will
be closed on Thursday and Friday with a view to
making adequate preparation for the event.
Therefore by the time these remarks appear in
print Hobson and Jobson and the Cat should
have received the reward of their misdeeds—
which reward will probably consist in being re-
moved to the place whence they came, and there
severely hanged on their own recognisances under
the Hardened Offenders Act, and alsoordered tofind
two sureties of .£5O each and costs. The sudden
w-ithdrawal of “ Whittington ” makes it unneces-
sary to blight that show with any further com-
ments. 1 he new dramatic season opens with
“ Work and Wages,” produced “ by arrangement
with G. Riguold, Esq.” Which is a pleasant
change after the many things that have appeared
by arrangement with Billolloway, Esq.
* * * * #
The two surviving pantomimes seem good
for a considerable time yet. “Jack the Giant-
killer ” should be able to keep up for a long while
on the strength of the ballet element alone. There
is a large amount of symmetrical limb in it, and
the limb, in every case, has a nice girl attached to
it; the illuminated ballet, where the angels sud-
denly blaze forth into a mass of electric light, is a
brilliant effect,,and the Hulines are something
above the average in the musical way. The
tableau of “ Britain’s Empire, ” which is supposed
to show all the hundreds of thousands of Victoria’s
warriors—white, brown, black, yellow, speckled,
skewbald, copper-colored, and otherwise—all
ready to fight for their beloved Queen, and
stretching from the footlights right back to the
3’“ar 1, is a fine bit of color, and it would have a
better show if the public had had time to forget
the famous Waterloo tableaux at Her Majesty’s a
few weeks ago. Still, the view of this great armed
circus prepared to perish on its last camel in
defence of Victoria makes the public feel good.
After seeing it the said public is more than half-
inclined to rush out and at once join Jawbone
Neild s new regiment, which is now advertising
for fecruits not over 50 years of age to replace
certain warriors who have indignantly chucked
the beastly thing up.
* * * *
“Babes in the Wood” goes steadily at
Her Majesty’s up to date. The two boss
humorists, Coleman and Burke, are perhaps a
shade more ragged than they were three weeks
aso. When they started they looked like Hungry
Higgins and Weary Walker who had fallen out of
the American tramp joke, and apparently a few
more dogs have rushed out at them in the course
of their pilgrimage .sinoe then, and further depre-
ciated their wardrobe. This is in the early part
of the show, of course, before they rise to
sudden sinful affluence on the proceeds of
their crime, and become tw r o aggressive
bounders living on cigars and cocktail. Next
to Coleman and Burke probably the most
popular single feature of the show is still the
unobtrusive retirement of Lily Titheradge and
Carrie Moore to bed. Everybody seems more or
less glad at this item. They retire, apparently,
in freshly-laundered night-dresses each evening,
and the frills on these interesting garments are
beyond any shadow of suspicion. And neither of
them looks under the bed first to see if there is a
man there, or looks into the wardrobe to see if
there is a cat there—which gives the show com-
pletely away. No play in which a girl goes to
bed without first looking for a man and a cat can
appear decently life-like.
*# * *
Fitzgerald Bros’ Circus and Hagenbeck’s
zoological show continue at the old address and
break out nightly into fresh developments of
horse. The Tivoli show is likewise in the best of
condition, and the “ Factory Girl of Sydney ” is
unfolding her groan of woe at the Royal Standard.
Melb. Princess’s is once more rejoicing in
full attendances, and the ill-fated firm of Kate,
Pete and Co. will carry on business until Wednes-
day next, if not for longer. “The Manxman”
doesn’t grow more impressive the oftener it is con-
sidered—the tricks of melodrama can be seen at
work and the unnecessary padding of Wilson Bar-
rett’s part becomes rather tiresome—but the show is
a first-class novelty, nevertheless. Kate Cregreen
lives in the flesh—a strong, Swinburnian girl, tak-
ing the roses and raptures of love as they come,
and not afraid to inform Pete that he has lavished
his chuckle-headed endearments on another fel-
low’s child. Kate, being virtuous to a fault,
suffers accordingly. As an interesting sufferer,
she draws tears from many females in the
audience, whilst wise men feel glad to think
that the ladies are thoroughly happy all round.
Old Caesar Cregeen, an illiterate pharisee,
proclaiming the Wor-rd from the summit
of his own beer-barrel, is another vigorous
reality ; likewise the small cad, who reckons he
lias bought up the barmaid when he orders three
sixpenny drinks, is an eternal fact in human
nature, probably for the reason that the Kitties of
this world never venture to hurt his alleged feel-
ings with a bottle. Philip, the seducer, a victim
to his aunt’s respectability and other circum-
stances, is only a flabby sort of sinner in the play.
Wilson Barrett is a heavy Pete, anyhow. His
elocution seems to be rather overweighted—one
detects an elderly roll in his voice—and his cheer-
fulness looks rather as though it were borrowed
for the occasion. An experienced, level-headed
actor will, of course, always be effective in a fine
acting character, and Mr. Barrett is pretty gene-
rally popular. Some people would like him better
if he were not stich a distinctly leading man, and
didn’t linger so long over his bits of “ fat.”
** * *
“The War Cloud now looming Darkly in
the Air,” &c., has warned Dan Barry to prepare
for hostilities. On Saturday he staged an army
of thirteen infantry, or more, at Melb. Alexandra,
and started “ The Relief of Lucknow,” a play
understood to have been founded on the Indian
mutiny. Dan Barry’s revival of this gory subject
is somewhat incomprehensible. The gallery, on
Saturday, came to the wrong conclusion that
Ranjitsinhji had just declared war against
V.R., and was waiting round the corner for a
chance to murder the English Eleven in their
sleep. A person resembling Ranji appeared from
time to time, with a stealthy cat-like tread, and
stabbed Captain Stoddart, or somebody, under
the shoulder-blade. Also, he was an object of
terror to several married ladies who had never
seen him bat, and begged to be riddled by British
bullets before Ranji could bring up his insurgents.
“ The Relief of Lucknow ” is not written in the
spirit of a time when half the Melbourne popula-
tion is wearing Ranji, on a cigarette advt. button,
next to its heart; but the gunpowder explosions,
and the awful valour of the thirteen warriors in
going behind the scenes to fight and coming back
with bandaged limbs, will probably earn a divi-
dend for the management. Miss Dora Fothering-
ham played the heroine. She meant well, and
had a lot of solid faith in the indestructibility of
the MacGregors and the MacLarens—not to men-
tion Charlie M'Leod—but her performance
tempted The Bulletin’s representative to put
himself to the sword. The tail-end of the above
paragraph was written in blood.
The small panto, at Melbourne Bijou col-
lapsed suddenly last week, and “ Dick Whitting-
ton,” at the Royal, is left with a monopoly.
“ Dick ” will supply an annual want for some time
yet. It might have been a less-satisfactory show
than it really is. Moreover, the variety duet
between Maggie Moore and Harry Roberts has
developed into a large item, and the occasional
jokes are more frequent than at first. Veteran
Edwin Kelly resumed his place in the co.
last Saturday after a fortnight’s absence. The
Bulletin sketch labelled Kelly in last week’s
page of panto, illustrations was really a striking
of Herbert Ashton, who reigned in the
veteran’s stead, but didn’t figure on the pro-
gramme.
** * »
Miss Lilian Tree has been added to the
Opera House bill, and sundry new people are
appearing with Harmston’s Circus, which has
begun to hold out preliminary threats of depar-
ture from Melbourne.
** * *
The panto, at Melb. Bijou died suddenly
on the Monday night of last week. It looked
like a delicate proceeding from the first. A some-
what youthful bookmaker was said to have backed
the bill for costumes, whilst the lessee (a lady)
made arrangements of a speculative character
with landlord Wilson. The combined efforts of
these three parties kept the show going for a
fortnight, and, with a promise of further support
in cash and free use of the theatre, the co. would
have held on, but for the filthy lucreous demands
of the orchestral band. The band were sordid
creatures, who stipulated for first grab at the
receipts, to which concession the stage performers
wouldn’t agree, so the season stopped short for
want of music. How like a band !—as the
Duchess of Plaza Toro remarks in “Gondoliers.”
Fiddlers, tromboners, &c., get no personal glory
from a pantomime, and, unless their craving for
salary is satisfied, they shoulder their instruments
and depart.
** * *
Harmston’s circus has suffered an exas-
perating series of disasters to the tent since it was
pitched in Melbourne. The canvas, probably in-
jured by much exposure to the Eastern sun,
seems to tear easily. Nevertheless manager
Bob Love wears a cheerful countenance, and
runs the show in a sociable spirit. On
Twelfth Night the company were invited to
jubilate and feed together at the Democratic
Club. In the course of the year there are
three festive occasions, when the lady acrobats
make a point of smiling heariily at the funny
clown’s jokes (which in the ordinary way of busi-
ness they can’t do), whilst the strong man cracks
wheezes with his iron jaw—and good old Twelfth
Night is one of these.
** * *
“The Siege of Lucknow,” revised—after
a fashion—by Dan Barry, at Melb. Alexandra,
was a popular jingo drama in the days when Dot
Boucicault’s mother could figure as the sweetest of
young heroines.
Serpent Satan—more’s the pity 1—
Whispers love to willing Kitty
On the Isle of Man :
Tempts her to the tender passion
Foolish Eve brought into fashion
When she plucked tie Eden apple—
Love unblessed by church or chapel,
Free love, true love, bitter-rue love,
Born when time began.
Kate, the bold, untrammelled creeter,
Fancies Phil, and marries Peter
On the Isle of Man.
Someone says “To err is human.*
Kate is but a married woman
On the Isle of Man.
Philip hangs around her cottage,
Sharing Pete’s domestic pottagft,
Till the wife, now made a mother.
Turns from both and loves another—
Mild love, child love, undefiled love,
Born when Cain began.
Passion brought her conscience curses;
Kitty loves the babe she nurses
On the Isle of Man.
At Poverty Point .
“ Harry Musgrove has expressed his serious intention
of returning to Melbourne and starting a sheaf of libel-
actions against sundry newspapers and base bawlers,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ He
states he has the accounts of the tour in perfect order,
and that in the opinion of legal men here he has merely
to present them and cry ‘ Deliver ! ’ Brother George,
with a boom gathering round the Shaftesbury, does not
see his way to release his manager, so the trip may be
delayed. But——”
Pete Hughes, who was the baldest-headed theatrical
agent on this rolling globe, is said to have developed
some hairy oasis in his wilderness by means of a “ re-
storer.” George Bruce, of the Melb, softgoods business,
had previously appied the same “restorer” on hs tract
of scalp, and proved its virtues—or so the yarn goes. It
sounds incredible. Pete was reduced to a fringe ol hair
around the top of his neck, and if the patent liniment
has caused the roots of Pete’s frince to send up suckers
through the crown of his head, it must be strong enough
to raise thistles from a billiard ball.
He the tank drama. The recent revival recalls a
Poverty Point anecdote of a Melb. manager, whose exces-
sive “ nearness ” approached almost to genius. The
miserable sinner who had to fall into the tempestuous
tank, and be hauled out at the last moment by the god-
like hero, contracted bronchial troubles, and had to spend
half his wages on cough-mixture. With this excuse, he
pleaded for a rise. “What!” gasped the boss, “ more
money because of a bit of a wetting?- Good God, man !
I was thinking of charging you sixpence a night for the
bath.”
A young actor named Bransby Williams is said to have
made a great impression at the London ’alls in a series of
Dickens’ character sketches, making up as Micawber,
Quilp, Chadband, &c., without leaving the stage. After
a quite thrilling burst of Quilp, the actor, on being
recalled, presents himself as a fair likeness of Charles
Dickens meditating in the now’ Empty Chair at Gadshill.
Evidently a much more fetching “ turn ” than that of the
dreary egotist imported by Garner for Sydney Palace
Theatre—the “lightning-change” gentleman whose im-
personations required so many long intervals of curtain.
Haresfoot : “ No Thespian autobiog. ever delighted me
so much as old Fred. Belton’s, in Sydney Mail. He told
how, in management at Edinburgh, he engaged a London
star as Fairy-in-Chief for his Xmas panto. He was aghast
when she came, a doubled-up old witch, but at night she
was a thing- of beauty. So does Geo. Vanderhoff write of
his horror when he rehearsed ‘ The Hunchback,’ with
preternaturall.y ugly Miss Cushman as the heroine. At
night, his breath was taken away when she appeared at
the wing a vision of loveliness, in' golden curls.’’
H. : “Are Pinero and Jones written out? The new
dramatist is going to stride forth, and what a mighty
opening ! If he should be a Shakespeare, the arms of the
demand are big enough. Meanwhile such old marks as
‘ Virginius ' and ‘Richelieu ’ stick up, despite time-serving
critics, who pretend to show that Pinero and Jones have
wiped them off the slate.’’
“The Manxman " was first dramatised by Mr. Lewis
Waller in ’95, and produced by him at London Shaftes-
bury. Waller acted Christian, wherefore he dwarfid
Pete. Evidently Caine’s very elastic masterly diama
may be written round any one of three character?
—Pete, Christian, or Kate, or, for Shakespearian
art, it may be balanced so as to give all three their due
weight, which would be equal. Mr. Barrett’s Pete drama
gradually squeezes Kate out from the commanding posi-
tion she has in the first act, but even when she retires to
the background she remains the central point of interest;
H. : “The play of ‘The Manxman,’ like ‘Mrs. Tart-
queray,’ stirs the most painful chords of our nature.
After a tumult Of admiration, its faults begin to steal up.
Such Work is too physical and ahilnal ever to challenge
the great intellectual products of the stage. Uneducated
heroes and heroines, like Pete and Kate, can never engagb
the loftiest acting, which must be subtle, and will be
hlore so as civilisation advances.”
Nellie Stewart gets a big picture in a recent Sketch.
Leaves the impression of the critiques that Nellie is
getting older. “Personally,” writes a contributor;
“ though N.S. got the fame and shekels, I always liked
that other artiste better —as sing-er, dancer, vav enchant-
ress generally—from the days when the two were panto,
rivals on an equal plane. Which member of the ancient
triumvirate was it said the latter combined the charms
of heaven and hell in one delirious person ? Also
which half held which?”
Interesting cable from S.M. Herald :
MADAME ALBANI.
London, Jan. 14. —Madame Albani, the famotls vocalist)
will sail for Australia after she has taken farewell of the
Queen.
Why “after” this affecting “farewell ”? Sounds like the
Gladiators’ “ Morituri ’’—and Albani isrt’fc sO Old as that
New York Sun “ Henry Irving is how a grandfather
a distinction Which Ellen Terry has also enjoved fob
several years.”
Prom London St. James’ Theatre programme:—“Mr.
Alexander would respectfully remind those ladies who
come to see the performance that the persons behind
them have come for the same purpose.’’
Two comedians at a certain playhouse had a fight on
the stage one night just before curtain-rise on Act 11. of
their panto. They had about finished wrecking each
others make-up when the excited stage-manager
quenched them by threatening to ring up and give the
front of the house a sight of the tussle. Cause—a woman,
as usual.
A well-to-do business man, staying at a fashionable
southern hotel, there became acquainted with a lady
well-known in the song and dance line. He fell in love ;
she reciprocated. His wife became jealous and rageful.
Meeting Miss Fantastic-toe on the hotel staircase landing,
it was : “ Creature ! ” “ Pooh ! ” “ You hussy 1 you
ought not to be allowed to mingle with respectable
people.” “Pan! you old cat! he likes me better than
you. Why don’t you go and die?” Slap! Smack!
Scratch ! Tear ! Scream ! Yell! Blood and hair and
fragments of dress fabric. A clutch and a swaying, and
a kerwollop down the stairs, and two torn visions of
loveliness were only saved from broken bones by the hus-
band and a friend who buffered and retained them. The
husband held the song-and dance lady ; his friend saved
the wife. The umpire’s award was that the married lady
had won the scrap by 10 points to nil. As soon as Miss
Fantastictoe’s face was healed, however, the husband
outrageously escorted her into the dining-room and
seated her in the place of honor at his own table. The
wife packed up and chose another hotel. That husband
makes his wife an allowance now, and has been “ doing”
other cities with his new fancy. A vulgar story, but true.
The management of a prosperous silver-coin show has
raised the salary of the experienced “actah” who plays
the juvenile lead from ss. to 7s. 6d. a night. This is an
entirely new departure, as the previous rule was to im-
mediately sack any individual who wanted a rise, there
being plenty of broken-down mummers ready to take his
place.
The Lyceum co. went to Gladesville Asylum on Friday
and amused the inmates. Daisy Chard’s whistling and
H, Shine’s songs were rapturously received by the lunatics.
“Bob’’Love and Mrs. Harmston-Love, of Harmston’s
Circus, no matter upon what part of the earth their tent
may be pitched, always entertain their friends on Xmas
night, New Year’s night, and on Jan. 13 - “ Bob’s ” birth-
day. This year’s celebration of the last-named festival
took place at Melb. Democratic Hall, and the regard for
Love took tangible form in the presentation of a gold
medal, and, from the ladies, a gold sovereign-case. Joe
Brown, who, as Love’s agent may be described as Cupid’s
arrow, hit the mark with much eloquence.
The influx of some disbanded companies has again
populated Melb. “Poverty Point.” They’ll probably
shake down into two or three suburban shows.
Elsie Hall was received at her native Toowoomba by
the senior member for the district and the whole of the
available population. She afterwards gave a concert
to a crowded audience, but, despite the fact that she
delighted her hearers, they compelled her to submit to
the inevitable illuminated address.
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison’s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and now she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
purchases a “ Home” Phonograph for £l2 at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-street, Sydney,
can make records of peoples’ voices ad lib., and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality.*
Binoc : “ Surely your artist on panto, page of Jan. 15
exaggerates our own Maggie’s girth. She’s not really so
extensive in proportion to your other Royal sketches. In
fact, those who profess to know, say that she’s lighter and
thinner now than five years ago. I like to see genuine
‘ old favorites’ let down lightly, even if they’re a bit
rotund.”


R. BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
Aus. l
Reps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markv/ald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 Currie-st., Adklaide.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
STOCK
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
ONLY
SIB JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
Aus. I PHILIPS & PIKE,
Reps, f Equitable Buildmjrs, Sydney :
and Wellington, N.Z.
“SURPLUS.”
The term “ surplus ” is applied, in life insurance affairs,
to the balance, ascertained periodically, between ths
assets and the liabilities. Out of this balance or surplun-
distributions of profits are made to the policy-holders eee
titled to participate; due provision being made in th,
valuation for the rights of future participants. The
natural tendency of distribution is to diminish the surplus
for the moment; but in the case of a prosperous com-
pany, the decrease is speedily more than covered by
accessions of profit from various sources. It is clear, how-
ever, that the more liberal the periodical distributions of
profits, the more gradual will be the growth of the sur-
plus. Conversely, if a life insurance company withholds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the proportion
of profits immediately available, and prefers to accumulate
in the interest of future participants, it follows that the
surplus will increase more rapidly in proportion. It re-
quires but a moment’s consideration, however, to perceive
that it is easy to keep in hand more than the future will
require under any possible circumstances; and, when
that course is followed, injustice to present participants is
inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while careful to
make abundant reserves for future bonuses, has always
been equally careful to distribute to its policy-holders the
full immediate benefits which they are entitled to claim.
The Company has never sacrificed the interests of policy-
holders entitled to immediate participation, to the forma-
tion of an imposing but empirical surplus, never likely to
be required even in the remotest future. The surplus
shown by The Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was
£6,105,444. It is a steadily increasing surplus, which,
needless to say, is more than ample for all the demands
for which it has been created. But, supposing the Com-
pany had, throughout its history, acted on the principle—
which has been adopted in, at least, one prominent in-
stance —of reserving a large proportion of the surplus at
every distribution, and, in addition, reducing the sur-
render values allowed for discontinued policies, what
does the reader suppose would have been the amount of
The Mutual’s surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but up-
wards of 24 millions sterling 1 This is not guesswork.
The figures cannot be challenged, for they are based upon
the official report issued by the Insurance Department of
the State of New York, which gives annually the exact
record of every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisation, The Mutual Life has paid in
bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
£44,445,244, which is more than twice the amount paid for
similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The Mutual
could have exhibited to-day, had an illiberal policy been
pursued in relation to the assured—a surplus exceeding
that of any other office by more than 150 per cent. But,
fortunately, the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere
useless and vainglorious display to the solid interests of the
policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking this course,
The Mutual Life of New York has not. chosen the
better part ? and that, in so doing, it has not well earned
the high reputation which it has attained in every part of
the world as “the Policy-holders’ Company,”' “ the Com-
pany which does the most good ? ” In view of the real
facts of the case, we feel confident that the intelligent
reader will not allow himself or his friends to be misled
by the parading of sums which are of no use to the pre-
sent generation, and in excess of any possible needs of tlv
generations to come.*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. 3 per cent, loan of £1,500,000 went
iff successfully last week, yet despite its success there
was nothing in the way of a record about it. The stock
fetched, nominally, £lOO Bs. 4d. per cent., and as 7s. 2d.
per cent, is to be deducted for accrued interest this means
that the price was really £10C) Is. 2d. Westralia’s famous
3 per cent, loan of 1896 sold at £lOO 16s. Bd., less 12s. 4d.
accrued interest, or £lOO 4s. 4d. And only two months
ago Premier Turner got off a small 3 per cent, loan in
Melbourne at £lO3 Bs. Id. These figures do not include
expenses. Allowing for ex.’s on the lowest scale the pre-
sent N.S.W. loan probably realises £9B 13s. sd. to the
Treasury. The Westralian 3 per cent, loan of 1896 is said
to have realised slightly over £99 to the Perth Treasury.
The N.S.W. 3 per cent, stock sold in Sydney yielded
£99 17s. 4d., or £1 3s. lid. per cent, more than the price
obtained in London, and the .small Victorian loan of last
November gave the Treasury about £lO3 7s. There-
fore the statement,; made both by the S.M.
Herald and Evening News, that the new loan
shows N.S.W.’s credit to be higher than that of any
other province in the group, is a good way out. The
Victorian loan was such a small affair that it is, perhaps,
hardly solid evidence, but for all material purposes it was
Reid’s locally-floated loan, and not the present British
transaction, which showed, &c., &c.
Curiously enough, Sydney Daily Telegraph an-
nounces that “ the price obtained for this loan is the most
satisfactory one ever obtained, for a 3 per cent, loan by
this colony. The next best one was floated in October,
1895, when the amount required was £4,000,000 and the
average price obtained £96 18s. 3d.” Apparently there is
a desire to say as little as possible about the great success
of the local loan, and to drop the awkward fact that Pre-
mier Reid deliberately offers N.S.W. securities to Bull at
a lower price than he demands off the local investor.
The real trouble seems to be that N.S. W. under
its Freetrade policy is wholly dependent on an influx of
money from abroad. The exports don’t show a sufficient
surplus over the imports to cover interest on foreign
indebtedness, and, when the periodical loan isn’t being
floated, the stock of money in the province depreciates
to a dangerous extent. Since 1893 Victoria has borrowed
nothing abroad, and since October, 1895, N.S.AY., until the
present loan was floated, only raised £452,000, apart
from borrowings for conversion purposes, and not count-
ing subscriptions from other provinces to her local loans.
The stock of coin in both provinces slumped badly
through the stoppage of the usual influx of borrowed
capital, but N.S.W had far the worst slump.
Sept., ’95. Sept. ’97. Decline.
Coin in Vic. banks .. £7,776,980 £7,342,096 £434,884
Coin in N.S.W. banks.. 7,313,399 5,928,670 1,384,729
And yet N.S.W. borrowed £452,000 abroad to keep the
pot boiling. The present 1£ million loan is apparently
floated, not for necessary and immediate public works,
but to prevent the coin in the province getting down
to panic point. It is necessary, of course, to invent
works as an excuse for the loan, but the real trouble
seems to be that N.S.W. is importing too much and ex-
porting too little. And it must either borrow (which
is easy and convenient), or burst (which is hell), or
economise (which means a serious diminution of the
“marvellous prosperity” of the Foreign-trade regime, as
shown by the trade returns).
* * * *
Westralia obtained its ,£1,000,000 3 per cent,
loan at £96 6s. 4d., which, after allowing for accrued
interest and expenses, probably means about £94 15s.
This is a very great drop from the record figure obtained
for the ’96 loan, yet considering the incredible manner in
which Westralia is piling up its debt there will probably
be a still worse fall ahead. In the last two years Wes-
tralia has been blewing borrowed money three times
harder than the worst previous Australian record, and
some previous Australian records have “ laid over ” every-
thing else the world ever saw. And by way of postscript
to its big loan, Westralia’s revenue for the last quarter
was ‘ 695,092, and expenditure £955,784. Also, for the
last 12 months the revenue has been £2,843,175, and ex-
penditure £3,236,044; shortage, £392,869.
* * * *
According to the N.S.W. Public Service Board’s
report, the miserable Superannuation Fund is now
diminishing at the rate of £70,400 per annum, so in seven
years it will become extinct. And then Government will
either have to put up the needful money, or stop payment
of the promised pensions and shunt the ancient ex-civil
servant into the Benevolent Asylum.
• * * •
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
lbourne) shows a profit for the half-year ended 3112 ’97 of
£1705, as compared with £1756 at June, ’97 ; £1779 at
Dec., ’96 ; £1702 at June, ’96 ; and £256 at Dec., ’95.
(Consequently the net results have not improved in the last
18 months. The usual 5 per cent div. gets away with
£l5OO, leaving a balance of £205. The earnings of the
business are £lOO more than they were last half-year, and
receipts from interest on investments have improved £3B,
so things are really improving, only an unfortunate rise
in the expenses has swallowed up the increase for this
half-year. Two matters seem to keep the nose of this un-
fortunate institution perpetually at the grindstone. It
owns a leasehold property which cost it last half-year
£327 more than it produced in rent. Also, there is a
mortgage of £35,000 on the co’s property, and it has
£35,000 invested with which to pay off the liability when
it falls due, but the interest it receives was last half-year
£2BB less than the interest it had to pay. These two dead
losses swallow up very regularly £615 or £620 per*'half-
year—equal to 2 per cent per annum dividend ; and
when they are got rid of, some time in the dim future,
things should improve materially. The Trustees, Ex.
and Agency Co. still says nothing about any writing-off to
cover depreciation of its £32,000 invested in deposits and
shares of the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank,
which very much depreciated item continues to appear at
its wholly bogus face value. There is now £4975 at credit
of profit and loss, even after paying the dividend, and
without trenching on the £40,000 reserve, and the board
should certainly apply this towards writing down the
sham value of its unlucky investment. There is nothing
to be gained by keeping inflated paper-values in the
balance-sheet.
» * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co. comes out
rathe! badly—in part as the result of the Melbourne fire—
though not nearly so badly as it might have done. Net
premiums (£283,629) are £344 less than last year. Interest
and rents (£18,845) are £54 less. The net profit for the 12
months is £11,074, so the insurance business has not only
yielded no profit but has swallowed up over £7700 of the
interest earnings. The co. pays adividend of 11 j per cent.
(£22,500) so it ends the year with £11,426 less than it had
at the beginning, and the balance at credit of profit and
loss goes down from £14,159 to * 2733. To a co. like the
New Zealand, however, with £200,000 paid-up capital and
£235,000 reserve this doesn’t matter much for once in a
way.
* * * ♦
Melbourne Argus, in a recent article on the
horrors and unprofitableness of State fire insurance,
pointed out that even the prosperous Victoria Insurance
’Co., taking its whole life through, had only earned a
steady 7-\ percent, on capital, and it asks the State how
it would like to do business on these terms. Let’s see !
If the State took over the whole fire-insurance business of
the province, and its capital bore the same relationship to
the amount of premiums as the Victoria’s does, it would
probably start the department with a nominal capital of
£600,000. The capital needn’t cost it anything ;it could
simply deposit £600,000 of State securities with the
management to be realised upon if necessary, and it is
10,000 to lit never would be necessary. At 7j per cent,
the State would make £43,500 a year. In 15 years the
accumulation, with interest, would reach over £1,000,000.
And the Argus warns the State against falling into this
horrible condition. Great Gaisar!
• • • *
The Bank of Victoria announces that another
instalment of its reconstructed 4J per cent, deposits will
be paid on 15th April.
• • * *
Barring the Colonial and Commercial of Aus-
tralia, all the Victorian banks have now got to the end of
the call-paying period. The Colonial has seven, and the
Commercial eight calls of ss. each yet to come in.
• • * *
Holdar M. : “ Writer wandered up to the Syd-
ney (Barrack-st.) Savings Bank ae recent hot morning to
draw the interest on a mm that had unfortunately
vanished during the year. The money was needed to ap-
pease a petulant landlady, and, as he walked along,
this scribe conjured pleasant visions of that dame’s
delight in taking delivery of his cash. He further
imagined a gaily-garbed, beaming young bank official on
the alert to attend to the matter. These fond anticipa-
tions, however, were violently outraged as Dibbs’s
treasure-house hove in view. Around the door of that
stronghold raged a dusty, clamoring mob, unable to effect
an entrance while the adjacent atmosphere fairly hummed
with ‘ blanky.’ Inside was packed a perspiring populace
apparently demanding to know the amount of its interest
—which had just been assessed. Dishevelled clerks with
a hunted look in their eyes essayed to stem the torrent of
impatient humanity, but their efforts were mostly futile.
Aggressive, robust women, hugging dirty-colored bank-
books in an advanced stage of decomposition, refused to
regard Augustus’s appeal. Others instituted irrelevant
inquiries at the wrong counter, and shrieked in general
defiance, while captious children rushed round trying to
locate their angry parents. Damshicago’s soothing
presence was badly needed, but he didn’t appear.”
* » * *
A well-known Melb. firm which was publicly
shown, not long ago, to be absolutely steeped to the lips
in fraud, lately got a big Government contract. Yet the
tender conditions said “ the lowest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.”
* * * •
House-agents assert that the custom is becoming
general among the working classes in Sydney and suburbs
to discontinue paying rent from the first week they fall
out of employment. An additional grievance is that a
growing percentage of the same class decline to leave the
houses without the formal notice, the court notice and the
ejectment order being served on them.
* * • »
The bill in terms of which the Maoriland Govt,
has bought the right to the cyanide process for £lO,OOO
passed the Leg. Council and then became law on Dec. 21.
The royalty to be charged by Govt, is not to be less than
1£ nor more than 2) per cent, of the value of the gold or
Silver won. And,, when the sum received in royalties
equals the £lO,OOO paid to the patentees the process will
be free to anyone to use. A good way out of the trouble.
• » • *
Westport (M.L.) coal —on which the Calliope
saved herself at Samoa— has had an export of 298,000 tons
for ’97 — the record year’s output.
*■*.'**
Waihi mine, M.L., ’97 output, £138,000 from
39,564 tons, or about one-third the bullion of the whole
province.
* * * •
The much-boomed Sulphide Corporation’s zinc
extraction (Ashcroft’s) process has fizzled out, and it is
doubtful whether even the smelting portion of the ex-
ceedingly costly works at Newcastle will be used or
whether the concentrates from the mine—the Central—
will not be shipped to Europe like Block 10’s, the
British’s, and others. The Sulphide Corporation has got
rid of £650,000 (£500,000 was subscribed and £150,000
raised since), and of that all but £250,000 has been spent
on works—now it would seem mostly useless. The
Central, enormous though its ore bodies are, will have to
strain to get along under such a load of dead-horse as that.
* * * *
During 1897 the Broken Hill mines swallowed
17,846,000 superficial feet of timber —99 per cent, of it
Oregon, from America. The open-cuts were going to
reduce the consumption of timber immensely ; but they
haven’t. Instead, there was a big increase from
12,626,000 superficial feet in ’96. All hope of substituting
N.B.W. hardwood, to some extent at any rate, has not yet
been abandoned. In Westralia, too, Zeb. Lane and a
party have been in the jarrah country getting filled up
with facts and other things with a view to displacing the
soft wood in the Kalgoorlie shows if figures pan out all
right.
• * * *
British B.H. directors in their last report just
out from England announce that they have decided to
keep up a reserve-fund of £15,000. Also they announce
that “ a process invented by Mr. Cowper Coles for the
extraction of zinc and all other metals,” which has been
under observation for two years, promises so well that
they “ have thought it right to furnish some assistance
from the co.’s resources in testing its value on a business
scale, and they have individually also subscribed for the
same purpose.” The experiments are not concluded yet.
The net profit of the co. appears to have been something
like £12,000 —that was, though, only to the end of June
last. As heretofore the directors adopt the excellent
practice of setting out the stocks, &c., wherein the reserve
is invested and the rate of interest yielded.
* * * *
The Broken Hill paper rejoices because that
town’s exports last year were worth £1,950,000, and its
imports £1,260,000, while a whole European kingdom,
Servia, figures for £1,840,000 and £1,395,000; respectively.
Also, Broken Hill’s “foreign trade” was about a third
greater than all Tasmania’s. And, finally, the output was
worth within a trifle of twice as much as the gold product
of all N.S.W., according to Mint returns.
• * * *
In 10 years the Baker’s Creek mine, N.S.W.,
produced gold to the value of £570,000, of which £252,000
was paid in divs. Last year’s gold, £43,000 ; divs.,
£15,000. Remarkable that the most consistent div.-payer
in the province should be working small and erratic veins
that few experts thought would live when first opened.
* * * *
Disappointed, if not disgusted, shareholders
continue to be advised that the North Nymagee, N.S.W.,
is all right as a copper-mine, and are referred to the
“ very encouraging reports ” from the manager. The
last is a little too sensational : “ The ground sunk through
has a very kindly appearance for copper, and shall not be
surprised to strike a body of ore at any time. Only two
men have been employed in No. 4 shaft, consequently
very little sinking has been done. They have been en-
gaged in preparing a place to erect the windlass.” Booh !
N.S.W. Mines-Minister Smith takes credit for
the expeditious execution of gold-leases. A much greater
reproach is the time taken to clear the title of a N.S.W.
mining lease once it is disputed. The writer is told that
the Homeward Bound owners have just got their sa. lease
back after five years’ delay. At the time when the co.
was negotiating in London for £40,000 additional work-
ing capital, a cable came intimating that the property had
been forfeited simply because an agent had neglected to
pay the year’s rent—£s. Negotiation at once ceased,
and the representative in London, knowing what an effect
the truth would have on London investment in N.S. W.
mines, to save the province, explained that the news he
had received from the mine was so unsatisfactory that he
could not accept the offers made. He returned to N.S.W.
where litigation began and only recently ended. Mean-
while, mine and plant, on which over £40,000 has been
spent, lay idle. » * *
Cobar, N.S.W. : “ A syndicate is being formed
here to send men to Klondyke. The capital is to be £5OO
in £5 shares.” Inverell should follow with another.
These are the only provincial towns that made any money
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & Other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash L .vj Benzine.
by sending prospectors to Westralia. Cobar’s men un-
earthed the Queen of the Earth pocket, which The Bul-
letin once described as being almost coverable with a
man’s hat. However, the hole was rich enough to get a
substantial div. out of. Long silence indicates that the
Queen of the Earth has gone to the devil. The Inverell
crowd made their money by the sale of the mine. And
such a mine ! The General Gordon, which, after the
wasting of £40,000 in one way and another, has gone into
liquidation.
• * * »
An inch of rain seems to have quite changed the
policy of the directors of the Great Western, Oobar. Be-
fore, it was to erect a cyanide plant, sink a new shaft, and
do other very desirable things. Now, a small div. has
been declared and crushing, and the old policy of tearing
things out by the hair of the head has been resumed.
• * * *
The plant for treating ore from the Overflow
mine, N.S.W., by cyanide is well forward, and a start will
be made in a few weeks. The share-market is down to
zero, so also is the enthusiasm of the squatters who largely
own and control this show, though their faith remains un-
changed. If the mine has been properly sampled—how
few N.S.W. mines are! —the yield should be about Joz.
per ton.
• • • •
The Camden Exploration syndicate, repre-
sented in N.S.W. by John Howell, is wet-nursing the Mt.
Kimo gold-mines, in the prospectus of which an esti-
mated annual profit of £97,500 is mentioned, and reference
made to the existence of lloz. tack. Purchase-price
£120,000, cash £lO,OOO, working capital £30,000. The D.
T. London correspondent says it is about time Howell re-
turned to London to be banquetted at the Savoy, photo-
graphed and interviewed after the manner of certain
other mining men whose names are well-known though
not given. Nothing would kill Howell quicker than a
series of Savoy dinners, followed by interviews and pic-
tures.
• * • •
The Victorian gold-yield for 1897 is returned as
812,7650 z best since ’B2. Gippsland is the main
cause of the continuous improvement of the past six
years, the opening up of that hitherto almost inaccessible
country by track-cutting having led to a lot of small dis-
coveries. Yet to anyone who has experienced the horrors
of one of Turner’s new Gippsland tracks it doesn’t seem
much to be thankful for.
* * * •
Average Bendigo balance-sheet. —The Clarence
United : Receipts (mostly in this case from calls), —£2586.
Expenditure—management, directors and auditors’ fees,
£B2; advertising, printing, stationery, postages, and
office charges, £24 ; all the rest wages, tools, and other
things which represent genuine work.
A party of alluvial prospectors recently put
through six trial lots of some tons each, taken from quite
a number of places and consisting of gravel and stonings
from several of the oldest and richest worked-out alluvial
claims of Ballarat. The average was just a fraction below
3Jdwt. per ton, and that should leave a good profit on ex-
tensive handling. But to get the true average of debris
so scattered is generally very difficult, and requires careful
and extensive sampling by an expert at the business.
• * * •
The 40-head battery at Menzies Barossa mine,
near Gawler (S.A.), will be ready for work at the end of
January and crushing will then begin at once. This is, at
present, the only S.A. gold-mine being worked on a really
systematic and comprehensive scale, and many hopes
cluster round it.
* * * *
S.A. shareholders in the Eveleen (Northern Ter-
ritory) silver-mine have got cold comfort out of the in-
quiries from the co.’s liquidator in Sydney.—The assets,
consisting of mining plant, ore, &c., which the directors in
the reconstruction prospectus valued at £lO,OOO, were un-
accounted for ; the debts admitted amounted to about
£2400 ; the liquidator had made a ss. call on 26,000 shares,
which had produced £1950, out of which he had paid ss.
in the pound to creditors ; after allowing for the assets in
hand and the costs and expenses yet to be incurred an
amount of £1686 would be required, and to meet this a
call of 7s. per share had been authorised by the Court m
Sidney and made. And what a boom the Eveleen
boom was a few years ago !
• • * *
Plans of the Mount Lyell field are epidemic
just now, and J. B. Were and Sons have issued one as a
supplement to their monthly Stock Exchange Intelli-
gence. The Lyell district, as shown on paper, is more
beautiful than'Joseph’s coat of many colors, which his
brethren sprinkled with the blood of a kid. This simile
by way of suggesting that a little kid-juice, sprinkled
here and there on the map, would not be out of place.
* * * *
“Mount Lyell Kelly’s promise to give .£5OO
towards cutting a track to Port Davey providing the Tas.
Govt, did ditto, is a pretty safe promise—for him,” writes
a Tas. correspondent to The Bulletin. “In the first
place, the Govt, of the Isle of Morpheus is so sick of look-
ing for tracks, and cutting tracks, and hearing about
tracks, and paying for tracks that aren’t worth a rap, that
anything like a decent sheep-walk to the above-named
God-and-man-forsaken spot won’t be started this century.
Secondly, when you get there, well, you get there, and
that’s about all vou can say ; and then the only thing to
be done is to return by the track, or build a big smoke
and wait for a half-foundered steamer to take you off ;
for if you attempt to proceed you will starve on dead sea-
slugs, or eat your mate’s dog, or himself, arid eventually
roll yourself up in sea-weed and die miserably. And
thirdly—what’s the good of a track to Port Davey, any-
how ? ”
* • * *
Booming alleged copper-mines anywhere in the
Mt. Lyell district is still the rage in Melbourne, where
many persons will surely be singed before the year ends.
Some good mines outside the big one will be found, but
some palpable duffers have already a big market-value.
Nothing sickens the genuine investor more than a visit to
the field to find that the block in which he has thrown
away his money is 2000 ft. higher or lower than the next
lease, on the strength of which it was traded off.
* * * *
Charters Towers crushing return for Dec. 17,675
tons for 25,127 oz: from cyanide operations 32,085 tons
for 16,771 oz; chlorination 430 tons for 470 oz. Divs. for
December £72,38S 4s. 2d. ; calls £5655 ; a nice margin.
» * * *
W.A. Mines Minister Wittenoom has resigned
the directorship of the Fremantle Smelting co. “He
says he was not aware that the co. held any mineral
leases at the time he consented to become a director.”
Perhaps next time Mr. Wittenoom is asked to become a
director he will read the prospectus.
• * * *
“ The Premier having got news of the flotation
of the W.A. loan, has given instructions that the Cool-
gardie water-scheme be proceeded with at once.” It will
take five years at least to finish. That, and the cost, are
the two great certainties of the scheme. Its success is
not assured. Some of the biggest mining engineers in
Australia still hold the view that it would be safer,
quicker, and otherwise better, to spend less than half the
money this gigantic work will involve in surface-water
conservation, even if it is found necessary to cement the
dams against absorption, and to cover them in against
evaporation. * * *
“I should say about 100 out of the 8000 on the
field are doing well on the cement here” (Mulgarrie,
W.A.), writes a Bulletin correspondent, “and there is
no doubt some of the claims are sensationally rich. I
know a claim where they took over 300 oz. in a day. Pity
the stuff isn’t spread over more of the field, as it would be
better for the majority if 10U0 men were getting 4oz. each
a week than if 100 were getting 400 z.”
* * * *
“ Reports from Kanowna state that the Mul-
garrie township, which has been closed, seems likely to
revive. A prominent English speculator lias visited the
Hit or Miss a i l several other properties, which it is likely
that he will buy.”—W.A. wire. Having lost over £50,000
on the Hit or Miss mine, the co. went into reconstruction
and proceeded to erect a cyanide plant to treat tailings
from ore that originally contained a few dwts. Nothing
has since been heard of it. But you can never tell when
Bull has had enough of any mine.
* » * •
How the imported manager dies off in the per-
fumed West! To the long list has been just added 0. T.
Rowe, the Oornish superintendent of an English-owned
Wealth of Nations group of leases. Rowe had experience
in Corsica and India before coming this way.
* * • *
Woodw-ard, ex-Govt. Geologist of Westralia, re-
gards latest developments at the Collie Coalfield as very
cheering. The Govt, is putting down a bore, and lately
passed through, beginning at 15ft. from the surface, 7ft.
of weathered coal, 4ft. of shale and 9ft. Cin. of bituminous
coal, of poor quality. A Ift. seam of fairly-good stuff has,
however, been found in a similar shallow sinking on the
Collie Proprietary, and prospecting is being hurried on.
* * * *
If the returns sent east as coming from the
alluvial claims at Kanowna, W.A., are correct, the outlook
for alluvial mining in that camp is bright. In the Donegal
claim it is reported that they came across some pheno-
menally rich cement, and the gold from one day’s work
weighed 3370 z. Another claim is said to be returning
lib. of gold daily. Another got 3350 z. for a week, and 75
tons crushed from one cement claim gave 3240 z. Also
officially reported that the cement and washdirt at grass
will yield several thousand oz.
* * • *
The latest Kalgoerlie surprise comes from the
North Boulder. Said that an old dump was crushed to
get it out of the road. The first return was an oz. to the
ton. “As the dump was got into it increased to 30z.,
and at present the stone is worth 9oz. per ton ; the tail-
ings from the mill averaging 4oz. per ton. The level from
which it came is being prospected, no stone approaching
these figures having been seen in the oxidised region
since the co. was floated.” How some men must curse
their luck and ignorance in connection with the early
days of Hannan’s ! They were looking for rough gold in
white quartz—such as was being got elsewhere —and
never thought of prospecting what they regarded as
country. And the eventual discovery of the richness of
these formations was more the result of accident than
knowledge.
9 * * *
The first lot of Bayley’s tailings having cyanided
30dwt. per ton at a cost of 125., a Coolgardie paper
reckons that the 10,000 tons on the dump should return a
profit of £40,000. The writer will bet they don’t. There
are few dumps in Australia of even value, and fewer still
in which the gold-contents are so uneven as in Bayley’s
heap. Some thousands of tons were crushed for a less
number of dwts. to the ton than some hundreds of tons
went ounces. It is not the usual practice anywhere, es-
pecially in Westralia, to start any kind of plant on the
worst stuff. If the heap averages 15dwt., the co. will do
well.
• * * *
“ The number of shares in the Great Boulder is
1,700,000 and the value of each share is about £1 3s. od.,
so that the rise and fall of Is. a share increases or de-
creases the value of the property by * 85,000. These
figures seem tremendous, and, had the position been fore-
cast three years ago, pessimists would have laughed to
scorn the idea of such aconsummation.” —W.A. paper. And
there are a few other mines in the country, to a degree,
like it. But allusion is seldom made to the awful number
of Westralian alleged mines in respect to which the pen-
dulum has swung the other way.
» * * *
From all accounts, adventurers going to Klon-
dyke this year will find the diggings much easier of access
than the pioneers found them. Several projects for im-
proving the route by land have started. There will be no
lack of steamers, and other arrangements for wholesale
transportation are well forward. Obviously, the steam-
boat co’s are impressed with the prospect that nine-tenths
of the people who go in with the spring will have to come
out with the fall; hence it means carrying them both
ways. It will have to be a very fine field if it turns out as
much gold this year as men will have to turn out of their
pockets in reaching it. Whatever the end, the booming
of the Yukon this year is a certainty.
• » * •
America leads again. In 1891 the Michigan
Legislature enacted that all railway companies«working
in the State must sell 1000 mile tickets, good for any
member of purchaser’s family and available for two years,
if the 1000 coupons were not exhausted earlier, for 20dols.
(£4) each. The companies refused, and fought, and
appealed to the State Supreme Court, but latest advices
tell that the Court upheld the law and verdicted against
the companies. Exactly the same process has been gone
through in New York State with the same result.
At a Brisbane (Q.) suburban Presbyterian
Church, just as service is about to begin, the elder
hangs out a big poster —“ You are Late ! ” Doe?
it rebuke or scare away !


r
d
ORIENT v -^
'-= > clothing
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONHS & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
(°gTo“)
SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Society
Endestin
COONA[?]
It is only the crudeness, even yet, of our
civilisation which could cause such surprise that
that N.S.W. politician, while about to take unto
himself a fresh spouse, should have allowed the
divorced one to still address him as “Dear .Joe.”
In the fact that two people can’t, or won’t, or
shouldn’t, continue to each other in the marital
relation, the world, as it grows wiser, will see no
cause why they shouldn’t remain acquaintances,
or even friends ; neither is there any solid reason
why a second conjugal partner should execrate
either the person or the memory of a first. The
present writer knew a second wife who used with
her husband to make periodic pilgrimage to the
tomb of No. 1, and dutifully help him to heave
the sigh and shed the tributary tear. “ Make the
betht of it, thir, and not the wortlit,” said
Dickens’s lisping showman ; “ and, when we’ve
thaid that, I think we’ve exhauthted the philo-
thophy of the thubject ! ”
* * ♦ *
A terrible suspicion takes shape in the
minds of the Yic. people that Gov. Brassey is not
the infallible tarry navigator and resourceful A.B.
that he has been cracked up to be. T. B. never
takes his precious Sunbeam out of the mill-pond
into open sea without running foul of some jagged
end of creation, or butting into the mud some-
where, or breaking his barque’s knees, or other-
wise disabling his gaudy toy. When H. E. is
cruising, his faithful subjects are continually being
distressed by cables to the effect that the Sunbeam
ONLY HIS SISTER.
(Engaged young lady trying to pump her intended husband's blackboy.)
FIANCEE : “ I say, Tommy, mine think it that one coolie belonging to mime plenty kissum lubra
long o’ bush.”
TOMMY : “ Baal that one kissum gin at all.”
F. (insinuatingly): “ Baal you make a light that one kissum lubra at all? Mine gib it you
one pig tobacco you no tellum lies.”
T.: “No gammon—my word-baal that one kissum lubra, only sister belonging to mine.
Plenty kissum that fellow lubra! Kissum! kissum!! Cabon kissum!!!"
is putting in somewhere for patches and general
repairs, or that she has been horned by a rock, and
there is a rapidly-growing impression that Uncle
Tom will add materially to modern knowledge one
of these nights by running his ship into Mars
when he has exhausted all mundane objects,
Uncle Tom, by the way (says S.M. Herald), for-
warded the following message with reference to
the accident:
Sunbeam disabled owing to defect in the mechanism for
working the blades of the screw.
What an awful pair—the Herald and Brassey—
and what a perfect match ! The Herald could
have said “ Gov. Brassey wired thus” —but it pre-
ferred (Heaven alone knows why !) to ponderously
observe that “he forwarded the following message
with reference to the accident.” And Brassey
could have wired, “Screw cronk,” or “engines
broken down,” —but, no! —he must grind out
something looking like a hunk from one of his
dreadful lectures. O, Pomposity, how many
breakfasts thou dost spoil !
* * * *
And now listen to the Herald in hysterics
—the old lady has not printed anything so earnest
since her five-column—or was it 15-column? —
ravings over the beautiful, delightful, dazzling,
sparkling, glittering, majestic uniform of that
gallant captain at the historical monkey-soap
wedding :
Listen to the roar of her [Royal Arthur’s] cannon !
What is all that outburst of cheering ! that feverish en-
thusiasm at the appearance of a steamer coming
up the harbor! A man-of-war the flagship! the
biggest fighter afloat in the southern seas ! “ Hurrah !
hurrah ! for the Royal Arthur ! ” they shout. The mul-
titude who were down on Sunday to meet her, and who
wouldn’t miss seeingher for the half-millionof gold.she cost,
were here again yesterday. The shouts of welcome grew
louder, the hurrahs more frequent, until this amplification
of Herculean power in the form of steel chooses to stop
coming on towards the mass of human faces that line the
shore. Ah ! “ Britannia rules the waves.” That’s the
secret. Rules them in peace and in war, and the war-
ships keep the peace. And while the choruses of welcome
from the shore continue, can be heard high above all the
singing of the tars, “For England, home, and duty,” as
the haughty Royal Arthur swings with the tide at her
moorings.
“The amplification of Herculean power in the
form of steel.” Immortal!
* * * »
Many Sydney johnnies would be astonished
to learn how little their tailors really have to do
with the supply of vestiture beyond taking mea-
surements, looking agreeable, and ultimately
dunning them for cash. “ Order ” clothing is
made up in factories on distinctly “ slop ” lines
at the instance of many well-known _ outfitters.
Since the advent of the two-guinea suit-to-order,
several factories have taken exclusively to this
branch of business, on the sub-contracting system.
After subtracting percentages, the suave shopman
passes the job along to a factory, and the proprie-
tor of the latter establishment gives it over to the
“ boss ” of a table, who makes his profit out of the
toil of five-bob-a-week apprentices and improvers,
* * . *. , , ,
Mayor M Eacharn is going to make his
Federation banquet a very big affair. His is the
only big guzzle yet announced. Gov. Brassey is
simply going to give a hop, and is glad to get off
so cheaply ; whilst Premier Turner has chartered
one of the bay excursion boats for a federal
“ blow ” at half-a-crown per head or thereabouts,
But Mayor M‘Eacharn, being opulent, is going to
blaze out, so that the popping of corks may be
expected to affect the earthquake-recorder at the
Observatory, and the sizzle of cooking flesh will
make the people in Mars sniff the air. At least,
from the way Corporation people talk, these
things may be expected to occur.
Australia is a great country right enough.
On the same day last week Brisbane (Q.) was
almost under water; several towns; in north-
western N.S.W. were nearly drowned out; several
more in south-western N.S.W. were going round
with their aggregate tongue hanging out two feet
in the last stage of water-famine; and almost
every settlement in Eastern Gippsland (Vic.) was
fighting for its life against stupendous bush fires,
and coining off very badly in the conflict.
* * *
The Adelaide hospital rumpus revived
again the other day. Dr. Morrison, one of the
lately-imported juniors, resigned, owing to quarrels
with the resident staff, and made definite charges
of malpractice. This was a chance not to be
missed by the Ass. crowd, and the Register did
its best to stir up public indignation. But the
third test cricket match happened along, and the
public, in the heat of the discussion as to whether
Howell ought to displace M‘Kibbin in the Aus-
tralian XI., refused to be indignant. Had Dr.
Morrison been a great bowler or batsman, the
Kingston Ministry would probably have had to
resign in favor of one formed by G. Giffen and
Ben Wardill; but it wasn’t so, and this latest
little trouble therefore died before it was even
weaned.
* » * *
A new form of oath. At Cairns recently
a Japanese witness of Buddhist persuasion de-
clined to take the oath in the usual manner, and
a sked for a glass of water. On receiving it he
murmured, “ If I lie may I die, and be punished.”
He then sipped at the water and commenced to
give evidence. This makes about the fortieth
form of hanky-panky used in Bananaland before
you perjure yourself.
In a certain N.S.W. town resides
a Caledonian who, though too penuri-
ous to join the local Highland Society,
was persuaded wi’ much deefeculty to
wildly lavish a shilling upon admission
to the annual gathering. Once inside,
however, the potency of other people’s
wl ey so wrought upon the canny
cookies of his heart that in a burst of
frantic enthusiasm he consented to join
the society—and bang ! on the spot
went the necessary half - sov. But
speedily remorse got hold of him, and
as the whisky-fire died out of his soul
Sandy was visibly drooping more and
more over the thought of his insane pro-
digality. All of a sudden, however,
he brightened up and hied him briskly
with his card of membership to tha
man at the gate: “It has joost oc-
curred to me, Mr. that, as I’m a
maimber o’ the soceeity, I’m entitled to
a refund o’ the admeosion-chairge I paid
this mornin’; sae I’ll joost trouble ye
for the sum o’ one shullin’.”
* » *
One Cooper, figuring at Melb.
City Court, the other day, on a general
charge of vagrancy and bad-lottishness,
was said to be notori-
ous for hanging around
city pubs and borrow-
ing money from the
barmaids. “Whatbar-
maids ? Bring them
here!” roared the plaus-
ible bummer. The de-
tective admitted that
he couldn’ t produce any
evidence in Court, be-
cause the girls were
ashamed to come for-
ward and own up _to
their gullibility. Being
in the habit of chuck-
. ling among themselves
over the softness of the ordinary
admirer who is duped by them,
or who allows them to think he
fllTYian
can t see through their nimsy
wiles, the “ fly-flat ” Hebes
are naturally sensitive to
ridicule of their own
little weaknesses. Every
woman must bestow a cer-
tain amount of sympathy on some male ob-
ject or objects. The average barmaid fools the
more decent sort of johnnies as readily as she will
lend five shillings to a loafing blackguard. Hum-
bug is the one thing she pins her faith to.
* * • *
The most paralysing spectacle which has
happened this century to the little town of Mudgee
(N.S.W.) was when Premier Reid went to get his
hair cut, with two armed troopers for an escort.
Mudgee is a quiet town, dreaming on a grassy flat
somewhere by the shores of the moaning Cudge-
gong—the river with the large, fat, oily prawns
in it. The streets are a Sabbath day’s journey
across, and the low houses on the other side need
to be looked for with a telescope. There is grass
in most of these streets —also goats. And down
one of these silent thoroughfares came the terrify-
ing spectacle of Premier Reid, escorted by two
huge armed swashbucklers, going to get his hair
diminished by the threepenny barber. Nobody ever
needed an armed escort in peaceful, sleepy Mudgee,
and the vision of anybody going with a powerful
military following to have his hair cut anywhere
is about as weird as that of a general going out in
full uniform, with his staff around him and a
battery of artillery behind, to get a medical
opinion about his corn. Has Geo. Reid got the
sense of humor with which he is commonly
credited ? What man with a real sense pf humor
would select Mudgee as a place on which to ad-
vance with a strong armed force, and have his
head trimmed and nicely oiled, and perhaps singed ?
AT THE TEST-MATCH.
VOICE FROM CROWD : “ Hi, Ranji, loosen yer
collar — you're going black in the face! ”
Another case, in N.S.W., of a 'woman
masquerading as a man. A celebrated instance
in Yic. was complicated by the discovery, after
the woman’s death, that she had been married, as
a man, for many years. People found an easy
explanation till startled by the announcement
that there had been a child. Of course they could
only conclude then that the wife was a man mas-
querading as a woman.
* * * *
Adelaide at Christmas-time was invaded by
a company of Cornish carol-singers brought from
the Moonta mining district and boomed in the
city by Bonython, of the Advertiser, Grand
panjandrum of the generally moribund Cornish
Society of South Aus.
A
STAGE-ASIDE
■F®kTw|
C T?je. [tlfonr Voick. ':.
£>RN£3 , wfiEN So RGD/*\ A j*\l/rz v >UH f\RI\lJ |
WMilsT Iono- of bjis cfjoicl]] A|e.N &^T~OoWhl /»ui> louO applause.!
SoNLwtflll h£Tks.l e£j . / v lftwy'rt|flwKR,oji) n\j\N f
_ m
Vr;/NE_ fjONEsT'jol-jr-Jr-ly ,
Tfj'a of a/^EMlieO,
Y Tfj « M k J>' -NOT~ SOIY/Cf.,
.">o muC qs — i be INC £ N & E 0 .
*!Z—B.RE'l
THE SONG OF THE SCORCHER.
(With the Usual Apologies.)
(To A.M.N.).
There’s a legion that never is listed
(Except now and then at the court),
Who drive City Fathers distracted
By setting all bye-laws at nought.
The fathers who bred us and reared us
With order and decency crammed,
But we give the go-by to their bye-laws
To learn how to scorch and be d d,
Dear boys—
To learn how to scorch and be d d.
So some of us chivvy the slavey
Who takes the kids out in the pram.,
And some of us go for the ag6d,
And some of us shave past a t ram ;
We’ve most of us tackled a cripple,
We’ve all of us scorched through the town,
But the one we regard as our hero
Is he who once ran a Judge down.
The roadway is rough and may jolt us,
The asphalt is easy to ride,
And why should the mighty tin-wheeler
Give place to pedestrian pride ?
The whole of the road was our portion,
As many unfortunates tell,
But, Lord, we have fought for and earned it—
The right to the footpath as well.
Then a health, and don’t drink it in whispers,
To our wholly unauthorised horde ;
Here’s death to each decent civilian
By the “ cads-upon-castors ” abroad ;
For we know though the summonses issue
And we’re filed on the criminal shelves,
Yet the legion that hasn’t been listed
Will send us as good as ourselves,
Dear boys,
Ten thousand as good as ourselves.
Melb.
R. K. DEE.


A
SNAP-
SHOT
-XV.
The
Victor
Camera
211-
Tbe
Duplex
Camera
k
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Lt«i *
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS.jjy
66 KING STREET, ST*"
See our Advertisement "<■
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
ROSS’S r J^EBKATED
JSYB LOTION
STANDS ALONE
»»' ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. jgg'"' Open all Night
also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/0 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
One of the consequences of the vice-
regal system is the snobbish prominence
given to a number of small officials imported
from England as aides, secretaries, etc.
Recent S.M. Herald paragraph
Captain Sloane-Stanley yesterday left Sydney
for the Blue Mountains, where he will be the
guest of Sir Frederick Darley for a few days.
Who is the captain with the hyphen, any-
how?
A CASTE TEST .
MISS POTTS POINT : “Now,
ma, DO try and refrain
from using the adjective
instead of the adverb when
Mrs. Tubb-Fulle and her."
daughters call to-day."
MRS. POTTS POINT: “ Hindeed! I won’t bother about no such thing. The Tubb-Fulls,
hindeed, w'y they serve hafternoon-tea in bre'kfus’- cups, and with all their
hedication they can’t see that’s vulgar!”
On the value of the average man’s visual
evidence. T’other day a Rockhampton cab-driver
noticed a sack containing a body floating about in
the Eitzroy. He also saw, quite distinctly, the
face of the man whose body occupied that sack.
Then the police fished out the sack and found in-
side the carcase of a dead dog. . . . Saw it with
my own eyes—l tell you !
* * * *
Piety in the lump is a dreadful dose for a
young country. Bananaland has lately run riot
sabbatically. ’ In Ipswich, about a month ago, a
young man was fined for whistling outside a
church during service. Whereupon, Townsville,
seized with holy emulation, arrested a poor old
woman who happened to pursue a stray hen into
the churchyard while the godly were a-praying,
brought her up before the beak and fined her
three pounds. The hen cackled abominably just
when the congregation got off their knees to sing
a hymn, and the whole thing fell flat. Hence the
indignation. Also, it was just about 105° in the
shade, and somebody had to suffer.
“Peeping Tom,” writes “0” to The
Bulletin, “is a familar type, but the female of
the breed is rapidly developing. The other day
at Sandringham (V.) I came upon four girls up
a tree overlooking the men’s baths, and they
seemed to be enjoying themselves. By-the-bye,
the Government Gazette annually prints a
warning to men not to bathe or stray in the
vicinity of ladies’ baths, or other bathing-place,
but no notice is taken of the possibility of women
wandering close to men’s ditto. Last summer a
couple of other fellows and myself were bathing in
the open sea at a secluded spot, when two females
came and squatted themselves within a dozen
yards of our clothes. They didn’t shift either
when, after getting tired of staying up to our necks
in water for an hour, we came out and dressed.
* * * *
N.S.W. postal authorities have just warned
departmental officials that all persons sending
telegrams must personally affix the stamps to the
message-form, and that while any single deviation
from the rule will be visited with a fine, repeated
breaches thereof may mean dismissal. And, as
no damping-sponge or roller is provided by the
department, the public will have meekly to put
out its tongue and salivate its own stamps under
the haughty supervision of its own servant behind
the counter.
* » « *
Baratarian society is fluttered by the
liaison of a leading high-and-mighty dame with
a local wealthy exquisite. Over this affair, there
may yet be a social thunderclap.
• # * *
“ F-ice-regal ” has a significance in Aus-
tralia just now.
* * * *
C.M.G. : “Please, can you tell me why it
is that one woman, or two, or a dozen, can squat
on the sands, as near as possible to the open
palings of a ‘ for-men-only ’ baths, and glare
steadily over the top of a penny sentimental at a
host of nude males disporting in the briny, with-
out giving the law the least concern, whereas a
man, as soon as he is found bringing an inflamed
and inquiring optic on an opening in the outer-
wall of a ladies’ wash-house, is grabbed by a dis-
gusted constable, and given a month, or so ?
Do you remember that when a couple of
Melbourne athletes were fined for bathing on
a quiet bit of beach beyond St. Kilda Bluff, it
was a female witness who declared she could not
go away ‘ because she had the perambulator with
her’?”
* * * *
In one recent issue of S.M. Herald
appeared the following offers :1 —£2 for situa-
tion for competent man ; 2 —£lo for watchman’s
■situation; 3—Ditto for situation for young man
with knowledge of timber ! and, 4—£2o for a per-
manent situation in warehouse ! Put the last at
£2 a week : 10 weeks’ work for nix ! The jolly-
and-fat millennium has arrived.
* * * *
At Melb. District Court, the other day, a
brmaid charged unlawful assault and impolite
language against a fishmonger to whom she was
returning a decomposed crayfish. Extraordinary
fact (writes a man who seems to know all about
it) that all Hebes have a devouring passion for
crayfish, although, in 19 cases out of 20, they are
martyrs to indigestion. And yet not so extra-
ordinary. Internal anguish often gives an inter-
esting, not to say poetic, turn to their mechanical
smile. There is more than one authenticated case
of a barmaid wringing an offer of marriage from
a sympathetic customer by means of a gentle
melancholy which she had readied up for the
occasion. Half a crayfish and two cold saveloys,
taken at six o’clock with a cup of tea, sealed the
fate of Gussie when he came two hours later,
bringing a spray of flowers for his divinity.
“ Acute indigestion is commonly mistaken for
heart disease in the sufferer,” says a modern
medical authority. Well, Gustus feels certain
that the windy, spasmed darling is dying of love
for him.
9 * * *
‘ ‘ Thousands of carcases have been float-
ing down the river lately,” writes a Bourke
(N.S.W.) correspondent. He adds : “We drink
river water.” Also, in Lake Speculation, near
Menindie, lower down the river, the fish in the
body of naturally-dammed-up water there have
been dying by thousands. The suggested cause is
the concentrated mineral salts in the much-re-
duced and fast-evaporating water. Anyway, the
lake stinks horribly, and stock will not approach
it. And this was the lake which was to supply
Broken Hill with an unlimited drinking supply !
* * * *
The pair" 1 proximity of the lock-up cells
to Brisbane police-court gives rise occasionally to
most irreverent interludes. Just as Constable
O’Hooligan is deposing, with all due solemnity,
“ He had a bottle o’ whisky under his arrum, yer
worship,” a voice will break in from the adjoining
limbo : “ Sargint, ye divil, give us a drink and
we’ll kiss yez.” Then the majesty of that court
could be packed in a thimble.
* » » *
The other day at Ballarat a vigorous
bench sentenced a 15-year-old boy to £lO or
seven days for firing stones from a shanghai,
though “no one was hurt.” Same day in Mel-
bourne the leader of a “ push ” was convicted of
breaking in the front door of a hotel because he
was refused drinks on Sunday, knocking the land-
lady senseless on the floor, and attacking the
licensee. He also, according to the finding of the
court, committed perjury on a large scale in con-
ducting his defence. The bench said it was a
“ very gross ” assault, and fined him £2, also £1
10s. damages and £1 10s. costs. Five pounds in
all looks pretty cheap for bashing a woman insen-
sible, wrecking her teeth, and partly wrecking
her house as well, especially as the other five or
six ruffians got off gratis. What would the bill
have been had the case been only “moderately
gross ? ”
9 * * ♦
There’s the true God and Mammon twang
about the cool suggestion of a S.M. Herald cor-
respondent that Govt, should provide another
£lOOO in order to make Saturday a free day at
Sydney Zoo, because “it is manifestly unfair that
those children who do not believe in causing un-
necessary work on the Lord’s Day should have to
pay an entrance-fee on Saturdays, while those
who have no scruple in getting others to toil for
their pleasure on the Lord’s Day should have
their entrance-fee paid by Government.” The
Bulletin would also like to see Saturday a free-
day, but not for the benefit of the miserable little
prigs who are thus being brought up to keep one
eye on the Loard and the other on t he bawbees,
and who might be fed liberally to tf e lions and
tigers with distinct advantage to the future com-
munity.
A ZOO MONT DE PIETE.
As Sydney Zoo is now open free on Sundays,
Uncle “Ikey Mo” (financier, ole do’ dealer, etc.)
scores again—and desires to thank Guv’ment for-
its grant and the above excellent advt.
The Innamincka mishap and the piling-up
of the Ranelagh on the coast indicate
that the season has ,- n J e d for the coasting-
steamers to maW^ 0 , at an overland
Thp coast of Australia is apt to
inakea ye*r ungrateful return for being hugged.
N. : “ Mrs. Gruncly is murdering an in-
fant, in a wooden baby-farm consisting of two
rooms and a skilly, at the back of my place. Tha
child is three weeks old, illegitimate offspring of a
servant girl, who, of course, has to go back to he*
work ‘ without incumbrance,’ as the advts. say.
Yelling for its mother’s milk, the agonised scream*
of the infant disturbed a radius of a hundred
yards. Everyone said it was the finest child they
ever saw. It is subdued now, by a regimen of
somebody’s elixir, and I understand it is still ex-
pected to live several days. The Grundy doctrine
is that death is the best thing that can happen to
the ‘ poor little child of sin.’ Yet look at all the
miserable legitimates walking about, howling for
the graveyard.”
* * * *
T ADY offers Home and 7s. weekly to experienced
Governess, advanced subjects, Eng. preferred.
K.D., Dailv Telegraph.
•yy ANTED, Cook, 20s.
This isn’t as bad as it looks in .hkl print, because
the cook (at 20 shillings) is up at cold dawn
lighting the fire for breakfast (unless the house-
maid lights it), while the governess (at seven
shillings) comes down, much later (unless she has
to be on the scene at 6 a.m. to hear the brats
scuttle through their music lesson), to eat it.
Also the cook says “ Yes’m,” while the governess
calls her “ Jane.” And it’s worth much more than
the extra 13 shillings a week, to the average
woman, to be in a position to say “ Jane.”
• • • *
“ The electrophone is coming into exten-
sive use here,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent. “It is only available for tele-
phone-subscribers, any of whom may have it con-
nected with their houses per telephone-line, on
giving 48 hours’ notice, for a moderate fee. All
the chief theatres, music-halls, concert-rooms, and
churches are on tap, and on the wintry, slushy,
splashy, bone-chilling nights it is a godsend. On
Sunday mornings you can lie a-bed and say ‘ hear
hear ’ to the preacher as he slangs the church-
truants from his wooden perch. You can hear a
ballad at the Queen’s Hall, laugh at Robey—the
comic star just now—at the ‘ Pav.,’ drop in at the
‘ Circus Girl,’ have a bit of Jap. at ‘ The Geisha,’
dodge a coruscated cornetist at the Empire, miss
a scraggy Alhambra ballet, take a composite dose
of the ‘Scarlet Feather,’ and follow Ada Colley’s
vocal acrobatics on the high trapeze, all the while
seated by the family hearth in your ‘bananas’
coloring a clay. A novel hearing, startling in its
coincidence and contrast, I had on Saturday even-
ing when, as the applause broke out after Ada
Crossley’s song in Langham Place, the Empire
was switched in with Ada Colley la-la-ing the
‘ Cavalleria ’ intermezzo. It was a hint to voice-
judges. Had one of the singers heard it, she
would be ‘ a pot of tea and a toasted crumpet?
Yes, sir,’ in a ‘ A.8.C.-shop ’ now.”
« 9 * •
Widely printed that “ the last of the Irish
pipers,” one Turlach M‘Sweeney, luYi arrived in
Scotland to show the natives what pipe music
really is. The last of ’em? No. There is (or
was the other day), on Broken Hill, an Irish-
woman, a music-teacher, owning a sackful of
medals and diplomas and things for her piping.
True, she doesn’t pipe any more —the Barrier has
natural terrors enough.
• » * »
“The marriage of Mrs. Blank’s sister
(Dash Dash) to Mr. Ellipsis was celebrated in
Melbourne last week,” is how one Sydney scribess
put it lately. The poor bridegroom is merely
Mrs. Blank’s sister’s husband.
* * * *
London Saturday Review discourses on
Australia’s old friend Lord William Nevill, an
absconder from England in connection with the
bills which cost the notorious money-lender Sam
Lewis .£ll,OOO :
Lord William Nevill is the fourth son of the Marquess
of Abergavenny. Those who know the family will admit
that while Lord William Nevill was not the weakest
member of it, yet Lord William Nevill himself was never
distinguished for strength or health of body or of mind.
In person he was very tall ; about six feet in height and
painfully thin. Even in the prime of life, say at 25 or 30,
he had no physical strength ; he was, indeed, extremely,
even painfully, delicate. He seemed to be always very
young; there was not iti him the strength of manhood.
Accordingly when his friends heard, some ten years ago,
that he had fallen in love with Miss Murrieta, and that
at the same time he had turned Catholic, they smiled in-
voluntarily. It was so like Willie Nevill to assume the
religion of his betrothed. For some inconceivable
reason this amiable weakness was said to have
excited Lord Abergavenny’s wrath. When the
marriage came off every one said that Lord Wil-
liam Nevill had done very well for himself; and he had
in every sense. The young < ouple went into a very nice
house in Brechin Place. S.W., and for some time knew no
more of the cares of life than are to be met with by those
who live in London with a great name, good position and
most ample income. It was rumored that the Murrietas
supplied the income and furnished the house,
hut had also paid off Lord William’s youthful debts. But
in a moment fortune changed, and the gay pleasure skiff
had to face comparatively rough weather. It never, we
suppose, struck Lord Itevelstoke when as head of Barings’
he went “ nap ” on Argentine securities that his rashness
would bring Lord W. Nevill to ruin. When the house of
Baring fell it dragged down with it the house of Mur-
rieta, and Lord and Lady William Nevill had to face the
world without that infinitely expansible tri-monthy
cheque. Even then to a less fortunate man the prospect
would not have seemed gloomy. The bearer of a great
name in England does not usually find it very difficult to
make money, and Lord William, as the evidence in the
trial showed, found it easier than most. Mr. Sam Lewis
declared that Lord William had had £'90,000 from him in
less than three years ; that one young gentleman alone,
having backed bills for Lord William to the tune of
£40,000, paid like a man and made no complaint. Pre-
sently it was said that Lord William had become a sort
of social guide and sponsor to an Australian millionaire,
and had received a cheque for £5OOO for bringing a Prince
to the colonial’s dinner-table. Now we know that such
cheques were of the nature of windfalls, and that his real
banker was Mr. Samuel Lewis.
THE DEVOUTLY THANKFUL LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So Nell was married yesterday !
Let’s fill a bumper mellow,
And drain it to old Hymen’s sway—
And to the lucky fellow.
Time was when I was “ gone ” on her :
When each day I’d discover
Fresh charms to make my pulses stir,
And- fool-like—act the lover.
Her eyes were bright as stars at night,
Her lips were like to coral,
And Nell was, in her lover’s sight,
As beautiful as moral.
But now with joy we drink Ms health,
Whom Nell did most prefer,
And wish him lots of luck and wealth
Who’s lately married her.
I loved—for Nell was fair and tall,
And sweet as fragrant clover —•
But now I love her most of all
Because—she threw me over.
THE BREAKER.
A SPRIG OF MINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A sprig of mint with homely meanings fraught,
A savoury thing, a kitchen herb, and yet
When ’twixt my idle fingers I have caught
A leaf and pressed it, straight I am beset
By haunting childish memories. On a wet
And fragrant bank of mint I lie ; athwart
The creek the snowy ti-tree blooms are met
And fleets of fallen petals are in port;
An elfin charm is filtered through the air,
A hum of cloistered gnats in emerald cells,
And drowsy chantings that the gadflies share.
And this sad heart, that on a sudden swells
At the remembered fragrance, was it there,
And did it lie and dream as memory tells?
AGNES L. STORRIE.


2
iRRoWRpor
Food
j^ik^youg
eh
3 0 0©
& a <V
) &
m
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
All Drapers Everywhere.
WHISKERS,
“I don’t love you any more; seems to me
morning, noon and night, the only thing I hear is
jaw, jaw, jaw. Why will you persist in making
mylifemiserable ? Havelnothadmy own troubles,
which were cured by Bile Beans? Now, why,
oh ! why, will you not take a course of them and
get cured?” This is the way that all sensible
wives should talk to their husbands, who are con-
tinually finding fault. It is their livers that are
at fault in every case nearly. Put their digestive
apparatus in perfect working order, and ten to one
you will have the most amiable of husbands.
Bile Beans are an undoubted specific for all
stomach, liver and bowel troubles. They also
cure headache, constipation, dizziness, fullness
after eating, piles, bad blood, face pimples, sallow
complexion, and hot, sweaty hands. Used in
cases of debility, fever and ague, and all ailments
pertaining to weakness from overwork, worry, or
excitement, they will prove a certain remedy.
Manufactured at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., in
one of the finest and best-equipped laboratories in
the world, they come to Australia with a reputa-
tion not surpassed by any pharmaceutical specialty
on the market. Millions are sold every year;
were it not so they could not be sold at the price,
pjpg to the great cost of ingredients. Price, 9|d.
the Aft. small size : at all chemists or direct from
turing Co., ,; an the Bile Bean Manufao-
let the ohemist'Bvnq//"’; e "’-'dney. Don’t
good,” Be sure at ■- “ a*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 18, 1898.
Mr Dear Mtee—
A haughty silence reigns over most of Sydney’s
suburban mansions this month while their usual
occupiers are away fighting flames in Tasmania, or
flies in the country. No high-toned town family
would own up to living in its own luxurious
crib overlooking the ’Arbor all the year round ; to
do so would be to “go under” socially at once.
And so the foolish wealthy troop away in droves
from their comfortable homes with cool, lofty
rooms and shady gardens, and squeeze themselves
into high-rented, stuffy, hot country cottages
with an outlook of dreary gum-trees and burnt
grass ; where the mosquitoes worry inhabitants
all night, and the visitors paralyse the oldest resi-
dents by never wearing anythingbut store-clothes ;
and bore each other at deadly-dull little shivoos,
the exact copies (plus flies and heat) of what they
endure all the year round in town ; where ice is
beyond the dream of avarice and the butter is
always oily ; where the fly dieth not, and the
beetle is never quenched. And yet hundreds of
women endure this discomfort annually, and drag
their miserable families into it too, and are repaid
for all the expenditure if their toad-eating is re-
warded by being “ called on ” by some Naicer
people than they know in their own suburban
street.
Girls who enthusiastically planked down their
subscriptions in the cause of Science, and joined
the recent confabs, are now gratefully feeling that
they have had their money’s worth. Besides all
the talkee-talkee in the tents, and the entertain-
ments, as promised, there have been a concert, an
all-day excursion, and a harbor-trip or two thrown
in. The Royal Society entertained the Associa-
tion for the Advancement, &0., at the University,
on Friday evening last, and the party was a vast
success. The Great Hall was filled with an inte-
resting collection of scientific parlor-tricks, at
which a throng of bewildered guests gazed and
tried to look intelligent. An explanatory expert
in swallow-tails arose at intervals by each exhibit,
and explained the wonders of his section. Some
men were realistically seeing snakes in one corner
all the evening; a calculating machine looked
clever, but was confusing to outsiders. To most,
telegraphing without wires was the really interest-
ing exhibit. Mr. Pollock, who was in charge of the
apparatus, was followed by groups every time he
discoursed on the clicking and buzzing invention.
At all the lectures the intelligent questioner was
to the fore, and at the telegraphing display he
was rampant, being an excited person who thought
he was going to see an X-ray show. Intermittent
lantern-views with explanatory remarks were given
in an adjacent hall, which guests found after
walking through groves of fairy lights. Astrono-
mer Russell spoke a piece on star-photographs
illustrated by pictures thrown on the sheet, in
which the spangled firmament on high in sections
looked as if it had broken out into a bad attack of
measles; and the lecturer pointed out, with a long
pole, an extra large measle in the corner which
he knew by sight, and named everything from
Alpha to Omega, and the audience applauded as
if it had known the speck intimately from
childhood. Prof. David talked of coral-boring,
and showed views and specimens of S. Pacific
items, and the intelligent questioner—a lady this
time —came out strong and bored the professor
instead of the coral. The gowning was almost
unanimously black, but two or three satins shone
out amidst the sable hue ; one woman wore flow-
ing yellow drapery which flopped around her like
silk dusters on a clothes-line.
The Herald artlessly remarks m its Monday’s
account of the Scientific picnic to National Park
on Saturday: “ Those who preferred to roam
about and admire the beauties of the Park—and
these embraced by far the larger number of those
present —joined in excursions.” Being embraced
by the beauties of the National Park has caused
a lot of unpleasant notoriety lately. After that
insinuation it comes quite natural to read that the
expeditionists are to visit the Blue Mountains.
The Park, by the way, is one of the chiefest
honeymoon resorts —the Accommodation House
at Audiey is never without a newly-wedded pair
or two. The place offers ideal honeymoon attrac-
tions, as it combines the charm of intense aloof-
ness with a cheap and easy return trip to town in
case boredom sets in. But the Saturday-to-Mon-
clay trippers are the chief residents of the beauty-
spots of Port Hacking river, and, owing to the
advt. the place has lately had, they are flocking
there now in large crowds.
“Lewis Carroll,” whose death is cabled, will be
better remembered than the Rev. Chas. Dodgson,
not only by children, but by grown-ups who
remember “ Alice" and “Through the Looking
o}lass.” Those two juvenile classics are like
oysters in their appeal to the taste; just as you
either hanker exceedingly after oysters or are
utterly indifferent to them, so children either fall
in love with Alice and take the Griffin and the
Mock Turtle and the White Green and Bill the
Lizard and the Walrus and the Carpenter into
their hearts and make friends of them for life, or
else they can’t take kindly at all to them and feel
rather spiteful towards them. It is curious that a
Common love of “ Alice ” forms a bond between
two people who haven’t read the book for years.
A Melb. girl, daughter of D. D. Wheeler, ex-
Hansard chief, once owed a rattling good time to
her knowledge of Lookmg-Glass land. It was
when Rudyard Kipling was ip Melb. ; he was
visiting their house, and she quoted something
from “Wonderland.” “She knows h«r Alice,”
said R.K. delightedly, and invited the whule
part}' to the theatre and a small tea-party after,
gave Miss W. a copy of “ Plain Tales,” inscribed
with a parody on “ The Walrus and the Carpen-
ter,” and the touching quotation “ It was the best
butter! ”
The impressiveness of a recent Woollahra wed-
ding was badly curtailed owing to the non-arrival
of the bridal flowers. After waiting for the
florist’s nian to nut in an appearance, the party
was obliged to drive off without the garden-stuff
except a substitute hastily faked up from the
house-garden for the bride. In the midst of the
wilt-thou-have-this-woman an unabashed small
boy with a basket stumped along the aisle and
said loudly, “ Here’s the bokay ! ” Amid a general
giggle somebody took the flowers, and the boy
stumped out again. In a little while the irre-
verent youth returned with a brown-paper box
and went up again to the altar rails remarking
abruptly, “ Here’s the button-holes ! ” The flovver-
menial was so unconscious that he was breaking
up holy matrimony that there was nothing for it
but to take the “ bokays ” and distribute them on
the spot, while the choir sang “ The voice that
breathed.”
The other day at Red fern a polite man ap-
proached a solitary woman struggling under the
weight of a large tin box, and obligingly offered to
carry it into the train for her. She consented.
The kind gentleman disappeared into the crowd
and hasn’t since been seen. Now the lady is
wildly advertising in the lost-column for the
gentleman to return her property “to save further
trouble.” When will women cease to believe in
the polite (mostly meaning the aggressive) man ?
I know of one case in which a person on the prowl
to succor beauty in distress was badly beaten.
Beauty, unable to see a cab, was carrying what
the’Murkans call a gripsack, much heavier than
it looked, to Milson’s Point jetty. The prowler
drew near with an elaborate wave of his hat and
asked if he might assist her. “Yes, certainly,”
she promptly said, and put into his astonished
hand her luggage. His object was to “do a bear-
up,” but she, a few paces in the rear, turned a deaf
ear to all his polite remarks, and the discom-
fited male had to trudge along Campbell-street
perspiring under his porter’s work with the decep-
tive gripsack, until he dumped it sulkily down on
the ferry, and the business-like young woman
added insult to injury by taking out a neat purse
and cold-bloodedly offering him sixpence.
There is in Sydney a Foundling Hospital which
acts the Good Samaritan in an unobtrusive way to
as many nameless infants as it can afford to sup-
port. Until recently it was at Bel voir House,
Strawberry Hills, but has lately shifted camp to
Lane Cove-road, North Sydney. The ladies’ com-
mittee, including Mrs. Mackin, Mrs. Jas. Toohey,
Mrs. Wiles, and the hon. sec. (Miss O’Brien), and
others, met last week to discuss a new building,
as the temporary present home is crowded out.
The babies in the house now number about 30,
and the plan of the promoters is to rouse the
mothers’ interest in their offspring by keeping
mother and child together. Experienced found-
ling-authorities say that the mothers.are usually
young, of miserable physique, seldom capable of
either nursing or earning for their children, who
are wizened little creatures needing much coaxing
to enable them to keep their slender hold on life.
This Foundling Hospital committee struggles
against much coid-shouldering from self-righteous
folk, who loftily snort on all such as “ a fostering
■>f vice.”
The Women’s Suffrage League is becoming a
strong enough factor to be courted by politicians.
At the Protestant Hall meeting the leader of the
Opposition made a bid for feminine favor by in-
viting representatives of the worrying sisters on
to the platform, and they applauded whenever the
Cause was advocated by the speaker. But I
never knew a woman yet who was a protectionist.
Freetrade means cheap gloves. So, if the fran-
chise should come in under a Lyne regime, he may
only expect the ungrateful sex to round on him
and vote for anybody who promises them
made-in-Germany shoes. The up-to-date woman
claps but she doesn’t cheer publicly yet, and the
published statement that there were “cheers from
the sec. of the League ” brought a statement from
that lady that she had done no more than tap her
gloves together in a lady-like way. Miss Rose
Scott, the sec. aforesaid, is a dignified, intellectual
lady whom it would be as profane to imagine
hooraying shrilly on a platform as it would be to
picture His Ex. doing handsprings to amuse a
house-party.
The Premier, in all his peregrinations lately,
has been anxiously posing as a domesticated man,
trotting out “my wife” and “my children” in
every speech, and having the former in tow at
every function as a guarantee of good faith. “ We
are a happy family, we are, we are, we are.” This
dinning of domestic unitedness has only to be re-
iterated loud and long enough, thinks the wily
George, and it will make everybody oblivious of
that little well-advertised domestic unpleasantness
in the Cabinet circle.
In the recent chess contests between city and
country clubs played in Sydney, only one chess-
woman was counted in as an expert at that
lengthy and complicated game. She is Mrs.
Houlding, small and bright, wears glasses, and
hails from Narandera ; though on the losing side,
she won in single combat on the chequered board.
Naturally she is from the country. No city
woman would have the long hours of leisure neces-
sary for her to learn to move her knights and
pawns to victory.
A scion of “ one of the Nicest ” passed through
a very distressing experience during last Christmas
week. He and his mother were invited to form
two of a toney house-party at the Hon. Mrs.
Blank’s mountain residence. Previous to de-
parture, Algernon had become financially embar-
rassed to an unwonted extent. “The old man”
was not to be approached, and Algernon “ popped ”
his best dress-suit to meet a pressing need. Then
cash eventuated, and it was “ got out ” in time for
the visit. But “Uncle” had by some accident
left still pinned on. It was at
Mrs. that the fond mother
(a well - meaning clumsy person) remarked
to Algernon, When T took your dress-suit out
of the portmanteau laso night 1 found such a
funny little ticket with a nno, on it pinned to
the coat. Whats that for? nd Algernon,
with a creepy sensation along nis replied
“ Oh ! you see, at the last University barkp it* was
so hot, you know—a lot of our fellows letiKa ur
coats with the doorkeeper—put tickets on ’etn,
you know.” Then there was a pause, while
several people looked hard at Algernon. The
fond mother, with a puzzled expression, presently
resumed, “ Yes; but, Algernon, there was a
ticket on the trousers, too ! ” And Algernon
loudly demanded the butter.
The marriage of Miss Kathleen F. N. Lockhart,
daughter of a well-known border resident, the late
Norman P. Lockhart, of Albury, with Mr. Chas.
Nelson, of Pt. Piper-road, took place on Jan. 13,
at St. Joseph’s, Woollahra. The bride was arrayed
in the orthodox white satin, with an extra long
train, carried by a small pink-clad girl, and some
diamond fixings. Four girls, also in white, with
large and feathery hats, followed the bride, who
was handed over to the happy man by her brother,
Mr. Norman Lockhart, of the Landaninkumtax
Dept. Mr. Lysaght, of Wollongong, supported
the bridegroom through the ordeal, and, after the
ceremony, the wedding feast was held at the house
of the bride’s mother.
Allan’s Musical Magazine No. 2 has gone
into a third edition with a good variety of assorted
alleged songs, as sung by Tivoli favorites, and is
first in the field with the newest craze, “Susie-ue,”
Ada Reeves’s song, arranged as a jerky dance-
measure. The newest idea for dance music is to
get a popular tune—in any time—and fit the hop
to it, calling it a “ Washington Post ” dance. The
“ Village Blacksmith ” appears once more. There
must exist at present a wild craving on the part
of the public for that horny-handed son of toil, for
he stands under his spreading chestnut in every
songbook published during the festive season.
At high-toned weddings now rice is never
thrown. Confetti are the smart substitute for the
vulgar vegetable product—they are tiny, circular
flakes of all-colored tissue-paper, which flutter
elegantly on the newly-wedded pairs in high life,
and are blown off by the lightest breeze, conse-
quently they don’t give the bride and bridegroom
away by tumbling out of their clothes all along the
route.
Three Australian faces decorate a recent number
of the ’Murkan magazine, Munsky’s. In a com-
petition with the photo’ed features of charmers
from both sides of the North Atlantic, the pictures
of youth and beauty from this end of the earth
come out much on top. The daughter-in-law of
Judge Holroyd, of Melbourne, is shown in saint-
like profile ; the other two are Daisy Holly, the
pretty heroine of many gorgeous ballets, and a
halo-hatted Miss Louise Daly, also of Melb.,
hitherto unknown to fame. A confused but com-
plimentary par. in the accompanying letterpress
credits much of the boasted “British beauty’’
visible at the dead-and-gone jubilee to the visiting
womankind from “S. Africa, N.S. Wales, and
Australia.” The “and” sort of puts us outside
the pale. I suppose the Munsky scribe takes this
province to be an island in the S. Pacific, bounded
on the north by a rabbit-proof fence, and on the
other three sides by our ’arbor.
A few Australian “society” journals now
frankly head their social weekly record of hole-
and-corner suburban jumble sales and bun-strug-
gles with the statement that such items are
inserted at so much per inch. This looks like the
thin end of the wedge for bursting up the small-
beer chronicle of social doings altogether except
as an advertising column. One of the pests of
every newspaper-office which sheds the dignity of
print on twopenny-halfpenny festivities is the self-
advertiser, who chronicles her own parties in
manv-adjectived rapture, and sends a copy of the
highly flattering account to each of the papers.
The woman with periodical parties, which are
monotonously recorded month by month in almost
identical words, is a weariness to thousands of
long-suffering “constant readers;” also, the
lady who was received by London’s Mayor
some time ago, and energetically wrote out for
every paper the thrilling episode of her meeting
with His Washup.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“One of these days when Melbourne has re-
covered its lost population, and lots of people are
looking for larger villas to spend more money in,
we shall have a crop of female house-and-estate
agents, who will convert the rooms off the shop
into a servants’ registry-office. The two lines of
business worked by one management ought to be
quite as profitable as a tea-room, anyhow. Three
women opened a house-agency and servant-supply
stores in London, some months ago, and they were
being rushed by customers when last heard of.
For any nice girl, not too young, whose thoughts
incline to widowers in easy circumstances, the
new idea looks promising, because poor bereaved
creatures are likely to be leaving the place where
sainted Maria breathed her last, and why not con-
sult a sympathetic agent in skirts re the change of
residence? If she strikes him when his grief is
hot she may make a deep impression.
“Just now, a muggy, self-important city of
Central Bananaland is all agog over a coming
wedding of unheard-of magnificence. A local
magnate, the largest by a long chalk, has at last
given the signal for his daughter to join in the
bonds, after a long series of forbidden engage-
ments, rumored “ affairs,” filial mutinies and
parental riot acts.
“The New Man, of whom you see crowds on
the Block, attires himself in a little straw hat
with colored ribbons, broad colored sweater, no
waistcoat, big pants turned up, tan boots, and big
hook stick hanging on his arm ; also he wears a
clean shave d la Wilson Barrett.
“ The story goes that an Australian professional
lady, who, some time ago, was understood to be
marrying a man of considerable wealth, con-
cluded her honeymoon by voyaging with her
husband to his native land, only to find that
he wasn’t her husband at all, but that of
another lady who met them on the wharf with
a string of children in one hand and a threat of
bigamy proceedings in the other. Under the cir-
cumstances, the bridegroom bade the artiste a
long farewell and returned to the bosom of his
family, while the shapely bride —went to work
again.
“ Infants, escorted to the Royal panto., bruiss
their little shins badly against Maggie Moore, as
Dick Whittington. One urchin was well-up in
the history of puss-loving Richard beforehand,
but, when the stage-hero appeared, the youngster’s
jaw dropped, and he looked as if he had found
himstlf out in a big mistake. After a bit, ha
whispered mysteriously, ‘ Was Dick a gentleman
or a lady ? ’ ‘A boy ! ’ Scorn gleamed in the
kiddie’s eye, and questions, presumably anatomi-
cal, hovered on his lips, but the subject was hur-
riedly changed to ‘ the cat,’ and, in praise of that
popular animal, he gradually forgot his first expe-
rience of the awful discrepancy between fact and
fancy.
“ Nevertheless, the predestined Mayor warbles
tunefully enough to counteract the slapdash, devil-
may-care dress-treatment of his adiposity. None
of your hole-in-the-corner draping or veiling tac-
tics ; ‘ like it or lump it, the more the merrier,
laugh and grow fat! ’ that or nothing seems to be
the sentiment conveyed by corpulent Dick Whit-
tington’s daring clothes’ cut. H. R. Roberts, as
Sarah, blossoms late in life into quite a fine up-
standing figure of a woman, with auburn bandeaux
over her ears, and a green satin dinner-gown. But
to the last she affects white stockings, and dis-
penses with underskirts, presumably by way of
concession to her comic past. There are good
fairies, of course (two of them so extra scrupulous
as to don queer little superfluous gauze trunks),
and a transformation scene, suggestive of a world
of glass and gilt, peopled by life-size Dresden
china groups. As for the variety items: clog-
danseuse Gertrude Winton wore an effective
scarlet satin bolero over a white chiffon blouse,
which, with a rich black trained-skirt (substituted
for the dancer’s brief red knickers), and a lace
mantilla would be the very thing for Donna
Somebody-or-other at a costume-ball.
“ On the whole, Gov. Hampden seems the most
popular pro-consul on hand in Australia at present.
Without unveiling Brassey, Buxton, or Laming-
ton atrocities, let me just whisper of the appar-
ently lamentable lack of love between Jerry
Smith and his Westralians. The oldest inhabi-
tants prim their lips at the mere mention of * that
pretentious person.’ Nothing more nor less in
England than a highly-respectable * colonel,’ they
whisper darkly ; 4 and he comes out here as Gover-
nor, and when one asks a member of the vice-regal
household 4 How Sir Gerald feels to-day?’ the
chit draws herself up and informs you that * His
Excellency is quite well ’!
44 H.E. aforesaid has, since he came to Aus-
tralia, acquired two sons-in-law, one of whom
local critics will tell you, 4 is dark as a Spaniard.’
The 4 six families,’ conservative in everything,
ha ve exaggerated opinions, let me tell you, on the
color question, and would strike you off their
visiting-lists as soon as look at you for no greater
sin than an un-English shade in your complexion.
Another Miss Smith married Aide St. Leger,
‘that absurd creature who calls himself “Sellin-
ger ” and wanted us to pay for the gravel he chose
to lay down for the benefit of his own wedding-
carriages ’! Meantime, gentle Lady S. trips
about trying to smooth things over—no easy task
with hubby blundering ahead crushing corns and
bunions at every step, and daughters who take
after pa.
44 They do say that the deafness, or selfishness,
shown by a Westralian potentate when he went
up-country lately to open a mine, or railway, or
something, was absolutely horrid. A suite of
rooms in a local magnate’s mansion had been
devoted to the visitor’s use, and when a ball was
given in his honor, one of these apartments was
unavoidably taken over and arranged as a supper-
room. Early in the evening, so I’m told, a most
awful thing happened. The principal guest got
tired or bored, and went and locked himself up in
his ‘suite,’ thus barricading, horrible to relate,
that crucially-important chamber—the banquet-
ting-hall. And nothing on earth could induce
him to open the door. Certainly he afterwards
said he was in bed and asleep, and, as it’happened,
there were two or three* rooms between his inner
dormitory and the hungering multitude outside,
which may have deadened the sound. Despite
all the commotion, he gave no sign then or
afterwards, even expressing no surprise or curiosity
next morning at breakfast when his hosts
lamented excitedly aboutjthe over-night horrors of
the scratch refreshments, gathered in at the last
minute from byways and hedges, so to speak.
And such a collation as wasted its sweetness on
prison air, just through that martinet’s lack of
consideration, has rarely been catered for, even in
the Golden West. Ice and fruit and goodness
knows what, from 4 out of the everywhere into the
here.’
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
The Perth (W.A.) Wesleyans are about to
spend .£BO,OOO in erecting shops on their property.
God and Mammon.
Repartee at Gulgong. A Protectionist
speaker at the portly Premier Reid’s banquet had
made some admissions in favor of Freetrade.
“Ah! you are coming round,” chirruped the
gladly-adipose. “P’raps,” was the rejoinder;
“ but it will be a long time before I am as round
as you.”


Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OF—
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
X
Soft Ca O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SOI- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/0.
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of oollar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Personal Items.
Frank Rogers, Q.C., the new N.S.W.
District Court Judge, was the first to take an
LL.B. degree from Sydney University—over 30
years ago.
Bread-or-Blood Vosper is already a director
of a Collie W.A. coal company, and chairman of
directors of a brewery. Such is the demoralising
effect of politics.
H.M.S. Mohawk—the Rapid’s successor
on the Australian station—is in charge of Com-
mander F. P. H. P. W. Freeman. More than a
fifth of the alphabet !
Vaguely alleged in Melbourne that some
other politician than Turner now haunts the Age
office, and that King David Syme is giving the
new man an order for a fresh Ministry.
The diplomatic Capt. Walliugton, S.A.
vice-regal private secretary, will leave for England
this year. Then, unless some saviour appears
meanwhile, Gov. Buxton will be really stranded.
The Yie. Premier is still plain 11 Mr.
George Turner, Solicitor, etc.,” on the brass plate
on the front gate of his little villa in Carlisle-
street, St. Kilda. ‘ ‘ Etc. ” covers a lot in Turner’s
case.
“ Westralia,” The Bulletin’s now gener-
ally-accepted word, has fallen under the displea-
sure of A. J. Wilson, of the Investors’ Review.
The word, he remarks, is only less abominable
than Westralian mines.
Admiral Pearson, who revisited Sydney
Town Hall the other day, remembers standing on
the site of the Hall before the foundation-stone
was laid. He was then a lightly-built young blue-
jacket, a few years out of his teens.
Dean Marryat (Adelaide) is now 71, and is
showing the weight of years. The Bishop is still
away in England, and he has on his shoulders all
the burden of the diocese with no extra pay to
compensate him. The Dean is a nephew of Capt.
Marryat (the naval novelist); his brother was an
admiral, while his sisters married Governor Fox-
Young, of S.A., and Dr, Short, Adelaide’s first
bishop.
From Maoriland Govt.-whip Mill’s paper .
The deceased [R. B. Foote, a very old settler], who leaves
a family of ten to mourn their loss, was a gentleman
Holding the highest appreciation of reverence, and de-
voted himself to inculcating the spirit of altitude of at-
tainment in all who had the honor and pleasure of his
acquaintance.
One of George IV.’s mistresses, and her
family, resided in old Hobart Town. Her family
had nothing to do with her husband, a
gentleman who had taken a thousand or two to
accept the royal leavings, and bring ’em to this
part of the world. He was a little, weazened man
with a fixed smile and slinking walk. But the
lady and her sons and daughters ! Ye gods, they
were royal ■ Splendid animals ! Showing how it
would be possible to perpetuate the nuisance by
cross-breeding. Mrs. , like her royal para-
mour, had a taste for drink. She was generally
fuddled, but always royal. Once, in St. David’s
Cathedral, Parson Bedford was denouncing the
vices of the upper classes. “ Quite right, Parson
Bedford,” cried the dame ; “ look at me ! Cast
off, when I ought to be settin’ on a throne, with a
crown on my ’ead. ” She was a fine woman, bub
Cockney-bred.
An Adelaide correspondent :
May I add to yours re Fred May, the S.A. mechanicV'
genius ? At 23 he became superintendent-engineer of thte
immense Moonta mines. Built up Martin and Co , Ltd.,
of Gawler, and increased their workers from ICO to 350.
Left them and forged ahead with his brother on their own
firm of May Bros, and Co.—erecting the first portion
of the factory with his own hands. At his death (he died
suddenly) he employed more than 200 men, with a fort-
nightly wage of over i 900. Anan of tireless energy, and
perhaps unequalled in the Auslralias as a mechanical
engineer.
Boucaut, the new S.A. Knight, could have
been decorated long ago, but always neglected to
reply to vice-regal intimations. He practically
admits having said “ yes ” now to oblige the (in-
evitable) lady. They all “admit" that, or else
they say that the crime arose entirely through
drink. Boncaut is 66 years old, and was
Prefliier of the province £2 years ago, while he
appointed himself Judge in’7B. Way, two years
earlier, was Attorney-General under him, and so
claimed the succession to the late Chief Justice
Hanson.
Gov. Brassey recently stated in conversa-
tion that when the Vic. Governorship was offered
to him he was expressly told that the Colonial
Office did not wish him to be lavish. They said,
in fact, that Hopetoun had been far too expensive
a Governor, and had made it difficult for anyone
to follow him, and that they would be glad if
Brassey would tone things down. If this be true,
the Colonial Office people certainly knew their
man in selecting Brassey, who, people think, would,
if he could save money by it, call for tenders for
cutting his hair.
An unpretentious tragedy of the back-
blocks. Wentworth (N.S.W.) Standard office
was burned one evening during the hot spell. The
disaster proved such a blow to he proprietor, J.
B. Woodhead, that he was seized with paralysis
of the brain, and died the same night. The un-
fortunate little Standard was interesting, too.
It was Speaker Abbott’s perpetual trumpeter ; for
it the world moved round this great man. Still,
“barracking” for Joseph didn’t pay all the
bills ; wherefore between-times poor Woodhead
went into his tailor's shop next door and made
pants for Wentworth, irrespective of party and
creed.
A request was recently made by the
pious Maoris of the North Island that the
Diocesan Synod should include King Ma-
huta’s name in the Anglican prayer for the
Royal Family ! The cloth was horrified,
though the daily papers let the disappointed
brown oonvert down easily, merely saying
that “ the scheme fell through ! ”
Quite in keeping with the scanti-
ness of our knowledge about the living
personality of N.S.W. Gov. Phillip was the
difficulty in locating his last resting-place,
which has only recently been discovered
in the floor of Batharnpton village church,
near Bath (Eng.). The house, in that city
wherein Phillip died is said to be haunted
by a spectre in naval uniform, which
it is a pity cannot be imported to Aus-
tralia.
The recently-appointed Bishop of
New Guinea has just landed from ’Ome a
specially-indented laborer for his mission-
field. Interest, however, centres not so
much in the man as in the plant he has
brought with him, which is quite new.
Said plant consists of an up-to-date bicycle,
with an electric lamp— to be employed in
running the pastoral rounds. An interest-
ing item in the rev. gentleman’s kit is a line
of 2000 paper-collars, which will give him a
change a day for over five years, unless he
purposes to trade them off among his fellow-
shepherds, or present one to each nigger on
conversion.
William Gisborne, who died a few
days ago in London, aged 73, was a very
old Maoriland billet-holder, and dated back
beyond the days of Responsible Govt. He
also held a portfolio in Fox’s Ministry
from ’69 to ’72, and was in office for three
months under Grey, but as a Minister he
never amounted to much. Perhaps, if his
front name had been Donald, he might
have had a better chance to show what he
was capable of. In those days the chief
reason why there was any Ministry at all
in Maoriland was the necessity of finding a
portfolio and a salary for Donald M‘Lean.
Out of nine successive Cabinets—those of
Stafford, Waterhouse, and Pollen, Fox’s two
Cabinets, the two Governments of Vogel
and the two of Atkinson —old, commonplace
Donald M'Lean held a portfolio in eight,
and when he hadn’t a portfolio Donald Reid
had one instead. And poor Gisborne, being
mild and English and not Donald, was
quickly crowded out.
B.S. : “That par. from The Bul-
letin's London correspondent, stating that
Passmore Edwards is about to retire from
London Echo, recalls a curious nickname.
The Echo, some five years ago, only kept
one reporter on its staff, depending for
copy on contributions and news - agency
stuff. This one reporter was the smallest
man on the London press. He was worked
almost to death, and used to rush up at
the end of a meeting or a law-case and ask
other scribes for ‘ the bare result—just the
bare result.’ This habit, and his diminu-
tive size, led to his being called ‘ the Bare
Result.’ ‘Here comes the Bare Result’
used often to be heard in Fleet-street as
the little man in the green-black coat and
the shineless belltopper hurried along. By
the way, the first editor of the Echo was
Horace Voules, now Labouchere’s associate
and part proprietor of Truth, and the writer
of many of the smart things for which Labby
gets all the credit.”
PRACTICAL PALMISTRY.
SHE : “Is palmistry true?"
HE : “ Well, I should smile; I'll guarantee to tell
any girl's character by pressing her hand in
the dark. ”
SHE: “ But if she had any character she wouldn't
be there with you! ”
“Tom” Slattery’s ideal public man is
John Hubert Plunkett, the one-time N.S.W.
Solicitor-General, now in an unmarked grave in
Devonshire-street cemetery. Plunkett, who
came to Australia as the nominee of Daniel
O’Connell, fought stormily for r ligion as well as
for politics. Slattery watched over the last
years of Plunkett’s long-lived and lately-deceased
widow.
Bertram Mackennal has now been form-
ally commissioned to execute the Diamond Jubilee
statue of our Gracious Queen for Ballarat. Also,
“Sir Andrew Clarke and Captain Bridge, R.N.,
have consented to act as advisers in London.”
Poor Mackennal ! They will, presumably, drop
into his studio when he is at work on the Queen’s
face, and advise him to put a little more august
majesty into the royal countenance.
Fred M. Bailey, F.L.S., the Q. “Colonial
Botanist,” a scientist of high rank, gets .£3OO a
year—the same as entomologist Trvon, or Chief
Agricultural Clerk Scriven, or travelling dairy-
man Mahon ; just half the salary of fruit-expert
Benson, or of Under-Secretary Peter M‘Lean, a
bung politician; £450 less than agriculture-in-
structor Shelton. “ Some men get the luck.”
Pastor Fitchett got £5OO down from
Smith, Elder and Co. for the English rights of
his “Bleeds,” otherwise “Deeds that won the
Empire.” The Primitive Methodist blood-wal-
lower’s introduction to the firm was in this wise :
A copy of the Australian edition of his “ Bleeds ”
was sent to London Spectator, and J. St. Loe
Strachey got it for review. Shortly after, J. St.
L.S. was appointed editor of the Cornhill, and
reader for Smith Elder. He had so much liked
Fitchett’s “ Bleeds ” that he commissioned him to
write up the Battle of Minden for the Cornhill,
and recommended the publication of an English
edition of the “ Bleeds.”
Dear Bulletin,— Extract from the journal
(in my possession) of a well-known Tas. botanist
and F.L.S., extending oyer years 1847 to 1874
“ London, April 21, 1859. In the tea-room (Lin.
Soo.) after the meeting I met Dr. Cobbold, the
son of the Rev. Mr. Cobbold, who wrote the
account of Margaret Catch pole. He told me that
he tried to obtain the professor’s chair for natural
history at Melbourne, in the University. He said
that his father’s book was bought up and destroyed
by the Reibey family at Sydney—old Mrs. Reibey
being the heroine ; but that the book had become
more famous by its suppression, and a cheap
edition of 35,000 copies had recently been Dub-
lished.”—o. H. Read, Tas. V
S.A. Judge Boucaut’*
acceptance of a knight-
hood will probably be
gall to Chief - Justice
Way, who is his senior.
This, though Way lias re-
peatedly refused knight-
hood, not on account of
any Democratic principles,
but (so it is said) because
he thinks nothing short
of a baronetcy (or a peer-
age) would fit him.
“ The late Henry
George,” says one of his
biographers, “ was a short,
squat man with a scrubby
ginger beard, who pers-
pired profusely.” Which
true statement only shows
once more that people are
not necessarily what they
look like. If a kingly bear-
ing and a fine eagle eye
marked the born leader of
men, which they don’t ?
then actor Mario Majerom
should be the present
ruler of Australia. And
yet short, fat, moist,
scrubby men with specta-
cles keep on running the
show.
Henry Dobson, of Tas-
mania, comes back to the Federal Con-
vention a burnt-out man and covered with
bruises through being tossed by a cow.
Dobson wasn’t a shining Liberal at his
last appearance, and being burnt-out and
run over by a cow are calculated to em-
bitter a man, and bitterness (in a Fat
Man) mostly leads to acute Toryism—if any-
thing can make Dobson more Tory than he
was before.
Prof. Marshall Hall is about again
after his long illness. He carries round a
black beard, which makes him look much
older, and something like a study after Velas-
quez. But his enthusiasm is undamped, and
he is busy writing music for a Greek play,
and “ tomerotic ” poems for the edification of
young ladies and club-smoking-rooms.
C.: “A friend lately applied for an adver-
tised Govt. Educational billet, and wasquestioned
by a certain Minister, who should be an authority
on such matters. But amongst the applicant’s
references was one from Dr. Benson, late Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, and that spoiled his chance,
because, as the Minister remarked, “if this is
from the Archbishop of Canterbury, and you say
his name was Benson, why does he sign himself
‘Edward Cantuar’?”
r Naturalist Gould, in his explorations r •
Tasmanian west coast, was accompanied, 1, s
stated, by a young girl dressed as a boy, who
carried her bluey throughout the journey, and
preserved the secret of her sex until towards the
end. Sophia Peak and River were named in honor
of the lady in leggings
That able criminal lawyer, Mr. F. E,
Rogers, Q.C., who is being appointed a N.S.W.
District Court Judge, is, like most born humorists,
of a somewhat rueful countenance —with the
underlying comedy, however, easily discoverable
upon a closer inspection. It must have been the
humorous aspect of the features, at all events,
which induced “Moonlight,” the bushranger, to
complain during his trial for his life that Mr.
Rogers was laughing at his unfortunate situation;
a supposition which greatly pained Rogers—about
the last man in the world to make mock of
misery. Mr. Rogers resigned his <£2ooo per
annum Chairmanship of the Land Court because
Government refused to give him a Supreme
Court Judge’s pension-status, but it is very possible
that his numerous friends may yet have the grati-
fication of seeing him upon the Supreme Court
Bench.
“ The ‘hero worship ’ to which Prince Ranjit sinhji
has been subjected since his arrival in Australia, and
particularly during the test match which closed
yesterday at the Melbourne ground, took a rather
striking form yesterday afternoon. At the close of
the match , when the Indian batsman was leaving the
ground he was fairly mobbed, notably by the women,
a crowd of whom lined up at the entrance to the
members’ reserve, to see him pass out. — ARGUS.
Two Adelaide men were discussing a pro-
minent M.P. “ You know, I don’t say he’s a
liar,” said one; “ but he confirms my suspicion
that Ananias was a politician! ”
Dear Bulletin, —The white parent of a
half-caste Kanaka, who distinguished himself in a
recent shipwreck, is an ex-sea-captain now living
in Sydney, and who, many years ago, was in
charge of a ship carrying some convicts—whither,
‘or whence, history sayeth not. The convicts
mutinied, murdered the crew, and ordered the
captain to navigate them to the islands, and, being
a prudent man, he did so. When satisfied as to
their course, the convicts deliberated, decided that
he had behaved himself well, and put him ashore
on the first large island they came to. He was a
musician and took his violin with him. A
threatening crowd of savages greeted his arrival,
but Orpheus played to them till they thought him
a god ; brought him unlimited pigs and yams, and
bowed in adoration. Finally, he married the
chief’B daughter; succeeded him, and ruled the
island for years, till a ship called in and he sailed
away—leaving, as was natural, traces of his stay
in the lighter complexions of the rising generation.
—S.K.
The Holy Man
n
T l,r 'o
Ji '°7 “■
§
t y°-y
5 I r,< s^
xj' /'j yi‘f( Irta.
__, ff*d ") fy
Aa £ w r i.f W* l C n 7 7 tt7^
%/A SfaW
K Hrif< M
g
f>- +? Ms.
fe>Uo ? a-C\ a 5
T^ oa ir
CS>a-ff •' C e>. S^ a SV
*h) 5'3
f°" % Wv‘4
{£)hc
Jr-uV^U^
flpd M d 37 ■
T. M. M ation


“ ‘ Who fears to speak of ’9B ? ’ I don’t,”
writes a Brigidine nun from a N.S.W. backblocks
cloister to the shillelah-wielding committee of
Sydney.
It is satisfactory to learn that Joshua
Bros’. Boomerang Brandy is meeting the same
favor in Australasia that it does in Great Britain
and Europe. For the month of Dec., ’97, this
brandy more than doubled its sales for any
previous month in this country, and with the
splendid record and recommendation that it now
has to its credit it should go on “doubling” till
time eternal.*
Sands and M‘Dougall’s “ Melb. Directory”
for 1898 is a massive volume, clothed in crimson
and gold, and containing 1516 p.p. of solid read-
ing matter, likewise a map of Melb. and suburbs
up to date. Moreover, The Bulletin, after long
and patient research, has discovered one feature of
new and special interest in this valuable array of
reading matter. It sets apart a page for the new
addresses of all firms and individuals burnt out by
the late conflagration, the number of victims
being 97.
The Muratti cigarettes are splendidly got
up, and are graded to suit the tastes of all classes
of the community. The “ after lunch ” Murattis
are in tins, 10 for 6d. ; the higher-class Nebka
cost Is. per tin of 10; the “ Bouquets a mix-
ture of Turkish and Egyptian—are a very superior
class, 25 in a tin; while the “Ariston,” the
favorite cigarettes of the Prince of Wales, are in
tins of 25, 50 and 100.*
A RECORD.
Fifteen miles. —This is the length of Ogden’s
Guinea Gold Cigarettes manufactured daily. The
fashionable smoke.
“ three good THINGS ”
. . Madb in England. . .
Holbrook’s WOT “ st »‘ hi “ Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
Liverpool apd Lopdop
®<S lobe Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1863.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Cumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia-
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Mr. f. trescott, of alioe-st., newtown
near Sydney, who SUFFERED from SEVERE
INDIGESTION, writes
“ Two doses of Loasby’s Wahoo relieved me, and by the
time I had taken half a bottle I was entirely free
from pain, and have been well ever since.”
Loaaby’s ‘ WA.HEOO,’
2s. 6(1. Everywhere; Post Free from
Loasby’s ‘ Wahoo ’ Manufacturing Co. Ld
171 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF .
PILSEMER.
Laryely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, —On my way to Manilla,
during harvesting, I stayed one night at a
selector’s place a cßorab. Knowing the people, I
was, after partaking of a good meal, invited into
the best parlor, newly decorated and carpeted,
“ for Christmas. ” Shortly afterwards a boundary-
rider called, and he also was asked inside. His
hungry-looking cattle-dog, Spot, followed at his
heels and slunk down near his owner. Pretty
soon “ Clancy ” lit his pipe, began puffing vigor-
ously, and, as a matter of course, spitting
vehemently. Mrs. looked tragically un-
comfortable, and gazed at Spot, his owner’ and
her brand-new carpet in evident alarm. She
stood it bravely for about a quarter of an hour,
and then, mastering her nerve for a mighty effort,
said : “ Tom, would you mind—er— spitting in the
fireplace ? That—er—carpet was only- put down
—yesterday.” “ I’m not spittin’ on the floor,
ma’am,” said Clancy, quickly and quite seriously—
“ Pm spittin’ on Spot l ” —Steele Penn.
• * » •
On the great fly-bite question :
Dear Bulletin, — Re “ R.H.’s ” statement in “ Aborigin-
alities,” of Jan. Ist, that a fortune awaits the man who
discovers a cure or preventive for fiy-bunged-eyes, I
can recommend a treatment which I first saw tried in
Cambridge Gulf country, the fatherland of flies, and have
since repeatedly used upon myself. The moment the
warning itch is felt, place a speck of moistened tobacco—
not much larger than a pin-head, in whichever corner of
the eyg— almost invariably the inner one—the itch is felt.
Leave the tobacco in the eye for a moment or two]
and the itch and swelling will be gone by the time
the brief irritation caused by the tobacco has ceased. This
cure, it might be said, is almost as bad as the disease, but
the sharp momentary smarting of the tobacco is infinitely
preferable to the lingering irritation of “ bung-eye,” to
say nothing of a swelling which frequently produces com-
plete temporary blindness. As to the fly that does the
damage it is, as far as can be judged by the naked eye,
exactly like the ordinary house-fly, but smaller. In Kim-
berley (W.A.) it stings the lips and back of the hand as
well as the eye, producing similar effects. I have more
than once seen a fly sting my hand, and felt him too for
that matter, hence I speak positively. — A.P.B.D.
From an essay
on “Sunshine,”
sent in by a Tas.
thirteen-year-old
boy in a recent
competition:—
Itis said that bush-
fires are sometimes
caused by the sun
shining through bro-
ken glass bottles,
and set the dry grass
alight it might be
true. ... On the
west coast of Tas-
mania if they get
three days’ sunshine
in three months they
are lucky. One day
aman was sittingout
at the camp fire, and
for the first time in
six months the sun
came out from the
clouds, but before
the man could sing
out to his mates the
sun had gone again,
as he used to stutter
very bad.
. «
A reminis-
cence : Sonne years
ago, on taking
charge of a thresh-
ing-machine, I
noticed amongst
the crew a middle-
aged man of ex-
clusive, not to say
aristocratic, de-
meanour. A ripen-
ing acquaintance
drew from this
Edwards the in-
formation that he
had two daughters
of rare beauty and
desi rableness—
the elder one re-
cently married to
a respectable and
prosperous gar-
dener, the second
fancy-free. Being
younger then than
now, and consti-
tutionally impres-
sionable, I diplo-
matically seized
an opportunity of
appointing Ed-
wards to the captaincy of the elevators, vice
Red Mick on the razzle-dazzle. I found myself
putting on my best behaviour while in the old
gentleman’s presence, and indulging considerably
in day-dreams. But one day, while the machine
was stopped for lunch, a Chinaman came up at
the double, and, without taking Edwards aside,
informed him of a grievous accident which had
befallen his son in-law, the envoy’s brother. It
appeared that the unfortunate Sling Muck, camped
with his load of vegetables at some distance from
home, had turned in tor the night under his
spring-cart ( not on top of the damp, lumpy,
scrunching cabbagee, as this inexperienced paper
would be prone to represent); when the vehicle
tipped, breaking both the botanist’s legs, and
holding him in that tight place for some hours.
Welly ni\ The appreciative Aryans received
these tidings with approval; and a few days
later saw the captaincy of the elevators resumed
by Red Mick, vice Marmaduke Edwards, retired.
—Tom Collins.
» * * *
Extract from a country paper which says
it is the most widely-circulated and influential
journal outside the metropolis of its province :
“ We regret to state that Constable Humpy, our
accomplished and esteemed lockup-keeper, met,
last week, with an accident to one cf his toes,
whereby he will be confined to his room for some
days.”
* * * *
Ed. B.—Have you noticed what a large
proportion of Frank Mahony’s “ bushies ” have
the “monkey” shave hitherto sacred to Wes-
leyanism? I’ve met a great many with a thin
fringe under the chin, but scarcely one with the
full beard but bare lip. Is Mahony trying to
oreate a type ?—P.
* • » •
Writes “ Steff Cassander ” :
About four miles from Wellington (M.L.) is the town-
ship of Karori, or Dismal Town, as visitors have dubbed
it. The houses and “ farms ” are stuck about on top of
hills or down in gullies, and the scattered place is only
approached by a very hilly road. The same lugubrious
families have resided there for the past 30 years, scarcely
any new settlers ever coming that way. The ground is so
poor that they have to bring their own horse-feed from
town. To add to its festive appearance, Wellington has
recently laid out its new cemetery on the most imposing-
looking hill of the lot, and there are already quite a
number of marble monuments sticking out of the dried
soil. Goods are carried to Karori along with the passen-
gers by the daily coach —a conveyance of very ancient
design. One trip out to this township I sat alongside the
driver ; he would only talk of the people who were buried
and the dimensions of their funerals. He had been
driving this coach for 20 years, and the new cemetery had
got possession of all his thoughts. However, as he had
various goods to deliver,-he gave me a rest now and again.
He had to pull up and leave a tennis-racquet at the school-
master’s, a sausage-machine at the post-office, a package
that looked like two bottles containing something good at
another citizen's (Karori is a prohibition district), a small
tombstone at the aforementioned graveyard, and a dried
barracouta at. the blacksmith’s. I was glad when he got
rid of the tombstone, anyhow.
THE NEW DANGER.
MRS. KNAGGER (with suavity, showing flashlight photo, of theatre): “ Perhaps.
my dear, you could tell me who this very bald old gentleman is
sitting in the stalls talking with animation to this gaudy creature?”
Editor Bulletin, — On the Denison dig-
gings, in ’6l, we had pegged out four men’s ground
on Welshman’s reef. Dave and Sam went up the
mountain to cut a few logs to put round the
bottom of the tent, and “Bony Bill” stayed in
camp to make a damper. Got it mixed up on a
sheet of bark about two feet from the fire, and had
the ashes all ready, when—crash ! —a 10ft. stringy -
bark log came end on, spearing down the moun-
tain, then bump against a tree, and rolled
broadside on over the round ball of dough, flatten-
ing it out; then another half-turn, with damper
stuck to the log, just landed it in the hole in the
fire that was prepared for it. “ Blow me,” says
Bill, as the log rolled on into the creek, “ I never
thought Dave would think I wanted a rolling-pin
to make a damper.”—R.F.
Dear Bulletin, — Re the story
about the aboriginal black who could
not only track cats, but distinguish
one cat’s track from another. In
1884 I was camped between Warrego
and Paroo Rivers (N.S.W.), and saw
a half-caste (Albert), about 20 years
old, who knew every one of his mas-
ter’s horses, 45 in number, by their
tracks. I had 20 horses in my party,
and Albert could, after a few weeks,
tell my horse-driver (an Australian,
born white, and a fair tracker) which
horse had gone along, by its tracks.
“ That one Farmer gone along there,”
he would say, and he was always
right. An adjacent tank - sinker
(Davis) had 36 horses, and Albert
could always distinguish between the
tracks of Davis’s horses and mine.
Mr. iWakefield Barton, of Wanaar-
ing, told me that, when Albert was
in his employ, he (Barton) lost a
mare for some months—supposed to
be stolen. Albert was late coming
back with horses one morning, and,
on being asked where he had been,
said “ After Blossom (the mare lost
months before) ; she gone along track
to Paroo.” This proved to be cor-
rect, and the mare was found. He
actually remembered the tracks of a
mare which he had not seen for about
half-a-vear. — H. W. Ford.
* * * •
A droughty - Northern - back-
blocks episode : For months we had
been scooping holes in the sand cf
the creek to get water. Then we had
to get supplies from a hole some
three miles away per water-cart. One
day there was rain a few miles up
creek, and our water-drayman, seeing
the creek rise, turned back without
filling his cask. At the crossing the
water rose into the dray, and, to keep
dry, our carrier got into the barrel.
But the water rose higher still,
floated the barrel out of the dray,
and nearly drowned the drayman.
From drought to drowning.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin, —My long experience on
the Darling teaches me that the numerous local
“looneys” didn’t originally get “ ratty ” there,
but, asaru’e, were mad when they first arrived
at that muddy-banked river. Cities and coast
towns also have plenty people with wheels in
their heads, but they put them into asylums
whenever possible. That is probably the main
reason why the Darling and her back-country so
attract lunatics. There they can wander about
undisturbedly, and talk to themselves, and their
dogs, and their billy-cans till they’re hoarse, with-
out interference. The number of cranks of all
sorts and from all parts of the earth hidden in
hollow logs, deserted huts, and bends of creeks
and rivers out back is simply astonishing, and
knocks Coghlan’s lunatic statistics clean out of
shape. The common belief in the country is that
everybody on the Darling is ‘’balmy,” and the
popular saying, “He’s from the Darling—he’s
‘got ’em,’” probably originates from the well-
known Darling-pea plant, which drives horses and
cattle crazy after eating it. And this recalls that
a lot more Darling peas grow' on the Macquarie
and Castlereagh (N.S. W.) rivers than ever grew on
the Darling, or anywhere else to my knowledge.
—6 xB.
* * * *
A Maclean (N.S.W.) beach-miner claims
a most remarkable recovery. He was felling
a tree in the bush when a limb struck him
on the head and laid him out. When he recovered
consciousness he made for the nearest house, ten
miles off, and then found that either his dates
were very much out or he had lain unconscious for
six days. It had rained heavily most of the time,
which was probably the reason why he wasn’t sun-
struck or moon-blinded, and why snakes and ants
didn’t get at him ; and his luck in not being dined
upon by crows was something phenomenal.
* * * *
Apropos recent Bulletin yarn concerning
locking-up of an aboriginal to chop policeman’s
firewood. Writer knew a drunken tailor in a coast
town jf Bananaland who thus described the
method by which he was incarcerated. “You
see, boss, I can go on the booze forty bloomin’
times and never get into trouble. But the day
old Sergeant Murphy’s pants want repairin’, or
his Sunday coat gets out-at-elbows—then booze is
sure to land me in the jug. I got it reckoned
that the Murphy family wants patching up every
two months—and every two months I’m run in for
a week’s hard.
* * * *
J.D. : “Was on a spur of Mt. Wellington
(Tas.) the other day, just after the bush-fire had
passed, and saw a tree 500yds. up the face of a
ridge above the coach road topple and fall. Before
the sound of the crash arrived we saw a black-
and-white streak shoot out of the cloud of dust
and smoke and come straight towards us. It was
HARD AND SOFT.
NEPHEW: “ Uncle, what do they call soft drinks?"
UNCLE: “ Oh, lemonade, ginger-beer, and that stuff!"
N.: “ And what do they call hard drinks?"
U. (with a reminiscent gurgle) : “ The drinks that I get on
Sunday, my boy. They’re about the hardest to
get that I know of! ”
the tree, minus its branches—l4oft. of straight
bole, 9ft. in diameter at the butt —doing a slither
down the mountain side. And how did it cbme!
It skipped across the siding road within a few
yards of a passing vehicle, carried away the top
rail of the embankment fence, shot straight down
through the scrub for another 150yds., and planted
itself wrong end up, and with a mighty groan, in
the bed of the gully immediately below the feet of
our scared party. We were safe on the opposite
side of the gully. N.B. That spear whizzed
all right.”
* * * •
Right-thinking folks may sneer and snuffle,
but without “blanky ” the bush Australian is ab-
solutely lost. He can express more with that
little, innocent word than many people can in two
columns of high-flown technicalities. From an
old mate I once received the following letter :
Dear Dick, —Blank it!
Ever your cobber,
Bill Mayne.
I understood. I knew what poor Bill meant
better than if he’d filled in four pages.—R.H.


Warner’s Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.*
A CHANGE
■
The name and goodwill in connection with the word “Dunlop” having been acquired from the Dunlop Cycle Company
Limited— makers of the famous ....
by the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company Limited, in deference to the wishes of Dunlop Tyre customers, we have
decided ....
. , TO , .
adopt forthwith the name of Ariel Cycle Company Limited, as makers of
ARIEL CYCLES
The design, quality and manufacture of Ariel Cycles wdll be identical with that of the
Dunlop Cycles, whilst all the many World’s Records, etc , and Testimonials belonging to
the Dunlop Cycle Company, and made on Dunlop Tyres, will apply with equal force to
the Ariel Cycles, and the
ARIEL CYCLE COMPANY LIMITED
(Late Dunlop Cycle Company Ltd.),
Head Office: 116 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS— (Signed)
TH© Austral Cycle Agency Limited.
Head Office: 139, 141 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; 391 George Street, Sydney.
Depots at Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Charters Towers, Warrnambool, Launceston, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington.
Manager.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice mil be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on Mis.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
P.R. : Thanks. Geo. Robertson and Co., book-
sellers, George-street, Sydney Rob.: Not strong enough
for direct reproduction ; one or two may serve as sugges-
tions. You have a good idea of drawing, and should study
carefully L.M.D. : “Precept” too long and dull..
A.P.: Considering 8.E.: Ditto Philos : One may do.
....' Cocksparrow : Naughty, but not novel ... F.C.: Yarn
abbut the old woman who gathered up the wedding-party s
rice “ into her handkerchief,” and took it home for “ her
Xiqas. dinner,” is spoilt by too much attractive verisimi-
litude. Why didn’t she borrow a match from you, where-
with to roast grains before devouring them on the church
steps? ... Mirani : Long for merit. J.D. : Idea fre-
quently used Native : Dull par H.C.S.: Declined.
Newcastle Onion : Can’t use . ...C.M. (N.T.): Long-
standing locomotor-ataxy, depending on comprehensive
cel)-degeneration, is incurable, whatever the quacks tell
you. A good tonic may keep you from getting worse, if
you live a pure and vegetable life —without women, wine,
tea, coffee, tobacco, or any strange crimson sin. As you
grow older you get worse, as a matter of course we all
get worse. Consult none but a qualified man, and don t
pay high prices for “ elixirs.” Alice: “ Idols” no good.
Hector P. : Ventilate locally A.G. : The Suffield
pamphlet only aims to show that Suffield was probably
guiltless ; the question who was guilty, if anyone, is “ off
its beat.” As a matter of fact, if the available evidence
was enough to jug Suffield, it was enough to hang a cer-
tain “ other fellow ” ten times over, But no blame is im-
puted to the other fellow be3'ond the blame—bad enough
of letting Suffield go to gaol for his offence. Whatever he
did to the girl, if he did anything, was done with her
consent, and concerns nobody but themselves
C.J.C. (S.A.) : Would only serve as suggestions. Memo,
posted p.M‘C. : The two kinds doubtless fetch re-
spectively what they’re worth, and, anyhow, you couldn t
expect the employer to run counter not only to his own
pecuniary interest, but to the declared preference of his
customers Philip J. : Same weary, old, reminiscent
swagman. And your swagman doesn’t even “ reminisce ”
readably . Ponte : Thoughtful and interesting, hut too
didactic for B Klondyke : Life and death history of
Melbourne litigant Slack too well-known to be dished-up
in your fashion J-pen : Fairly good work, but too
prosy for B. Should be able to use it elsewhere A. G.
Wood: Acceptable C. Squirt : “Sacred name” jokes
are inadmissible —on mere grounds of public decency
A.M’F. : You are confusing mathematics with geometry,
which is merely one branch of mathematical science
A.E.W. : If the w-hole thing wasn’t a gag, your statement
might be libellous upon the starter. You are right,
however, in holding that no club - secretary should
run horses... R. Frederick: Fine, able-bodied lie
Backblocks : Do you send as new that story about the
drunken race-judge who, when he saw a black and a grey
pass the post together, declared that the piebald won ?
That yarn appeared in about the first issue of The Bulle-
tin, and it was grey-headed then Anon : The Sarah
Sands Hotel, The Bulletin is told, was called after the
ship of that name, in which the builder and owner of the
pub. came to Australia, about 1853 A. Connor : Some
good ; some bad ; rest chestnuts Abydos : May use—
with some alteration .... F.F.E. : Pathetic, but hardly
force enough .Hamish : Deadly-lively ; you lack entirely
the dramatic touch. ,J.J. O’M. : Unconvincing; factory-
made pathos . Pakaru : Some interest, but too incon-
sequent and gossipy for B L. Blanch : Clever, but too
slight. Try something with more story in it Weka:
It would need too much alteration .... J. Lyttleton : Don’t
remember prospecting item. None of others any good.
... J.F.M. : Dry as the Cobar road .... Rub : Add “bish,”
and there you are! Croydon : Must be humbug, be-
cause certain human qualities are assumed to be influenced
by planets named at random after gods arbitrarily credited
with the qualities in question .... P. 5.11. : Sketches un-
available Rupert H. : Not within a mile of suitable
Wonga : Amateurish .... 11.0. T. (Rakaia): Some merit—
not enough . Emedo : But that isn’t the reason. To
Charles 11. and George IV. the world probably owes the
fact that “royal blood” is at present breaking out in
boils and pimples in all sorts of men, women, and places.
The scrofulous puddle of the latter ruffian finds a habitat
even in Australia, and the amazing fact in this revolting
matter is that they who are polluted by the Hanoverian
sang bleu in their veins are not ashamed of their shame.
There is any amount of bastard royalty knocking
about and priding itself on its descent Gooup :
“ Our opinion ” is that it ought to be fastened tight to a
southerly buster and blown out of all human knowledge.
O.H. : Article begins—“ He is one of the most inter-
esting men at the N.S.W. Bar. He has the advantage of
a fine appearance, tall, and what might be called graceful
figure.” That will do, thanks Hector : The old sun-
downer will never “sing” any more C. : “C .re for
fly-bite—get a bee to sting the place.” Young man, are
you poking borak at this venerable paper? E.R. : Dull.
Torre : Several large, hollow places where the ideas
ought to be P.M. : May do .... 6xB: There should be
something in that item, but it’s too close to
smiles as you put it A.H. (Melb.) : Thanks
Dry-neck :’ Unprintable .. A.T.W. : Call at Bulletin
office when you visit Sydney Timothy : That Bishop
story 1800 years old M.F.K. (M.L.): Held f«y illustra-
tion Philos : Please call. Your verse sent tor illustra-
tion .... Gilded West: Not up .... Wattle : It’s a boys’
yarn 0n1y.... Sque : 25-line “Sonnet to the Moon” far
too novel. When you call the moon “ queen of night ”
you want to break it tc her gently ; she’s nervous. Also,
why trouble to metrically address pale Luna after the
immortal lines of that Yankee paper's stipendiary bard
All hail, thou glorious moon,
Bright as a new tin-can ;
Thou fairest, purest, roundest source
Of bread and cheese to man.
Kumaroo : Nothing very surprising in it Tim
Bobbin : Sorry, but you must abuse your father through
some other medium G.P. : One Man One Vote is the
law in N.S.W. It was enacted during Dibbs’s last
Ministry B.A. : “The only answer he got was from
the howling wind.” Please consider us the howling-
wind ... S.A. (Zeehan) : Our opinion of Rhodesia from
that standpoint is wholly unfavorable Michael B.
(W.A.) : Do men take ladies into public-houses and shout
whisky for them out vour way ? Grip: Good. Name
and address? Quartpot : Both unlikely-looking
Seebohm : No ; Sydney couldn’t well spare John Norton’s
Truth, which paper The Bulletin always carefully reads
right through, and then complacently leans back in its
chair and crosses its hands upon its fat stomach, in the
comfortable conviction that it must itself be, after all, an
eminently respectable and “right-thinking” organ ....
Mendo : To talk of a spiritual cure for dipsomania is
moonshine. The thirstomaniac, when the fit comes on
him, is subject only to spirituous influences.... . J.B. : The
“morbid sex-element ” is not “predominant in Bulletin
yarns.” During the last three months sex only motived
or influenced ten yarns out of thirty or more. The reason
you and similar well-meaning people continually reiterate
that fallacy is probably because sex-yarns are some of the
most artistic and impressive that appear in B.—naturally
enough, seeing Sex is at the root of Literature as it is at
the root of Life Paratoo : The four best lines :
Nightly 1 used to meet my sweetest
Nightly she used to come to me.
And we used to roam together
Nightly by the sounding sea.
Then we used to throw the rest into the W.P.B _G.M
(Hawthorn): Some, very good lines in “ Michael ” and
some that are awful and hopeless John Power : They
want so many oz. of silver to be legally worth loz. gold,
and all silver presented at the mints to be bought at the
price thus fixed and coined ; (2) The U.S. is interested as
a great silver-producing country ; (3) It isn’t necessarily
the rupee that fluctuates. One year a sovereign and. 10
rupees are the same value ; ten years later a sovereign
and 15 rupees are equal. The Britisher says the beastly
uncertain rupee has fluctuated ; to the Hindoo it is the
beastly fluctuating sovereign that won’t keep still:
(4) The florin has ah artificial value put on it by law ; its
silver contents are only worth Is. or Is. 2d. And it only
has its artificial value in certain places. Send 20,000
florins to some place outside the British empire to pay
£lOOO debt and they would only fetch about £4OO
J. Mac. (B.B.): One may serve as a suggestion ... Alone :
“ Hymn of Love ” is an attempt to analyse a butterfly
with a circular saw Chips : Hard to say. Probably the
United States is as good as any A.P.B.D. : Will boil
down; good ideas in it W.K. : Declined with cold
shudders ... H.E.R. : “ And with one gasp he fell dead.”
And some of the literature we get keeps us falling dead
all the time Grip : We are off theological problems,
and the office chaplain is out ...'..Tim Bobbin : Poem crude
and awful. Also, the person you mention never was “ a
sort of engineer” at Mulgoa J.P. : When one yarn
“reminds you” of another yarn, the other yarn is
generally so like the first yarn as to be hardly worth
printing H.M. (Soup Kitchen): Very, very old. ..
Sembo : Bulletin isn’t “ afraid to let anyone oppose its
views in its own columns.” What it objects to is print-
ing long letters from pompous bores, “ whose attention
has been directed,” &c. Abuse us interestingly—and in
your matter goes. We have no feelings—haven’t had for
years. W.P. (Auckland): Right. Piccolo : Dull.
A.G.H. : Too much gush and limelight for our readers.
J.L. : Not a gleam. Yareeria :16 fearsome Scotch
verses declined R.A. : Too long—and no novelty
Pham: So “the birds carold in their glee,” did they?
.... Jackeroo : Poem rejected with curses H.O.M. :
Idea wants better treatment P. : Put your name to
animadversions on Dr. Roth, and we’ll print. As it’s a
purely scientific matter, why desire to fight anonymously ?
Red Seal (Rockhampton): Don’t waste that glorious
effusion on this soured paper. Warm the boys with it on
lodge-nights, after the W.M. has been squaied to the ninth
circle, and the J.W., and the 8.F., and the 0.K., and the
rest have been elevated to the third bottle. Then it’ll go
with a bang 6xB : He has probably learnt his lesson :
give him another chance F.C.: No points.
FRANK NANKIVELL, the Victorian Artist.
Photo., Falk.
The Holy Roman Empire, said Yoltaire,
was so-called because it was neither holy nor
Roman, nor an empire; and “Parramatta lime-
juice,” according to the Melb. manufacturers
thereof, is so designated because it isn t limejuice
and isn’t made at Parramatta. The Bulletin,
for its part, fails > see any distinction between
vending citric-acid and-water as the juice of the
lime and any other way of obtaining money upon
false pretences.
M‘llwraith’s was the first Australian Pre-
mier’s voice raised against the general taxpayer
being saddled with the expense of Government
House balls. “Let those who dance there pay, ”
he said.
The two propeller-blades recently lost at
sea by the German s.s. Koenigin Luise weighed
each 2f tons; and as the metal is manganese-
bronze, some idea may be gained of the. money
put into these huge modern locomotive hotels.
The Australian Cycle and Motor Car, Ld.,
has made a move which will make itself felt
throughout the bicycle trade in Australasia, the
splendid American Humber being now retailed by
the firm at .£26 for ladies’ machines and <£2s for
gent’s.*
Great Stock Sales. —The numbers of
stock sold through the Homebush Yards for 1897
are over 113,000 cattle and over 2,596,000 sheep.
Of this number, Pitt, Son, and Badgery, Ltd.,
have sold 34,549 cattle and 531,239 sheep : the
next firm being 5614 cattle and 79,238 sheep less.
As this splendid position is the result of good con-
duct of business and best prices obtained, the
numerous constituents will be pleased at the above
figures.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave.
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
of Government by Contradiction. Both N..S.\V.
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published.
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.
One In Every Five.
About one person in every five suffers from
some form of liver disease. Sallow complexion,
pain in right side or under shoulder-blades, coated
tongue, bitter taste in the mouth, flatulency, sour
stomach or indigestion. Warner’s Safe Cure is
not the only specific for indigestion, caused by a
sluggish liver, but it has effected many cures
where other so-called “ specifics ” have failed, and
of years standing. Mr. John Baird’s (Kennedy
Terrace, Brisbane) experience is an illustrative
instance of the value of this medicine, and in a
letter dated Nov. 27, 1897, he says: “Having
suffered for several years from indigestion, I was
induced to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and after
using about 12 bottles I felt like a new man. I
have advised many others to give it a trial with
equally satisfactory results, and confidently recom-
mend it to anyone suffering in a like manner.”


THE COMING RESURRECTION.
"Mr. Alfred Allen has decided to stand at the ensning N.S.W. general election and a committee has been formed to secure his return. Mr. D. O'Connor, M.L.C., was among thoae
on the platform at Mr. Barton's meeting on Wedaesday. Mr. John M'Elhone," M.P., writes: 'A number of electors of Fitzroy division have lately asked me if I would be a candidate at
the next general election. Ishall be a candidate for this division at the next election.' Tom Slattery has announced his intention of opposing Reid."


THE FEDERATION FESTIVAL.
CONVENTION DELEGATE : “I am expected to wade through all this, but what about Federation?"
VICTORIA: “ Federation? Dear me! perhaps it's off, sir!”


The Great Denta)
Divorce Case.
d
n
'i
\
ITEMS FROM THE EVIDENCE:
Did you suggest to R ds that he should tak
some Kola Nut Tonic?
Witness : I may have ; I think he was taking it
at the time. I think that is in answer to a tele
gram from him saying he could not come up that
night. (Laughter.)
Another Witness.
Have you had a drink to-day ?
Witness : Nothing but a glass of water.
Mr. W 1: Perhaps some Kola Nut Tonic"
(Laughter.)
Witness: Yes.
Do you find it good for you ?
Witness: Yes, it is fine and strengthening.
(Laughter.)
The Foreman of the Jury asked the witness
several questions about the size and architecture
of the petitioner’s house at Strathfield.
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Fat and makes you Strong, beg u
intimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET FOR3M.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
‘ ALOK ”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter : What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “Oh ! my favorite reviver—
“ ALOK,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOR
(C
ALO K.”
Mighty “ ALOE ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIC
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MILK.
If You Do Not Specially Order
“ALO K,
THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS
HITHERTO—
IN ITS BITTER FORM.
IN EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM,
WITH SODA WATER,
'IPK/Mp'rGMSS.
2s. 6d. A 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
—ASK FOR—
“ALOE”
(REGISTERED).
MIGHTY “ALOK”
PHARMACY:
337 George Street
(NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P. OFFICE),
SYDNEY.
In the Morning—
Before going to Fisher and Co.’s for KOLA
NUT TONIC.
'l'
o
tP
OLD
HNS
a:
SUNBU,
fin a
•*1
vO
€?
HA
&iC
fy
2^V£
H
Y
p *o
_Fetors
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTELi opposite St. _
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
lull’s Marvellous ||| I6STOSER
£
c/2
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
*
33
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
An Australian lady, now residing in England, says : “Truly, Mr. Holland, my hair
is a walking advertisement for your Hair Restorer. It gives me pleasure to recommend it
everywhere I go. All my friends who are using it through my recommendation speak most
highly of its wonderful hair-producing properties. It is so pleasant to use too. And it
keeps the head free from scurf.”
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
TJxiited Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
SYDNEY — Hi Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LA UNO ISSTON —Hedley Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of tree Trial.
PUDUcanons.
The Music Book of the Year,
• THE
Melbourne Musical Magazine
PRICE, Is. ; POSTED, Is. 2d.
P' Allan’s
fn \ hLjyww >«•—»
Musical
Magazine
&
*W«»= «
•***»•"*'»"
M«*nu«nn *f rmw*>*i
H, *£«;•-
contents:
1. Oh, Yes We Did. Sung by Tom Woottwell.
The Greatest Chorus Song ever sung in Australia.
2. I’m Wanted. Sung by Tom Woottwell.
Witty and suitable for clever Amateurs.
3. Pat Malone forgot that he was Dead.
Sung by Johnny Coleman.
An Irish Comic Song of Exceptional Merit.
4. In the Luggage Van Ahead. Sung by
Miss Onslow Maokay.
A Touching little Song with a Story.
5. Love’s Sweet Story. R. M. Stults.
A Charming Ballad suitable for a Concert Number.
6. Say Yes. A Pretty Encore Song.
7. Could You? Would You? Should You?
Another “Tit for Tat.”
8. The Village Blacksmith. ♦Veiss.
The Song that will Never Die.
9. Many Happy Returns of the Day.
The Popular Birthday Song.
10. Oh, the Ocean Wave May Roll.
The Popular Rollicking Chorus Song.
11. Drinking. The Popular Bass Song.
12. Susie-ue, New Washington Post Dance.
Founded on the Popular Song.
Obtainable from all Music and Booksellers in
Australia and New Zealand, or direct from the
Publishers.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary
Limited,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
LLANa^^
i Lists
I P'AKO DV£TS kM«,r r-Q «
•Bier Contain i Sif | ' .
Greo. Rotoertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale & Retail Booksellers & Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
.’Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
JL Price Warring. Is. 3d.
THEY RE SATISFIED NOW
. THETVEGOT MINERVA
SOAP.
U?
n
fi
%
A
//
Nothing is of More Importance than the Quality of your TOILET SOAP. In the Nursery the Wise Mother remembers the
delicate sensitiveness of her baby’s pretty pink skin, and uses MINERVA. Why should adults be less wise in regard to them-
selves’ MINERVA SOAP maintains the natural texture of the skin, and, because of its rare medicinal properties, acts as an
antidote for stubborn prickly heat and itchings and chafings of all kinds. Of a peculiar, healthy aroma, which lasts right to the
end, it is an elegant looking article, and is, moreover, the greatest cleansing soap in the market.
Mr. W. A. DIXON, Registered Analytical and Consulting Chemist, Laboratory, 97 Pitt-street, Sydney, says“ I have
analysed several samples of Minerva Soap, and have to report that it is a superfatted, milled Soap, impregnated with soothing and
antiseptic medicaments. It is evidently made of the Purest Materials, and is Absolutely Neutral- that is, it does not contain any
free alkali such as is found in cheap soaps, and which, whilst it promotes the formation of a lather, renders the skin hare and dry.
For this reason Minerva Soap may be used with safety on the most delicate skin. It contains a very low percentage of water, and,
therefoi’e, a high percentage of actual soap—higher than any other I have examined.
(Signed)
F. 1.5., F.C.S.
MINERVA SOAP is on sale by Messrs. PATTINSON & CO. at their Ten Branches, and by all other Chemists in N.S.
Wales ; as well as by the Dealers throughout Australia.
MINERVA SALVENA is an infallible internal remedy for Scrofula, Scurvy, Sores, Cancerous Ulcers, Eruptions of the Shin,
and all other Blood and Skin Diseases. It is free from all deleterious ingredients.
MINERVA OINTMENT is an efficacious preparation for Sores, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions, Contusions, Piles, Ulcers, Chapped
Hands, Cuts, Wounds, Chilblains, Bites of Poisonous Insects, &c., &c.
If your Chemist fails to stock MINERVA, send direct to any of Company’s Australian Depots, as follow Sydney, 56
Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Elizabeth-st. ; Adelaide, 98 Currie-st. ; Brisbane, 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st., or Messrs.
Taylor, Colled ge & Co.


“ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
y»
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “ FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing’
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
/4k
• ?
' .ueiuuunie,
“ 24th September, 1897.
‘To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“Gentlemen, —
‘ I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
•continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
S’ISHJtSR.’S TOUXTIG
-IS THE —
N eatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. od. per Bottle,
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Go.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Faulding & Co.;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Go.
J)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
< This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d.; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d., 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &0., 6 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
DR
$
Mswati!
pisnuijjj*
SfTciAßf
2 r rNBV : «
A'-V'/V
*y/u
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
*
«•
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWINC AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial eifects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT' henow ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.” — (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church , North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ' FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTlON.— Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked EJSTO'S * FRUIT SALT’
Without it, you have been imposed on by d WOE T.HL ESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
warranted
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
VICTORIA AMD TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ ~ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers „ £1 la, „
Cloth Bound Books £lOO
5E
this tof fort-ion
7
GHTSOAP/
Wf/Y DOES
€ . A WOMAN
"took old"
SdoUERTHAN
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to BURGESS BROS., HOBART,
' J. mckenzie & co., launceston.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
'
ll®
■
■
1
. PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP , .
Gold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores *$ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Ma/nwjiwj Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
FRINGES,
Kdtural Curly, from 3/6 each,
PLAITS arid TAILS,
2t)ln. lons, f/0, all real hair,
CUTTINGS & COMB,ING9
up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H V/igz'll,
110 William Street, ,
corner of Palmer-street,
» _ SYDNEY.
Cable Tram Will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price LLt.
Proippt attention'giyen to Country C-rJ*f a
POWER WITHOUT GAS OG S'iEAiii
THE
Hercules Oil
(LAND OR MARINE)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
J xplosions Imposs'ble
Always Ready for Use
V
m
mm
■
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST. ? SYDNEY.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Elat Tenors, brass
and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
and silver; cash, &o. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Sta*._jn.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3/-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12/6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/6. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia,’ giving l ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
t'-W” Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
Fire, business will be carried on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSELL ST., and 234 FLINDERS ST
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. KING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
And especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF;
Australia gives us BILLY TEA,
By which we play ’em both.
If “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold their
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !! !
Let them “ ti-ain ” upon GRANUMA,
“ The finest of the wheat.”
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA !
—From “Bards of the Wood Blocks.”
THIS IS TO CERTIFY that,
since the issuance on 9th January, 1897, by the Insurance Superintendent of New York
State, of his official Certificate accepting and endorsing its 52nd Annual Report, the
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY has filed said Report with the
Insurance Departments of
Eighty-two Separate and Distinct Governments
throughout the civilised world.
This Report has been scrutinised and accepted as satisfactory by every one of such
Governmental Departments, and this Company is to-day operating under the super-
vision and v with the sanction of a larger number of the civilised governments of the
world than any other life insurance company.
New York, Ist Nov., 1897. RUFUS W. WEEKS, Actuary.
This Company requires the services of a First-class AGENT in the City and Suburbs.
THOMAS P. FUB.VES, General Manager.
H€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,
76 PITT STREET, SYJ3NTEY.
Important Announcement to our Oity and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALS
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Sountry, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent stall.
83&“ Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltek Bkadley & Co., 3M George-st,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The test matches come into serious conflict
with the’Federal Convention, which is struggling
hard to gain the attention of Young Australia.
If John Norton isn’t in next N.S.W. Par-
liament, it will be his own fault. For (say)
Waterloo, he would be a “moral”; rumor says
he has designs on Black's seat for Gipps.
It is muttered that, just before the general
election, a political bombshell, now being packed
and fused, will be exploded against a prominent
politician. Of course, there is a woman in it.
Two women, in fact.
“The managing committee of the Melb. Women’s
Hospital consists almost entirely of women, yet
women doctors find it almost impossible to secure a
footing in the institution. The appointments are
-made by ballot, and if there be in the field a male
doctor possessing what is called ‘a good appearance’
and pleasant manners, he may rely upon the support
of a majority of the lady managers. Within the last
few months three lady doctors of ability and unim-
peachable character have tendered their applications
for subordinate positions on the resident medical
staff of the institution, bid they have all been igno-
miniously beaten at the ballot box by the male can-
didates for the positions."— Ex.
According to S.M. Herald (10/l/’9B)
Tomjoe Byrnes, of Scalyland, declares that the
boundary-line cannot divide the interests of
Queensland and N.S. Wales. He will find that
the color-line will, though.
The details of a motion, pledging the
N.S.W. Govt, to reduce the duties on wines and
spirits, occupied the attention of a coterie of
Sydney publicans last week. Reid and Want v.
the holy joes of the Freetrade Cabinet is ex-
pected to be the issue.
Premier Reid, in his speech at Hamilton
(N.S.W.), said he was “the first Minister who
had pluc-k enough to put a 3 per cent, loan on the
market.” Which is wholly untrue; it was Premier
Seddon, of Maoriland, who floated the first 3 per
cent, loan, and Reid only followed in his wake.
Poor little Denmark was foolish to ask the
Powers (as per cable) for such a guarantee of per-
manent neutrality as Belgium’s. Belgium owes
hers to her position as point d’appu i for both
France and Germany, whereas no Power has any-
thing to gain by Denmark’s permanent neutrality.
Towns still actively running for the billet
of Federal capital : Albury, Wentworth, Corowa,
Bathurst, Goulburn, Eden, Parramatta (N.S.W.),
and Ballarat and Maryborough (Vic.). Others
that have lost wind temporarily are expected to
recover and come on again as soon as Convention
affairs hum.
If the Reid Ministry lasts till the 19th of
Aug. next, it will be the longest-lived N.S.W.
Government up to date. At present, Parkes holds
the record, his third term having lasted four
years and 15 days. Dibbs, whose third Ministry
lasted two years, nine months and 11 days, occu-
pies third place.
At the end of each session, a certain mem-
ber of N.S.W. Assembly sends a letter to every
voter in his electorate, in which he sets forth some
of the noble things he is doing for his bleeding
country, and asks for a continuance of sup-
port. And yet they say that members don’t earn
their “ six quid.”
Now said that Treasurer Holder has
changed his mind, and that, deaf to the persua-
sions of Kingston, he will appoint himself S.A.
Agent-General when Playford returns. Playford
will, in that case, if he can win a seat in Parlia-
ment, go back to his old office of Treasurer, which
he vacated when he went to London.
The N.S.W. Premier says that owing to
the loss of the probate-duties it will be necessary
to stop payment of the municipal subsidy. But,
seeing that he himself shoved through an Act
which declares that the subsidy shall be paid, the
chances are that the enraged municipal fathers
will sue him for the money and recover it by levy
and distress on G.R.’s shiny pot-hat, rather than
go without. A tigress deprived of her young isn’t
a circumstance to an alderman done out of his
subside.
Certain letters mixed up with a big “dum-
mying scandal ” are in type in Sydney, and when
they get out—which they must do when N.S.W.
Parliament grants a Commission to enquire into
the matter—the ruin ot\a number of pretty big
people will be assured. The exposure of the
scandal will shake squatterdom to its centre.
The Courier on the return of Tomjoe
Byrnes j “ A good Queenslander is a good
Briton.” Considering that Tomjoe rose to power
on the vote that is essentially anti-British, and
considering also that for Tomjoe to avow himself
a ‘ good Briton ” would undoubtedly cost him the
Irish vote that has made him—-the humor (or
irony) of this remark is fine indeed.
At the third Convention, Tasmania will
probably have to put up most of the time with
nine representatives. Braddon is ill, and Dobson
has been much shaken-up by a cow, so they will
probably have to take spells turn about. Any-
how, nine representatives is just the number
which Tasmania (and N.S.W.) ought to have—
the symbol of nine tails that beat as one.
One Bulletin prophecy, anyhow, seems in
a fair way to be realised. The N.S.W. general
election isn’t absolutely due till the latter part of
July, but this paper said that if the finances were
very awful it would probably be held before the
Ist J uly—the day when the deficit is supposed to
come to light. The finances seem moderately
awful, anyhow, and the election is fixed for June.
A recently-announced knighthood recalls
that the recipient, although a bigoted Tory, once
won an election for the Labor-party. At the time
woman’s suffrage was before Parliament, the
Tories fought it tooth-and-nail, and one of their
strongest weapons was a brilliant series of articles
in the Ass paper, contributed by the Tory afore-
said, proving that woman had been at the bottom
of all the devilment in the world’s history. The
women got their vote, however, and, when elec-
tion-time came round, the Labor-party re-printed
those articles, and circulated them broadcast
through the province, with the result that the
women voted Labor to a “man.”
Boss Tozer has been shunted to the Q.
Agency-General, partly to avoid meeting Tomjoe
Bvrnes (the two of them couldn’t live in the same
House), and partly to escape being killed at next
election. This is one of the signs that foretoken
the end. Then Premier Nelson resigns and
mounts a stair; Foxton takes the chairmanship
of the Land Board (District Court Judgeship),
a billet he himself created for himself, and is keep-
ing vacant for himself ! Thynne resigns from the
Council in order to come again as a candidate for
the Assembly ; Philp doesn’t care to press for-
ward ; Barlow is like Lazarus was when he had
been in the grave five days ; Wilson is nobody :
Dalrymple is a scallywag wit ; and- Tomjoe
Byrnes is sent for as Premier ! Disorder in the
’Ouse. Dissolution. Rage in the country ; and
Tomjoe will have been Premier for five minutes,
so to speak.
THE OULD SOD.
PAT : “I see Gcorgs Rade’s put a tax on the pore
widdys."
MIKE: “ Begorra, it 'ud be betther to tax thim
absentee landlords. The country's run over
wid thim!"
Melbourne Leader (David Syme’s weekly)
still girds at Premier Turner because he doesn’t
float big loans and start another boom. “ The
snail’s pace which George Turner approves in his
love of economy,” wails the Age’s weekly echo,
“is beginning to dishearten and disgust the
people.’ The bitter grievance against Turner is
that he has actually not floated a big loan for three
years. Yet a time will probably come when these
Srovinces, which have already by far the biggest
ebt on earth, will have to do without a big loan
for 300 years. Why not try to get used to the
feeling now ?
The criminal prosecution of Messrs. Lons-
dale and Norton, entrusted to junior counsel on
the last occasion, will, it is understood, be con-
ducted by senior counsel in April next. The
counsel who appeared for Minister Carruthers, in
the preliminary proceedings, expected such a fee
for going to Armidale that Govt, feared to be
taxed with a lavish expenditure to save a colleague
and ruin a bitter personal and political opponent.
An apologue of the late Henry George’s.
English nobleman comes across poacher. Lord :
“ How dare you come on my land, sir ? ” Poacher :
“ Your land ! How do you make that out ? ”
L. : “ Because I inherited it from my father.”
P. : “And pray how did he come by it?” L. :
“It descended to him from his ancestors.” P. :
“ But tell me how they came by it ? ” L, ;
“ Why, they fought for it and won it, of course.
P. (taking off his coat): “ Then, I’ll fight you for
it.”
Col. Secretary Brunker has succeeded in
earning the undying enmity of Sydney evening
pressmen by reserving special tit-bits of informa-
tion for the morning journals. On more than one
occasion Saint Nixon has been badly bowled out
in these gracious little acts of favoritism, and
quite a lively five minutes is said to have resulted
when a reporter recently drew the Minister’s
attention to some important military documents
which he had unblushingly stated to be unavail-
able, although they lay on the table directly before
his eyes.
Sydney Telegraph alleges that an audi-
ence of 2000 or 3000 people at Hamilton gave a
unanimous vote in favor of Premier Reid’s scheme
of Council reform. How many of these people
knew that his “ scheme,'’ as described at Mudgee
(provided somebody wasn’t very drunk on that
lamentable occasion), consisted in appointing
councillors for 25 years, and, as only one of
the present councillors has hung on so long as
that, the only difference it would make would be
the firing out of old George Cox, who doesn’t
matter much anyhow.
Tom Slattery, with his empty boast that if
the sitting member, Premier Reid, refuses to meet
him in King Division he (T.S.) will “ publicly
brand him as a coward ” is a bad case of prius
dementat. The blathering attorney who egged on
the Kyardinal to his political doom rushes round
whooping and shaking hands with himself over his
assumed defeat of Reid some months hence;
whereas Reid quietly smiles and says lie is glad to
find that Tom Slattery is to be his opponent.
Which is, no doubt, true, for, of all the men who
might have any real chance in the constituency,
Slattery is the very worst who could be pitted
against Reid : the latter has and has always had
the personal (and, to a large extent, the political)
goodwill of the very classes who are supposed to
regard Flattery Slattery as a man of mana. Flat-
tery Slattery is simply turning the grindstone
while the Freetrade dailies sharpen the knife to
cut the Protectionist throat. To mix the meta-
phor, he oue'ht to be muzzled.
Will the unionists and others never see
that thecontinued injustice(as with tlieTypo. Asso-
ciation and with the Q. Teachers’ Association) of
making a lower scale for female labor than for
male labor, when that labor is of one and the
same value, must lower the wages ? It is a case
of either lifting the female wage to the male wage,
or of lowering the male wage to the female wage.
There can be only one market
value for any kind of labor.
Pat Man will take care
that it is the lowest value
obtainable. Greed that is
blind and tries oppression
and exclusion falls down,
and must fall down, badly
every time.
One of the large ideas
of Jay Gould was to fur-
nish China with rail-
ways. He impressed
Premier Chang with
theideathat it would
be advisable to keep
Britain, Russia,
France, and Germany
out, because they
would seize territory.
There was no fear of
the U.S. doing so.
Consequently, it would
be wise to let him es-
tablish a bank in China,
say, 150 million dollars
capital, with the railway
work as its backbone.
This came to the ears of
the Germans. Krupp and
the Rothschilds combined
requesting Chang to enter-
tain rather the same offer
from them as sounder and
more feasible. The British
diplomats got wind, and
Britain sat on both schemes
without being able to edge in one of her own.
Russia had then not a tithe of the present influ-
ence. Chang resolved that China should exploit
her own railways.
British army item :
In May three batteries were ordered for South Africa,
and in order to send them out 73 per cent, of the men
and 90 per cent, of the horses were begged, borrowed, or
stolen from other units, and no less than 20 batteries were
torn to pieces in order to provide 18 guns, and this in a
time of profound peace. As to the infantry, what was
the evidence given by the military hierarchy before the
Royal Commission : “Not a battalion fit to go on active
service ”; “An English regiment at home is like a
squeezed lemon.” Take the men who came up to London
for the Jubilee, for whom the War Office has reduced the
standard to sft. 3Jin., chest measurement 32in. ; read, the
Report of the Inspector-General of Recruiting, where
over 20 per cent, of the recruits are special ( i.e., under
6ft. 3Jin. and 32in. round the chest).
And so on—excellent reading in France and Ger-
many. But what about Australia, which relies
on Britain to protect her?
“ The Victorian revenue for the half-year ending
Slat. Dec., 1897, is returned at a total of £8,374,262.
Compared with the corresponding half of the pre-
vious year, when the receipts were £3,224,[?], this
shows an inereas of 2149,931. With nearly £150,000
of an improvement in the.first half year, the estimate
appears likely to he realised, but it must be remem-
bered that practically the whole of the increase comes
from the abnormal source of probate duty paid on
the estates of some of our wealthiest citizens." — DAILY
PAPER.
The Australian is the only colonial Judge
on the Privy Council who is without a title or
special salary to support the expenses of his posi-
tion. That is Australia’s Way. Canada and the
Cape have paid knights.
Brisbane (Q.) Bishop Webber says that
the reason why he goes outside of Q. for parsons
is because Q. can’t produce them. “It has no
means of production no university, no theolo-
gical college. Why he goes outside Q. for cash, is
because absentees draw much of their wealth from
Q., and those of them who are of his church
should, therefore, support his church :
Take a map of Queensland and mark off on that map
the properties owned outside the province by thousands
of English shareholders of the great financial institutions
in Lombard-street, in Bjshopgate-street Within, and in
Scotland, as also in Victoria and South Australia ; how
much of the province do you think you would have left?
Query : Should a mere District Court
Judge, who hasn’t the same independent position
as a Supreme Court Judge, and who is dependent
on the Ministry for his chances of promotion to
the Supreme Court bench, try cases in which
Ministers are deeply concerned? Justice needs
not only to be absolutely clean but to look abso-
lutely clean also, and the public can’t help realis-
ing that, if the case should call on the District
Court man to say or do something very awful about
a Minister, that Minister, being merely human,
would probably see him in a place too unpleasant
to mention before he would assist at his promo-
tion. The public in general is a low character,
and full of evil imaginings.
Brisbane Courier predicts a total change
of political front at next Bknanaland elections.
“ Time,” says that organ, “has smitten the fads
of the Labor-party with merciless severity. . . .
The electors will no longer be asked to vote for or
against ‘Socialism in our Time,’” The truth
is that the Courier and many of its kidney have
become utterly disgusted with the squatterisation
of the few admirable points of the late Land Bill
—to say nothing of the disgraceful way in which
the Centralian lands are being sacrificed and
settlement blocked by the renewal of pastoral
leases at ridiculously-low rents. The squatting
influence is more powerful in Q. Parliament to-day
than at any time for the past 20 years.
The voice of N.S.W. Opposition-leader
Lyne:—
He regretted the strong observations made by Mr.
Barton and Mr. R. E. O’Connor with reference to the
Federal Enabling Amendment Bill increasing the neces-
sary number of voters to 80,000. If Federation was worth
having at all they should get 80,000 votes and a great
many more. (Cheers.) If they did not get 80,000 votes,
then the time was not ripe for Federation.
Quite so. And, as the other side of the case :If
provincialism is worth having it should also get
80,000 votes, and if it doesn’t get 80,000 votes then
the country doesn’t deserve to have it. (Cheers.)
Yet the Lyne crowd has fixed up a law whereby
it takes 80,000 votes to endorse Federation, yet
one vote or no vote at all may commit the pro-
vince to provincialism for an indefinite number of
years, or perhaps for ever. (Loud groans.) What
has provincialism ever done for N.S.W. that it
should get 80,000 start in. the race? And why not
fut things the other way, and enact that the
'ederal Constitution shall be accepted, even if
nobody votes for it, unless 80,000 electors vote
against it ? (Great applause.)
“The degraded Dreyfus is making himself
heard from his mud-spot in the ocean, and the
Semitic shriek has long ere this gone round the
world,” writes The Bulletin’s London corre-
spondent. “Delicacy for France’s feelings has
prevented the English newspapers printing the
damning evidence against the military Judas, but
a military embassy attache explained the awkward
situation briefly to me. The French frontier is
defended by isolated forts so arranged that if one
be taken the others may demolish it with their
guns. Underground galleries connect these forts,
allowing of their garrisons being increased or de-
creased by these hidden ways. For six months it
was notioed that every massing of French troops
was met by a move of Germans directly opposite
them across the border. Disguised French officers
sent into Germany were sent back at the frontiers t
others were allowed to pass and shepherded night
and day. A publication of the full evidence meant
war probably, and certain discredit for the mili-
tary authorities. Some of the agitators know the
facts and desire the latter; the others are honest
and ignorant. Dreyfus had squandered his wife’s
fortune on her substitutes.”


-s
t*
\>
Everywhere..
Over this grand and glorious New
South Wales, ladies are wearing my
UP-TB-TBE-HTEST
Boots and Shoes.
What’s the reason? Because they’re
good. None can give you better.
See them. If you live in the country
drop us a line, and we’ll get there
all right.
JOHN HUNTER —The Boot King of Australia!
City Boot Palace, George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Branches all over the City, in the Suburbs and Country Towns in N.S.W, and Queensland.
System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national Cash Register
KEY
saves
pressure
on the
; Brain
- IS .A. .
money : SAV€R
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments,
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
IV. A. LINGHAM,
General Manager for Australasia.
Returned Australians say the phrase
should be changed to “ Smell Naples and die.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
11 or tins issue.*
CRICKET.
FINAL TEST
MATCH,
25th Feb., 1898.
ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA.
PICK THE RESULT AND WIN THE
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
£5O.
The Proprietors of Wolfe’s Schnapps will pre-
sent the sum of .£5O (Fifty Pounds sterling) to
the person who gives the result (as per coupon
in this advertisement) of the Final Test Match
between England and Australia, to commence
in Sydney, on 25th February, 1898. Should
no one give the actual result, the person who
guesses neaßE st WILL RECEIVE
THE Wolfes Schnapps £5O presentation.
If more than one person becomes entitled to
the prize, the amount £5O will be divided
proportionately amongst the lucky guessers.
COUPON.
I select the team to win the
Fifth and Final Test Match by innings,
wiclcets runs.
Full name
Address
Selections must be written plainly on the above
coupon, with the frill name and address of sender,
and the whole of this advertisement cut
out from Tiie Bulletin and iorwarded so as
to reach us not later than 18th February, 1898.
Coupons will not be considered if received after that
date. All envelopes must be properly stamped : out-
side Sydney, 2d. ; Sydney and Suburban radius, Id. ;
and must be marked “ WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
£5O ” and be addressed to the
Sole Agents for Wolfe’s Schnapps —
M. MOSS and CO.,
Wynyahd Lank, Sydney, N. S. Walks.
All the results will be sealed before the match
commences, and deposited with the manager of the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, who has kindly consented
to hold them during its continuation.
Government Railways.
ANNIVERSARY HOLIDAY
WEDNESDAY, 26th JANUARY, 1898.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS
Will be issued from all stations to all stations (ex-
cept for distances 13 miles and under between
stations in the Metropolitan Suburban and New-
castle Suburban Sections), commencing with the
day trains leaving terminal stations on FRIDAY,
21st January, and thereafter, by all trains until
WEDNESDAY, 26th January, both days inclu-
sive, available for return until MONDAY, 7t h
February, 1898, inclusive.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS at 2d. pel
mile first-class return (minimum Is.) and Id. per
mile second-class return (minimum 9d.) will
be issued at Sydney and Metropolitan subur-
ban stations to stations outside the Metro-
politan Suburban area, as under, AVAILABLE
FOR RETURN BY ANY TRAIN (MEL-
BOURNE EXPRESS EXCEPTED) ARRIV-
ING IN SYDNEY UP TO AND INCLUD-
ING MONDAY, 31st JANUARY
SOUTH COAST LINE.
TUESDAY, 25t'h January: 1.30 p.m. to
Kiama ; 5.30 and 7.30 p.m. to Nowra.
WEDNESDAY, 26th January : 7.30 a.m. to
Stanwell Park, Wollongong, and stations beyond
to Nowra; 7.38 a.m. to Wollongong.
SOUTHERN LINE.
TUESDAY, 25th January : 5.15 p.m. (from
Sydney only) to all stations Picton to Goulburn ;
5.18 p.m. to Picton.
WEDNESDAY, 26th January : 8.0 a.m. to
Goulburn.
WESTERN LINE.
TUESDAY, 23th January : 4.50 p.m. to
Bathurst ; 5.25 p.m. to Mt. Victoria.
WEDNESDAY, 26th January : 8.10 a.m. to
Mt. Victoria; 8.20 a.m. to Eskbank.
NORTHERN LINE.
TUESDAY, 25th January : 4.40 p.m. to New-
castle and West Maitland ; 4.53 p.m. to Newcastle
(4.50 p.m. from Milson’s Point).
WEDNESDAY, 26th January: 8.15 a.m. to
Newcastle (7.50 a.m. from Milson’s Point).
SIMILAR TICKETS to SYDNEY (only) will
be issued by train leaving—
Orange at 9.20 p.m. on 25th JANUARY;
Nowra at 4.35 a.m. ; Goulburn at 5.0 a.m. ; West
Maitland at 5.0 a.m. : and Newcastle at 6.0 a.m.
on 26th JAN UARY, available for return by any
train (Melbourne Express excepted) leaving
Sydney up to MONDAY, 31st January, tB9B.
Closing' of Goods Sheds and Central
Booking Offices, George Street.
On 26th JANUARY the Goods She’s at Red-
fern and Alexandria will be closed ; but the Goods
Shed at Darling Harbor will be open until 10 a.m.
for the delivery of perishables only.
The Goods Sheds at other stations will be closed
except for the receipt and delivery of perishable
traffic.
The Central Booking Office will be open until
10 a.m. for the sale of tickets and delivery of
perishables.
Handbills and further particulars from all
stationmasters.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
A Lady Journalist’s
opinion of
Dunlqp Tyres
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
247 Swanston-street, Melbourne. "’
Dear Sirs,—•
Punch Office,
Dec. 23rd, ’97.
“I have been a cycliste for three years and (with
brief and dreadful interval of a few months) have ridden a
Of course they have been eminently a success all the time.
Al^' e , toUred ) over a » reat of Victoria and into South
W-c ’ and Ju ne u° Ver r ° ads not even ma rked in Broad-
bent s ma P . Whether in the mallee, down by the sea, or
° n the mountains, Dunlop Tyres are ever to be relied
upon on the worst roads.
My last experience of their lasting qualities was on
Saturday evening, December 18th, when riding on a
suburban road. A road hog without lights to his cart,
was on his wrong side, and before I could escape, had
driven right across my bicycle. Howl escaped sudden
My bicycle almost completely
ecked. But that it is built by an eminent English firm
it would have been reduced to scrap-iron. Both rims
were buckled, dress-guard and gear-case looked as if they
had been struck by lightning, back stays and both
dropped bars were injured almost beyond repair.
But, strangest of all, neither of the Dunlop Tyres was in
the slightest degree injured, though they, like myself,
must have been only the fraction of an inch beyond the
devastating wheel of the road hog’s cart."
Yours truly,
(Signed) Mrs. DONALD MACDONALD.
KD AT
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch N.Z,
Ed. Bulletin, —Another phase of Klon-
dyke life. A much-travelled man tells me that
the heavy mortality amongst the Indians of N. W.
Canada and the Alaskan territory is chiefly due to
small-pox and frost-bite. Also that the inhabi-
tants of that region always dodge the subject of
small-pox, preferring to lock their skeleton in an
inquiry-proof cupboard as far as possible. Is it
all true?— R.B.H.
If the Westralian Govt, remains inactive a
little while longer, Coolgardie will be able to have
rabbit-pie for Sunday’s dinner. “I have to re-
port,” the telegraph master at Eyre wires to the
Lands Minister, “that natives have brought in
10 young rabbits which they took from a nest at a
point at least 40 miles west of Eyre.” Westralia
gallantly put a whole <£looo on the last Estimates
to meet the rabbit invasion.
E. Adelaide election, for the vacancy caused
by M’Pherson’s death, takes place this Saturday
(22nd). Candidates are “Londonderry” Shaw
(Tory), Hutchison (Labor), and one Salmon, who
announces himself as “Independent Labor,” but
is really a red herring. As S.A. politics, owing
to the Hospital row and Labor mistakes in past
contests, are much mixed, it will be a close fight,
despite the fact that E. Adelaide is the strongest
Labor centre.
Brisbane (Q.) papers still persist in talking
that old Bully Palmer won't resign from the Presi-
dency of the Leg. Council, and that the Govt,
can t make him. Don’t these editors know the
Constitution of their own Parliament ? The Pre-
sident of the Council is appointed by the Governor,
who can remove him, and appoint another in his
stead. So, if Premier Nelson wanted to shunt
Palmer, he could do so in five minutes for
“ Governor ” means “ Governor-in-Council.” But
Nelson doesn’t want to shunt old Bully—yet. The
Govt, wants to provide for the Old Man, and, if
Palmer doesn’t die before the hour of the trans-
formation-scene, a bill will be rushed through.
And Palmer will still remain Lieut.-Governor, for
so he was appointed by commission in ’93.
Curious position ! The Lieut. - Governor, being
actual Governor in the real Ex.’s absence, can ap-
point the President of the Leg. Council ! Nelson
had better give the old man a big allowance, or,
next time he’s Gov. de facto, and Nelson is Council
President, he may fire Nelson out and re-appoint
himself.
It lately transpired that in case of in-
vasion N.S.W. has enough ammunition on hand
to enable its regular forces to keep up a tolerably
active fight for about three hours, and then
there would be nothing left but bricks and
Brunker. The other provinces seem to be in
about the same situation, or in a worse one.
There is an ammunition - factory in Austra-
lia, but it is situated close to Melbourne, a
badly - defended seaport down South, and in
case of invasion it would probably be abolished
in one round. If it wasn’t abolished it is only
a very small place, which can’t do much more
than keep up a peace allowance of ammuni-
tion, and as a good deal of its material is imported
it leaves the country still more or les9 dependent
on foreign supplies. Besides, in case of trouble,
the Vic. Govt, would grab the contents of that
factory for its own use. And when the “ troops ”
had shot away their three hours’ supply, it is a
cheering reflection that the next lot could be de-
livered here in six weeks if the people at the other
end hurried up and it wasn’t intercepted on the
way.
W.O.H. . “‘I would know him by his
rough and hairy coat,’ said Ann Chambers, in re
Suffield. Well, wasn’t the bull’s coat rough and
hairy enough for her ? ”
S.M. Herald reports—
Banquet at Marriokvillk.— On Thursday evening a
complimentary banquet was given to Mr. It. Q. Brereton
who has recently been appointed—
What? Premier? Peer? Right Noble Worthy
Grand Kafoozlem in the Lodge of Ancient and
Accepted Chopsticks ? No—
who has recently been appointed a justice of the peace.
Great Scott!
The irrepressible Randolph Bedford, hav-
ing failed to get into Vic. Parliament, and having
extracted a tidy solatium therefor from David
Syme, is now enthusiastic over a Elondyke
scheme. Everything is included in the idea-
transport, supplies, mining, floating, financing,
and journalising, and the Reckless is just the man
to put the thing through. “ It’s no good talking
about the dangers and all the rest of it,” he says.
“ A man can't dodge his fate, and the odds are if
you funk any place you’ll stay at home and get
run over by a blooming steam roller.”
Finnerty, Westralian goldfields R.M. and
other things, lets no dog bark in his court. In a
case the other day he said the question was
whether the defendant (charged with selling scrip
at auction without a licence) was an agent or an
auctioneer ; he would, he said, refer the case to
the Crown Law Officers for an opinion, and mean-
time he warned other unlicensed persons selling
scrip of the risk they ran. Defendant’s counsel
promptly intimated that he would take the risk.
Whereupon the R.M. : “ Oh, as you talk like
u l^ ne defendant -£25.” And he added, too,
that he wouldn’t stay execution pending an appeal.
Victoria intimates formally that it takes
no further interest in Wales’s dreary white ele-
phant, the Imperial Institute, and its contribution
towards the expense is to stop short. The Insti-
toot has fallen so very flat of late years that until
this casual mention of it most people had for-
gotten that there ever was such a place. And
when one thinks of the roar of loyalty with which
it was inaugurated, and the wine, and the “ silken
bonds,” and the large fat cigars, and the grease
that got on to the audience’s whiskers, and how it
stood up with all the liquors awash in its stomach
and rested its hands on the table and declared
that this was the most memorable epoch—hie—
poch—in history, and that it would be for ever
remembered, and its influence would go on spread-
ing through all time—well, it looks like a pretty
bad fall. 1
The firemen of A.U.S.N. Co’s. s.s.
Bulimba took a sensible stand in refusing to sail
from Melb. on Sunday, and seeing the captain
« d first—though doubtless he’s not to blame.
The ship-company dodge nowadays is to sail last
thing on Saturday night—and arrange trips to
suit so that every ounce of labor can be screwed
out of the men, and the abomination of a weekly
rest-day can be thrown right out of the calendar.
But the other day the Bulimba came into Melb.
late, and apparently couldn’t get her cargo in on
Sat. night. The captain was “ quite taken a-
back ” when the firemen “ refused to work Sunday
m port.’" Bulletin congratulates the men, and
hopes their union will stick by them. The public
certainly would. No shipping company could
afford to fight this matter in open daylight.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER KEI>TCEI> KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every <£l to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in*
eluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Elliotts
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & D. OTTR.R.A.3NT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
US’ Send for Price List. ISt
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and alter taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
atn now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, 1 was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I qu.te got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
1 have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
orietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
nedieine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Government Notices.
J JEALTF DEPARTMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Office of the Board of Health.
Sydney, 6th January, 1898.
APPLICATIONS are invited from LEGALLY QUALI-
FIED MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS for appointment to
;he following posts under the Public Health Act, 1896 :
Medical Officer of Health to the combined Metro-
politan Districts; salary, £750.
Medical Officer of Health to the combined Hunter
River Districts; salary, £7OO.
The selected candidates will be required to devote their
whole time to their duties, which will be such as are pre-
scribed by the Act, and such as may be ordered by the
Board from titne to time. They will be required to reside
in such part of their districts as the Board may approve.
Applications, with statement of age, qualifications, testi-
monials, &c., should reach the undersigned not later than
Monday, 7th February, iB9B.
2d4 C. A. SIMMS, Secretary.
Missing
C'iROW. Wanted to know the whereabouts of
j PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
ii 'ir of something to his advantage. Information
bank fully received and acknowledged.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company , Limited .
Established 187 a
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. *£150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts •
and Clients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon, J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
■PHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
* LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,706,590 12 10
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 43,409- 7 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. _. 750,000 0 0
2,805,78C
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns," Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J, G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
rnHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ... £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY ... „ 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. - 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
-THE-
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to tbe Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office: 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L. A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thondey,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.O.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager; Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Sishopsrfate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
T\)\S Conjpaijy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. BUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOKLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
ree on application. t
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.m.
-Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 29, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, February 1, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, February 1, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, February 1, 5 p.m.
No transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
| Leura, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.m.
>-Barrabool, Tuesday, Jan. 25, 5 p.m.
I Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 29, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, January 22, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 29, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CHICK ENT FAItES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
171 N GLAND VIA AMERICA
-A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street : Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea. •
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AIND
—via—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TAESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
■L) STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide;
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, ’
Mellow™ Ore Testing fa Tedinical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
V Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. MelboCiro?.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
61 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, February 1.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Tuesday, February 1.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
January 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Franklin, Tuesday,
January 25.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The R0.,al Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s |Jine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
Canadian-Australian Eoyal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), EIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
. UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
'v In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY^
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices: 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U- S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS «, CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD,
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in thecolonies. *The
S.S. P.R. Luitpold and following steamers will call at
Fremantle instead of Albany. J. MERGELL, General
Agent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


Telephone* 26 KQG-A&AM—connected with Sydney Exchange.
The “ Licit House Hotel."
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes. LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH, On the Banks of Botany Bay
TnCTV ■- ■ the favorite health resort. .. .
LOFTY BEDROOMS, and Luxuriously FURNISHED DRAWING ROOMS, READING ROOMS, BILLIARD
ROOM and BATH ROOMS.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties carefully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private Dinners,
etc., a Speciality. Grand Sail will accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric
ana Hot Salt Water Baths (a Sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints), only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and
Boating; also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
Terms; From 251- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
“ LICK HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York Street, Sydney.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
j Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Loiv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb'Ogtoo N.Sotil &Co.,M’sp.s.
150, 160, and. 260 Pitt-street, Sydney; and ax
Ch.urch.~street, Parramatta.
9
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n. v £l4 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.-
227 Lit. Collins=st.,
Melbourne. ill
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
ADAMS’S MARBLE BAR,SYDNEY.
H
m
■
; 9
m
m
B
1
r -
STO******
; V).
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Sights
to be seen in Australia.
The
Finest Paintings!
The Most
Handsome Decorations!
The Most
Superb Carvings!
Massive and Elegant Marble
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manager.
I' $
I
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IN
Tlje FisjfSt a§ )d Largest tyCiSic WareboCSe
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S
George Street,
SYDNEY.
Bedstead and Woven Wire tyattress Combined.
Made with extra strong, double rolled sides, and our No. 3 Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire
Mattress attached to each Bedstead by a new Patented Method, which dispenses with the use of loose
clips and shaky joints. Made to tighten at the head end. Any size Bedstead can be set up in two
minutes. No tools required to fix them.
2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in.
french, lin. posts, very strong ... ... ... 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do. .. ... ... 30/- 32/6 35/- 37/6
SPRING WOVEN WIRE MATTRESSES.
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires ...
No, la, Extra close woven double wires
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands
No. 3, The Trusty, close woven, with 14 bands
No. 7, Folding Stretcher, double wires...
8/-
91-
10/-
12/-
15/-
13/-
’'TOSS fH®
ron CLUBS, HOTELS.
BARRACKS.
SCHOOLS.
HOSPITALS & OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MAKE A SPECIALITY OF MANUFACTURING
Purified, Healthy Bedding, and Superior Woven Wire Spring
Mattresses
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want!
ALL WE ASK.
Try us for your Bedsteads, Bedding, Kitchen, Dining,
and Bedroom Furniture, Austrian and American Chairs,
Java Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers, &c., &c.
Country STOREKEEPERS and DEALERS. Now is
the time to Replenish your Stock. Do not hesitate,
but Call and See, or Write for our New Wholesale
Catalogue, with Designs and Prices. If you want
to buy in the CHEAPEST MARKET, WE ARE READY
with LARGE STOCKS to give you just the kind of value to draw Trade to your Stores, and letting your Customers
know you are alive. Let us talk the matter over with you. When Goods are Cheap, huy freely. Ours are always
Cheap and Saleable ; population must increase. Do not delay until you see signs of getting busy. Begin now by
sending us your orders. You are somebody’s customer ; why not ours ? We have been established more than 30 years
on the same spot. No change of firm. No failures, nothing but continued and steady progress. The above facts are
certainly evidence of merit and fair dealings.
John Lawler & Sons
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES—No. 4,6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
Telephone, 66. Established 1860.
IZ-
TfcOOK OF i\ ATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Hock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
The Serpent Tempted Her: A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., ,l/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages'. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor A 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is Cd ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE;TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Depot,
SYDNEY.
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
a§
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
NOTICE I*o TRAVELLERS
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all*
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates ;
takes pictures 2| x 1|; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, 6d.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4Jin. x 3Jin. (ip.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates Sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “Amateur” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in Price
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d!
DRY PLATES. —“VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d •
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. : for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANT?.
66 KIKT Gr STREET,
-See Out • Advertisement on Society Faye,
SYDJNTEY.


Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depbt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
Smoke
mm
m
chief
T'OBACC’ 0
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEYJ
Mrs. Em
LYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Mauvern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing lor the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless. Clean! Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its - unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Half, i 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
OUR NEW MODELS
Are to Hand .
RED BIRD,
ROBY RIM, *•><■
BLACK BIRD
Cycles
MANUFACTURED,
SOLD, and
GUARANTEED BY
Goold Bicycle Co. Ltd.
Australian Head Office : 64 King-st., Sydney.
Factories:
Brantford, Canada.
HUMBER CYCLES (AMERICA)
reduced.
Liaciy’s r>26
Gent s* *25
“ These are produced by the ..me method, u thee to vogue at our BeestoU Works, aod are of the Most Approved American Design. The Workmanship and Material, are ol the Highest Quality, and we give the SAME GUABANTEE
.. with the BEESTON machines." gown]ir „„ wiOTi:D The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
So far, nothing has been heard from George
Adams in the matter of protecting his sweep-pat roris from
racing blackmailers. “Tattersall ” draws a large income
from the Australian sporting public, and, hitherto, his
name has been synonymous with probity and honor. But
the “ information ’’-leakages in his office —most of them
must be from his office—are disgusting many of his best
friends and supporters. If you draw a horse in “ Tatter-
sail’s” sweep nowadays, you risk receiving l q demand
front the owner for half the prize, accompanied with the
significant threat that, if you don't agree, the horse
won’t run. That sort of thing stinks. You putyour money
down in the faith that you will receive the advertised
prize, and it is disgraceful that you should be bled by
the horse-owner—acting on information Which, as'already-
remarked, must, in the great majority of cases, be received
from some of “ Tattersall’s ” officials. George Adams has
so far dealt honestly with the Australian public,, and no
one grudges him the handsome commission on his enter-
prise. Let him continue to see that his clients are dealt
by squarely, and draw his sweeps on the day of the race,
or there will presently be room in his business for some-
one else with better methods.
• * • *
There is one man at least in Australia who is
not a staunch believer in the starting-barrier. Last week
his prad was backed down to 2 to 1 on ; indeed, so heavily
was the neddv supported that it almost looked as if the
other owners were quite satisfied there was nothing else
in it. But they all reckoned without the barrier. At the
word “ go,’ - the webbing took a couple of half-hitches and
a tom-fool’s knot round the favorite’s neck, and, by the
time he got clear, the field was well on its journey, several
of the jockeys taking a sly and anxious glance now and
then as to how the favorite was making up ground. He
made a gallant struggle, but only got close enough to
come prominently under the handicapper’s eagle eye.
Hard mozzle, without a doubt.
* * * •
Jack Cohen, the sad-eyed bookie who rides a
bike, is going on a six months trip to Europe. “With
Messrs. Arnfield and S. Allen retired, and J. Cohen absent
in England, the Victorian ring will be considerably
weaker than it has been for some considerable time,”
says Melb. Age. “ Retired ”is a sweet way of expressing
the wipe-out. of Arnfield and Allen aforesaid. If the ring
is “ weakened ” by the disqualification of two members
for cronk practices, how much the more reason for
legalising the tote !
* * * •
Brighton, Sydney, had an unusually big gather-
ing last Saturday, the attraction being a £5O trot, run off
in two divisions. Unfortunately, the event looked, and
proved, a foregone conclusion for Dr. Fitzgerald’s mare
Kathleen, who, starting 4sec. behind, won her heat and
the final without effort. Kathleen is by Childe Harold
from Compliment. The mare trotted at a 2.45 J gait, but
she won with such ridiculous ease that the go was no
criterion of her pace.
• * * *
P.M.G. Duffy, protected by the “ privilege” of
his place in Vic. Assembly, said something that sounded
very like a criminal libel on Tattersall Adams the other
week. They were discussing the sweep-advt. question,
and squatter Staughton casually remarked that some of
the V ctorian money posted to Hobart came backin prizes.
Whereupon “Mr. Duffy did riot think that much of the
money sent to sweep-promoters found its way back again.
It was practically lost to the colony.” Duffy’s foolish
thought was practically an allegation of fraudulent sticki-
ness against Tatt.’s business fingers. Ninety per cent, of
all the cash paid into a Tatt.’s sweep is available for re-
distribution among winning ticket-holders, and the per-
centage of prize-money that doesn’t get claimed is not
worth grumbling over. Also, there is no reason for sug-
gesting that Victoria loses a larger proportion of its
average investment, taking one year with another, than
any of the other provinces. Perhaps Duffy will kindly ex-
plain the true inwardness of his meaning?
• • * •
Dear Bulletin, — In the interests of Australian
sport let me make a suggestion : Carbine, Trenton, Car-
nage, Emmalea, Newhaven, Merman, Maluma have all
been snapped up by England, and now Aurum is going.
Many of our best cricketers have settled “up over,” and
others are being nibbled at. We must try and get even
to some extent. “Bought for England” is becoming
tiresome. Let our wealthiest sportsmen prove their
patriotism and their love of sport by clubbing together to
purchase this English cricket-team for Australia. If the
thing be gone about in earnest and generously, each
Govt, will doubtless assist. It’s only a matter of money,
and we’d get used to them in time. Something must be
done.— Azure Prospect.
• • • •
Greygown, once favorite for Melb. Cup, is now
the favorite mount of the street urchins of Caulfield. He
was sold recently for a sov.
• • * *
C.M.G. : “During the dreadful hot spell in
Melbourne in Xmas week, when fat citizens were going
down in their tracks all over the place, and even the
trained athletes were turning up their toes and calling for
ice-packs and the benefit of medicine and clergy, I noticed
the men engaged in demolishing the ruins left by the big
fire hard at work in the fiercest glare of the hottest sun
of the season, with pick and hammer, up on those red-hot
walls. I have not heard that any of them had to be laid
oh ice in a back bar, and fanned by an army of sym-
pathetic ladies. Our hardy cricketers do not seem to
score well by contrast. But perhaps, if those laborers had
had the remotest chance of being iced and fanned by nice
girls, they might also have been apoplexed by the heat.
What do you think?"
Britishah: “ Nine wickets for 652, as the
result of two whole days’ batting by the side
that took first innings, reads very like a game
of wearing the other side out. Take the figures for
the three test-matches. In Sydney the Englishmen,
winning the toss, had scored 551 runs at about
4 o'clock on the second day. In Melbourne the Aus-
tralians were all out for 520 shortly after 5 o’clock-
second day. In Adelaide they had scored exactly 475 for
six wickets only at 4 o’clock—second day. The loss of
each wicket represents a loss of scoring time, therefore
unless the Australian bowling and ground fielding is
inferior to the work of Stoddart's team, and it cer-
tainly isn’t, the visitors must be credited with a much
livelier batting entertainment than their opponents give
to the public. Patience is a virtue which comes rough
upon those onlookers who are not barracking for its
exponents. How would an Australian crowd regard an
English performance of what they call “the game?”
Scornfully. Stonewaller Bannerman was wont to get
much jeering in interproviucial matches—outside of
Sydney—though, when he was making English bowlers
sick on any Australian ground, the crowd revelled in his
wearisomeriess and encouraged him with roars of ap-
proval. The first two days’ play in the Adelaide test-
match was a record, anyhow—either of dull Australian
batting, or brilliant Hinglish attack. You pay your
money and take your choice of opinion.”
As The Bulletin goes to press the Australians
look uncommonly like winning the third test-match, and
getting two legs in out of five. Against their lst-innings
total of 573 the Englishmen could only put up 278, and
had to follow on. Howell—whose exclusion from pre-
vious test-matches some people attribute to his inability
to say “ Haw!'’ with dignity and effect—bowled splen-
didly, and got 4of the 10 English wickets; Noble, with 3,
seconding him ably. The Englishmen commenced their
second innings by losing Mason for a duck, and wore
glum faces when left batting.
• * • •
E verybody agrees that Richardson has lost some
of his pace, and more of his “terror” for Australian
batsmen. Then how weak Stoddart’s present team must
be in bowling! What kind of chance would they have if
big Tom were to break down ?
• * • *
“ A still tongue makes a wise head ” is a proverb
which Ranjitsinhji will perhaps learn to take to heart.
As might have been expected, the Adelaide crowd
chivvied him when he went to the wicket on Monday,
which is said “ to have unnerved him, as he is particu-
larly sensitive.” On top of all his other troubles, the
dark gentleman batted with a dislocated finger.
• » * •
No doubt Ranji. thought it “ bad form " for the
Adelaide crowd to go wild over their townies (Darling and
Hill) making “ soft-tommy” of the British bowling. And
this on top of a sore throat, and twice bowled in the
recent match, and having missed a chance off Hill,
although a difficult one. Taking one consideration with
another, the dark gentleman is not having a good time.
• » • »
S.A. cricketers are invariably at sea with
N.S.W. bowling—witness their wretched score of 139 in
Adelaide on a perfect wicket. G. Giffen and Clem. Hill
were the only batsmen who showed anything like first-
class form. Howell’s length bowling was simply too good,
and how that splendid trundler came to be omitted
against Victoria in Melb. is a mystery. The best batting
in the match was shown, with the exception of Giffen and
Hill, by N.S. Welshmen. Noble, Iredale, Trumper, and
M'Kenzie all performed well.
G. Giffen bowled away in the N.S.W. second
innings for no wickets and 118 runs! George is captain
of the S.A. team, which is a sufficient explanation. Mean-
while Reedman was kept off, although his average was
two wickets for 11 runs ! Jonah Jones came out of the
match with 11 wickets for 122 runs—a grand average
which will greatly help to put him above Richardson at
the season's end.
The match, like the one in Melb. between
N.S.W. and Vic., was played in scorching weather. Sin-
gularly enough, the end of the contest, as in Melb.,
brought a cool change for the bigger event between Aus-
tralia and England.
• * • •
Gate, gate, and nothing but gate. The reason
of the test-matches being crowded on t.op of the interpro-
vincials sticks out prominently. By playing whilst the
men are on the ground, the syndicate is saved heavy
travelling expenses. What matters it if interest in art
interprovincial match is ruined by coming immediately in
front of a test-match, and the men are stale and battered
about, so long as the div. comes out all right?
• • * *
The babble of cricket-reporting in “great ’’dailies
doesn't tend to create much respect for enthusiastic follow-
ers of the game. Melb. Argus after the second test-match
dosed its readers with such representative utterances as
these —“ Mr. Jack Blackham said: ‘ Well, our boys have
made a good score, and they deserve it.’ Mr. Harry Boyle
said :1 1 was delighted with Syd. Gregory’s running between
the wickets.’ Mr. J. J. Ferris said : ‘ Trott played awfully
well, especially after lunch.’ Mr. W. O. Whitridge said r
‘ I was much impressed with the slowness of the ground.’
A pillar of Essendon football said of Iredale : ‘ Why, it’s
like eating strawberries and cream to see him bat.’ ” And
so on. Tub Bulletin begs to chip in the observation that
“No feature of the game was more admirable than the
Gross Receipts.”
* * • *
It looks as if there is trouble in store re Sydney
Cricket Ground. The members who find the sinews of
war, in conjunction with the bobites, have in the past
been mere nonentities, but there is much talk amongst
them just now, and a very different state of affairs is
likely to obtain in the near future. Some want to know
why the ground is not cleared of debt before any more
money is expended on it, tinless to make good necessary
wear and tear, and they even hint that a list of names of
the debenture-holders, and a statement of the rate of in-
terest paid, would be very interesting.
* * * •
Re Stoddart’s stipulation that not more than 13
men shall field against the English team in 18 and 22
a-side matches, the reason thereof is that such matches
can only be regarded as exhibitions, and, with the full
team in the field, the batsmen would be unable to show
the full value of their best strokes. Apropos, Stoddarfc
tells with a twinkle how the captain of the Glen Innes 18
interpreted the condition. That general got leave to
change his men as often as he liked, and began with his
11 best fieldsmen and two best bowlers. The other
bowlers were ready, and at each change of bowling a
trundler would leave the field, and his successor come on
to it.
• * • *
George Palmer, the old Australian Eleven man,'
is caretaker of the Launceston Association Ground, Tas.,
and played in the recent North v. South match, in which
he showed about the best form on his side: the North,
however, was badly licked, owing chiefly to Eady’s
14-yard rushes and express deliveries. North and South
are now equal for the first time, each having won 2ff
matches.
• • • «
The Cavill family were in evidence at the East
Sydney Swimming Club’s carnival on Saturday. The
220yds. professional championship of N.S.W. was won
easily by “ Turns ” Cavill from Gillespie, in 3min. ; and
the mile amateur championship fell to Percy Cavill, in
26win. 52 l-ssec.—a new record for Australia.
• * * •
The Brisbaneites put the defeat of their boats
in the recent carnival down to the superior sails carried
by the Sydney boats. As a result the crack Sydney sail-
builders are inundated with orders from Bananaland.
• * * *
Sueensland Rowing Association has decided to
the interprovincial eight-oar race under the Vic.
amateur definition, which will mean the withdrawal of
N.S.W. from the event. N.S.W. will thus maintain her
unchallengeable Respectability, and when an eight-oar
race does take place between Australia and England, the
Australians will be all, or mostly, Cornstalks.
• * • *
“ Newhaven ” Jackson, the winner, and J.
Robertson (200 yards), who fell in the final of the L.V.W.
Cup, last Saturday, are two of the cognoscentis, “ tips”
for A.N. A. Wheel Race.
• * * •
The second day of Yic. League’s meeting was
chiefly notable for having the first paced tournament held
in Melb. Walne won, of course, Green being knocked out-
by a sea-bath of seven hours’ duration, on one of the hot
days. Walne beat Barden with ease, and a crowd, with
its*patriotic feelings aroused by the test-matches, howled
itself hoarse in consequence. In the final run, Body,
through superior pacing, got right, away from the Banana-
lander, but Walne picked up in the last two laps, and won
with a splendid sprint.
In the evening, Body reversed the order by
whipping off the Cyclone Plate, of three distances.
Winning the three-mile event, Walne ran all out in the
mile final, and scratched himself for the last test. Body
winning the mile and five-mile goes, scored best on
points, and won the £4O. The League Cup fell to “ New-
haven ” Jackson, and the mile handicap to L. Barber.
The L.V.W. will drop about .£2OO over the
meeting, the first loss sustained by it so far, but the
beginning of the end* unless care is taken. The loss
iefly arises from the holding of races at night; for,
though decent crowds have turned up on both afternoons
the evenings have been appalling. There is also talk of
reducing prize-money in future, and with no possibility
of ever seeing Bilmartin again the public will continue
stopping away more regularly than ever.
• * * •
A Sydney sporting paper came out with an
account of the Griffo-Tracey fiasco, copied from a Yankee
paper -thus unwittingly giving away a Melb. contem-
porary, which printed the same article word for word as
from its “ own correspondent.”
* « * •
Bill Martin left on Friday for the U.S., where
he will ride again. Immediately the Adelaide League re-
fused to rescind his disqualification, Bill cabled to Yankee-
land asking if the L.A.VV. would let him ride. An affir-
mative answer came and Bill accordingly left on two days’
notice. Bill threatens never to return to Australia, as
this gawdam country never gave him fair play, but
cruelly hounded him down and vilified him. But, as a
matter of fact, Bill got a lot more than fair play from
Australians, and was favored more than any three'riders
of the soil. Bill was a man of such grit and had such
cheerful, bull-pup-like little ways about him that we all
had a more than sneaking affection for him even to the
very last.
Mr. Sam Hordern’s 22-footer has arrived from
England, and will probably make her first effort at Syd-
ney Anniversary Regatta. To an Australian she would
not appear to have a show with our boats, but her
“breeding-,’' by Linton Hope, must make us treat her
with respect until actually found wanting. Her rigging
is the part which will be least fancied in Port Jackson.
She carries a small jib worked with a fine sheet through a
single deadeye, but she may be the means of showing our
boating men that their tremendous head-sails are a mis-
take. Australian ideas have undergone great changes
during the past few years. Our builders used to consider
a deep forefoot gave the boat gripping power on a wind,
but the modern boats have no forefoot or heel to speak
of, it being found that the centreboard is the only reliable
factor in holding a wind. Good as are our boatbuilders,
they are working more or less in the dark as compared
with a designer such as Linton Hope. The trial between
the English and Australian boats will be most interesting.
But, as The Bulletin has before remarked, it would have
liked to see Mr. H. give (say) Donnelly an order to build
one of his best to meet the Britisher.
* * * ♦
The Tasmanian lakes are now swarming with
the coarse, greeny, John Bull faced Beritish trout. These
grab-all foreigners are gradually exterminating the un-
protected and sweet-fleshed native fish ; and, whilst the
citizens of the North and South are bursting their galls
over the. price of meat, hundreds of tons of solid English
fish, nearly as big as whales, are strangling each other for
want of swimming room not far from their back-yards.
The average Tas. native prays incessantly that in time
something will be imported to extinguish the trout.
Meanwhile, it is charming to note, notwithstanding the
majesty of the law and the squattahs, some thousands
are being done to death by netting, shooting, and (hat
delightfully exciting method called “tickling” (the
writer has done it himself), assisted by that bird-fish-
beast the platypus.
• » * *
The agents for Wolfe’s Schnapps are presenting-
£so to the person who can correctly pick the result of the
final test cricket match between England and Australia ;
or, should no one give the actual result, the person going
nearest, to it will receive the £5O. See advt. on page 21
of this issue.
* * * *
In the 25-mile Victorian Championship, run at
the L.V.VV. sports, Melbourne, Gargurevich won on his
Dunlop-tyred machine, beating a representative field.
* * » »
The Victorian Brassard Badge, and its accom-
panying salary of £5 a week, is still retained by R.
Walne on his Dunlop-tyred machine.
* » * *
It is mooted that a match for <£2oo a-side
between Walne and Green is likely to take place if satis-
factory arrangements can be made so that sufficient
pacing teams can be obtained for both men.
* • * *
The “ Dunlop Record ” for January, ’9B, is now
ready for gratis distribution. This interesting booklet is
got up in good style, and contains good photos, of Platt-
Betts, Megson and Carpenter, besides accounts of Virgin’s
and Mather and Coleman’s transcontinental rides.
Old newspapers are now being made into
travelling trunks. The papers are pasted together,
pressed, soaked with oil, dried, japanned, and
baked. They are then lighter and stronger than
wood.
Ben Tillett’s arrangement to act as paid-
organiser of Labor in M.L. has fallen through—
because the people who put up the idea wouldn’t
put up the cash. So Ben is going home again—
and (in view of the recent Progressive success)
talking of a fresh seat on London County Council.
But that isn’t so easy.
WHEN RANJI GETS BOWLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Ranji gets bowled the Australian man yells,
With a yell that’s as wide as the land where he dwells,
For the “Prince” bet our power to bowl him was
nought,
That the wreck of his wicket would never be wrought—
Just as though we were prey to a conjuror’s spells 1
In the City of Harbour, the City of Smells,
The City of Giffen and church-going hells.
E’en the babe at the breast to whoop loudly is taught,
When Ranji gets bowled.
And far away back where dear Jim to Bill tells
Cricket yarns that are tall as a building o/ Prell’s,
They forget all about the stray sheep that they've
sought,
No drought, fire, or flood with importance is fraught,
If only they drop on a paper that tells
When Ranji gets bowled 1
H. Q. Q.
DEPARTIN’ MARTIN.
Good-bye, Billy, sturdy Plugger,
Steadfast in the strife ;
Often winning, seldom beaten,
Either way with “ milk ” or shuggar,
You have done your best to sweeten
William’s lot in life.
Bill, you put your iron heart in
What, you found to do ;
Ne’er a rival don at biking
Billed the track as long as Martin J
No one cut a figure striking
Frequently as you.
Back to Yankeeland you travel,
Brave, undaunted still.
With your legs of divers sizes
Heaven give you health to snavel
Many big and smaller prizes,
Good old Plugger Bill!


It’s a Pink !
Everybody who rides it
says it is
. . . The Pink of Perfection !
A masterpiece of mechanical skill in all its details.'
The Massey-Harris Wheel.
MASSEY*HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
•Estabt.tshed
1847.
Australasian Branch : 163*169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
H. : “ link’s sky palace, corner Flinders
arid Elizabeth-sts.,Melb., waslhegrand blast of the
fire, tri the middle of the Boom it narrowly escaped
combustion, and the newspapers told how securi-
ties, amounting in value to more than a million
sterling, were miraculously preserved.”
The late George Ash’s pet idea for estab-
lishing a training-home for weak-minded children
in S.A. has been so far successful that the house
has been secured, and two experts, a Mrs. and a
Miss, have been imported from England. The
Brookmans have given a further substantial
lrimp of their Westralian bullion to the home.
Sydney police say that since they received
the parliamentary franchise, M’sP. and the local
politieiahs, who afe almost all plotting to be
cariqidates while pretending to support others,
jday them a respect in strong contrast to the treat-
ment meted out to them of old. A member stopped
a policeman’s little boy in the street the other day
and asked anxiously about the health of his father,
adding, “ Be sure to tell dad I shook hands with
you and asked about his health.”
The Jap. evidently aims at nothing short
of domination in the Pacific. To say nothing of
the powerful British-built cruisers he has just
bought from Chili, he is at present building in
British, American, and Japanese dockyards,
battleships, first-class cruisers, torpedo-boat de-
stroyers, torpedo-boats and despatch-vessels, on a
scale nothing short of marvellous. As far as can
be ascertained, he is in this way now adding to his
navy : Four battleships, one of 10,000 tons and
three of 14,800 ; five first-class 9600-ton cruisers,
two of 5000 tons, one of 4300, and three of 3000
tons ; eight torpedo-boat destroyers, 15 torpedo-
boats, and a very rapid despatch - vessel. The
little brown man is further a perfect stickler for
the very best, and some of the vessels being built
to his order in Britain are said by experts to be
better than anything afloat.
Once more the wild-eyed female cries out
in the night. The hysterical yell was heard at
Warrnambool (Vic,) this time, arid a frenzied maid-
servant hurled herself into her mistress’s room in
the darkest hour before dawn, frantically declar-
ing that there Was a man in the house, and the
matt’s name Was Richard Harrison. The dis-
tracted maid did riot see Harrison, and nobody
else had any idea that there was a strange bad
mart anywhere near; but she declared she had
heard a man, and was positive it was Harrison,
because of his breath, or an inward conviction, or
something; and the local Solons hearing the case,
after Harrison had sworn that on the night in
question he had never been out of his bed,
declared that they had not the slightest doubt of
his guilt, and Richard will chop Govt, metal till
14th March.
OYER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufacturers of
<SR€VILL€
Bicyaes.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4gin.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New £l5 Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
(Srcvilfc TGrocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY;
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
||Jolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE J
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. tSS~ Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPARE[L
WAVERLEY
JRESCENT
WEAR WELL
{}
MACKLIN
HENLEY
QRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIM LEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
"VAT'S are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
v ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
tfST Agent for “ Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE Clt ESC ENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis' King-street Coffee l'alnce,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
DIODERD JQIRfICEES.
Cures Performed that Rival
those of 1800 years ago.
Consumption, Cancer, Rheumatism, Para-
lysis, and other diseases, CURED in a
short and seemingly miraculous way*
The MODERN MECCA to which the
Sick of the Country go. Facts that will
live in history for ages !
GREAT EXCITEMENT
IN MELBOURNE.
Merit, like murder, always “ will out. ” Mere
assertion never proves anything. Only practical
demonstration of claims to distinction can con-
vince the public mind. The brain of man is the
harbinger of doubt. It accepts nothing that can-
not and is not supported by proof—proof founded
on truth, walled about, domed and turreted with
facts. Facts are the offsprings of development,
and development is the material and legitimate
progeny of doubt. Doubts lead to investigation,
investigation to discovery, and discovery en-
lightens the mind, expands the intellect, and
brings man into closer affinity with nature.
Things that are commonplace enough to us at the
present age would have, less than a century ago,
subjected the projector or discoverer to imprison-
ment and torture, and perhaps death. The dis-
coverer of the earth’s rotundity and the propa-
gators of the fact groaned and suffered beneath
the rack of ignorance and superstition, and were
put to cruel and ignominious deaths. When
Herschell first swept the horoscope of Heaven
with his wonderful telescope, and proclaimed the
existence of the stellar world, the million of glit-
tering spheres whirling in space, compared with
some of which our earth is but a tiny speck, an
avalanche of malice and manevolence was hurled
against his devoted head. So on down through
the whole realm of natural science, until within a
few deoades, every new discovery, every fresh
revelation of fixed natural law, was met with a
tidal wave of credulity and doubt. That word
“impossible” has stood a colossal barrier on the
highway of “Acceptance and Belief.” It took
ages to beat it down, but thanks to modern educa-
tion, which has ungyved the hand and unfettered
the brain of man, that monarch of nature, and
permits him to go on untrammeled, solving her
great problems and interpreting her wondrous
laws.
To-day there is passing in review before our
eyes such a panorama of recent discoveries in the
world of natural phenomena and other branches
of science that we stand convulsed and amazed,
but it must be patent to all who have given the
subject attention that the advancement made in
the medical field eclipses all others, and towers
like a white shaft to the clouds above and beyond
conception.
The Polypathic system in the treatment of
chronic disease is undoubtedly the most advanced
of all medical science, and if one were to judge by
the the vast throng that may be seen daily at their
offices in their magnificent institute, 84 Collins-
street, Melbourne, it would seem that half the
population of the city were clamoring for their
services.
The success attending this new system is almost
miraculous, but it is in accordance with natural
and applied science, and wins its constant vic-
tories over disease because of the true following
out of that which natural ability and the highest
developments of Medical Science has shown to be
sure and true. All sufferers are welcome to the
fullest investigation of the POLYPATHIC
MEDICAL INSTITUTE, of 84 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. War. HENRY GAZE, M.D.,
L.S.A. Lond., L.R.C.P. Lond., M.R.C.S. Eng.,
is Physician in charge.
Those who cannot call personally, can
write. All communications are strictly con-
fidential, and an opinion will be given in all
cases by return mail where the consultation
fee of 10s. is enclosed.
More capital invested, more physicians
employed, more cures made by the Poly-
pathic System, than by any other similar
Institution or body of Physicians in the
world.*
KING OF
CYCLES.
Price,
£l2 10s.
TH€ ROAP
THE MOST WONDERFUL VALUE EVER OFFERED.
SPECIALITIES. —WeIdIess Steel Tubing through*
out, Gear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Barrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 ihch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
” Cycle Works,
DRUTTT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY,
“Imperial” gicples.
(The Go-Lightiy Kind)*
Manuf. by the Ames Si Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers ot world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an i ,
Duplicate patts always in stock. IMPERIAL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send A SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (whete hot already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia :
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Tl)?S6ffieldCase-
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
booms '' - w
OB BOARD
AT OPTIOSJ.
.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE Q. AO-
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H B STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
r A NOVELTY!
j ALL KINDS OF
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of /
natural perfumes. II
Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from
Stre^^
Tales of the
Convict System.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company [United.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
DIRECTORS : F. ft. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman. 'ROBT. MURRAY SMITH, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice
Chairman. JOHN GRICE, Esq. C. M. OFFICER, Esq. Hon. J. M. PRATT, M.L.C. JAS.
BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager,
CAPITAL :
Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £150,000. Paid-up, £60,000. Reserve Fund and
Undivided Profits, £46,475 13s. 2d.
Notice is hereby given, that the Fortieth ORDINARY HALF-YEARLY MEETING of the Shareholders of the
above Company will be held in the board-room, at the Company’s offices, No, 412 Oollins-street, on THURSDAY, 27th
INST., at eleven o’clock.
Business :
1. To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet for the half-year ended 31st December, 1897.
2 To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. Paterson and Cleveland, who retire, but who are eligible for re-
election, and offer themselves accordingly.
3. To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting of which due notice shall have
been given.
REPORT.
The Directors are glad to report that the business is being fully maintained.
The amount remaining at credit of profit and loss account and available for distribution is £6475 13s. 2d., which
the Directors recommend should be appropriated as follows :
To dividend on £60,000 for half-year ended 31st December, 1897, at the
rate of 5 per cent, per annum.. .. ... •» *. ... £1,500 0 0
To balance to he carried forward 4,976 IS 2
£6,475 13 2
By order of the board.
412 Collins-street, Melbourne, I3th January, 1898.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS, AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, Half-Year ended 31sf> December, 1897.
Dr. £ s- »•
1897—December 31.
To Salaries, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
including agencies 3,711 6 8
To Stationery, Postage, and Office Expenses 590 0 1
To Printing and Advertising 285 3 2
To Furniture and Fittings (sewerage) .. 104 1 6
To Law Costs 74 9 1
4,765 0 6
Allowance for Widow of late Managing Di-
rector .. .. .. .. .... 250 0 0
To difference in Amount Paid and Received
on Lease, 37 Queen-street 327 2 11
To difference in Amount Paid in connection
with Mortgage on premises, and received
on investment of £35,000.. .. .. 287 19 1
To Balance carried down .. 6,475 13 2
£12,105 15 8
Cr. £ B. ».
1897—June 30.
By Balance 6,270 14 11
Less dividend at the rate of S per
cent, per annum 1,600 0 0
4,770 14 11
1897—December 31.
By Interest on Mortgages, Stock, &c. .. 672 12 2
By Commissions and miscellaneous Receipts,
alter providing for contingencies .. 6,592 16 3
By Company’s Premises—
Rents £290 13 10
Less rates, lift and repairs 221 1 6
69 12 4
£12,105 15 8
.. £6,475 1.3, 2
1897— December 31.—8 y Balance
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1897.
£ S. D.
£ 8. B.
Dr.
Capital—
Subscribed .. ..
Less uncalled ..
.. 150,000 0 0
.. 90,000 0 0
60,000 Shares paid up to £1 ..
Reserve Fund, used in the Company’s
business
60,000 0 0
40,000 0 0
100,000 0 0
Money Owing on Open Account .. .. 136 8 2
Debt Due on Mortgage of Freehold Pro-
perty .. -.- • • • • • • • 25,000 0 0
(Against which there is a special invest-
ment of £35,000).
Profit and Loss Account 6,476 13 2
£131,612 1 4
£ 8. J>.
£ &a.
Or.
Investments—
Inscribed Stock .. .. 10;000 0 0
Money Lent on Mortgage 6,836 16 4
Money Lent against Inter-
ests of Beneficiaries .. 10,142 411
Investments set aside to
meet Mortgage on Free-
hold Property—
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank—Prefer-
ence shares, £14,000;
deposits, £lB,OOO. Bank
of Victoria Deposits,
£2743. National Bank-
Deposits, £267 .. .. 36,000 0 0
At face value ». „ 61,979 0 3
Freehold Property at cost .. 69,348 210
Less written off .. . . 4,348 210
66,000 0 0
Furniture and Fittings at
cost 964 4 10
Less written off .. .. 454 4 10
Debts Due to the Company other than
those above-mentioned, amounts paid in
advance, &c 888 11 3
Cash to credit in Bank of Australasia .. 3,244 910
£131,612 1 4
TRUST, EXECUTOR, AND AGENCY BUSINESS.
Contingent and Other Liabilities Otherwise than in Re-
spect of Any of the Above-Mentioned Items.
Amount at Credit of Estates Trusts and
Clients, represented by investments
and cash at bankers, as per contra .. £6,021,410 IS 0
£6,021,410 18 0
Contingent Assets.
Advances on Mortgage of Real Estate .. £2,264,311 17 6
Debentures and Stock 403,128 15 0
Landed Property 2,120,903 15 10
Other Securities .. 1,162,910 18 9
(Exclusive of property mortgaged as
security ard held by Company as
trustee for debenture-holders).
Cash at Bankers at credit of Trust Cur-
rent Accounts „ ... 70,165 6 0
£6,021,410 13 0


V
KVW
*
73
The Hit
..of the..
Season....
is made by
Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. At this
season, when
warm and de-
bilitating days
are with us,
there is noth-
I ing like Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla to
put new life
into the slug-
gish system.
It sweeps away
the dullness,
lack of appe-
tite, languid-
ness, and pain,
as a broom
sweeps away
cobwebs. It
does not brace
up. It builds
up. Its benefit
is lasting. Do
you feel run
down ? Take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Trills, Mild but Effective,
Ladies.- Call and
see our CHEAP
...A CHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
j etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
Mascotte
TOBACCO.
r-
V-
<
MASCOTTE
UJ
h
vi) 'O ™
0
WSMASCOTTE
sU
oo\
Dcafijcss
and HEAD
NOISES
Vilsbn’s Common
ense Ear Drums
Relieved
lelieve all conditions of Deafness
nd Head Noises, where medical
kill fails. The only Scientific
I \ural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book—Free.
j, ouai.ners, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
) Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTIIALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
An impoverished and senile Chow, oa@
Taw, was brought before Rockhampton Polio©
Court the other daw, charged with vagrancy. Th©
P.M. ordered the Celestial wreck to be despatched
to Dunwich Asylum. Taw pleaded hard for a pass
to China, but the Court was obdurate, although
accused threatened to wait there till he got what
he. wanted. Seriously, wouldn’t it pay better to
ship decrepit Chows homeward than to keep them
in Australia ?
The chairman of a bench of three Q. Jay-
pees explained, in re the bench’s decisions in)
double-breasted cross-summons proceedings, that
he had previously made enquiries as to the char-
acter of the parties, and that he found that the
first complainant (who was, of course, second
defendant) “bore an excellent reputation.” The
parties fined appealed to the Full Court, on the
ground that the Bench had been influenced by
evidence other than that given in open court, i
The Full Court very properly quashed the Jay-
pees’ decision. Another illustration of the verity
that no Judge nor magistrate should ever “give
r '.isons ” for a decisien.
Scene—Cairns (Q.) Police Court;: Japanese
interpreter has been offered a fee of half-a-guinea.
“Excuse me,” responded the little brown gent,
“my fee on such occasions is two guineas and I
cannot accept anything less.” On the police as-
serting that 10s. fid. was the fee of the Chinese
interpreter —“ But I am not. a Chinaman, and I
value my services at 2 guineas. I will not create
a precedent by taking a less sum, but, if the court
cannot obtain another interpreter, I will give my
services for nothing.” And he accordingly did so.
Dear Bulletin, —The local members of
the Land Board up here are a squatter, of the
Central division, and a homestead lessee, of the
Western. One day, some of the squatter’s land
came before the board for appraisement of rental;
the squatter, of course, on the floor of the court.
Chairman, to homestead lessee, “ What do you
say?—2d?” H.L. : “Oh, / think 2id.” Chair-
man : “ Very well; you know the land better than
I do.” Then to the squatter: “The rental is
assessed at 2|d.” Next day, the homestead lessee
is on the floor of the court, and his lease rental is
being appraised. Chairman, to colleague (the
squatter, this time) : “ Shall we say l|d ? ”
Squatter: “ No, by God ! —2d ! ” Then to H.L.:
“ Got home on you that time, old man ! ” —B.
Humility is such a truly Christian virtue
that it is seldom seen in a Christian country. But
one genuine sample turned up recently at Melb.
City Court. Plaintiff had "charged another
man with punching his jaw, but to his description
of the stoushing he added, “Well, your Worships,
I don’t think he had any bad intent.” “ What’s
that?” thundered the inspector. “I think he
didn’t mean no harm ; he done it for my own
good.” The Court sat up astounded. “ Then you
think you deserved it ? ” queried the police, sar-
castically. “ Well, sometimes I do, but not this
here time,” cheerfully admitted the forgiving
plaintiff. And the Bench had only sufficient
strength left to fine the accused Is., and limply
order the Court to be adjourned.
jHAUPENKY
GrO TO HELL-
IC GLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Crt.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Starting
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Remedy for Sea-sickness.
JEST” Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer ; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2s. 6ci. and <3cl.. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
t Cft
r. v with / j
SANHAS
COPYRICHT BOOK
How to Disinfect’
S E N TfREE
The San.itas C ? I°j
Bethnal Gref.n
LONDON
¥be Noiseless kerosene gas
STOVE,
“Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
provements. With its
.ooking apparatus it
vill ROAST,BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
“ Jupiter ” burner
fitted to any stove.
“Primus” Stoves, 9/6
each.
Send for catalogues.
BRA.KT3DT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
m
i
SJ
CIGARETTES
UUI
Plum
jiilpTt/
THE
Plum
(''l ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having bad them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
_ . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price | yingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
J3Y ROYAL WARRANT of APPOINTMENT to « THE QUE^JXT.’’
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE.”
Schweppes
ASK TOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SOD A WATER, &o.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
DrugCo„ Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywh re.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal
Invalids
and
THE AGED.


Herr Rassmussen, Celebrated, Herbalist .
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Paline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and Speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Aifaline Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
* "I
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of thn Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING- per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness*
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i n doors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
8
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RBSSMUSSEN’S Medical Page.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches—well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
I you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
D
'S.X> *
t/m\
V
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
AI>FAI>INB
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
‘HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaline
Pat-Reducing 1 Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
§o
ft
\m
IT
r
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, is. (id.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifle,
their complexion suffer-
m
£
mg like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
-e"
»
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, ahd politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the M EDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
I Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
I billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
I billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
I everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
I was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
I the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
jin 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
I Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
1 credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
*3F When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box.
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY :
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
K
?
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. : Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. Tin se prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BL' OD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent,
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
1 and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
Bs., 68., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder.
I ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier— A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grej
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidlj
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood anc
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds u;
i and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure anc
i enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
| Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
j Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
| Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
I Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, i«. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders —Destroy and expel anj
I kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, verj
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guarantee*
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples anc
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
1547 George Street, Sydney!
also LARGE BRANCHES at
I Melbourne — 150 Bourke Street ;
i Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
j Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
| Adelaide —154 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Coolgardie—Bailey Street ;
Kaigoorlie—Hannan Street ;
Premantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
"With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
It#" ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HTCRR RASSMIJSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it., to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy sake—
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT I AIL.


THE
Royal flora Copper R|ining Co.
(No TAabiUty),
{ Lake Dora, Tasmania.
CAPITAL - - - £30,000.
In 60,000 Shares of 10s. each.
40,000 Shares are paid up, and 40,000 are paid up to 2s.
£l5OO net placed to credit.
The Company is formed to purchase from Messrs. Curtin
and others the application for Lease No. 2010-93 M., at
Lake Dora, Tasmania.
The following reports have been received and speak for
themselves.
Brokers : Messrs. CLARKE & CO.
Lake Dora, Gormanston,
Jan. 10th, 1898.
Dear Sirs, —I have been requested to furnish you with a
report on Section 2010-93 M, and beg to submit the follow-
ing particulars. <-
, Section 2010-93 M is a Mineral Lease consisting of 80 acres
charted in the name of M'Kye and Curtin, situated west
and adjoining the Lady Dora Copper Mining Company,
and about eight miles north of Mt. Lyell.
The geological features of the section are identical with
Mount Lyell, being a continuation of the same belt of
copper-bearing schist. Near your western boundary line
a trench has been cut 70ft. long and Bft. deep, exposing
payable copper for the whole distance, and the same metal
showing in the face of the trench. The outcrop of the lode
at ; this point is fully 100 ft. wide with a strike of about 30
degrees west of north, and can be traced through the sec-
tionmaintainingitsfull width and value. Thecopperchiefiy
occurs in the form of copper pyrites, but in some parts
green carbonite is fully disseminated. Melaconite and
Native Copper are sometimes met with, also free gold by
panning. The facilities for working are good, the lode
. being so wide it will enable the Mine to be worked by the
open-cut system.
In conclusion, I have no hesitation in saying that I
recommend this property to intending investors, for in
Die Mine they have a large body of payable ore to operate
on.—Yours respectfully,
THOMAS BESSELL,
Manager Lady Dora C.M.G.
Lake Dora, Jan. 10,1898.
Dear Sirs, —I have been requested to furnish you with a
Report on Section No. 2010-9351., and beg to submit the
following particulars.
The above section is a mineral Lease consisting of 80
acres charted in the name of M‘Kye and Curtin, east and
adjoining Lady Dora, north and adjoining the Lake Dora
Copper Mining Co., and about 8 miles north of Gorman-
ston. The geological features of this section and the
locality generally are identical with Mt. Lyell, being a
continuation of the same belt of country. Within
one chain of your western boundary-line there is
a trench cut varying from 3 to Bft. deep and
70ft. across ; so far they have neither walls. The
lode at this point is fully 100 ft. -wide with a
strike of about 35 degrees west of north, with a dip of 1 in
5. Copper pyrites exposed for full width of trench in
what I consider to be paying quantities, green carbonate,
melaconite and native copper are also met with. Free
gold can also be obtained by panning with dish. The
facilities for working are splendid, the lode being so wide
and trace through the property will enable you to work it
by open cut systems. In conclusion, 1 have no hesitation
in recommending this property to intending investors as
one offering good returns for capital invested. —I remain,
Dear Sirs, Yours respectfully,
S. COOPER,
Manager Dora M.O.
A SILVER WATCH
GrIVEKT A.WA.Y.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
S*C*E*S T* F’D'R'T’ON.
The only condition is that if vour answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
“ I have received the watch and chain per terms of the
advertisement, and in perfect order, and the quality of
which gives me more than satisfaction.—Yours, &c.,
Mrs. W. M'CARTHY, South Broken Hill.”
Address—THE MANAGER
The English Vvatch and Jewellery Company,
No. 9 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (2nd FLOOR)
PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
j)avid Braham $ C°-
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
{■CDtleiQtQ’S —H —
—K — SftitiQgS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by j>ost.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clotliixig.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, STDNET
(between George and York Streets).
Missing Friends.
71DWIN SMITH, formerly of Ballykistoen,
1 i County Tipperary, Ireland, and afterwards
Princess Terrace, St. Kilda Road, Melbourne,
requested to communicate with the undersigned,
ly persons who can give any information about
r. Smith are also requested to communicate with
e undersigned.
GAVAN DUFFY & KING,
Solicitors,
69 Melbourne Lane, Melbourne.
~F THOMAS McMULLAN, formerly of
Cloughey, Portaferry, Ireland, will com-
inicate with James William Abigail, of 97
izabeth-st., Sydney, Solicitor, etc., he will hear
something to his advantage. Brother Arobi-
Id dead.
Amusements.
FITZ-GERALD BROTHERS’
HUGE
COMBINED SHOWS,
INCLUDING
Carl Hagenbeck’s Zoological Circus.
0T CROWDED, PACKED, JAMMED NIGHTLY.
THE GREAT NEW COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT ] ProyrammeT [ TO-NIGHT
EVERYTHING NEW.
The Lion and Elephant riding a Tricycle
THE ELEPHANT IN NEW ACTS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 O’CLOCK.
LOCATION:
Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
PRICES— 4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
Day Shows-Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Doors open at 2 ; Performance at 3.
The Splendid Band under the conductorslilp of Herr
Von der Mehden. Box plan at Nicholson’s; and the
Office, Hotel Australia.
TO ARRIVE! TO ARRIVE! Per S.S. Sonnenberg—
direct from Hamburg. The greatest animal novelty ever
seen —Watch for it.
Amusements.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In the Noble, Patriotic, Military Stage Story of British
Valor, the
Relief of Lncltnow.
J3T* CHANGE OP BILL, EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Wilson Barrett Season. Wilson Barrett Season.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS !
“ The Manxman.”
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 26, Sheridan Knowles's Famous
Play, “ VIRGINIUS.” Three Nights Only.
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies'. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
H
ARMSTON’S GIGANTIC CIRCUS AND
ZOOLOG IA OF WILD AND PERFORM-
ING ANIMALS.
LOCATION: PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
A CYCLONIC SUCCESS!
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees Every Wednesdays and Saturdays.
R. Love, Manager; Col. C. B. Hicks, Representative;
Joe Brown, Press and General Agent.
Our 1898 Registered Novelty “ Bird Brooch.
Surpassing the old style of Twin Swallows for Strength and Durability.
GfS-Alliance
fTejf/sferec/
9ct. Gold,
Ids.
15ct. Gold,
20s.
CLOSED
15ct. Gold,
with
Rondella
Bead
in centre
of
chain,
225. 6d.
POST FREE
POST
FREE.
OPEN
Gold Lucky Wish.-Bone
(Merry Thought) Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
pearl centre, 20/- each.
Plain, larjre size ... 7/6 each.
„ small size ... 5/-each.
Pearl Set all round ... 20/- each
Tusk Links.
Silver-mounted, 4 6 pair.
Gold-mounted, 13,6 pair.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant,
13 6 each.
With Bell and Chain Pendant, 12/6 each.
18c. Half Hoop.
6 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Silver-Mounted ... 4 6 each.
Gold-Mounted ... 13,6 „
Solid Plain Flat.
9-carat, 17 6, 20'-, 25/-
15-carat. 35/-, 40/-, 457-
Silver, 6/-
RICIILY CHASED.
9-carat, 17 6, 20/-, 25/-
15-carat, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Silver, 4/-, 5/-
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
Hundreds of other Novel Designs
—IN—
RINGS, LINKS, BROOCHES, &c.
18c. Band Bing'.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
Plain Band Bing.
9-carat, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
15-carat, 20/-, 22 6, 27 6
18-carat, 21/-, 25/-, 80-
With any name, 1/- extra.
9-ct., 22/- pr. 15-ct., 37/6 pr.
Silver, 4/6 pr. 6 patterns.
NOTE Ouu Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
■ m
m
Vi.
! '. : > v
HKWJ
O' 4
«E
0
Ol-
nF
iii: :,-:
33«$
tone
Pgv
W*r :*
.' -r • ■ ?s
•** * vWwSr;
< *TOsb!wwSr^
. i r I mt,s
S»Ww
-ttTe Sfirst^ound
4 al ’ s a nW*v do?s *
- i^ ov/ S |*
an^/
Remington
Typewriter.
•• • •
STOTT &, HOARE,
Sole Importers.
•• • •
426 COLLIN S-ST.,
MELBOURNE.
MOORE ST.,
SYDNEY.
GrRENFELL ST.,
ADELAIDE.
BARRACK ST.,
PERTH.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY'.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Qeo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening. Matinees, Wednesday & Saturday.
The grand, gorgeous, spectacular, comic pantomime,
Tbe Babes ii> tbe Wood.
Interpreted by a Great Burlesque Company.
Plan, Nicholson’s. |3F° PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
FRANK THORNTONS
FAREWELL APPEARANCES in AUSTRALIA.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS!
CHARLEY’S ATTKTT.
And the Theatre still filled to overflowing.
NEXT SATURDAY and MONDAY (2 Nights only'
Sweet Lavender.
Popular Prices —3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
i]lH RATHE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
Unanimously Acknowledged by ONE and ALL that
JACK THE GIANT KILLER
Is absolutely far and away the best Pantomime ever
staged in Sydney. —Vide Press opinions,
This Saturday Afternoon and Evening - Everything fresh ;
new songs, new gags, new witticisms.
MILLION PRICES—3s, 2s and Is. Plan at Paling’s,
George-st. Matinees every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
•fIIVOLI T HEA TR E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Coolest Theatre in Sydney.
Enormous reception nightly of Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
See this artist in his song “ Gallery and Boxes,” of
which he is Author and Composer.
LAST TWO NIGHTS AT THE TIVOLI OF
Mr. Harry Ricliardls.
A Furore created Nightly by
O Tlxe Kellirxoes 8
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY.
HE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Man. Director—Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE MOST SENSATIONAL FURORE
Ever Known in Australia Nightly Created by the three
SCBG-ljfllVliLlNriNrS.
The acknowledged champion Flying Trapeze Artists and
Athletes of the world.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION NIGHTLY of
JOSEPH —THE WALDRONS —ETTIE
Supported by the entire strength of our Double Co.
2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
SCPEIiB XMAS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON.
MAGGIE MOORE supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Acting Managers—For Miss Maggie Moore and Mr. H.
R. Roberts, Mr. Percy Ward; for Messrs. Holloway and
Anderson, Mr. Jas. Hardy.
Public Notices.
BURGLARS BAFFLED.
Do burglars hammer at the door, and wake up
everyone before effecting an entry ?
YES.
This is practically what they do when they ap-
proach within COO-EE
of a building protected by M'Dermott’s
BURGLAR ALARM.
It is inexpensive, and can be fitted anywhere.
When fixed, absolute
SECURITY
is guaranteed, even though an entry is made
through some unprotected door or window, the
SECRESY
being so complete as to baffle the greatest
caution in stepping anywhere or simply touch-
ing a protected spot. The noise would
WAKE THE DEAD,
and so paralyse the intruder as to render his cap-
ture merely the matter of knocking him down
WITH A BRICK.
No custodian of valuables should be unprotected.
Banks, Stores, Offices, and Dwellings in town,
suburbs or country, are now fitted with this
Burglars’ BUGBEAR.
WORKING MODELS
may be seen, and prices for installation ob-
tained, at our offices. A Telephone message to
No. 1674, or a Postcard, will secure an imme-
diate call from one of our representatives.
The M'DERMOTT BURGLAR ALARM CO.,
Castlereagh-street (opp. Australia Hotel).
For Public Information Only.
PROSPECTUS
OF TUB
North Jennings Gold, Copper and
Silver Mining Coy.
(No Liability).
CAPITAL - £30,000.
In 60,000 Shares of 10s. each; all of which are
paid up to 2s.
The area of the lease is 80 acres, situated in the
vicinity of Lake Selina, between the Lake Dord
and Red Hills districts, and is reported on by
William Johnstone very favorably. The lode
being nearly 200 ft. wide, and splendidly situated
for working. JJI2OO clear has been placed to the
credit of the co., which is now registered.
Dirkctors :
T. J. DIBDEN. H. F. YOUNG.
J. F. LEVIEN. J. WILLIAMSON.
E. DE FAYO.
Manager and Office :
R. GILPIN,
99 Queen-st., Melbourne
N
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General MEETING of the Shareholders in
the above Company will be held on MONDAY,
31st instant, upon the Company’s premises, as
above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors.
LEWIS LEVY,
General Manager.
Business :
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance-sheet, and to transact any
other business that may be brought
before the meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 15th January, 1898.
EW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st inclusive.
By order.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Dated 15th January, 1898.
N


Stocktaking Storing-Out Solo
FINNEY ISLES A CO.’S
IS NOW ON.
GOODS in EVERY DEPARTMENT are
SUBST ANTI ALLY REDUCED for this
CLEARING-OUT SALE.
ORDERS should he sent EARLY, with a care-
ful description of requirements, naming prices
wished to be paid, and enclosing REMITTANCE
TO COVER AMOUNT.
Any Change over, after executing Orders, will
be at once refunded, ,and COUNTRY CUS-
TOMERS may rely upon getting the benefit of
all reductions, and goods nearest in price to those
mentioned.
DRAPERY GOODS of the value of £2 and
upwards that can go by Parcels Post, with the ex-
ception of certain heavy or bulky low-priced lines,
are sent by us to any Parcel Post Office in the
Colony, POSTAGE FREE.
Goods are thus Delivered to all parts of the Colony
AT BRISBANE CLOSING-OUT PRICES.
During Olosing-Out Sale it is often useless to order from
samples. When once lines are sold, they cannot be re-
placed. In sending samples, therefore, a first, second,
and third choice should be made in each instance, and, in
the event of all being sold, authority should be given for
us tso substitute the nearest. In substituting goods, our
best judgment would be used in selecting the nearest, both
as regards pattern and price.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank Drafts, and
Cheques payable to
FINNEY ISLES & CO., BRISBANE.
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirety free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
RAIItSHtESMIKS AIM i»
To tl»e Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfninety. Shaving Soap. Essential Oi Is, &e.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best .English Hair Tails
from.ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
GSO «fc «Si George Street, Sydney.
* Voor Life or that Signet tobacco!
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
[BALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
J Prick Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
One of the revelations of the Queensland
Teachers’ Union Conference was that it is the
ambition of every assistant-teaoher to be “allowed
to spank the kid.”
The bursting of the little Cresswell boom
ought to be the end of all serious endeavour to
establish Roger C. D. Tichborne as a living
person. Even a healthy Roger would probably
have been dead by this time, and the young man
who disappeared some 45 years ago Was, accord-
ing to all accounts, a very feeble and asthmatic
weed. Nevertheless the fact that Roger isn’t
legally alive, and wasn’t legally alive when Orton
claimed the Tichborne estates, cannot shake the
argument that he escaped drowning in the Bella.
Against the watery-grave assumption there are
the scraps of evidence and suspicions of evidence,
and circumstantial legends, to the effect that
a Roger Tichborne, or somebody who passed
for him, came to Australia in the early Fifties.
A quarter of a century back, when Orton appeared
on the scene, the Tichborne family might perhaps
have got satisfactory proof of Roger’s death—-
natural or violent—-by making an honest inquiry
into these Australian traditions; but the family
policy was a defensive one. The very last thing
it would do.was to start an investigation which
might, by any chance, bring the real Tichborne to
the surface.
Melb. detective Macmanamy got an easy
job one day lately. The d. was lounging up
against a post, gazing abstractedly into the middle
distance, when a stranger wandered into his line
of vision, and stayed there. Mac. had still a far-
away look in his eye, and the stranger interested
him not, but presently the latter went in at the
knees, and chattered audibly, and, when the
officer recovered from his day-dream, the other
fellow was embracing his calves, and beseeching
him to let him off this time, and declaring, with
tears and awful sobs, that he really wouldn’t
break into any more houses if allowed to depart in
peace, and become a Sunday-school teacher and
an ornament to society. The officer didn’t know
the man, and had never heard of him, but, after
listening to his protestations, he ran him in on the
off-chance, and found he had secured quite a prize.
Who, after this, will sneer at the magic, magnetic
Eye of the Law?
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dr. Creed, M.L.C., writes to the Sydney
press:—
Few people are aware how narrowly we have, on at
least two occasions within the last 20 years, escaped
attack by hostile forces. At the time of the Russo-
Turkish war —or, rather, at its termination—when the
Indian troops were sent to Malta, a Russian fleet was
lying in Vladivostock fully prepared to start, on receipt
of a telegraphic order, to make a foray on the Australian
capitals, and it was only the agreement arrived at shortly
before the conference, at Berlin, between Russia and Great
Britain, which prevented the attack being made. My in-
f-'rfn'ahts, for there were more than one who gave me identi-
cal information, met in Italy the Russian Admiral who
was in command, and who was very fond of telling Aus-
tralians whom he chanced to meet all about the proposed
expedition. The second and more imminent danger
occurred in 1885 at the time when the attack by the
Russians on the. Afghan troops at Pendjeh nearly led to a
rupture between the two nations. At this time a cabled
cipher dispatch to the Governor arrived in Sydney on
Sunday afternoon, saying : “ Rut the colony in a state for
instant defence ; you may be attacked at any moment.”
Further information arriving later showed that there
were 15,000 men at sea for the purpose of making
a simultaneous assault on Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. It appears that the .Russian Govern-
ment had fitted out vessels in various neutral
European ports, and had sent picked men in plain
clothes to them, they purporting to be merely emigrants.
The whole thing was managed so secretly and cleveily
that the British authorities got no inkling of it until after
the ships had sailed for the secret rendezvous, somewhere
on the ocean, to which they went to await orders. The
dispute between the two nations being settled, Australia
was spared this outrage, and many, if not all, of these
men landed at Vladivostock in uniform as soldiers.
Proverbially, the third time will be —fatal?
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. «d.
m
"I'll Try It.” Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st„ Sy duey
A BOON to SYDNEY.
o
L®Sf UZ£
©
sff)
BY THE
Centennial Insect powder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers — Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MFG. CO. LIMITED, 62 Queens-
land Offices, Bridge-street, Sydnev.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sis., Sydney.
X
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Harden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
Harden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &e., from
Moth.
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
Parasites-
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE,
CAUTION 1 . —Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
I
! £
cS^ a TIJ/^
\voONDf
(bUGMJ (OLPS £9
IBeware op
/MlTAmsS'
MELBOURNE.
POST FREE
WATCHES-CLOCKS- JEWELLERY-BIRTriDAT*
weddii'Jg z Christening Presents
H'NEWMAfJ- 1755177-ELIZARFTri St*
OPPOSITE C:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
g—godalla, Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
' fe—gacS alia 3~3rsß*.xxxs
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
.CAUTION.— It having come to ..the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEAR WIN,
Wholesale Agent,
329 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Orilliiig Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS .
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
!it Clarence St.,
Sydney.
ilTfa
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Dbafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
Address —A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.., Melbourne.
VIOLINS, 7s (id, 12s (id,
v 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s ;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s ,6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Aceordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25s and 30s; Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. ’Os and 90s; Banjos, best, 63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos 'ss and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 255; Boomerang Mouth
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, or Is. weekly. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON, 118 King-st., Sydney.
TANGLEFOOT
ends
A
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
Fly Paper
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. & W. THUM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
M’f’t’RS. 1.
Sold Everywhere.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyME
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
‘ Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWMC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not w'e will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what w r e premise.
NOTICE. —Before pur-
chasing w'e prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know,
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drum
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who id trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
E'ee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
MenfotiS Weakness • - .
AND
Ccrshro-SpiQal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD*
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters ea,sy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Syanej
Please mention this paper when writing.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WTT.RHTt KBIXOGO. Box 344 Melbourne, Yic.


BEWARE OE POISONOUS IMITATIONS
*— OiB 1
DR. WILLIAMS’
PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE,
WHICH ARE BEING SOLD BY MANY UNSCRUPULOUS CHEMISTS.
■ ? i —! - :
YOUR HEALTH is at stake, and perhaps YOUR LIFE.
See that “ Dr. Williams ” is on Every Packet Purchased.
Read Wbat tb« GENUINE Dr. Williams’ Pills batf« Poi>« it) Australia :
A Triumph in Medical Science.
MARVELLOUS CURE OF LOCOMOTOR
ATAXIA.
Some six years ago,” said Mr. Jarvis to a
reporter, “ I was skylarking in the Natatorium
Swimming Baths, in Pitt-street, Sydney, when
m y feot slipped, and I fell over the pipe through
which the steam is pumped to warm the water.
My head struck the concrete floor, and my legs
were hurled across the pipe, my flesh being
shrivelled and singed. I fell insensible. When I
was lifted up the burnt flesh from my legs was
4-5
torn away by the neat, and left adhering horribly
to the pipe.
“For sixteen weeks,” continued he, “I was un-
able to leave my bed, and when at last I rose I
was not the same man. lam a boilermaker, you
know, and the work is excessively hard. Still, I
endeavored to keep pace with demands. One
day, however, whilst engaged in a refrigerating
chamber, I caught cold in my back through
entering; in a heated condition. This pulled me
down still more, and I became weaker than ever.
Ultimately I was forced to abandon my trade of
boilermaking at the Atlas Engineering Works.
Looking round for something easy, suited to my
feeble condition, I commenced collecting accounts
for a butcher at Olebe Island. I was, however,
becoming seriously incapacitated, and would be
sometimes confined to bed two days at a time.
Later on I had to lay up three days running.
Then suddenly my sight became affected, and I
could never see correctly. When money was
being paid to me I’d always make mistakes, and I
continually saw‘double.’ I’d have one shilling
in my hand, and I’d see two there, and so on.
Becoming weaker and weaker, with failing sight,
and faltering step, I took to my bed altogether!
The doctor pronounced it an advanced ease of
locomotor ataxia, and I was refused admission to
the Sydney Hospital, as my trouble was said to
be undoubtedly chronic and incurable. I was,
however, given my tram-fare, and an order on the
Director of Charitable Institutions for admission
to the Liverpool or Rook wood Asylum. But
instead of that I tottered home, to spend twelve
months of agonising existence in bed. I lost all
power of walking, and my body became abso-
lutely dead and immovable from the waist down-
wards. Day after day I lay awake restlessly
counting the weary hours, with my helpless legs
drawn close together. Then my wife would come
and shift them apart for me. Sharp pains shot
continuously across my waist. My sight had
failed me, and then another fearful disaster hap-
pened. I lost all control over my bowels and
bladder. Every bit of feeling in my legs was
gone, and pins stuck in would cause me no
pam. I was frequently dizzy, and my palate
was paralysed, so that I had no taste in my
mouth, and could never tell what I was eat-
ing. Not that I ate much, for my appetite
wholly disappeared, and I had no desire for food.
The whole of my interior organs were also para-
lysed, and the tips of my fingers had no feeling
in them. My m dieal adviser told Mrs. Jarvis
that I would never work again, and that, although
I might last some time, I would possibly never
be able to use my legs. He did all he could
to ease ray excruciating agony with opium and
morphia pills, but as my malady was the dreaded
locomotor ataxia, of which no authenticated
cure had ever occurred, he was forced to regard
my plight as hopeless. I tried every patent
medicine without success, and 1 also bought an
electric battery and applied it with the same re-
sult. I thus gave up all hope, and drifted on in
a sea of darkness and misery for a period of
12 long months. One day, however, I saw the
case of John Marshall, of Hamilton, Canada, re-
ported in an American paper, and I noticed that
he had been marvellously cured of my very com-
plaint by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Jumping at a straw, I resolved to try them, and
' j so \ I ~n > an( ? n °t till then, did a magnificent
and astounding miracle take place ! I improved
visibly, -hirst my appetite returned, my sight
was restored, the waist pains faded away, and I
could taste what I ate. Then, gradually, feeling
returned to my limbs and to the points of my
nngers. I could run my hand over my legs and
teel the contact. My lower limbs were no more
like blocks of insentient wood ; my will-power in-
creased ; my veins had warm blood infused into
them.
“I was able to leave bed and walkacross the room
with a stick, and sit on the chair, IVty improve-
ment, though gradual, all the time steadily in-
creased, and a little later I was able to walk the
length of the lane with a stick, whilst now I can
move about the house without that aid. Alto-
gether,” Mr. Jarvis continued, “I was off and on
in bed for two years, regarded as a chronic case by
a Government medical officer, and told I could
never recover. Yet here lam!” he said, with a
laugh, “ as well as I was five years ago, and still
on the improve.
I’ve had hundreds and hundreds of visitors,”
he explained, “ since my cure was published, and
Mr*. Jarvis and I have been kept busy going to
the door.” “Indeed, we have,” responded the
lady, laughing. “During Jubilee time, when all
the country visitors were in town, we held a regu-
lar reception, and Mrs. Jarvis could hardly do
D* WILLIAMS’
INK
'ILLS
FOR
LE
FACSIMILE OF ONLY GENUINE PACKET.
£25 REWARD will be paid to any PERSON giving
such INFORMATION as will lead to the CONVIC-
TION of parties putting up and selling IMITATIONS.
any housework, so numerous were the eager in-
quirers who poured in from just after breakfast
till nightfall. I answered them all the same, and.
no matter whatever they said, I recommended
the pills to them. Many have taken my advice,
and have since been cured. We received dozens
of letters also, and replied to them, and in the
same tone. I can’t say too much for the pills ;
they’ve done all I’ve told you. They’ve saved my
life, and my wife and I consider Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People to be the most wonder-
ful medicine of the age, with no exception.
Mr. J. S. T M‘Gowen, M.L.A., the leader of
the Labor-party in the N.S.W. Assembly, has
known me from childhood, and no man was more
astounded than he when he heard of my re-
covery. ”
Wonderful Cure of Anaemia
(Bloodlessness).
“My daughter had been strong and healthy
until about two years ago,” said Mrs. Bowe to a
reporter of the Tarrangower Times (Victoria),
m,
• ■ */
“ when she grew
very pale and
thin. She became
weak and low -
spirited, lost her
appetite, her
sleep was trou-
bled and restless,
and the least ex-
ertion fatigued
her—in fact, she
bad to take her
sister’s arm for
support when out
walking. She
was of a wonder-
fully active and
cheerful disposi-
tion before this
change took place, and the alteration, therefore,
caused us great concern, and medical aid was
sought. But no good resulted. Several medicines
were tried, but she became ws*kbr and more list-
less every day. The doctor said she was suffering
from arnemia, or poorness of blood. We then be-
came seriously alarmed, and consulted different
medical men, who prescribed, and told Miss May
to take as much exercise as possible. She, being
fond of flowers, naturally turned her attention to
the garden ; but had to abandon the work, as
the least exertion exhausted her. Often, when I
thought she was out taking exercise in the fresh
air, I have found her in the drawing-room with
her head resting in her hands, and in a somnolent
state. Then, when disturbed, she would steal
quietly to her room, and remain there for hours
at a time. At this stage we became extremely
anxious concerning her health, and again sought
medical advice, as we thought she was going into
a decline. It was of no use, though ; nothing did
her any good. She was then so thin and weak
that the slightest exertion tired her. She also
suffered from severe cramps in the legs.
“ Friends then recommended patent medicines,
and two or three kinds were tried unsuccessfully.
“At last I decided to take her away to the
country for a, change, but just as I was about to
do so I saw in the Tarrangower Times an adver-
tisement about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and noticing that people with symptoms
similar to those of my daughter had been cured, I
determined I should give them a trial. She was
then so weak and thin that a decline was notice-
able, and after using three boxes she regained her
appetite, was able to sleep with comfort, and was
so strong and well that we considered there was
no necessity for her continuing to take Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills. So she discontinued them. I
honestly believe my
daughter’s recovery
was due to this great
remedy. She is now
as well as ever she
was in her life. She
has a fine color, is
able to eat and sleep
well, and can take
any amount of out-
door exerise without
feeling fatigued. I
feel very grateful to
Dr. Williams for my
daughter’s recovery,
and would like to
have the case made
known, as it may
X
induce others who suffer as my daughter did to
try this remedy to their benefit, and thus perhaps
bring sunshine and happiness to their homes.”
>
Indigestion a Matter of the
Past Now.
Marriekville has not a happier, brighter resi-
dent than Mrs. Edwards, wife of the Marrick-
ville Town Hall caretaker. Hearing that Mrs.
Edwards had been for years a great sufferer from
indigestion and dyspepsia, a reporter called on
her to get the facts of the case, particularly as he
also heard that she had suddenly been cured.
Mrs. Edwards very courteously received the repre-
sentative, and gave him an account of her ailments
and their cure.
“ First of all,” she proceeded, “ I suffered from
sleeplessness, ringing noise in my head, and an
over-bearing pain at my chest. Furthermore., my
appetite failed, and all that would rest on my
stomach was soft food, such as milk and arrow-
root. But what alarmed me most was the way
my heart would go pit-a-pat on the very slightest
exertion. I can assure you if I walked a quarter
of a mile these distressing symptoms would come
on. This frightened me very much, for I feared
I was suffering from heart disease. As to the
remedies I swallowed, why their name is legion,
but unfortunately no good effect resulted, and I
feared my troubles were neither to be cured nor
alleviated. I consequently began to feel very low
and depressed.
One day I read of some cures effected by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and indeed
it proved a joyous day for me. I determined to
try a few boxes of this specific, bought them, and
commenced to take them according to the direc-
tions which I noticed were around each box.
After the first two boxes, I felt a decided improve-
\
r
ment, and decided to continue with this medicine.
As I persevered with the treatment, I made satis-
factory progress.”
“ You said that your heart gave you considerable
anxiety, Mrs. Edwards ? ”
“Yes. I was afraid it was diseased, and lam
glad to find I was mistaken. It took a little time
to pull me together again, for you must remember
I had sunk very low; but lam happy to state
that I am fairly on my feet again, and am so
satisfied that this cure has been effected by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People that I have
recommended them to all my friends. Yes, you
are at perfect liberty to publish this testimonial,
for I consider it a duty that I owe to the world at
large. ”
(Signed) JANE EDWAKDS.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at
the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “ tired out ” upon the
slightest exertion ; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side ; if her temper
is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
of the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of
puberty, and thus avoid all chances of disease
or early decay.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured more than
seventy-five hundred cases of diseases arising from
impoverished blood, such as anaemia, pale and
sallow complexion, muscular weakness, depres-
sion of spirits, loss of appetite, palpitation of the
heart, shortness of breath, pains in the back,
nervous headache, loss of memory, early decay,
all forms of female weakness, hysteria, paralysis,
locomotor ataxy, rheumatism and sciatica,
scrofula, rickets, hip-joint diseases, chronic ery-
sipelas, consumption of the bowels, and lungs.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
are not a purgative. They are genuine only
with tiie full name, Dr, Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and are sold by all chemists
and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company,
Sydney, who will forward (post paid) on re-
ceipt of stamps or post order, one box for 2s. ltd.,
or half-dozen for 15s. 3d. They are unrivalled ar
a tonic for both sexes.


A law recently passed in New York makes
it a felony for any one, except a registered physi-
cian, to have an anaesthetic in his or her posses-
sion. “Knock-out Drops” are as dangerous as
any other concealed weapons.
In June, 1897, the U.S. treasury was still
paying pensions to 16 widows and daughters—
more or less genuine—of soldiers who fought in
the revolutionary war which ended 116 years ago,
and to seven alleged survivors of the second war
with Britain which ended more than 83 years
since.
Daily Mail (London price a half-penny),
which is playing up dreadfully with the “ heavy ”
penny sheets, is now certified as selling an average
of 375,977.c0pies per issue. The circulation has been
steadily rising for months past, its greatest day to
date b ng 403,758. Advertising rates are already
notoriously stiff, but on the strength of this pro-
sperity it is proposed to double them in one act.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Dr. Widraer Rolph, according to the
Lancet, finds a 20-drops dose of turpentine suc-
cessful in stopping persistent hiccough. He
reports cure in a case that lasted two days.
Townsville (Q.) Fatalderman : “Is the
man who, by thrift, becomes the owner of a few
sfriall cottages, from which he receives rents, to be
compared to the idle, dissolute fellow who, like
the pelican in the wilderness, wanders about seek-
ing whoever will shout him a long beer ? ”
A Charlton (Vic.) farmer, who had got seed
wheat from Govt, by declaring that he was a
broken man and a ruined agriculturist, a few
weeks later swore that he had ,£5OO in the bank
to qualify him to have and to hold a victualler’s
license. The authorities howled, and his reply
was, “Rats ; they all do it ! ” When a prosecu-
tion was mooted the declaration by which the
wheat was secured was found to be informal, so
tlie Charlton man stands out. Rut he has given
officialdom a pointer.
Amurkan distiller on his new whisky :
It is the most wonderful whiskv that ever drove the
skeleton from a feast or painted landscapes into the brain
of man. It is the mingled souls of wheat and corn. In
it you will find the sunshine and the shadow that chased
each other over the billowy fields, the breath of June,
the carol of the lark, the dews of night, the wealth of
summer and autumn’s rich content, all golden with im-
prisoned light. Drink it, and you will hear the voices of
men and maidens sing the “ Harvest Home,” mingled
with the laughter of the children. Drink it,' and you
will feel within your blood the star-lit dawns, the,dreamy,
tawny dusks of many perfect days. For long 1 j r ears
this liquid joy has been within the happy staves of oak,
longing to touch the lips of man. '
APENTA.
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“ Its composition is constant.”— Lancet.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Co. Ltd.. 4
Stratford Place, London,'W.*
AS AN ESS is
FULL OF MEAT,
MARK FOY’S
Replete Witb
Seasonable Benefits
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFBXITIO3XT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &e.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Cooling. Sparkling. Fresh.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
CIGARS
FRE
DROPS'! )N THESLO
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
poker machines,
A t Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Jo.,
637-639 George Street,
“ Sydney. -
YORKSHIRE RELISH
this most delicious sauce in the world
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIOMS
Sold in Bottles, 6d., x/-, and 2/- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS F Nr
„„„„„ Sole Agents for Biew South Wales: ENG
TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SIDNEY.
'ATIVfIKNV a'lOS
sa'iXvioa ho SNOiliriv
A Tale of Chivalry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in the digging days, years ago. She lived
with her husband at one end of the settlement,
where the clumps of blue-gums were and the long
rank grass of the plain began. She was a pretty,
delicate-looking thing; he a big-faced, coarse-
voiced creature, more devil than man. She never
dared to move or lift an eyelid from the floor when
he was in his swearing, fighting moods. That
was how we knew that they were really married
and quite respectable.
By-and-bye he took to going away, sometimes
for weeks together. That was my time to hang
round and do the heavy villain. When I bothered
Effie to clear out with me she cried because I
didn’t respect her. When I left off bothering she
cried again because I didn’t love her.
You’ve heard of the bushranging in those days?
We had it down our way. Of course, if diggers
will come strolling home in ones and twos instead
of twenties, nobody wonders if they come to grief.
None of us pitied Long Bill when we found him
in the scrub with the side of his head knocked in ;
but, all the same, we were up to start a raid on
our own account. I was a big man thereabouts,
and they made me boss.
I went up to see Effie before we left the settle-
ment. Her husband was away, had been away
two weeks ; and when I came I found the house
deserted. She, too, was away; had left the house
the night before—had gone no one knew whither.
There was no time for wondering. I understood
when we tracked him down at last to a deserted
farm-house. Two of us recognised him as the
leader of the gang. I knew him—as Effie’s hus-
band. And there stood Effie, dusty, travel-worn,
yet not much frightened. She’d ridden all the
way from the settlement to warn him. Queer
creatures, women !
Effie was a townswoman, didn’t understand
bush ways, hadn’t any idea that we might possibly
do the business right away, without the help of
any old woman in a wig. And I’d have got her
away, miles out on the flat, before the affair was
more than begun, if that awful coward hadn’t
yelled after her. He did it, just as her foot was
in the stirrup, and she was babbling that, of
course, she knew justice must be done, and she
hoped they’d treat him as kindly as possible on
their way to Ballarat; for of course they would
take him to Ballarat, wouldn’t they, to be tried ?
Then he cried out, and she understood. She
was off the horse in a moment, and staggered
towards me, pale, gasping.
“Jack, not that! He’s my husband, Jack.
Jack, they’re not going to kill him ? You won’t
let them ”
I tried to deceive her, but the words would not
come.
“ It’s justice,” I muttered.
It’s not justice,” she cried, and her eyes flashed
with a sudden comprehension ; “if he were an-
other man, you wouldn’t do this kind of justice.
You want to get him out of the way. You think
I d marry you then, but I never will. I swear it.
Oh! Jack,’’ she was pleading now, “don’t let
them kill him. Don’t let me feel a murderess.”
I took her two hands and held them in mine.
Her heart was not beating more fiercely than my
o*\n.
“On one condition, Effie.”
“On one ? What is it ? ”
“That you promise to live with me as my wife."
We had ridden all day with the wind stirring
the tall grasses at our saddle-girths. Now the sun
was level with our eyes, and we saw its flashlight
on the windows of the township we were approach-
ing—the township where we were not known.
Twilight had fallen when I entered the parlor re-
served for the exclusive use of Mr. and Mrs.
Robertson. Through the thin partition I could
hear the rough voices in the bar. Outside the
long fences were melting away in the dimness. I
saw and heard vaguely. I was waiting for the
sound of her footfall.
At last she came in. She still wore the riding-
dress she had gone to change. Oust was on it,
and fatigue—and something more—on the* pale
young face she raised to mine.
“ Tired, darling?” I whispered.
She trembled ; then all at once, with a little
sob, she was at my feet.
• "P ear Jack ! ” —she took my hand and fondled
it— you don’t mean to keep me to this. I have
sworn, but don’t hold me to it. Jack, be gener-
ous. Let me—go. Let me—keep—my— ”
She stopped, and her sobs smote my ear.
How can I describe what I felt ? At her broken
words of entreaty a rush of new emotions over-
whelmed me. As I saw her at my feet before me
all thoughts of self vanished ; I thought only of
her, and of all that women needed of protection
and pity and reverence. I remembered how frail
they were. They needed our strength, not to
crush them, but to save them from pain and
misery and desolation.
And so—because I reverenced her as he never
did—-I kept her to her bargain.
M.L.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
An Old Queensland Digger’s
Letter.
[DISINTERRID FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About 79, ten of us, with 23 horses, left
Cooktown to prospect for gold. We travelled up
as far as the Archer. The niggers nearly had L.
there one night. He was lying asleep on his
back. One spear pinned him, through his scalp,
to the ground ; another pinned one of his feet to
the ground, and a third went through the calf of
one of his legs. 0. was lying near him, in a ham-
mock slung between two trees, with a fly thrown
across a surcingle which was stretched from tree
to tree above the hammock. Four spears were
thrown through the fly lying just above O.’s
stomach, but 0. never woke until he heard L.’s
revolver going off.
• • * *
The niggers there were the worst that I
ever met—worse than the Palmer ones. Some-
times, when travelling through kangaroo or spear
grass from 8 to 10ft. high, smoke would spring up
in different places all round us, at about 50 yards
off. We would have to gallop through before the
circle of fire was complete. Day after day, they
used to try and burn us this way. Without
horses we would not have had a dog’s chance. We
could never see them either, although they were
always near us.
* • • *
One day we did get a fair show. That
morning H. got off his horse to have a shot at
some ducks in a water-hole we were passing K.
and the others were leading, the pack-horses fol-
lowing, and C. and myself tailing them up.
On looking round I saw two niggers pegging at
H. with spears. 0. and I fired, but they got
away.
* • * *
Shortly afterwards, we got through a clump
of timber on to a small open flat, the grass on
which had been burned recently. It looked as
level and as green as the ground at Flemington
racecourse. On the plain was a big mob of niggers
—all bucks. We galloped in a circle round them,
and that mob never again tried to roast a white
man alive. B.’s dog, a cross between a bull and
a kangaroo, jumped at one of them. The nigger
threw up his arm. The dog seized it by the wrist.
The nigger stooped down and gripped his teeth in
the dog’s nose. The dog at once shifted his hold
to the black’s throat, brought him to the ground
lay on him, and killed him in no time.
* * * *
We brought back about 850 oz, of gold-
alluvial ; we did not look for reefs.
* * * *
About ’B9, W. called on me at Norman-
ton. .He had left Oooktown to look for country,
engaging , who had left the native police
through a shooting case. They kept the eastern
side of the Peninsula until they got to Albany
Pass. They camped there with Jardine for a few
weeks, and then came down the Peninsula on the
west side until they reached Normanton. At
their seventh camp on their way from Jardine’s,
W. found three different lines of reef, and broke
off some specimens. They weighed about 351 h,
and contained about 30oz. of gold.
I never saw richer specimens, and I have been
toeveryrush in Queensland.
W. told me that knew nothing about it.
I here were three kinds of quartz—one dark-brown,
one white with bluish veins, and some dark burnt
quartz.
W. wanted me to return with him, and I agreed
to go. He then went on the burst, and died of
d.t.
• * • •
Some months after that, I met G-. at Nor-
manton. He had just come down from Cape
York. He said that he got gold when up there,
and wanted me to make one of a party to go. I
could not go at the time. He went to Croydon to
a P ar ty, offering to pay all expenses, but
could only get three good men to promise to go.
He abandoned his purpose. Bad men would be
no good up there, and four men camping in one
spot would have all the niggers in the district on
to them. So he went on the spree, knocked all
his money down, and is now managing a station
nearß .
; w iU know W.’s seventh camp. lam sure
there is a rich field there, and I am on at any time
to make one to go.—Yours sincerely, &c.
• * * •
A postal picture ! Donh; you think so ?
THE DIPSOMANIAC.


ever
awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
“Ever Since Then.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since we left the town behind us with its
tramp of many feet and rattle of wheels, with the
close air and the turmoil and unrest which we
both bate, and turned in the direction of our own
clear lonely bush home, we have been idly chatter-
ing as is our wont.
A white-flowered magnolia breathed its heavy
odour across the road, and we began to speculate
on the powerful effect of the olfactory nerve upon
the brain, and we agreed that one is affected more
deeply and permanently by the sense of smell
than by any other of the senses. We remarked
how vividly memory can be aroused by a chance
scent, and how sometimes we then see clearly
what has been forgotten for a score of years.
“ Was it carnations you wore in your hair that
first night I saw you, Kittie? There’s some scent
that always brings you to my mind, standing in
your white dress and eating an unromantic ice
while I wrote my name for the third extra. If it
wasn’t carnations it was roses,” and his voice
keeps time with the music of the horses’ feet—
“ Ever since then the scent of the roses.”
“It was a pink dress I wore,” is all I say ; but
does he think I have never taken a sly peep into
his big leather - covered desk, and seen that
withered spray of stephanotis, lying there yet, dry
and brittle, with the little curl of hair I cut for
him years ago ?
Since then, we have been silent, for the track is
rough and the horses are but youngsters, inclined
to be startled in the fast-growing dusk. So we
drive along, and the jolting over the bit of cordu-
roy road, the bump of the wheel over the unseen
stump, and Graham’s shouted “Get-up!” as the
horses start at a white post, all combine to keep
me from the forgetfulness of sleep, and my mind
travels ever farther back on the road of life where
I have journeyed.
* * * *
A familiar whiff comes to us as we pass a dim
white homestead, where the men are slouching in
to their evening meal. It is unmistakeably roast
mutton, and of a sudden there comes before my
mind’s sight a small white-pinafored girl, who
gazes with puzzled eyes at the round, bewildering
face of a clock. It is one o’clock, she knows, for
she can smell the nursery dinner; but how does
Jane ever tell that it is time the cloth was laid ?
This is the constant puzzle that vexes her brain.
« Well, you are a silly to stare at the clock like
that and not be able to read it,” says the big
brother.
“ I can read it,” she says defiantly. “ It’s one
o’clock,” for the smell of mutton grows stronger.
“ It’s just not one o’clock, Miss Clever,” is the
retort, “ for it’s ten minutes to, but you’re such a
duffer that I don’t believe you’ll ever know any
better.” , , ,
A great despair settles on the child, for she
knows she will never be able to read the time, and
what will she do when she grows up ? She thinks
how she will say to cook : “ I want my dinner at
one o’clock, please,” and how she will have to slip
into the passage or the garden, and then call out,
“ Is it one o’clock, Jane? ” for it will never do for
the servants to guess. They might not give her
any dinner at all, and always say, “ It isn’t one
o’clock yet.”
. There is trailing honey-suckle on the posts
of a verandah, breathing its heavy scent upon my
t'.rcd face. I see another verandah and the slim
girlish figure in the cane chair, and the busy hands
that are always stiteli—stitching. The little girl
is there again, still with the puzzled half-
bewildered expression that earns her the nick-
name of “ Alice in Wonderland.” This time her
brain can find no way out of the difficulty.
“Muvver,” she say's at last, “ when 1 am grown
up and a gentleman asks me to marry him, and
I don’t want to, what can Ido ? It would be so
rude to say ‘ I don’t like you. ’ ” And there is no
hidden laugh in the sympathetic mother-face that
knows so well how a smile can hurt as she answers
with such convincing seriousness—“ You need not
say‘l don’t like you.’ You can say, ‘I like you
very much, but not quite enough to marry you.’
Would that do, sweetheart?” and with the re-
lieved response, “ Yes, that would do,” one more
puzzle is dispelled.
* * * •
Jolt ! we go over a rough bridge, and the horses
plunge forward as they hear the crackling of a
bush fire. The smoke is blown across us, with the
fragrance of burning logs, and I am far away in
my dreams again.
There is a glorious bonfire crackling and flaming
in the breeze, and an indignant little girl is called
away from the delights of potato-roasting in the
red ashes—to be hurried into a stiff white frock
that scratches round her neck, and led to be pre-
sented to inopportune visitors. “Hush, dear!”
says a voice as she stumps crossly into the room.
A thin, long-armed girl is hitting one end of the
piano while a bigger one knocks her fingers at the
other.
“Just listen how prettily your little cousin
plays,” says Mother. “ Wouldn’t you like to be
as clever as that?” The small child looks from
one player to the other. “I don’t think much of
it,” she says contemptuously, “ she has to have
someone to help her all the time,” and with an
impatient wriggle she escapes and flies to her
beloved potato-roasting again.
• , * * •
And now there is the indescribable scent
of wild, silent bush around us, with its tall, rung
trees gleaming white above the dark bracken.
There is an awful desolation in it all, for a small
child crouches heart-broken beside a fallen log
and I can hear her sobs across the width of
years. For they have told her that the girl-
mother, who lay so still and was so cold to
kiss, has gone away and will never come
back again. And so, in her utter loneliness, she
sobs herself to sleep, and then wakes to see a real,
live wallaby quite close to her, and leaps to her
feet to chase it with excited cries. Then the
verandah door opens and someone calls her in, and
she sees that they are all still crying, and she
twists her little handkerchief into a ball and tries
to rub a tear into the comer of her eye.
* * * *
“ Woa, then ; steady there !” We pull up
with a jerk, and a boy throws open the white gate
and runs to take the horses. We are home at last,
and I am cramped and dazzled by the sudden light
as Graham lifts me out. “Where have your
thoughts been all this time?” he asks ; “ it’s an
hour since you spoke. Are you very tired?”
“No, I am not very tired,” I tell him ; and I try
to collect my thoughts, that have been s > far away
with a little child who is not now, but who was,
twenty long years ago.
MAMOOSE.
Lost and Given Over.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A mermaid’s not a human thing,
An’ courtin’ sich is folly ;
Of flesh an’ blood I’d ruther sing
What ain’t so mel-an-choly.
’Ere’s Berta, Loo, Juanita, Sue,
A long good-luck to me an’ you—
Sing rally, ri-a-rally !
The seas is deep, the seas is wide.
But this I’ll prove, what else beside,
I’m bully in-the-alley,
I’m bul-lee, in our alley.
The Hoogli gal ’er face is brown,
The Heelo gal is lazy ;
The gal that lives by ’Obart Town
’U’d drive a dead man crazy.
Come wet your lip, an’ let it slip,
The Gretna Green’s a tidy ship,
Sing rally !
The seas is deep, the seas is blue,
But ’ere’s good ’ealth to me an’ you,
Ho, rally!
The Lord may drop us off our pins
To feed ’is bloomin’ fishes ;
But, Lord, forgive us all our sins 1
Our sins is most delicious.
Come drink it up, an fill yer cup,
The World it owes us bite an’ sup—
’Ere’s Mi mi, Ju-Ju, Sally—
The seas is long, the winds is strong,
The best of men they will go wrong,
Hi, rally, ri-a-rally !
The Bowery gal she knows ’er know,
The Sydney gal is silly,
The Hayti gal ain’t white as snow,
They’re whiter down in Chili.
Now, what’s the use to shun the booze,
They’ll flop your bones among the ooze,
Sou’-west by south-the-galley,
The seas is green, the seas is cold,
The best of men they must grow old,
Sing rally, re-a-rally !
All round the world “ where’er I roam ”
This lesson I am learnin’ —
If you’ve got sense you’ll stop at ’ome
An’ save the bit you’re earnin’.
But damn the odds! it’s little odds,
When every ’eathen ’as ’is gods
An’ neither two will tally.
When Black and White drink, woman, fight.
In them three things they’re all all-right,
Sing rally, re-a-rally !.
When double bunks, fo’castle end,
Is all the kind that’s carried,
Our manners they will likely mend—
Most likely we’ll get married.
But till sich time as that is done
We’ll take our fun where we begun—
Sing rally !
The flesh is weak, the world is wide,
The Dead Man ’ee goes over-side—
Sing rally, rally !
It’s Tokio town when the sun goes down,
It’s ’arf-a-pint an’ it’s ’arf-a-crown —
Sing rally !
’Er spars may lift an’ ’or keel may shift,
When a man is done ’e’s got to drift —
Ho, rally !
We’re given an’ lost to the gals that wait
From Trinity to Whitsunday—
From Sunda Strait to the Golden Gate,
An’ back to the Bay o’ Fundy.
Oh, it’s Mabel Loo, an’ it’s Nancy-poo !
So ’ere’s good luck, an’ 1 love you—
Sing rally !
It’s cents an’ dollars, an’ somebody hollers,
The sun comes up an’ the morn in’ follers —
Ho, rally, rally!
The Hoogli gal ’er face is brown,
The Heelo gal’s a daisy ;
The gal that lives by ’Obart Town
She'd drive a dead man crazy.
So pretty an’ plain, it’s Sarah Jane
’Uggin’ an’ kissin’ an’ come again—
Sing rally,ri-a-rally!
The seas is deep, the seas is wide.
But this I’ll prove, what else beside —
I’m bully in the alley,
Ho ! Bul-lee in the alley !
Sydney, 1897.
E. J. BRADY.
Among the celebrities who have died re-
cently was a long-lived ewe belonging to farmer
Hayward, of Oakwood farm, Marshbrook, Eng.
She was 20 years old last lambing-time, had reared
33 lambs successfully, and had never had an
attack of footrot. In America a ewe has been
known to live to a quarter of a century, and back-
country Australian merinos often cross the score.
The latest coir in-the-slot marvel is the
public-telephone invented by Dr. Clendinnen of
Victoria, a contrivance which actually returns the
fee if the exchange does not succeed in placing
the caller in communication with the desired
person, but promptly impounds it as soon as the
hanging-up of the transmitter indicates the com-
pletion of the conversation.
A Melbourne man, charged recently with
“ embezzlement ” of fifty shillings received by
him as agent, had to undergo three adjournments
of his case because, as the Bench was informed by
his solicitor, “counsel was otherwise engaged.”
When he was committed for trial he changed his
solicitor, and the old one refused to hand over
documents until a little bill of illo2 costs was
paid in full. In the higher court the Crown
promptly entered a nolle prosequi, and the accused
sees too late that he could have got the charge
blown up in the police-court for five guineas if he
had gone the right way about it. Also, he hears,
on unreliable authority, that at No. 1 adjourn-
ment his counsel was at the pigeon-shooting
match ; at No. 2 he was at a big cricket-match ;
and at No. 3 he was helping his wife to brtjr a
wedding-present for a friend. He is of opinion
that only a massive gold frame would be a worthy
setting for that nolle.
January 20tli, 1898.
Ladies, —You can’t beat the Horderns for sell-
ing reasonably. If you would like one of our
New Glove Fashion Books, drop us a Postal Card,
and we will send you one. Also, please write for
one of our Almanacs, which we will send free upon
application.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211,
Pitt Street (only), Sydney.


Bonnington’s Sarsaparilla, 2/6 A wonderful medicine.
AN ALTERATIVE, TONIC AND BLOOD PURIFIER
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Removes
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOR LIVER STOMACH & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulates
and Creates a Healthy System.
POKER MACHINES.
NO EXI OR 1 lON ATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE EOR YOUR MONEY
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
FREE
C SOARS
ROP3 ? IN THE SLQ
IiiiIHIHUIIIII tirt;illtlliM)littni-:iWiiiHHHiijitiMiiiTT7TTTTtTn
h i -ni 11 hi 11 nm i; 1111:11 nni ii 11) nin 11 si in i * 111 ii 111 n t
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OE CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OP TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brush ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdressl
ing Chair.
AGENT for the following
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA LA
?ro ’ ,® L 7V i rrl 1 N1)0 (Heavy Weights), HTGH
LIIE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA
ALPINA MANILA, &c., &c.
Tobacconists supplied throughout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
r f Goods folded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony supplied
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAYMAEKET, SYDNEY.
GOUT
Readers of this paper shoufd
know that to effectually cure
Gout the great thing to do is to
eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause
of the malady, and nothin|
does this so effectually as
Bishop’s Citrate of Lithia. All
doctors prescribe it. Of all
Chemists in two sizes. A Book-
let on Gout sent post free on
application.
Inrentors and Sole Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
4Q, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, B.
CURED.
WHEN YOU BUY.
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
H**7t * BLESSING in every family.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
ttie healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. IW" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
■ ffil
sjte- .
...v-
S&stess
- ■ -
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
(Terms:
f From 10s. per Day, and
\ £2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
fTISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
” should note that the
• Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
The SUFFIELD CASE.
rilO NEWSAGENTS AND OTHERS.—A 64 pp. Pamphlet, giving
_i_ ons Case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of Alleged Outrage.
full evidence in this notori-
Just Published.
Post Free from “ The Bulletin ” office, 7d.
p
PILLS
o GiddS a Fulness V and Wind and Pain ln the Stomach, Sick Headache
toffs of Heal’ Tn« s & nd Swelhng after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
£KeT A ? T petlte Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin Di-
g GIVE RELIEF 18™]!™ &0. THE FIRST DOSE
SSSTbSI °” tte “ Pm >- “ d «">? S'acknowl.d° e e7» k"woMH A
They
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
Muscular Sv«tem a ?!-a77 a 08es ytil work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
arousinsr with thpbelong-' losfc Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
fa?tr’’ admitS rhJ ?hnL?o ALTH 7 HOLE Physical Energy of the human fmme. These
Nervous and Debilitated i a °tw ld n in . ad of society, and one of the best guarantees to, the
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is I'd, and 2s 9d each.
vm
A
&
i
IMBIBED TOO FREELY.
Hamlet : “ What was all the trouble in yon dressing-room ? M
Attendant : “ The ghost was too full of spirits ! ”
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OTJTSIEfrE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
original Worcestershire
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs, VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
BoQDiDgtoQ’S
IRISH MOSS
or COLDS (recent or chronic),
TH™t R ivS’ Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
lhroat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
tmmmm
BooD’Ogtoo’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid liver. ° °n>
Is. a Box.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
SRIEFENDORFF’S
‘KEPRO’
testimonial.
Maldon (Victoria), 2M September, 1896.
I have much pleasure in stating that the South
German Gold Mining Company lias used Griefen-
dorff’s “KEPRO” to paint the inside of our
Cyanide Vats to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold liquor. We are pleased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
amd cun safely recommend it to others.
W. B. GRAY,
Managing Director South German G.M. Co., Maldon.
\ LSO useful to Squatters for COATING
IX. Waters Tanks ; Electricians and Chemical
firms for COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Aarents,
ALFRED LAWRENCE & CO.,
627 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Tales of the convict system.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOIOE SELECTION
-—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
03 Yoi=k Street, T->TXTTr»~<ir.
Collins
"THE BLOCK,”
Street, MEr,BOTTH.KTB.
Wortbiogtoi) P(sn)pii)g Ei)gii)€
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll HfOtlierS.
Conjpaijy-
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TKADE MARK-
ydney, JN".S.W.
A.gencies :
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & 00., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ , , ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fisk, Came, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade —for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangement* may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
Tin
e FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. jj
WORLD.
, Manager.
IMPROVED 6ft
(with NEW
66
FLANGE
mm
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “ Ernes’* sold to-
day than all other vanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being “just as good as the Frue.”
There are worthless imitations in the market.
Genuine Frue Vanners are now all fitted with
“ lip flange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining' Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
THE - -
ALL SINGLE SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
OSCILLATOR pfrTfw
fING MACHINES. UllAlll 011 l IJll
Batho’s
Bakit| g Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE
WEADON, THOMAS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
L/uuiMc-iiuiret
walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best sice
locks, with cartridge machines'and cleaners complete
Usual price fcS, reduced 4*2 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-barrei Breech-loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, ve; y best bat bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and charnels complete. Usual pr
tin Ids, reduced fc3 17s (id each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned
rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5
each, complete
, vjuuci, ncni uwißli UdllC
ments,
eauii, complete.
3 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest imnrove-
lts unequai for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price 21, reduced £7 10s ea. complete
... ® Single-barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel locks, double grip, snap action'
with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £6, reduced £2 7s fid each complete.
4. Win/nhauf-or R.onoflHn(c Shfif. flnn* siv nAnchonli \m cliAfo rw 4-v.,. 1, f •
* Gimuiunt; luabiniiuo wmpiouc. '-'ouai puue J&O, red 1106(1 tZ /S 0(1 each, Complete
4 Winchester Repeating Shot Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 410 10s, reduced t'4 15s each, complete.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size bore, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 150yds Usual price £l5
reduced £5 5s each. ' * ’
6 Winchester Repeating Rifles, very best quality, highly finished. Usual price .£7 l®s, reduced £3 15s
Cartridges pan be supplied for the Breech Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
*ree, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
S 'team Engines in Stock (Horizontal and Vertical) from 1 h.p.
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Ludlow’s Open Grate Valves.
Mason’s Reducing Valves.
Pickering’s Steam Engine
Governors.
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors.
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges.
Every description of Engineers’ Hand and Machine Tools in Stock •
ALSO, ’
all kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Writ© for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
