

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY.
.
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
*9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
■ ' KX I’i.O,Si YES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.j
BRISCOE. DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants,
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
-1,000 Tons “ Orto n and “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 Cels Isis Knlglit Bevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
o
<RAc^A^
V °
R. A. HEUVEY, Ay
eiit, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured bv Rckton,
Proctor & Go., Ltd., of Lincoln,England. TSROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Real -refuse, &c,;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbext & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKIXSON ” and
"MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Xlather.
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
-A. *1 cl see that you get it.
PROOF
Qn eYS
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st, Sydney.
Works Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
pvDE
PROD#
$
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CICIIETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
What is_Health?
Jf/t eumatisrn, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c..
Completely cured by Mr. C• F.
FAJtKKIt, 345 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
Before veiling the Qty write fo fhe Manager for
Cara ejTariff. Correspondence promptly attended to,
THE -
(arosVeoorHotel,
Grosvenor Square ,
SYPNJ-iY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
PIONEER
r-
LEATHER
m
I*
BELTI MG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by t-heX.S. W. (government.
Prices and Samples Tree to any address.
J, C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland : Perth,
W. Australia ; Hobart, Tasmania-; Adelaide,
S.. Australia. *
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Edtswan ■ Lamp
■ ’
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
I
Have no Warmless
Imitations.
UHB EDISON & im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
istralasian Branch 16 Carrington-street,
WYNY/iRD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
KSF” Poverty 3r*<o>±:srs_tears
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Nkxt GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
3E3C O IS A T.
.
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
The last of six .• tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
PRICE Is. .. ... per Post, Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM,
In Use in,the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.'W’
The Bulletin
V oi. 18.— iso. 934. j
(Saturday, January & 9 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George robertson & co.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY’S ("TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin ; price. Is. 6d.; posted, Is. 9d.
T \ I.ES OF THE OLD REGIME (new series, from The
Bulletin), by Price Waning ; price, 25.; post-free,
2s. 6d.
MOSTYN STAYNE, by Roderic Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d. ;
posted, 28. lOd.
Write to us for any Booh or Magazine you want.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Limited.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), paper Is., posted Is. 3d. ; cloth 2a.,
posted 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Eavenc, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung ’, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers) —
Complete Poetical Works, paper, 55.; posted,
ss. 4d. A limited number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, boards,
2s. 6d. ; posted, 2s. Bd. A few copies re-
main.
Australian Essays, paper, 2s. 6d. ; posted,
2s. 9d. A few copies remain. . '
Post-free from ‘THE BULLETIN’ Office,
214 George-street, Sydney, for postal notes or
stamps of any province to prices named.
‘BULLETIN’ PAMPHLETS.
No. I. — The Bulletin’s History of the Dean
Case : A Circumstantial Account of the
Celebrated Criminal Trial and its De-
velopments. Price, 6d. ; post free from
Bulletin Office, 7d. in stamps. Complete,
with many Portraits and Illustrations.
No. ll.— -The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, 6d. ; post-free,
7d. in stamps.
A Gr. STEPHENS,
J ITEItARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author arid Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
JUST OUT
Be Wise: Stick to
. . NEW YEAR— IB9B.
CAMEO CIGARETTES.
The Calumut of Peace, Prosperity, and Contentment.
THE RED PAGE.
In the matter of Tennyson J. Le Gay
Brereton writes :
Historically the significance of Tennyson’s
poetry lies in this? he is tfie representative
English poet of the Victorian Age. Only a man
of decided limitations could hold this position.
Browning was too cosmopolitan ; his Anglicanism
was merged in Humanity ; hewas not sufficiently
commonplace. Tennyson was painfully, blindly
English. The Englishman hates innovation, and
prays that he may be allowed to grovel before the
gods of his fathers ; he will only accept reform on
traditional lines. And Tennyson magniloquently
claimed the august right to make Freedom walk
in hobbles.
* ■♦ * *
He was not a great thinker—not a leader of
men. He was never ahead of his age ; but he
was always abreast of it. And that is the proper
position for a representative. He has been called
a leader of modern thought, but really he was
merely a front-rank man. He never prepared the
way for the flood of public opinion, but he was
always on the crest of the wave. The middle-
class Englishman was sometimes ready to acclaim
hi •> as a prophet, because he gave magnificent
expression to current middle-class sentiment. To-
day the rear-rank man regards him as an intel-
lectual Wellington ; but what about to-inorrow?
* * * •
Is deep and searching thought essential in a
great poet? What of Chaucer, Spenser, Pope,
Keats? If Pope l>e a mere versifier, still what of
the other three? The ideal poet is anthropo-
morphous God, expressing universal beauty in
perfect verbal harmony. He is impossible. “The
perfect round ” is not obtainable, and wo may as
well be thankful for the “broken arcs.”
• • • •
Tennyson’s work was affected by all the ques-
tions which vexed the public mind of his day. He
considered them sanely and unenthusiastically, as
a rule, and his dicta were admirably moderate and
calmly uninspiring. In his pages we see traces of
the transcendental movement; of the mediaeval-
ism which gave us Burne-Jones and Rossetti; of
the scientific spirit which resulted in many
mechanical “ improvements ” and the revolution-
ary discovery of the truths of Evolution. He
took a quiet, artistic interest in the social, politi-
cal, and religious struggles which seethed and
roared about his insulated pinnacle. He jotted
down in sonorous scraps of verse the unremarkable
observations of a comfortable, true-hearted country
gentleman. In a man born and bred in Australia
his vapid sentiments rouse indignation. He is a
representative. Australia is impatient of the
sluggishness of old England. Fingers itch for a
goad.
• • • *
The representative poet of a country must be a
man of decided nationality. [Tennyson repre-
sented England ; Kipling is trying to fill a
vacant niche by celebrating the Empire.] Tenny-
son had a constitutional love of his native land.
He found in himself a reflection of her temper—
self-controlled and abhorrent of sudden change.
England is the chosen home of Freedom, he tells
us, but Freedom is a ‘sober-suited ’ puritan—not
a radiant spirit. She is quiet and level-headed.
And the poet agrees with her views ; he does not
worship her. His patriotism is generally sedate
enough, but occasionally he catches fire, and the
result is magnificent. The ballad of ‘ The
Revenge ’ has a grand glow of sincere feeling, for
example, and is the most stirring piece of patriotic
verse I happen to know. No doubt, however, it
owes a good deal to the narratives of Ralegh and
Linschoten. For Tennyson is not a great creator.
He is at his best when somebody gives him a hint
to expand. In the rich soil of his artistic mind
the germ of a suggestion bursts into splendid
blossom. Is it not England’s way to take the
fruits of foreign culture, acclimatise them, and
turn them to excellent account ?
• * • •
All—or almost all—Tennyson’s limitations as a
poet may be concentrated in a single statement:
he was a man of little spontaneous sympathy.
His descriptions of natural objects and phenomena
are wonderfully precise, scientifically accurate.
They are the result of careful study, not of loving
communion with nature. (For external evidence
of this fact, see the recently-published ‘Memoir.’)
He never had the sense of companionship and
direct contact with the life of surrounding objects.
In describing men hewas at agreater disadvantage.
He lived in quiet seclusion, far from the stress of
life; and the steady self-control of his youth had
so habituated him to half-tones of feeling that he
could only by an effort partially appreciate pas-
sionate emotion. He watched life, hermit-like,
from a distance, and he could hardly distinguish
between the movements of intense passion and the
gesticulations of insanity. He was the cool re-
prover of all extravagance and violence of feeling
or action. Everything, he said, should be done in
due order and without haste ; there was to be no
hurry, no disturbing enthusiasm. In his “ little
room so warm and bright ” he announced his pro-
found respect for Law. His political and social
creed was severe, restrained —generally cold and
unjust. Leading an existence of ordered luxury
and almo! t bearish exclusion, he had no real sym-
pathy with the people, because he knew very little
about them. The spirit of modern Democracy
was for him a riddle—a riddle which he never
tried to guess.
• • * *
He himself said that “he could not truly
pout tray the atmosphere of foreign lands.” He
could only understand England and the English
—dull skies and plodding ways. The French he
sneered at, of course. He js the poetic type of
the gentlemen of England who sit at home at
ease.
• • • •
In these scrappy notes I have kept to the one
point of view. I have not dwelt upon the ex-
quisite tenderness of Tennyson’s lyrics ; the
simplicity, truth and beauty of his domestic
Idylls ; the dignity and pathos of his elegies ; the
ever-increasing power of his dramatic monologues.
These gifts I accept with reverence, and leave to
others the difficult task of attempting to appraise
their value.
. -
Still apropos of Dr. Roth’s book about
the N.W.C.Q. aborigines : Some words in
the Pitta-Pitta vocabulary suggest things.
The P.-P. have learnt to kiss (though
whether from the whites or no Dr. Roth
will not say); and to kiss in their language
is ing-gd-mul-le. But only mothers kiss
infants, and fathers wives (so far as Dr.
Roth has observed) — ‘ a long, long kiss, a
kiss of youth and love ’ ~ seems unknown
to the P.-P. Utta is P.-P. for ‘blood-
relationship.’ Now was not the ancient
essence of the Maori utu a blood-ior-blood re-
taliation 1 Again, kan-mdre is P.-P. for a
‘huge, supernatural water-snake.’ The cor-
respondence with Latin mdre is too easy ;
but cannot some inspired philologist trace a
connection with root an in Maori taniwha?
There is no definite trace of kangaroo in
any of the dozen dialects which Dr. Roth
tabulates. The Pitta-Pitta word is md-
choom-bd ; and the others are as far away or
farther. And there is no trace of boomerang.
On the other hand, woom > a or wommera (as
Dr. Roth shells it), galah, cordla, have un-
doubted al ginal roots. Dr. Roth tabu-
lates aboriginal names for ‘mother-in-law.’
Most of the dialects show great resource—they
have *wo names—one for the man’s and one
for the woman’s mother-in-law. But for the
Goa and Woonamurra mother-in-law, and
for pituri in Goa and Woonamurra, Dr.
Roth supplies no equivalent. This may be,
of course, because he has been unable to find
it; but one likes to think of the Goa and
Woonamurra as tribes to whom mothers-in-
law are absolutely unknown, and who con-
sequently need no eonsoling pituri —can
cheerfully pose as the aboriginal teetotallers
of N.Q. !
• V . * *
Dr. Roth talks interestingly about the
famous letter or message-stick : The message-
stick is ‘ nothing more than a sort of
brand or mark ’ to identify the sender; ‘ there
is nothing on it in the form of a com-
munication which can actually be read, the
substitute or messenger invariably carrying
the message by word, of mouth.’ The marks
on a message-stick are designed either as
ornaments or as rude representations of
natural objects in the sender’s locality.
The message-stick may be put into actual use as
follows ‘Charlie,’ residing at Boulia, we will
say, wants some pituri, but, being employed at
work from which he cannot be spared, or being
sick, is prevented going for it himself: he
therefore sends a brother of his, ‘ ) eter,’ to
the nearest market, which in this case would
be Carlo, to get some for him. Peter takes
the stick which Charlie has just made, and jour-
neying vid Herbert Downs and Glenormiston ar-
rives at his destination on the Mulligan River,
where, being asked his business, he says that he
has come for pituri; and hands in the message-
stick. In reply to questions he will mention who
it is that has sent him—namely, Charlie of Boulia
—and may then be informed by his inqui-
sitor, ‘No, I can’t let you have any. I have
two or three letter-sticks here already, wait-
ing for pituri, and I must serve them
first. Go and ask that fellow over there.’
Approaching the person indicated, he is asked as
before what he wants and whom he comes from :
having satisfied the vendor as to his bona tides, the
latter takes charge of the stick, and tells him he
can supply him in a few days’ time, Peter in the
meantime making friends with some ‘ brother’ or
* sister ’in the local camp. A dilly-bag-full of
pituri being at last forthcoming, it is handed over
with the letter-stick (which the vendor has been
taking careful mental note of, so as to recognise
again), and Peter takes his departure back to
Charlie afi Boulia. Charlie, on receipt of the
parcel, will now forward some boomerangs,
spears, a Government blanket, etc., in pay-
ment : if he can get Peter to take a second
trip all well and good, but if not, as is generally
the case for such a journey, he gets another mes-
senger with the goods and the identical message-
stick as before. This second messenger, arriving
at Carlo, finds the vendor, and hands him over the
goods, together with the .stick : recognising the
latter, the seller accepts the various articles in
payment for the particular bagful of pituri which
he had parted with some weeks previously, know-
ing now that he has been paid by the right party
(probably personally unknown to him)— He., the
sender of the original stick. But, supposing he
never gets paid, or does not receive what he con-
siders to be sufficient, he will bear the fact
well in mind that Charlie of Boulia is a bad char-
acter not to be depended on, and take good care
that neither he nor his friends have any dealings
with him in the future. The seller, under circum-
stances such as have been just narrated, does not,
as a rule, ask for the particular commodities he
expects to exchange, each head-encampment hav-
ing its own special and well-known line of goods.
Instead of trade or barter, the letter-stick may be
sent round with any ordinary message or private
communication.
But why doesn’t Charlie send his barter-
stuff by his first messenger ? And could he
not, when discredited, forge another ‘ signa-
ture ’ on another stick ? Presumably, as_
indeed appears indirectly from Dr. Roth’s
book, blackfellow is in many things more
honest and reliable than whitefeilow.
-—4.
Writes Ernest F.-’ -'oc —
Oiik great error n. l y Prof. Morris in the
‘ Dictionary of Austral English ’ is to quote and
rely on worthless authorities. I could name
several he constantly quotes who are not worth a
damn as authorities on Australia. Take, for
instance, T. B. Wilson, who writes of the bell-
bird : ‘During the night the bell-bird supplied to
us the place of the wakeful nightingale.’ This
nocturnal bell-bird is a stranger to me. Up to
dusk the bird bells, and starts again at dawn,
being especially loud about noon.
Other examples hastily noted. —Prof. Morris
defines ‘ back-slanging ’ as * asking for hospitality
at a station ’!
‘ Dabchick.’— Morris states that there is no
species in Australia. Birds so called are common
enough in Queensland, Northern Territory, and
Westralia.
‘ Joey ’ is denned as ‘ a young kangaroo ; * but
the word is just as commonly applied to young
opossums. Opossums often carry their.<young on
their backs, and consequently wear bald patches.
The skins of such are called ‘joey-ridden skins,’
and, as skins, are of little value.
‘Johnny-Cake.’—A johnny-cake is never ‘ baked
on the ashes,’ as Prof. Morris states, but is baked
on live coals. (Johnny-cake is synonymous with
Prof. Morris’s ‘ Devil-on-the-coals ’ —though bush-
men don’t say ‘devil,’ but something unprint-
able. )
Prof. Morris two or three times quotes Wal-
lace’s erroneous description of mulga as an ‘ acacia
bush armed with strong spikes.’
‘ Packer ’ is hardly ever applied to a horse —
pack-horse being almost invariably used. A
packer is a man who carries rations and stores
over rough country by means of pack-horses.
So applied, the term is common to Australia,
Tasmania and M.L., but Prof. Morris, does not
notice it.
‘Doing a perish’ is not ‘modern slang from
Western Australia,’ but is a phrase in use for
years in all Australian provinces. To ‘do a
perish’means to undergo the deprivation of any
necessary article, not (as represented) of water in
particular.
Prof. Morris defines ‘Poddy ’ as ‘ a Vic. name
for sand-mullet,’ but leaves out its meaning of
motherless calf or fo„l (common in the bush). A
poddy calf or a poddy foal is heard all over Aus-
tralia. A possible derivation is that the young-
sters having to forage for themselves, their irre-
gular diet makes them pot-bellied.
‘ Slab.’ —A slab is not ‘ axe-hewn,’ but split.
CROSSING THE BAR.
Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me !
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
When I put out to sea,
But suoh a tide as moving seems asleep,
Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless
deep
Turns again home.
Twilight and evening be! l ,
And after that the dark
And may there be no sadness of farewell
When t embark ;
For tho’ from out our bourne of Time and Place
The flood may hear me far,
I hope to see my Pilot face to face
When I have crost the bar.
Alfred Tennyson.
EPILOGUE TO ‘ ASOLANDO.’
At the midnight in the silence of the sleep-time,
When you set your fancies free,
Will they pass to where—by death, fools think,
imprisoned—
Low he who once so loved you, whom you
loved so,
—Pity me ?
Oh to love so, be so loved, yet so mistaken !
What had I on earth to do
With the slothful, with the mawkish, the un-
manly ?
Like the aimless, helpless, hopeless, did I drivel
—Being—who ?
One who never turned his back but marched breast
forward,
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong
would triumph,
Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,
Sleep to wake.
No, at noonday in the hustle of man’s work-time
Greet the unseen with a cheer !
Bid him forward, breast and back as either should
be,
“Strive and thrive!” cry “Speed,—fight on,
fare ever
There as here ! ”
Robert Brouning.


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
iSYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
y-v:.
m
DR. WALLACE,
Tlie tried & trusted -
FuiENDSof sufferers
Second to Nome in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
In the Laboratory..
DR. WALLACE
(LECALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease.,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in S TONEY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
YOUNG MEN,
If you are troubled with
pimples, bashfulness,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tion and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are tbus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r^en.
MIDDLE-AGED & OLD MEN,
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina;-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and premature
dec iy. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
character treated with unfailing success.
PRIVATE
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business.
By this
menus
you
can describe j our
t roubles to the
doctors if living
away from tlie
city aud unable
to cone to their
office. 'J'leatmeiit
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea ,
lises, Nlil It VO US
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on anplica-'
to.
Z7rf£
ivfsS&Z**
All Trams stop at the Door.
Lion. A perusal of them might save much mental
and physical suffering and add golden years to
3’"ur lile. To ensure prompt attention, forward
£1 by mail, and full description of your complaint,
and we wdl at once send necessary remedies for
treatment of your ailment.
FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts.* Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi-
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Cure yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’. P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ABori? P^ySiciai)-”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung’ into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has become almost literally a household word ;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your-life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist,
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE- AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder,
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfullv.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.Jt.C.S., Eng.,
.121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
Dr. SPEER,
7 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying and
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to the
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEYERANOE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ADD CONSITI/TATIONS FREE.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him 80 ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq..;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
G
m
4fe)g%r MmL
FULL DIRECTIONS'
enclosed; .
John Durants Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions en.closed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
Hi AD IE S!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that JDr.
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain. . i
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
7 York'Street* Sydney.
BOX 920.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Gills and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Posilive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra Strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for Ms. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
Agents for Australasia —Perry & Co., Baring Chambers,
Market Street, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS
Every Man his own Medical Adviser, 15/-; cost 45/-.
Every Man his own Horse and Cattle Doctor, 2 vols., 10/-.
Every Man his own Horse Doctor, by Armitage, 12/6 ; cost
25/-. Every Man his own Lawyer, 8/6 ; cost 12/6. Every
Man his own Schoolmaster, 10/-; cost 30/-. The Era
Formulary, or Every Man his own Chemist, 25/- ; cost 35/-.
Dr. Chase’s Receipt' Book, 5540 receipts upon everything,
13/6 ; cost 25/-. Post Free.
R. W. SKINNER, THE NOTED SECOND-HAND
BOOKSELLER, 105 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
Medical.
>
I
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Kooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
3Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, a*»d registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest .means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in h.is
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches,
giddiness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of the breast-
bone on pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
ment in the urine after standing, fear of something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, &c.,
&c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires ad vice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in winch you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in giving a true
description of your ailment.
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—•
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred —
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours :
9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS - Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday’
7 to 9.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT IMMAOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
WEAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
•' permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day ; soon know yourself a king among 1 men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
ment. All weak parts of the body strengthened and
developed.
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stages. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
living at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions,
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the Writers
only; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters a>id particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S. A. writes “ 1 can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
past all belief. For seventeen years
I have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well again. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend" to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice and take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted to
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“ I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact,, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
without obtaining any relief. On-my way to New Guinea,
and hearing of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam known
in all parts of the West; and write this that m3' rhates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
mmJm
Hr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes: —
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, ha\dng
Been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully Inever thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said: ‘The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies J am as well and as
strong as ever I was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what you have done for me.”
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
Mr. J. W. AITCHISON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes:
—“Gentlemen,—l cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debility such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong m an once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of five different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts,
without deriving any benefit, whatsoever. I had given up
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
I can never thank you enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what-
ever use you like of this.”
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—•“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that lam well and tell
you that I spent over t'2oo
before consulting you, and
deriving not a fart hi tig’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
he treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
msm
n§»
..m
/»
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
I havfe suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton & Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
7(iiuwac.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ANNIVERSARY H. Jan. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at s.
Address
LAUNCESTON C. February 2.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me __ .... shares in the above.
Name 1 _. „
Address
HOBART C. February 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot n o shares in the above.
Name„
Address^
COOTAMUNDRA C. Feb. 9.
10,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me—__ .shares in the above.
Name
Address
t
NEWMARKET H. Feb.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, ' shares
N ame
26.
in the above
|
Address
Australian C. March 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE C. March 17.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the above.
N ame ___
Address
SILVER CITY C.
25,000 Subscribers at
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot
Name
Address.
March 23.
5.
sli ares in the above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Inthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
i • •
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST EREE on application.
6ET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
USB
Spooler's
■ROYAL NAVY DHESSWG
FOR
: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC lIONS FOR US
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
Universal Cream,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The best Dressing lor Harness
Leather (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
LIQUID BLACKING,
Saddle Soap,
•Plate Powder, etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers, Boot Shops, Saddlers, &c.
r.O. Box 185, MELBOURNE.
BRUIT'S REFRIGERATOR.
. . FOR . .
Keeping Butter, Meat,
Milk, etc., COLD.
The Hotter the Weather, the Cooler
it is, as the evaporation of water is
greater. No ice or chemicals re-
quired. 6in. x6in., 35.; lOin. xBin.,
55.; 12in. x 10in.,8s. ; and upwards.
By post, Is. extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
and 422 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
THE FINEST TONIC'
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, j
and enabli >g the consti-1
cution 10 resist climatic 1
influences.
Invaluable in all cases ofJ
anaemia, Influenza and \
general debilitv.
Highly recommended for /
we k and debilitated chil-
dren |
LaNC T ‘ A ben ii uf aland interesting preparation."
BRITISH ME! ICAL JOURNAL. •* It has all{
the goad effects uf iron without producing consti- \
potion or disturbing the digestion, and it does not)
blacken the teeth. i
Sold by Chemists all the world over, f
. Prof. DURCOT’S MUSKAL
Speedily produces a luxuriant growth of
i lit. iron Smoothest Face or Baldest Head.
Heavy and Handsome Moustache and
Beard after a few weeks’ use. Never
fails. The only Remedy for Baldness.
Sent post free, securely packed with
directions for 6s. 6d.. Double Size, 10s.
S. D. RUSSELL, 83 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
__________________ absolutely per-
fect. it has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient's knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. S'JRGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., ENQ.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
H!l3S3fl|
mwm
GO XO HELL-
K4OLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6«1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Viudin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N*S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. HILLIEK, 135 & 137 Snssex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one, do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CAd^LLOGUE.
m
*>6l%
m
Positively the Best Dressing
EDWARDS'
w
>-
f
'm.
<£r- “
<U- -=>
tfT"
FOR
PRESERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAKLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.c.
(DncßosEßTSon s mm sum-
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
, Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Pull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
Works :
- Pitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
W E .
, “ “ SPECIAL NOTICE - -
beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
, , c ir ? u j ej ' wil * save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
turers—not dealers.
OUR BENI SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
c^ S A h m ra oTTr'i.-l lanl Ps, £7lss. Our Special 3 SPRING STICK
. oULKY, silver dash rail splash-baards and lamps, £8
BUGGIES, including break and lamps,
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather,
. ™?™ reak and lam P s > LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices ■
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sydney.
Specially prepared as a Beautifier of the Skin & Complexion.
Dr. MACKENZIE'S
CELEBRATED
ARSENICAL TOILET SOAP.
Is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most lovely Com-
plexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously
and expensively perfumed. One Shilling per Tablet. Doctor’s certificate with each cake,
certifying to its liarmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imita-
tions. At all Chemists & Stores. Madame Adelina Patti writes: “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s
Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, Eng.
BIRD’S
m
E &
ifiii’S
Qjgl&RD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUMMER : A WAIL OF THE WEST.
( Written for The Bulletin in the ice-chcst.)
Sky-line a-dim in a shrouding of haziness,
Grass that is withered and yellow and sere,
Limbs that are limp with the languor of laziness,
Palate that pines for the gurgle of beer;
Sun that is glowing, a.ball of vermilion,
Wind that assures us Gehenna lies west,
Grasshoppers, beetles and flies by the billion,
Truly the Dead and the Damned are the Blest.
Hundred and ten in the shade—and deliciously,
Mercury mounting at sinking of sun,
Echoes of curses that bark around viciously,
Felo-de-sefulous thoughts of a gun ;
Sweat that has flowed till your visage is furrowful,
Cattle a-perish wherever you go,
Odour of rabbits that die by the burrowful,
Dolorous dirge from the throat of the crow.
Eyes all a-blink in the plague that has smitten us,
Growls from the boys who were once all a-grin ;
Itch that is token the sandflies have bitten us ;
Tempers as touchy and cranky as Sin ;
Nothing but drought and the whisky to talk about,
Too hot to live or to decently die,
Too hot to sleep or to work or to walk about,
Almost too hot for a loafer to lie.
Dancing horizon of sand-drift and dreariness,
Only asylum—a camp-oven shed ;
Never a song or an outburst of cheeriness,
Only ambition—to drink till you’re dead ;
Dead and content, with no chance of luxurious
Satin-lined crib in the Halls of the Blest,
Glad of a Nest with his Nibs, the Sulphureous
Lord of the Deep, where the Damned are at
Rest!
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
“HAIL TO THE NIGHT.”
Hail to the solemn Night,
Whose stately steps and slow
Move softly, lightly, in the train of Day,
While sunbeams glide away,
And on the sunset glow
Lingers the wan gray light.
Hail to the Night !
Hail to the silent Night!
The wondering stars unfold
Dreams of the vastness of Eternity,
While dim Futurity
Seems nearer than of old,
Wrapped in the slumbering light.
Hail to the Night!
ALICE M'KINON.
IF I WERE YOU.
If I were you, when breaks the morn
Not with a visage long and lorn,
Of sombre hue,
Would I salute the budding day,
But glad with resolution say :
“ I’ll sue my love for yea or nay ”
If I were you.
If I were you, when noon is here
I’d banish all my trembling fear
And Phyllis woo
As only bold true-lovers can,
And have done since the world began,
I’d prove I was at least a man
If I were you.
If I were you, when night is nigh
I would not sit apart and sigh
As lovers do.
Noll would throw away despair
And seek her out —iny lady fair—
And show that I could do and dare,
If I were you.
A.W.
SMITH’S EMILY.
As I was gallopin’ into town
From Simpson’s place, out back o’ the hill,
I met Smith’s Emily drivin’ down
For bran and pollard from Thompson’s mill.
“ Good’ay ! ” says Emily ; “ Day ! ” says I,
An’ pulls my nag up into a walk.
“ An’ ’ow’s the folks at the Errenbri ? ”
(She ain’t a gel as is give to talk).
Oh ! Emily ! Emily Smith !
A lot I care for your kin and kith,
But drivin’ yer cart
You’ve got ’olt of me ’eart,
An’ I long to kiss yer, Emily Smith !
She looks me up, an’ she looks me down,
An’ “ Middlin’, thanks! ” she says, with a
smile.
Her eyes are tender and dark and brown,
An’ keeps a-mockin’ yer all the while.
She plucks a spray from a passing bush,
An’ starts to chew the tip of a twig,
An’ says “ I reckon I’ll make a push ”
Her mouth screwed up an’ her eyes all big.
Ah ! Emily ! Emily Smith !
I don’t quite know what yer does it with ;
But right or wrong,
You can pull me along,
An’ I think yer knows it, Emily Smith.
I says, “ Oh ! wat’s yer ’urry ? ” says I.
Then—“ Don’t yer know as I loves yer so ! ”
Yes ! Just like that, an’ I don’t know why.
But she only laughs, and says “Yes ! I know ! ”
“ Then will yer marry me, Em’ ?” I says.
The cart was stopped ; I ’eld ’er ’and.
I’ll love yer true to my dyin’ days ! ”
She only says, “ Ain’t the sunset grand ! ”
My Emily ! Emily Smith !
If life’s a muddle and love’s a myth
It’s nothin’ to me what the answer may be,
For you’re all I care about, Emily Smith !
NIL.
Ironbark : “A few weeks ago a corres-
pondent told The Bulletin that kangaroos never
sat with their tails between their legs. This is
not correct. The position is a common one when
hunger is satisfied and when the wily flea, or
whatever may be the particular parasite, demands
attention. I have seen both kangaroo and wal-
laby holding up the tail (brought between the legs)
with one paw, and turning it over with the other
in search of the before-mentioned flea in exactly
the same manner as a monkey pursues his investi-
gations.”


Iltistraliao MGtGal provident Society.
" The 01de f n S r a i l l^ A BONUS EVERY YEAR,
rv rr« tt a „ q:„ t p arrOTT K 0 M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman \
w.; A.W'j'a.M.T'ffSr 1
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary . RICHARD IEEGE, r .1. A., r.r .A., r .s.o.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulate™ Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
Che CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
n.ORT. B. CAMERON. SECRETARY.
Established 1849.
Hotel
n
irnLU'SIVf.OF AU, /AEALS AND ATTENDANCE
■AUSTRALIA
ore* M£.
M
AW<\ M?ors*.
AND
i
c° c
IZZZ
r
n
RS'&
ay
%
't'
*
k
\
ft
%
*
preset
vative
p A |Nt
RUBEROID
DAMP-COURSE
AGENTS i E. Rich & Co. Ltd.. 24 & 26 O'Connell St., SYDNEY.
P At>ER.
Every Variety of
Ml- *
BWMP wmrna£Smm
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE-, DELIVERED FREE BY
Atcherley and Dawson,
257 George Street, Sydney.
tar SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
London
& Melbourne
TAILORING CO.
Summer Suits, 455. to 90s.
Delivered Free to any part of the Ch./ny.
OUR QUALITIES
ARE HIGH
AND
PRICES LOW.
OUR GOODS AND
WORKMANSHIP
SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES.
31 ERSKINE STEET, SYDNEY.
S. M. BAUMASHE,
Manager.
JOSHUA BROS.’
BOOMERANG
BRANDY
As Supplied to the British House of Commons, War Office, London County Council
Asylum, and many of the leading Hospitals in Great Britain and Australasia.
/
ANTWERP EXHIBITION, 1894 - - - .GOLD MEDAL.
, BORDEAUX EXHIBITION, 1895 - - - BRONZE MEDAL.
AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION, 1895 - - GOLD MEDAL,
i BRUSSELS EXHIBITION, 1897 - - - - 2 GOLD MEDALS.
01t>tail4aL>ie of nil Wine «&£ Spirit Merchant?.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH Eli 031 £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER, j MR. S. D. ASHER,
Graduate iri Dental Surgery Surgical and Mechanical
and Prosthetics. I Dentist.
rpHE above'Establishment has been improved and fitted
i- with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
TeetU Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Jiridf/ework.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists, Only Address
93 King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - *
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
M ELBOURN E.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. ...
Two Dining Rooms ; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOE
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
}BUY PROM US AND
SAVE ‘5O PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspects
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
THE . . .
cits muTunt fire
Insurance Company latd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Office: 95 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Victorian Branch :
EMPIRE BUILDINGS, 416 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
Rates Lowest. Security Undoubted.
Settlements Prompt atul Equitable.
& INSURERS
RECEIVE A CASH BONUS
EVERY YEAR.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1896 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes <£97,1763, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 14 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Hates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
v-THE-^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual’Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972 —assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of I.or' •'* n.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. tiiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hass all ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W_ C. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to. ♦
80 Tops n>ore I imported Leaf
tbao all tbe other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of DixSOn’S
Brands- DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Manufac-
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yai)k?? Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
Cl)dti)pioi)>
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqGsror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€Qtei)i)ial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopoly
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars
retailed at 4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post 09 0 NtWSpaptfi
Vol. 18.—No. 934.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1898.
Price, 6,d.
If women had the same confidence‘in doctors of their
Own sex that they have been taught to have in those of
the other, there would not be that hesitation to seek medical
advice which in many cases is now the cause of lifelong
suffering.—Sydney D.T.
WOMAN’S REASON.
Anxious Husband : “ But,
my dear, what is your objec-
tion to consulting a woman
doctor ? ”
Invalid Wife; “Because
—because the nasty thing
would discover that I wore
imitation lace !
London, Saturday.—James Wray, of New bourn
Wales, and George Towns, the Hunter River sculler, both
competed in the Christmas handicap yesterday on the
[Tyne.
The race was won by J. White, who defeated Wray
in the semi-final. Wray had conceded a start of 17sec. to
the winner.
Towns was beaten early in his heat.
, Brisbane, Wednesday.—As the ten years’ period for subsidising the Government of British New Guinea
will end in September next y?ar; it has become necessary to re-consider the situation, and to ascertain if New
South Wales and Yictoria will continue to unite with Queensland in providing the required subsidy.
« gay, missus, don’t you think it is time that he was weaned 1 ”
With respect to Kelly, a
rumor went forth during yester-
day morning, that he was too ill
to play, but inquiry proved the
report to be incorrect. It had
its origin in the appearance on
the ground of Johns in flannels
and pads. The Victorian
wicket-keeper, though, had
changed only in order to pose
for a photograph in connection
with the forthcoming Aus-
tralian edition of Ranjitsyihji’s
book.
The noble.ga.me, as played in Australia, be-
comes more,-and more complicated and exciting
day by day.
J. Bunn.: “Is there any other game you can play
besides cricket, sculling, and pugilism 1 ”
Australia : “ Yes ; try me on stick-knife ! ”
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
« Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• ••• Jl
Half-yearly ... ... ••• oaf
Quarterly... ... ... •••
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin _ Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay try Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hei eby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper-Clippmgs. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
Ond interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for 'same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea , but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 H ool Exchange,
London, E.C. \ Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co3 Lhurch
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 3out-st., Cape Town , South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia ,
Westralia and UTaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside" N.S. Wales (except Queensland ) is now
£1, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the. subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland,.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7%^sxz2ZeZz/7i.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1898.
A Reform Not Worth Having.
The New South Wales general election,
which falls due any time between now and
next August, is to be fought on the question
of the reform of the Legislative Council.
The cry is getting somewhat into the sere
and yellow whoop ; the same Government
fought the last election on the same ques-
tion, and the country gave it a strong
majority with which to carry out the reform,
and the reform never came off. On that
occasion the mending of the Upper House
was demanded because it had rejected the
land and income-tax ; this time it is wanted
because of the rejection of the probate
duties ; so the occasion as well as the war-
whoop is almost exactly the same as it was
three years ago. Still, the cry of Council
reform is so popular that it will probably do
duty a second time. The chief danger in
such a case is that the country, which is an
unreasoning mass at the best and not much
given to detail, will probably forget to ask
what kind of a reform it is to have, and will
assume that alteration and reform must mean
the same thing. Which they certainly don’t.
For instance, Victoria, a good many years
ago, so reformed its Council that it merely
exchanged the devil it knew for the devils
with which it wasn’t previously acquainted.
* * * *
The troubles of the present New South
Wales Council are these : Its members are
unpaid, therefore only rich men are eligible.
They don’t represent the people, and the
only possible excuse for the existence of any
House is that it represents the people. They
hold their billets for life, therefore they are
mostly old men, and old men are almost all
conservative because when men grow old
they want peace and quiet, and they take no
interest in changes because they don t ex-
pect to live to see the results of them. They
can’t be compelled by any lawful process to
do the will of the people. And they are
not even nominated by the people, in the
first place, but by the Government —which
may be just on the verge of being thrown out
because it is at variance with the popular
sentiment.
* • * •
Premier Reid’s proposed reform consists
in the appointment of Councillors for a term
of years instead of for life. Apparently mem-
bers will still be unpaid and rich men will
still be the only ones eligible. They will
still be wholly unrepresentative of the
people. They will still be appointed
without any reference to the people.
Also there will still be no power of dissolu-
tion if they refuse to do the popular will.
The new Council is to be a perpetual body,
the members retiring by batches at fixed
periods—probably one-third of them going
out every two or three years. Therefore, if
the Council puts the people’s Government at
defiance by an almost unanimous vote, as
the present Council has frequently done, the
only remedy will consist in waiting patiently
till the first batch retires in one or two
or three years, and then if the same
Government is still in power—putting men
of a different way of thinking in their place.
This will at least strengthen the Government
minority, though that is about all it will do.
The next proceeding is to wait patiently
another two or three years till a second batch
of fossils falls due, and then if the same
Government is still in office, and is still of
the same way of thinking—two things which
are eminently improbable—it can send up
another "lot, also of its way of thinking.
Then if the first batch hasn’t deteriorated —
which is also eminently improbable, for
democrats deteriorate very fast when they
are created irresponsible tyrants —the mea-
sure will be carried. And if the country
changes its mind about this time, which is
more than likely, for public opinion is
always changing and advancing and taking
new forms, and the Council, which repre-
sents the former way of thinking, refuses to
change its mind also, the only thing to be
done is to sit down patiently and do all the
waiting over again.
* * * *
The proposed “ reformed ” Council, in
fact, may easily prove worse than the unre-
formed one. When the latter resists the
will of the people on some important point,
the Government can dissolve the Assembly
and appeal to the nation on that special
issue, and get a tolerably definite mandate
from the people thereupon. If the mandate
is backed by a large enough majority, it can
generally persuade the Imperial figurehead
of the State to sanction the appointment of
enough new nominees to carry its point.
Generally, however, the Council gives way
without that extreme measure, merely to avoid
having its Sabbath calm disturbed by an
irruption of democratic Huns and Vandals.
The “reformed” Council can peacefully
watch a dozen Assembly dissolutions and
popular mandates, and simply tell the
Government to wait till its chance comes in
the slow procession of the years, and trust to
the Ministry dying in the interim. More-
over, the system by which the Councillors
retire in batches, automatically, at fixed
periods, may enable a dying Ministry to
crowd the Upper House with its nominees a
day or two before its own fall, and the new
Government may come in with a large
majority and a perfectly different policy, only
to find that it will be four or six years before
it can bring the Council in line with popular
opinion.
• • • *
Premier Reid’s theory is that his “ re-
formed ” Council of nominees will be a
valuable “ revising ” body. But it may not
be content to revise ; it will have power to
obstruct also. And the “ revising ” theory
is absurd in any case. If it is intended that
the Council shall merely suggest amend-
ments and let the Assembly accept or reject
them at its pleasure, then it should have no
legislative powers whatever, and in that case
there is no need for any Council. The mere
work of suggestion might be entrusted to the
boss lodge of Freemasons, or the Baptist
Conference, or the Judges, or the Australian
Natives Association ; or anybody and every-
body could take a turn at it and publish
their suggestions in the S.M. Herald. If the
Council is only to suggest the things that the
Assembly agrees with, it is useless, because
the Assembly could do the same thing itself.
If it is also to suggest the things the Assem-
bly doesn’t agree with, it is equally useless,
for the Assembly won’t accept its suggestions.
If it is to be a revising body without power
to revise, it is useless. If it is to be a re-
vising body vith power to revise, that
means that it will have power to insist on
its revisions. Which brings it back to
exactly where it is now. The present Coun-
cil is a revising body with power to insist
on its revisions—and that is exactly what
all the trouble is about.
* * • *
Either there must be no Upper House at
all or there must be one with full power to
legislate—a Legislative House without power
to legislate might as well be replaced by a
wooden image. If there is to be a Second
Chamber, then the only logical course, in a
democratic community, is to make it fully
and absolutely representative of the people ;
the fact that it fully represents the people is
the only excuse for having any Chamber at
all. Then the question arises—in what
other aspect do the people require to be
represented besides the aspect in which the
Assembly already represents them ? It is
no use having the Council elected on the
same system as the Assembly ; that would
only mean that there would be two depart-
ment-trotters to demand the immediate
erection of a culvert at the township of
Smith’s Curse, instead of one as at present.
The one thing to be done with a Second
Chamber is to make it the Chamber that
represents the nation in general. There is
a magnificent opening for such a Chamber.
Neither New South Wales nor any of
the other Australias has ever possessed
anything even distantly resembling it.
In the Lower House there is the
man who represents Kiama, and the one
who represents Pyrmont, and the tin-pot
magnate who is authorised to speak for
Albury, and the uninfluential personage
who possesses the entire confidence of Illa-
warra, or Dandaloo, or Milparinka. There
is a member for every little, desolate town of
GoD-forgotten; but there isn’t one not
even a single one—who represents New
South Wales, or is entitled to speak for the
people of New South Wales. Tbe only place
which is wholly unrepresented in New South
Wales is New South Wales itself. Every
separate bridge and culvert that is wanted
has someone to specially represent it. But,
if something is -wanted which isn’t the cul-
vert of any particular lost-dog township—
something like Federation, which is the pro-
perty of the nation at large—it is nobody’s
special mission to look after it. No one
is the member for the people at large, and
consequently the interests of the people at
large pass almost unnoticed.
• • • •
The province wants two Houses, both
elected by manhood suffrage (or manhood
and womanhood suffrage, as the community
may decide), both consisting of paid repre-
sentatives, with the same tenure and the
same liability to dissolution. The one
should be elected by constituencies after
the fashion of the present Assembly. Even
if the present system has its disadvantages
it is not to be supposed that the electorates
would abandon the privilege of having each
its separate department-trotter, and pro-
bably it is advisable that there should be one
House whose members possess a certain
local knowledge. But the other should be
elected by the people as one constituency, so
that its members shall represent New South
Wales and its interests—not merely Jam-
beroo or Queanbeyan, or the fast asleep old
town of Parramatta. The Federal election
showed that such a system is possible. It
also showed that there is a national interest
that wants representation quite distinct from
the multitude of separate local interests,
when it put Edmund Barton —whom the
constituency system threw out. of Parliament
altogether—at the head of the poll by the
biggest vote ever recorded in Australia. No
separate constituency badly wanted Barton
because, as a hustler after culverts, he is pro-
bably the most inefficient man in the politics
of the Seven Provinces, but New South
Wales in general wanted him badly. The
House which represents New South Wales
in general should also be the one to which
the Ministry is responsible ; in other words,
the present Lower House should be made
the Upper House, and a new Assembly be
constituted on a distinctly national basis.
And if each House consisted of the same
number of members, and each rested on
manhood suffrage, then it would be feasible
to settle deadlocks by letting the two
bodies sit as one Chamber and decide
the disputed point by a joint vote. When
one House represents the people, and the
other, as is the case both with the pre-
sent Council and the proposed “reformed”
Council of Premier Reid, represents
nothing, there is no possible compro-
mise in case of deadlocks. The only way
out is for the House which doesn’t represent
the people to give way to the one that does.
And, if the Council is always to give way,
then there is no compromise ; also there is
no earthly use in having any Council.
* * * *
The Bulletin presents this scheme as
being, in its opinion, the only way out of a
difficulty of many years standing. The
present Council is admittedly a useless and
senile stumbling-block in the way of pro-
gress. The proposed reformed Council of
Premier Reid is the feeble expedient of a
mentally-barren politician following in the
old useless rut because he lacks the courage,
or the intelligence, to get out of it. And
Reid’s reformed Council would be, almost to
a certainty, just about as hopeless and use-
less and unmanageable as the one now exist-
ing. In other words, it would be just about
as unreformed as the one which New South
Wales possesses already, and of which it has
grown so very, very weary.
Trade.
Captain Russell, the Maoriland Tory leader
who has been seven years in a minority, and
whose party, badly licked at three consecutive
elections, is thinking of throwing him overboard
and giving his billet to Stout, was interviewed
the other day in Sydney. It was a long inter-
view', mostly devoted to remarks about the
brightening prospects of the stupid section of
Maoriland Parliament, but, towards the end,
Russeix got off a hint about the policy he in-
tends to adopt should lie ever get into the
office he lias vainly pm-sued so long :
I would like to add that I believe entirely in a policy of
Freetrade. I believe that the protective duties in New
Zealand hamper trade, and are very prejudicial to the
best interests of the colony. A policy of Fr eetrade, given
effect to from time to time as circumstances permit,
would he the best policy for New Zealand, and I believe
it would lead to a very large trade between New South
Wales and New Zealand.
The interesting feature of this deliverance lies
in the last sentence. The inducement to a
policy of Freetrade lies in the fact that it
would probably lead to “a very large trade
with New South Wales. This is the same in-
ducement which the Freetrader always holds
out, and if he can show that his policy, where
adopted, has led to a very large trade, or that
the other policy, where it was adopted, didn t
lead to a very large trade, he thereupon con-
siders his case proved absolutely and beyond
all question. Yet the advantages of a very
large trade are no more self-evident than those
of a very large wen, or carbuncle, or of a term
in a very large gaol. In fact, trade is, in the
main, a fetish.
* * • •
It consists, in the first place, of shifting
something from one place and putting it down
in another, and somebody being paid for the
act of removal, his payment going to increase
the cost of the'article shifted. In this respect
it is analogous to sand-shifting for rations, and
also bears some relationship to professional
cricket, in which a ball is shifted rapidly from
one place to another for a cash consideration.
Sometimes it is profitable, and many other
times it isn’t, but the Freetrader’s logic, which
estimates the prosperity of a country by the
amount of its exports and imports in proportion
to population, takes no account of that.
According to the theory that trade is neces-
sarily an evidence of prosperity, about the
most prosperous places in this world are
Holland, Belgium, Singapore and Hongkong,
which, in their annual commercial returns,
announce more exports and imports per head
than almost any other places on this earth. By
the same criterion the United States, with all
its millionaires and its alleged immense wealth,
is just about one-fourth as rich as Hongkong,
and the average New T Yorker has just
about one-quarter of the wealth of the
half-naked and apparently poverty-stricken
brown man of the Straits Settlements.
On the same basis, the average Westralian
is nearly tw’ice as rich as the Cornstalk and
more than twice as rich as the average English-
man. There are many other strange anomalies,
but the one fact which sticks out conspicuously
is that the Hongkong Chow and the Asiatic
mongrel of Singapore and the Dutchman are
the three boss plutocrats of this world. If they
are not, then the theory that trade is neces-
sarily a proof of prosperity goes broke on the
instant: and if that breaks then the theory
that Freetrade is necessarily better than Pro-
tection because it leads to increased trade goes
broke also. And, in view of these two break-
ages, there remains no sense or reason why
Maoriland should go in for Freetrade merely
because it will lead to increased trade with
Sydney, or with any other place. Of course, if
trade is invariably a proof of wealth, and the
country with most trade is the richest country,
and the nigger of Singapore and the yellow
man of Hongkong are about the richest men on
earth, then Maoriland should go in baldheaded
for Freetrade. But in view of the well-known
condition of the brown man and the yellow man
aforesaid, it would almost seem as if a place
might have an immense trade and be very poor,
or a comparatively small trade and be very
rich, and that it might get poorer as its trade
increased, or richer as its trade fell off, and
other ridiculous things of the same kind.
* * ♦ *
The whole trade theory, so far as it is based
on exports and imports, is a fallacy to begin
with. All that these returns take cognisance
of is the amount of goods which one country
sends to and receives from other countries or
states : the dealings of one part of the country
with another are not reckoned at all. Thus, if
Albury in N.S. W. sends goods three miles to
Wodonga in Victoria —that is trade, and the
transaction appears in the returns of the
commerce of both provinces, and the more
goods are humped back and forward over these
three miles, even if they go at a heavy loss, the
greater, according to the Freetrade logic, is the
prosperity of both provinces. But if ten times,
or a hundred times, the quantity of merchan-
dise were carried 893 miles from Milparinka to
Sydney, or 375 miles from Mildura to Mel-
bourne, at a large profit to everybody concerned,
that wouldn’t be trade. The event wouldn’t
be even mentioned in the returns, and the
philosophy which judges a country by its im-
ports and exports would take no account of it
whatsoever.
* * » *
The relative situations of Britain and Russia
are a fine example of how the trade theory
works out. They are the two greatest empires
on earth; they are nearly equal in size; and their
beginnings were about equally small. One
sprang from the two little kingdoms of Eng-
land and Scotland ; the other from the little
grand duchy of Muscovy. Butt by the acci-
dent of situation, when they started spread-
ing one spread by land in a solid mass,
and the other by sea over hundreds of
separate islands and fragments of continents.
Because Russia is solid it is conveniently go-
verned from one centre, and the empire is called
a single state ; because the British empire isn’t
solid it is governed, as a matter of convenience,
from fifty different centres, and is a multitude
of autonomous or semi - autonomous states.
Therefore, all the goods which Britain receives
from or sends to its empire are called imports
and exports, and are entered in the trade re-
turns ; while all those which the original Mus-
covy sends to its empire are simply called
internal commerce, and are not reckoned at all.
As a result, Freetrade Britain has a very large
commerce, and points to Protectionist Russia,
which has a very small one, as a horrible
example of backwardness. Yet if Britain,
like Russia, reckoned its dealings with
other parts of its own empire as internal,
instead of external, trade, #180,000,000
per annum of its business, as it appears on
paper, would vanish altogether. And if
Russia adopted the British system, its com-
merce, without being any bigger, would in-
crease enormously. Similarly, if Austria fol-
lowed Britain’s example, and called its dealings
with its possessions apart from the original
Austria proper (Hungary, Bohemia, Moravia,
Silesia, Galicia, Transylvania, Carinthia, Bosnia,
Herzegovina, Styria, Croatia, the Tyrol, &c.)
as external commerce, it might rank as one of
the greatest commercial nations on earth with-
out being any more commercial than it is now


And if the United States conceded to its 45
otates, as Britain has done to the separate
States of its dominion, the right to establish
each its own tariff, then all the dealings of one
State with another would be reckoned, as is
case Britain, as “ trade,” and the
U.S. would have a commerce which would “lay
over that of every other country on the earth’s
surface. Simply because it keeps its accounts
differently it has comparatively little “ trade,”
and the British Freetrader, who does his
national book-keeping the other way, says
that the devastating influence of Protection
here shows itself distinctly.
* * » •
At present, Australia has a vast commerce,
and is inordinately proud of the fact. But it is
a subject for painful reflection that, if it fede-
rates, it will immediately thereafter have so
very little commerce that the total will hardly
be w'orth bragging about. Apart from Maori-
land, this country is divided into six States, and
every single article which one sends to or
through another or receives from another, is
reckoned in the commercial returns. When
Broken Hill ore comes round to Illawarra
for treatment, it is first exported from
N.S.W., next it is imported into S.A.
by rail) and then exported from S.A. by
steamer, and then imported into N.S.W.
again ; and, similarly, stores for Broken Hill
may be exported from Melbourne, imported
into S.A., exported out of S.A., and finally im-
ported into N.S. W. By thus reckoning the
same goods over and over again an enormous
“ trade ” is created, and, if Australia were
divided into 29 States instead of only six, it
might easily, with exactly the same amount of
business, have twice as big a trade per head
as any other country in the world. All the
South Queensland produce which finds its sea-
outlet at Sydney or Newcastle, and the Western
N.S. W. and Victorian goods which go out by
Adelaide, and the Riverina trade which reaches
Europe via Melbourne, are counted three times
over in the same fashion. When Federation
abolishes all these separate reckonings, the
trade of Australia, even if it remains the same
in reality, will drop nearly one-half on paper,
and this country, according to the Freetraders’
logic, will fall into miserable insignificance.
* * * *
All of which leads back by a circuitous
course to Captain Russell’s theory that Free-
trade must necessarily be good for Maorilaml
because it w’ill probably increase its external
trade with Sydney. Assuming that trade is a
good thing—and, in the main, it probably is—it
is much more pertinent to ask just here
whether there is any prospect of Freetrade in-
creasing the commerce between Dunedin and
Christchurch, and making a rush of business
along the dirt-road from Auckland to Onehunga.
Also, whether there is any reason to believe it
will accelerate trade between High-street,
Dunedin, and Princes-street, just round the
corner. Russell holds out no such promise,
and yet this kind of commerce, though it
doesn’t appear among the published exports
and imports, is vastly more important than the
long, cumbersome, expensive oversea trade
with Sydney. Also the one is just as much
“ trade ”as the other. To the economists who
hold that external buyings and sellings—the
kind which appear in the trade statistics—
are the one great test of prosperity it is a
solemn reflection that Maoriland might get up
a business of <£500,000,000 a year with Austra-
lia, and then it might federate with this
country, and the above business would cease to
be external commerce, and would appear in the
trade returns no longer, and Maoriland, even
though it bought and sold as much as ever,
would be a poor, wretched place with no com-
merce at all. And, as a still more awful con-
tingency, there is just a far-off chance that the
whole world may some day be combined under
one Government, and be all one State, and then,
no matter if trade is a hundred times more
active than it is now, there will be no trade at
all —in the Foreign shoddy sense—because
every place will be one country and there will
be no foreign country to export to or import
from. Meanwhile, if Maoriland can’t be pro-
sperous without foreign trade, it is consoling to
reflect that it can get there at once by dividing
itself into twenty different States, so that the
same train-load of goods going from Dunedin to
Christchurch w'ill appear in the imports and
exports of perhaps eight States all in the same
day. Then M.L. as a whole might have the
biggest commerce on earth, and the Russell
party would be quite happy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Two Lost Provinces.
After a long struggle with local geological
problems, it has been decided that there is no
artesian water under the great dry Wimmera
plains of western Victoria, and that, if the
bores went down till they struck perdition, the
situation would be as hopeless as it is now.
Therefore the Age issues its ukase that a huge
irrigation scheme must be set on foot at an
expense, in borrowed money and interest, the
mere thought of which is calculated to make an
economical Treasurer shudder. The situation
is something like this : The population of Vic-
toria, the railways, roads, and public works of
all kinds, are crowded into a narrow space in
the centre of the province. The East is empty
forest; the West is empty plain, and salt and
sand. About one,-third of Victoria is described
on the map as heath and sandhills, and salt
patches and howling arid plains, where the
foliage averages about one blasted gum-tree in
a century. To find room for more population,
it is necessary either to irrigate this shrieking
waste and make it decently cultivable, or
else to open up the other end—the Gipps-
land end —of the province by roads and
railways, and supply the immediate demand
for elbow - room in that direction. Pro-
bably the latter would be the more promising
scheme just now, but, by some unaccountable
kink in the political mind, every Vic. states-
man pins his faith to the sun-and-salt-blasted
mallee. Yet eastern Gippsland is the best-
watered part of Victoria, and one of the best-
watered parts of Australia. It is covered with
dense forests, and the timber alone should be
worth as much as the whole selling price of the
whole mallee wilderness. The land is reason-
ably fertile, and, despite the rugged character
of the country, muoli of it is cultivable ; there
is a fine climate and fine scenery; and the popu-
lation along the principal main-road in Eastern
Gippslaud runs to three families in 70 miles.
On the bye-roads it is less. If any Vic. Govern-
ment would wrestle with the question of carry-
ing the unfinished railway from Bairnsdale
through Orbost to the N.S.W. border, and
would go in for systematic road-construction in
the counties of Dargo, Tambo, and Croajingo-
long, it would easily find room for 50,000 people
in the latter alone, instead of the present 1779.
(Croajingolong is at present a large county
with 420 inhabited dwellings, or about one-
twelfth of a home to the square mile.) The
difficulty is that the railways required to open
it up wouldn’t pay interest on the borrowed
money for many years, and nobody has the
energy or the courage to suggest that
the necessary coin should be raised by
taxation. Also, though the increased land
revenue would probably pay in the end for rail-
roading eastern Gippsland it is necessary to
have the railroads first before the land-revenue
begins to come in. Victoria is losing popula-
tion for want of land to meet the demands of
agriculturists, while one quarter of the pro-
vince is empty and inaccessible for want of rail-
ways, and another quarter ditto for want of
water. Considering all the circumstances this
should be a good opportunity for a heaven-born
financier to come to the front. The question is,
how to get the temporary use of, say, <£500,000,
without interest, for opening up east Gipps-
land, the money to be repaid out of the pro-
ceeds of thesale or leaseof the lands thus opened.
If the State took over the local bank-note issue,
which runs to about .£1,000,000, and kept, say,
<£300,000 in gold to cover the issue, it certainly
looks as if it could have the other <£700,000 at
practically no interest, to spend on opening up
its lost provinces and making them habitable.
Then the proceeds of the experiment would go
to pay off the principal instead of being swal-
lowed up by interest. The country couldn’t, by
doing this, make the paper currency any less
secure than it is now, when it rests largely on
the lOU of various reconswindled banks. It
couldn’t owe the money any more than if it
borrowed it at interest from J. Bull. If any-
thing awful and unforeseen went wrong with
the new system it could always borrow the
money from Bull or somebody else in the old,
wretched, stereotyped way, and put matters
on the old footing. It is practically the same
device which N.S.W. has attempted on a smaller
scale with the Centennial Park and Martin-
place (Sydney) suspense-accounts, the difference
being that in one case the cash was borrowed
without interest out of the trust funds, while
in the other it would be borrowed without in-
terest out of the State paper-money redemption-
fund. The experiment looks worth trying,
anyhow.
Nice, Quiet Saturday Divorces.
During the hearing of the Carruthers-Nor-
ton (N.S.W.) libel case last week it was stated
in evidence that the plaintiff, who is Minister
for Lands in the present Cabinet, had been
divorced by the late Judge Windeyer on a
Saturday morning (when the Court does not
usually sit) under exceptional circumstances.
Said J. G. Leary, chief clerk in Divorce, in
reply to Norton :
“ Was the Divorce Court sitting at this time?”—“ No,
I don’t think it was.” “Who were present?”—“The
Judge, the tipstaff, and others.” “Was the Associate
present?”—■“ Ido not think so.” “Was there any clerk
of the court present ?”—“ I don’t think so.” “Who ad-
ministered the oath?” —“The tipstaff, named Byrne.”
“No reporters there?” —“No.” “Any notice given of
the case in the press ?”—“ No.” “ Any notice posted up
in the precincts of the court?” —“ Nofthat is not usual.”
“ Could the public have known that the case was on ?”
“No.” “How long did the case last? Under half-
an-hour.” “Did you see any report of the case in the
daily papers? “ No.” “ Would you say that the decree
was obtained in the same regular public manner as an
ordinary divorce ? “ No. The fact of the case being
taken on Saturday and not being reported makes it un-
usual.” To Mr. Garland : “The original application was
that the case should be heard on Tuesday morning. It
was witness’ suggestion that it should be taken on Satur-
day. It was not the practice now to publish cause lists.
Looking at the manner in which the divorce had been ob-
tained, and the absence of any notification in the press,
he would hardly say that anyone entitled to intervene
would have been in a position to do so.
And said Albert Byrne, tipstaff to the late
Judge Windeyer :
The case was not heard with closed doors, but it was
not conducted in the usual way—that is, the Judge’s
Associate and the press were absent, and there was no one
in the public seats. Witness had seen the late Mr.
Justice Windkyer’s notes on the case, and it was there
set down that the respondent admitted adultery. To
Mr. Norton : “ A law reporter was round on the Saturday
morning that the case was heard, and he asked witness if
anything was going on. Witness evaded the question.
He turned away quickly, as though someone were calling
him.”
Said Mr. Carruthers :
“ The case was heard in open court. The court was as
open as this is to-day, and no attempt was made by me,
or on my behalf, to have any concealment of the trial.”
Mr. Garland : “ Did you, or anyone on your behalf, apply
to have the case heard on Saturday morning ?” Witness :
“No.” “Was any' application made to have the case
tried in camera ? ” “No; I was informed that no such
application was made. I saw persons in the court while
the case was on, and saw the court door opened. Some
person looked in and went out again. A decree nisi was
granted for four months, and on this point I felt
aggrieved, for it was usual to make it for either two or
three months. The rule absolute was granted in open
court, and I saw paragraphs in the papers about that time
in which the matter was reported.
The Bulletin, of course, accepts Mr. Car-
ruthers’ word ; but it is nonsense to say that
the proceedings were not unusual, and the
natural inference from the unusual character of
the proceedings is that, either on account of the
position of the parties or for some other reason,
the Judge varied the ordinary course of justice
as he would not have varied it for John Smith,
laborer. And Mr. Carruthers’ case does not
stand alone in the list of nice, quiet Saturday
divorces—in which, with or without the know-
ledge of the chief parties, the late Judge
Windeyer colluded to suppress publicity and
make things as easy as possible. Without ex-
pressing any opinion on the merits of any par-
ticular case, The Bulletin affirms the prin-
ciple that the nice, quiet, Saturday divorce
is a very undesirable departure from the
ordinary course of public justice. Mr.
Leary’s declinature to affirm “ that anyone
entitled to intervene would be in a position to
do so ”is sufficient proof of this. For a great
and overwhelming advantage of publicity of
justice is that it helps to make better
justice. Justice awarded by a tribunal
which sits secretly, in deference to a priori
representations, is—even when the Judge
has the very best intentions—markedly liable
to be perverted. And to enforce this sufficient
consideration come a host of others depending
upon the commonplace that all men should be
held equal before the law ; and that it is wrong
and pernicious for any Judge to extend to par-
ties who come before him peculiar favors or
peculiar privileges on account of personal
friendship or social position, or for any similar
reason. The publicity of justice is the com-
munity’s best guarantee of pure justice ; and
The Bulletin hopes never again to hear that
fish has been set apart from flesh in N.S.W.
Divorce Court.
The Devil—Australia—the Deep Sea.
That is just where Australia is. If she cuts
the British connection probably very few
years would pass before Russia, or France, or
Germany, or all together—under some specious
pretext, or without any pretext —would want
to annex some unoccupied portion or portions
of her territory. Tilings in 1897 are very
different from things in 1776, and the Aus-
tralian Republic would have nothing like the
chance to grow unmolested to greatness that
the American Republic enjoyed. The earth
has grown very small since 1776, and the Powers
have grown very large, and very greedy
for territory, and have adopted many of
Britain’s very unpleasant w'ays of getting
it. And, within the last quarter-century,
the chances of a small people with a very desir-
able country being left in peace and quietness
have not improved. There is not only Russia
to reckon with—her fine, large, expansive policy
is unchanged—but France and Germany, and,
in a less degree, Italy, have learnt the histori-
cal lesson so well taught by Britain, that you
cannot build a large pyramid on a small base.
Colonial extension has come to be considered a
necessary of life for any Great Power that
would remain great; a very simple pro-
portion sum shows France and Germany,
for example, that if Britain, Russia, and
the United States continually increase in terri-
tory and population, while the other two prac-
tically stand still, in a few years they will be
left hopelessly in the ruck of second or third-
rate Powers, no matter how perfect their mili-
tary organisation. So France and Germany
have of necessity developed an itching palm for
trifles in the way of continents and islands, and
it is pretty clear that, without Britain at her
back, thinly - settled Australia would run
a very great risk of attack. On the
other hand, with Britain at her back,
Australia, in a sense, takes upon her
infantile shoulders the whole staggering bur-
den of that Empire upon which the sun,
etc. Britain’s enemies immediately become
her enemies ; and Britain is probably the best-
hated nation on earth, and is also probably the
nation with the greatest opportunities for fall-
ing-out with other nations, for she has grabbed
so much of the earth’s surface that another
nation can hardly put its foot down anywhere
without treading on British property and es-
tablishing a promising grievance to make war
about. And when Britain conflicts with the
U.S. in Venezuela, or with Germany in Africa,
or with Russia in Turkey, or with half-a-dozen
other States in half-a-thousand other places,
Australia is at once exposed to a very imminent
risk of seeing her commerce destroyed, and her
cities attacked, and her country laid waste, and
her population killed and wounded—all in Bri-
tain’squarrel. To separate from Britain would
make this country liable to attack. Not to
separate from Great Britain also makes it very
liable to attack. So there is the Devil—and there
is the Deep Sea—and there is Australia between
thetwo. And, by way of showinghow thoroughly
she realised what her position would be in case
of the British war which may break out at any
moment, Australia is split up into half-a-dozen
jealous provinces, with varying railway-gauges
and railway-systems ; and she pays a few' hun-
dred soldiers, and two or three thousand half-
trained militia, armed with obsolete or not-up-
to-date and without ammunition
enough to fight a single campaign ; and she
builds fortifications which an enemy could walk
round with the greatest ease. The Bulletin
wants Australians who realise that any day
they may.be compelled to fight for their exist-
ence to do their utmost to bring about (1) Fede-
ration ; (2) Compulsory Military Training for
Able-Bodied Males; (3) A uniform railway-
gauge so that her army can be quickly concen-
trated when necessary. And the governments
should have sense enough to start their own
arms and ammunition factories at once.
Sydney’s Art-Gallery Trustee and Society-of-
Artists President, Julian Ashton, has been
getting further tangled up in his tw'o capacities.
As trustee, it is part of his duty to say whether
the Art Gallery ought to buy the pictures of
the horrid other-fellows in the rival Art
Society ; and Julian now says that to this ex-
tent he won’t do his duty—he’ll see it varnished
first. Ashton is a very decent fellow, and a
very decent artist, and he’s done a great deal to
keep N.S.W. Art a-moverin’ along—all which
makes his obstinate exhibition of himself in a
false position the more pitiful. For it’s beyond
dispute that many artists w'ould now be as glad
to see him resign his trusteeship as they were
to see him take it—in the days when the famous
round-robin went about. That round-robin
was essentially a selfish document—the idea
was that a practising artist would buy prac-
tising artists’ pictures for the Gallery—and
now r that Ashton says he won’t help to buy any
more pictures by other fellows—let alone his
own—where, if you please, is the use of him?
Besides, his case is even w'orse than that, for some
artists seem to fancy he prevents the other trus-
tees from buying. Here is a current artistic duo-
logue resurrected show by show' with some detail-
alterations: “ Well, Palette, so the trustees
W'ouldn’t buy your ‘ Sea-Serpent of the
Pacific ’? ” “ No, Mahlstick, they wouldn’t.”
“ Well, you can’t say Ashton had a hand in it
this time, for he didn’t take part in deciding
any purchase.” “No”—venomously—“but
the walks round with the others ; and I
know he didn’t say a word, but when he passed
vtiy picture he shrugged his shoulders,
and that was enough.” Of course, this is non-
sense ; but the point is that the local-artistic
mind is prone to believe it isn’t nonsense by a
long tube. Why won’t Mr. Ashton take Scrip-
tural advifce, and “avoid all appearance oi
evil ? ”
S.S.: “In my opinion the Victorian elector has
come to the conclusion that theTußNEßGovern-
ment has about run its course, and the said
elector is casually looking forward, to the day
when that Government will die quietly and he
done with. This is a large conclusion, but I
seem to hit up against it everywhere ; it is ‘in
the air.’ The elector does not know why the
Turner Government will die ; it just occurs to
him that the death is inevitable, and that is
enough. He has no idea who will take Tur-
ner’s place ; he cannot think of anyone better,
if he thinks about the matter at all; and possi-
bly he is satisfied that the successor will be
ever so much worse ; but that is beside the
question— Turner has got to go. Some mys-
terious dispensation of Providence hasprovided
for that, and it is vain to fly in the face
of Providence, anyhow, even in protest
against D. Gillies. How these conclusions get
about, heaven only knows. This one has cer-
tainly not been propagated by the press. Pro-
bably they are epidemic. Governments have
been abolished before because electors woke
one fine morning with an impression that
the abolition was. fixed and inevitable, like
a solar eclipse, and that, in my opinion, is
the trouble with Turner and co. The elec-
tor does not want the Turner Govern-
ment abolished, but he does not protest,
because it seems to him that that would be a
vain and foolish proceeding, much the same as
if he were impelled to get up in public and
speak a few words on the advisability of post-
poning the next comet. Talk about free will—
‘ I don’t believe there ain’t no sicli thing.’ ”
Some recent paragraphs concerning the N.S. W.
Royal Commission’s report on mine accidents evi-
dently disturbed somebody, for, after being
quietly withheld for several weeks, the docu-
ment was suddenly produced in the Assembly.
After all, there was some reason for keeping it
in a pigeon-hole, though; for Judge Murray,
the Commissioner, after fully considering the
matter, concludes that two of the most impor-
tant regulations (those relating to the liability
of owners) and three-fourths of the general
rules for the conduct of mining operations, are
ultra vires on account of the insufficient
authority to frame regulations conveyed by the
Mining Act of’74. The Bulletin, basing its
opinion partly on higher Court rulings, urged
long ago that the regulation which made the
occurrence of an accident in a mine prima facie
evidence of the owner’s neglect or default was
simply a delusion and a snare to the workman,
and so the Royal Commission now reports.
Moreover, it reports in effect that, as there are
no general rules that are any good,
the owner can run his show as he likes, and
then tell the inspector to join the fallen angels.
When it was discovered that a bank or two was
rocky, Parliament lost no time in putting a Bill
through. Now that a Royal Commission has
discovered that pretty well all the mining regu-
lations which are supposed to protect the
32,000 men engaged in metal mining in N.S. W.
are worse even than rocky, Parliament will—
now, what will Parliament do?
4.
A number of Vic. municipalities are urging an
increase in tobacco duty as a means of raising
revenue for charity purposes, and there is not,
nor is there likely to be, a whisper against the
injustice of such an act. We have become ac-
customed to the stigma which inferentially or
otherwise attaches to the weed, and nine out of
ten people, albeit smokers themselves, will (ell
you that tobacco, being “ a luxury,” should
bearaheavy tax. Justso! But,then, tobaccoisn’t
a luxury. In the average home it is a necessity.
A tax upon tobacco is a tax upon almost every
household, and a heavy tax at that. But the
pipe-lover is a crushed and non-resistant animal.
He represents an overwhelming majority
amongst men, but he represents it stealthily—
he keeps an apology for his evil habit on tap.
He will stand the abuse of men who can’t
smoke, and of women who would if they could.
He makes no defence; he feels no anger nor
sorrow—simply doesn’t care a rap. At home,
he sits in the kitchen, and makes himself as
small as possible, and takes the abuse of a very
small woman in a chastened spirit, and spits
furtively into the fireplace or through the
cracks in the floor. He likes the cracks best.
He is a tame animal; but he has possibilities.
Possibilities ! He is numerous enough to make
smoking compulsory and part of the school
curriculum, if he were roused, and to abolish
the tobacco and cigar duty, and lay a heavy
tax on non-smokers, and to demand that the
smoker shall be subsidised out of the proceeds.
Dear Bulletin,— What is “the unimproved
value ” of land that so many people talk so much
about ? It has never been defined. A piece of
land has a value now, as it is. Thai I can
understand and define with some accuracy.
Now strip it of obvious improvements, and re-
duce it to a surface of earth without fences,
vegetation, or buildings. It has a second value
—but it is not the unimproved value, by a long
way. To get at that you must remote its arti-
ficial environment of roads, railways, bridges
—even if the nearest railway is 50 ifiiles away
it is an improvement to my particular piece of
land, for land within 50 miles of a railway is
of more value than land on a continent where
there are no railways at all; and the same logic
applies to reads and bridges. Also, you must
remove the artificial improvements of towns,
cities, ocean steamers, posts, telegraphs, and
you must shift the white man off this continent,
for the white man was an improvement which
made itself more or less felt on the value of
every yard of land in all the Seven Provinces.
Then you must grow the primeval bush and the
primeval ’possum again, and leave Australia in
absolute possession of the primeval nigger ; and,
having thus eliminated all improvements, you
get to the real unimproved value of land for the
first time. And it is nil. There is no such
thing as an unimproved value.— lonotus.


You can prove it yourself.
Wmm
mj ■%,
M# ; '\<Sbv
%
In Tan-
19s. 6d., 225. 6d., 255., 28s. Cd.
In Black-
-183. 6d., 225. 6d., 255., 28s. 6d.
We don’t ask you to take our
■word for it, that our men’s boots
are unmatchable at the price.
You can prove it for yourself.
Compare them quality for
quality, price for price —with
boots you find elsewhere, whether
tan or black, and you will
thereby find proof to favor ours.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS,
395 George-street,
Sydney.
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison’s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and now she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
purchases a “ Home ” Phonograph for A12 at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 162 Pitt-street, Sydney,
can make records of peoples’ voices ad Lib-, and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality.*
THIS is to Certify that,
since the issuance on January 9th,
1897, by the Insurance Superintend-
ent of New York State, of his official
Certificate accepting and endorsing
its 52nd Annual Report, the New
York Life Insurance Company has
filed said Report with the Insurance
Departments of
Eighty-two Separate and
. . . Distinct Governments
throughout the civilised world.
This Report has been scrutinised
and accepted as satisfactory by every
one of such Governmental Depart-
ments, and this Company is to-day
operating under the supervision and
with the sanction of a larger number
of the civilised Governments of the
world than any other life insurance
company.
RUFUS W. WEEKS,
Actuary.
New York, Nov. Ist, 1897.
THIS COMPANY requires the services of a
First-Class AGENT in the City and Suburbs.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager
New York Life Insurance Company,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
the number of babies that
are born and die in infancy,
the wonder is that more
portraits are not taken of
these children. Lifeisun-
certain, especially during
infancy
Our portraits are taken
with deliberate care and
judgment. We get good
likenesses, and the work
is positively guaranteed to
be PERMANENT.
Can we serve you ?
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits, with
Beautifully Finished Enlargement in Per-
manent Bromide or Opal.
Any style or pose. No extras
7/6
The IDEAL PORTRAIT CO.
480 George Street,
(ground floor, no stairs)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS 28
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood."
Lyceum “ Dick Whittington.”
Royal “ Jack the Giant-Killer 09
Criterion “Charley’s Aunt.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Combined Co.
Fitzgerald's Circus Redfern Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Manxman.”i
Royal “ Dick Whittington."
Bijou “ Robinson Crusoe.”
■ )pera House Rickards’ Variety Co. and The
Hegelmanns.
Alexandra “ A Gilded Sin."
Near Princes Bridge... Harmston's Circus.
At Sydney Lyceum, two freaks, in the
shape of a dancing bear and a soprano-voiced boy,
have been inserted into the cast since opening
night, and the gambols of the large, spotty-yellow
cat have been curtailed, to allow of more extra
turns by the rest of the co. The shining light of
the piece is Daisy Chard, as Bobolink, a grey-and-
pink striped sprite, whose stage-boyishness is tem-
porarily eclipsed in a nautical rig-out; she is gay
and cheeky, and the gallery shouts with joy when
she appears. Foley and Coughlan, as the two
Premiers —Reid and Turner, alias Hobson and
Jobson —are as melancholy as if they had wandered
out of an Ibsen drama. They are broken-spirited
beings ; the fact that they are dressed in the D.T.
and the Age respectively can’t hearten them up.
These two blighted politicians are bossed by a pic-
turesque gr-een-and-red demon, who rides in the
whirlwind and directs the storm generally. He has
a fine entry from among the canvas waves in the
wreck scene, in which the ship containing all the
principals is lost, and H. Shine, after yearning
loudly for a life-saving pig, walks ashore. Edith
Barrow, as one of the ship’s company, is good to •
look at, but inarticulate and pallid. The captain
of the Lively Polly is probably the tallest and
whitest mariner afloat. She’s over a fathom from
the top of her white cocked hat to the heel of her
white shoes. The bear calls for no special remark,
but when he wrestles with his dusky leader, the
sympathies of the audience are unanimously with
the native, hugged tightly in that vast, warm,
woolly grasp.
• • • •
The audience is largely juvenile, and this
family journal can conscientiously recommend the
Lyceum show as a great night out for children who
are not too particular. Fanny Liddiard sings two
or three fairly catchy ditties, but, like all the shows
now running, the piece is quite wanting in a popu-
lar song—a lay that is taken at once to the great
heart of the people and whistled on its lips. The
harlequinade, wedged in before the glittering
transformation scene, is as old-fashioned, and
sausagey, and red-hot-pokery as the most con-
servative child could wish. With a little more
Daisy and much less Hobson and Jobson, the
Lyceum panto, might have a useful career before
it; but there are things about it which are better
buried in oblivion.
* * * *
The “Babes in the Wood” prosper
greatly at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and the
methodical drunkenness of Uncle maintains a very
steady spirit level. Uncle hasn’t breathed one
sober breath since the date of last week’s notice;
in fact, he is about the most consistent rum-
breather on record. The “ Babes ’’can’t be said
to have shaken down after the first week as most
pantomimes do ; that magnificent spectacle is one
of the few pantomimes that never required
shaking. In fact, it was a perfectly-shook spec-
tacle from the first. The one fact about it which
keeps striking the public in the eye with the biff
of an election egg is the grievous waste of talent.
The spectacle of clever and pretty Lily Titheradge
with nothing to do except be a bushed offspring
and a lost infant in the timber looks like a reckless
throwing away of valuable girl. So far, nobody
has written that clever local song that the panto,
wants so badly, but perhaps when the lamentable
intoxication of Uncle Bert Gilbert begins to pall,
and the spectacle of that relative taking arms
against a sea of gin has lost some of its freshness,
the management intends to come in with a lyrical
effort that will wreck the Reid Government and
make Carruthers wish he had never been born. If
it produces both these effects all manner of people
will rise up and call it blessed—and then fall down
again, unless they have the luck to get a good hold
of the bar-counter first.
* * **
“ Charley’s Aunt ” will lead her troublous
existence in skirts at Sydney Criterion some little
time longer. The co., which was going very well
when last this brilliant journal felt called upon to
make some remarks about it, is now going still
better. The Stephen Spettigue of George Carey
is probably even an improvement on the last
Spettigue ; Carey is an artist who does many
things well, and never does anything very badly.
The girl element of the show has a lot to recom-
mend it; Misses Madge Corcoran, Florence Poole
and Manifield are a clever and very pretty trio,
though there is comparatively little for them to
do, and Elsie Carew is a fine artist at all times.
It is always a comforting thing to meet with a
co. which has no visible tail to it even among the
humblest characters, and if there is a tail to
Thornton’s co., that able manager has evidently
wrapped something round it and put it carefully
away out of sight where it can’t be trodden upon.
* * * *
“ Jack the Giant-killer ” is doing its best
to live up to its pretentions as the most pictorially
glittersome pantomime of the year, and it meets
with reasonable success so far. Addie Conyers,
having recovered from the injury to her small,
snow-white foot, now personally mangles the
giant, and though Miss Haytor, during the prin-
cipal’s absence, conducted a very capable campaign
against that large, meaty monster, still everybody
is pleased to see Miss Conyers back again. The
show has been compressed a little, so that people
living in marine suburbs don’t have to swim for
home as they did on the opening nights, and
what was taken off the intervals seems to have
been added on to the giant—at least he looks
like it.
* * « *
Harry Rickards has thrown himself per-
sonally into the gap at the Tivoli, where his wild,
sad song “ Never let yer Donah go upon the
Styge ” makes the gallery shed tears of sentiment
mingled with tobacco every night, and surreptiti-
ously wipe its eye with its coat-tail. The per-
sonal popularity of Rickards is a truly overwhelm-
ing circumstance. Probably no one ever mistook
him for a nightingale, nor did he ever make the
laurels of Sims Reeves totter on his brow, yet
when ’Arry lifts up his voice to explain why your
donah should be kept as far away from the styge
as possible the joy of a Tivoli audience is un-
speakable. Perhaps the reason why this paper
fails to understand it is that it is a cold, unemo-
tional rag which doesn’t care whether its own
donah goes on the stage, or the top of the Post-
office tower, or any other public elevation.
* * * *
The remarks which were made last week
about Fitzgeralds’ circus may be considered as
still in force. Nothing has happened within the
past seven days to impair this paper’s good opinion
of that meritorious show. Mademoiselle le Blonde
and La Belle Rose and the Alma Sisters—the
ladies who earn their humble but honest crust on
the precarious high wire—and the rest, have done
nothing in the interval to cause this journal to
withdraw its moral support from them, and it
especially desires the elephant and the lion to
understand that its views continue favorable. The
exceedingly trim appearance of the back part of
the latter animal, by the way, gives rise to an im-
pression that he is shaved. Unreliable legend has
it that he was put under an anaesthetic and was
barbered and had his tail shampooed, and, when
he revived and discovered the outrage, he was so
crushed that he has been a perfectly harmless
beast ever since. Anyhow, this is mere specula-
tion.
* * * *
“ Claudian,” atMelb. Princess’s, has been
a beautiful object-lesson in summer clothing these
hot nights, nevertheless the wandering Roman
didn’t make much headway against the ther-
mometer. “Claudian” finishes on Friday (7th).
If the weather will permit Holy Clement’s sultry
curse to make itself felt, the last appearances of
that vengeful ecclesiastic should be liberally pat-
ronised. On Saturday the Wilson Barrett co.
will show what it can do with “ The Manx-
man,” an adaptation of Hall Caine’s novel (by
W.B. aforesaid), which, on the authority of critic
Archer, is a better drama than “The Silver
King.” Also the man who wrote the story affirms
that Wilson Barrett fulfils his ideal of the hero.
* * * *
“Robinson Crusoe,” at the Bijou, is a
small and active entertainment that owes a
good deal to the chief toilers. Two or three
ordinary pantomime dazzles dropped at ran-
dom upon the arid desert of dialogue might
have saved the Bijou spec, from any risk of
failure. Willie and Amy Gourlay are bright,
nimble artists, Miss Lucy Fraser is a broth of a
principal bhoy, and The Bulletin’s old friends,
Martyn Hagan and John Forde, are learned in
the art of cheerful fooling under difficulties.
“ Robinson Crusoe ” is played for all it is worth,
and Melbourne, at time of writing, seems disposed
to regard the matter with a kindly eye.
* * * *
“Dick Whittington” was pruned and
pulled together last week, and the business out-
look for the Royal pantomime is promising. It
isn't a specially gorgeous production of “ Whit-
tington,” but there are many dozens of men,
women, and children employed in pushing the
ancient fiction along, and Some of the girls who
do duty for angels in John Hennings’s transforma-
tion scene are as much like heavenly bodies as
anybody could fairly expect. Moreover, the
transformation scene, apart from plump female
accessories, is a gaudy success of its kind,
now that the machinery has been greased
and the Realms of Bliss are in proper working
order. Maggie Moore and Harry Roberts,
assisted by Miss Laura Roberts, perpetrate the
most part of the Royal panto., and fire off some
local allusions with considerable energy. They
don’t sing catchy songs —there are no smart new
songs on the market just at present—neither do
they dance divinely, but they bring an air of
briskness into the proceedings, anyhow. A clever
clog-dancing turn is supplied by the two Mintons,
and the show terminates at 11 p.m. Matinees of
“Dick Whittington” on Wednesday and Satur-
day until further notice.
** * *
Of the Three Hegelmanns, at Melb. Opera
House, this family journal is now ready to take
oath that they are the Greatest Gymnasts who
have staggered the Southern Hemisphere thus far.
If they have any superiors elsewhere, the end of
all things is probably due. The Hegelmanns
(made in Germany, the home of modern gym-
nastics) perform on and from horizontal bars a
series of aerial feats more marvellous than the
deeds ordinarily accomplished from a flying
trapeze. The apparent ease with which one
Hegelmann hurls himself through space and grips
the hands of a Hegelmann who hangs head-down-
wards from the furthermost bar is a matter for
the audience’s calm reflection after it has left the
theatre. At the same time, it may as well try to
comprehend how it is possible for a gymnast to
loose his hold of the hands he was hanging to,
twirl himself three times around in mid air, and
then resume his former hold without having
dropped into the net meanwhile. The Hegelmanns
are great, beyond all question, but it seems im-
possible to work an act of this kind to the best
effect in a theatre.
** * *
Dan Barry’s four-act shocker, “A Gilded
Sin,” is filling a large portion of the Alexandra
with holiday attendances. Nobody can quite fill
the Alexandra nowadays, and manager Barry
seems to be the one and only person who can put
its vacant spaces in a distinct minority. “ A
Gilded Sin ” is an awful literary outrage, intro-
ducing to notice a reverend vicar whose wife fled
from him long ago on account of his sermons.
When they meet again the lady is driving across
the stage in a pony-chaise, and the mud from her
chariot-wheels splashes the old man’s white
choker, nevertheless the canker-worm of re-
morse is gnawing at her heart, and she
presently makes arrangements (in a large hat
with bold, unremorseful trimmings) to save her
forgotten daughter from a life of shame. As an
illustration of how female virtue gets undermined
by moral precepts in vicarages, “A Gilded Sin”
is somewhat disquieting to the orthodox mind.
** * *
Harmston's Circus continues to brave the
elements in the neighborhood of Prince’s Bridge,
and a few occasional shows in the city have seized
Xmas by the forelock.
At Poverty Point.
Melb. : “ A Maorilander informs me that the worthy
and ample Mr. Love, of Harmston's circus, began life in
the Dunedin theatre, selling oranges, like Nell Gwynne.
He has been telling an interviewer of circus shifts.
For instance, going' over from Australia to Java, in an
eighty-ton schooner, the horse-feed ran out, and for eleven
days the steeds had to be maintained on chopped old
bamboo straw, taken out of chairs and other furniture,
and soaked in jam. I remember Barlow losing his whole
troupe of ponies, dogs and monkeys, in an Oriental ship-
wreck, but in a few months he had another.”
Terriss, the lately-murdered actor, in early life played
in farces with G. S. Titheradge. He died a wealthy man;
his salary for years being £BO a week. As a speculator he
was highly successful, his best deals being in London
hotel property. One of his investments was the Market
House Hotel, Covent Garden, London, a house which
never closes its doors.
N. : “The important secessions from the Salvation
Army in Australia are through Mr. Herbert Booth’s
Hebraic divagations into the realm of money-making com-
monsense. He is a splendid showman. On Christmas
Sunday afternoon he opened his monster tabernacle circus
tent in Studley Park. Alongside was a big holy restau-
rant, doing a prodigious striotly-cash business, especially
in drinks, on a salamander day; also a large traffic in
sixpenny hymn-books, which were as indispensable as
the food and drink. Then came Sunday night, with a
combination of exciting illuminated circuses, firefly
weather, the romantic Yarra purling by, the hilly forest
at hand, splendid brass-band playing, frenzied franticisms
immediately opposite the Lunatic Asylum, the brakes
fluttering with muslin, gingerbeer-eorks popping, cash
tinkling in the tills. I understand the financial results
were simply splendid.”
Colonel Hicks, of Harmston’s circus, the old gentle-
man who looks like an American Jew and talks through
his nose by reason of both races, is now on his third visit
to Australia. He came here first in charge of the Georgia
Minstrels, those black-and-tan melodists, or shaved ele-
phant-skin gentry, who so mashed the women of Hobart
and various other places. His second visit was with
the party of whom Pope and Sayles are industrious
remnants.
Melb. : “ Our pubs, are broad, stark, staring open all
Christmas Day and Good Friday, to which the world of
Goshen does not object, though it keeps the theatres
rigidly closed on both these days. Allow me to suggest
that the Pantomime might be given on Christmas night,
without substantial offence to anyone.”
Paper Cap. : “ About the times Whittington has been
done, as Christmas Panto., in Melbourne. The first was
at the Royal, in 1857, when Fanny Morgan, afterwards
known as Mrs. F. M. Phelps, made such a hit as Dick,
and Harwood made his panto, debut, also the Leopolds.
About sixteen years ago “ Whittington” was the Christ-
inas piece at two Melb. theatres, the Royal and Princess.
George Smithson took Dick at the Royal, and Annie Tay-
lor at the Princess’s under Fred Marshall’s management.
Then there was the Royal production again with Miss
Billee Barlow. Nor does this, I think, exhaust the num-
ber of times Whittington has been given at the Royal.
Robinson Orusoe, the Bijou subject this Christmas, has
been once before driven at that theatre, once at the Opera
House, and twice at the Royal, Harwood taking Robinson
the first time, and Miss Johns the second.”
The friends of Miss Marie Boucicault, who has been
going to distinguish herself anytime during the past seven
years, state that she will “add another to the long list of
Australian successes ” this year. She would, it seems,
“ have come before' the London public last season as a
singer but for her indifferent health.” Miss Boucicault
may be all that her friends protest, but we seldom or never
hear of a great singer suffering from bad health. , A
strong constitution is essential to vocal triumphs.
Composer Lecocq wrote very little music for Nellie
Stewart’s part in “The Scarlet Feather,” and her inter-
polated numbers by Lionel Monckton were not received
with much genuine enthusiasm. Nellie'seems to leave
her luck behind her when she crosses the sea. Given an
effective character and plenty of charming music, she
would hardly have failed in London. ,
Miss Maud Jeffries is'strikingly like Mary Anderson.
George Ridgway, of Melb'. Royal pantomime, caine here
over 30 years ago as star, of the Len.ton troupe, intro-
ducing the first performance of the flying trapeze.
Barry Sullivan audaciously'got together a party of half a-
dozen Melb. fellow's, named them the Leotard troupe, and
they did all the feats of the Lentons. No nets were used.
The double trapeze and ladder in the air were done right
up by the roof of the theatre. The Lentons and Ridgway
were at the Melb. Haymarket. Horatio Nelson, of this
troupe, made himself suddenly famous 1 by falling into the
stalls one night. He escaped unhurt, and so did the man
he fell upon—which latter is an unusual circumstance.
The Elder Conservatorium of Music (in connection with
Adelaide University), which is under the supervision of
Professor Ives, has secured- Herr Heinicke as teacher of
the violin and conductor of the orchestra. Another Herr
will dominate the pianoforte, and some more Herr is to
teach the ’cello, violin and piano.
A Melbourne weekly made a bad mistake in stating
that an infant son of tenor Newbury had inet with
a serious accident. Mr. and Mrs. Newbury are childless.
The display of mummeric grief at Terriss’s funeral was
doubtless ridiculous enough. Consider the size of the
opportunity. A really popular and good-looking actor
cut down in his “ prime,” as the purfeshun would call it,
by an assassin’s dagger at the very door of his gaudy
workshop. An artist done to death on the threshold of
his—er—studio. One can picture the fraternity posing in
attitudes of heroic resignation, particularly a group of
melodrama principals, overcoated, fur-collared, and silk-
mufflered, seeming to be saying to themselves, “ To such
a fate all such as us may come, but no mattah, we must
play on and feah not! ”
Melbourne pantomine references to poor old Graham
Berry’s pension are in the worst of taste, although
evidently intended to be sympathetic. Tub- Bulletin
warns tlie aged politician against going to hear himself
mentioned as a man “ on his uppers ” who neglected to
make provision against a rainy day.
Of a skeleton cable message received by the Melbourne
dailies one day last week, the Age made an item to the
effect that Miss Dudley had made a successful appearance
in “Cinderella” in a London theatre, while the Argus
reading was to the effect that Mr. Dudley’s new play,
“ Cinderella,” had been immensely successful in London.
All famous Australians are made in London.
Godfrey’s song, “Their heads nestled closer together,”
probably died with poor Andy Blanchard, who collapsed
whilst singing it. The management of one of the Xmas
pantomimes wanted the bushed infants to sing it before
thev proceeded to die, but they emphatically refused,
saying they would sooner throw up their engagements.
One country person in town during the holidays
created some excitement in the stalls of a.Sydney theatre,
when the lights were turned down, by striking matches
during the performance to look at his programme, and
dropping them about the floor without putting them out.
After nearly every lady in his vicinity had been nearly
set alight the usher threatened to put the bushy out,
but refrained when the uncouth monster arose and offered
to fight him for the takings.
Calcutta Statesman remarks, in a patronising tone, of
the Brough company’s first appearance in “ Sowing the
Wind : ” —“ How a colonial company would treat so
difficult a play was an anxious question. The Brough
combination come with a sterling reputation from a land
where the critical faculty has, however, but little chance
of guidance from any ideal but its own, and a painful
crudity would have been more a disappointment than a
surprise. The crudity, however, was not there. The
company which left London, close upon the success of the
play, to tour in the English provinces did nothing better
than the Broughs and did some things infinitely worse.”
The unsophisticated critics of this demd barbarous land
ought to feel very grateful to the Calcutta johnnie for
assuring them that the Brough combination in India is
equal to an English co. touring the pwovinces—the more
especially as the co. now in India isn’t quite as strong as
the original B. and B. co., which earned the “sterling
reputation” aforesaid. Brough plays Titheradge’s old
part, MTntyre is promoted to the important character of
Watkins, little Wilfred Shine is Dick Cursitor, and Plim-
mer takes Cecil Ward’s place. They all give complete
satisfaction to the Statesman censor, howevah. He finds
only the small defect that there is “ very little regard for
the period ” about the acting, except in the “ specially
noteworthy performance of Mr. M. Majeroni as Lord
Petvvorth —a figure always within the period, and an
admirable character study.”
Melba, who has now definitely promised to visit Aus-
tralia, has secured Douglas Powell, who was out here
before, as her baritone.
Melb. : “ The Captive Balloon, at the Exhibition, takes
people up 1200 feet. Hitherto the highest Melbourne
point attainable was the Exhibition dome, about 150
feet.”
Rudyard Kipling has given Olga Nethersole the right to
dramatise his “ Light that Failed.”
(Continued on page 2b)■


THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
STOCK
ONLY
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
A us. |
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Aus. )
Kbps. \
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic & other Sodas,
Borax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash, Nitro Benzine!
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald, 11
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Mblboubkk; U Currie-st., Adklaidb.
LAY TO YOUB BOOK.
Our Book is Ooachbuilding!
DO YOU WANT A SULKY?
There is nothing like a
SIMPSON
. . or a . .
BUCKBOARP
Simpson’s “ EASY ” is the Latest—
—the Newest
—the Best
For anything, or part of anything on wheels,
write
SIMPSON, CoACUBL'ILDKR,
73 King-street, Newtown.
Cash Only.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
jh e Australian Star remarks that Premier
lteid’s financial fakes and dodges encf with the annexation
of the £198,000 or so at the credit of the Education trust
v? I ], The Bulletin respectfully bets that they don’t — if
Keid remains in office. The next thing to be done is
obviously to point out that there are never any claims on
heal Property Assurance Fund, and to pass an
Act that the said fund (£156,000) be put into revenue, and
that, if any claims should arise, they be paid out of
revenue. This would mean that Reid would have the
n « 0 * l 's successors would have the claims —or most
of them. After that, there is £450,000 waiting to be
annexed out of the Superannuation Fund. The plain and
logical course in that case is to point out that the fund is
utterly and hopelessly insolvent—it is admitted that, in-
stead of £450,000, it should amount to nearly £3,000,000 to
meet the liabilities reasonably expected—and that, unless
something is done, the just claims of many pensioners
will have to be repudiated, and the State will be a
defaulter. And, as default would be obviously dis-
graceful and immoral and utterly impossible, the way
out is for the Treasury to come to the rescue, and assume
all the future obligations of the fund, and, as there would
tuen be no need for a separate fund, the simplest process
sfould be to put the miserable £450,000 into the Treasury.
Then Reid would have that also, and his successors would
have to pay the pensions. Seeing that Premier Reid has
made a beginning by annexing one trust fund, there is
no earthly reason why he should stop there. The Real
Property Assurance balance and the Superannuation
money (over £600,000 in all) are waiting to be grabbed by
any Treasurer who can get his majority to pass the neces-
sary bill.
* * * m '
The N.S. W. revenue for December, 1897
is £21,895 better than the figure for December,
1896. Even with this, however, the Cornstalk national in-
come for the first half of the financial year (July-Decem-
ber, 1897) is £201,327 less than that for the corresponding
half of 1896, and the latter was £228,074 less than the in-
come for the corresponding half of 1895. And considering
that the estimates are based on the assumption that the
present financial year’s revenue will be £40,000 more than
last year’s, it follows that the first half of 1893 needs to
yield £241,000 more revenue than the first half of ’97 to
realise Treasurer Reid’s expections. Even if they are
realised the revenue will still be absurdly inadequate.
New South Wales needs to raise at least a million
more, probably a million and a-half more, revenue annu-
ally to keep honest. It gets through now on less revenue
than it did by charging nearly a million per annum of its
ordinary expenditure to loans ; the soul-blasting virtue of
economy, as practised in N.S.W., only consists in doing
with as little revenue as possible, and paying as little out
of revenue as possible, and charging the balance to loans.
Some day the boss economical Treasurer will appear in the
man who can do with £5,000,000 a year revenue, and
borrow the other £5,000,000 a year from J. Bull.
* * * *
For the half-year N.S.W.’s expenditure was
£4,843,120, and the deficit so far is £430,801. At the end
of November the shortage was only £211,343, but the ex-
penditure bolted during December and before Treasurer
Reid could pull it up some serious breakages happened.
* * * *
Victorian revenue for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1897, was £3,374,252, which‘is an increase of
£149,931 as compared with the half-year ended 31st De-
cember, 1896. A month ago the revenue had only im-
proved by £10,780, but the judicious deaths of sundry
rich residents brought in a lot of probate-duty in Decem-
ber. Treasurer Turner estimated that the revenue for
the present financial year would be £173,583 more than
last year’s cash, and, with half the year gone and nearly
£150,000 improvement already realised, his expectations
ought to come out all right, unless a severe blight sets in.
* * * -
Premier Turner, when in London, made a new
arrangement whereby the payment to the L. and W.
Bank for managing the Vic. public debt is reduced by
£5866 a year. Premier Reid does his corresponding finan-
cial stroke by seizing upon the old Church Education
Endowment Fund of £195,000 or so ; £5866 a year is just
about equal to £195,000 in a lump. The two transactions
only go to show the difference between the man of hard
economy and the man of brilliant fake.
* * * *
S. A. revenue for the quarter ended 30th Decem-
ber, 1897 (£608,329), is £3966 ahead of that for the last
quarter of 1896. Probate-duties show an increase of
£9075, so here also the judicious death of the wealthy
citizen has done a lot of good. And the decease of brewer
Simms, who left a pile of money behind him, may enable
Holden to pull through without a particularly awful
deficit.
* * » *
I® It is stated that at 30th June last, the Victorian
State Land Bank had not one single penny, either of prin-
cipal or interest, in arrear. The S. M. Herald, which
lately suggested that the £720 (or only 6| per cent.) of
arrears owing to the S.A. State Land Bank probably
showed that State banking was a failure, should make
some indignant comments about the above.
» » * a
Last year these provinces (not reckoning Maori-
land) raised £6,660,000 in loans (£5,100,000 in England and
£1,560,000 locally), and the S.M. Herald alludes to this
great roaring burst as “ borrowing on a small scale.” Wes-
tralia borrowed £2,600,000 (including half-a-million in
Treasury bills); Queensland, £1,500,000; New South
Wales, £1,440,000 ; South Australia, £1,000,000 ; and Vic-
toria (for the redemption of previous loans only), £120,000.
* * * m
The balance-sheet of the English, Scottish and
Australian Bank (casually alluded to in issue of 27th
November) is now to hand. In one respect it is the most
complete document published by any reconstructed bank,
inasmuch as it gives a full statement of the interest pay-
able on its reconstructed deposits. A comparison of the
amount paid each year with the profit or loss is in-
teresting :
Deposit Interest.
1894 .. £154,177 Profit .. £10,154
1895 .. 168,687 Loss .. 6,279
1896 .. 164,389 ~ .. 24 576
1897 .. 119,665 Profit .. 10,870
The 1896 loss was really £3373 more, but that item con-
sisted of reconstruction expenses, and was not a loss made
in the ordinary course of business. The figures show that
the ordinary banking business has got continuously
worse. In 1895 the interest outlay was £14,500 more than
in ’94, and the profits went £16,400 to the bad, which
means a net decline of £l9OO. In ’96 the interest outlay
was £4300 less than ’95, and the loss was £18,300 more—a
slump, of £22,600. In ’97 the outgoings for interest
decreased £44,700, but the profits only improved by
£35,500, a further slump of £9200. This is a pretty bad
record, for, if the E.S. and A. has another year like the
last, it will again be left, despite its two reconstructions,
with very nearly no profit at all. If things were as well
now as they were in ’94, the profit would be £44,000
instead of under £ll,OOO.
During the past year the E.S. and A. has paid
off £461,000 of its reconstructed deposits, and if it can go
on at this rate it will possibly manage to keep ahead of
the slump in business profits and come out all right in the
end. So far as can be seen it is a reasonably sound insti-
tution. But, seeing that its old deposits now cost barely
£3 11s. per cent, the profits look miserably small. The
capital is being written down to £539,437, and the profits
only amount to £2 and a few coppers per cent, per annum
on this much written-down figure. Two per cent, and a
few coppers looks a very small profit for a concern which
has written its values down to bedrock. As a small side-
issue, the accumulated loss (£34,228) was carried, in 1896,
to Contingent Fund, but neither before then or since did
any Contingent Fund appear in the balance-sheet to the
writer’s knowledge. Therefore, the place where that loss
was carried to looks somewhat akin to the unfindable
grave of Moses.
* * • *
The fearfully and wonderfully re-constructed N.
Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. for the year ended 30th
June, 1897, shows a loss of £2216. The previous balance-
sheet showed a loss of £5670, and the one before that a
loss of £28,393, so there is over £36,000 of accumulated
shortage to make up. It is now over three years since
this concern did its firstgigantic reconstruction, and largely
reduced the outlay for debenture interest, and some
months since it did . its second big reconstruction and
made another large saving, yet it doesn’t seem even yet
to be round the corner. This year it is reckoned will
show a profit; the interest payable to debenture-holders
will then be only £120,450, against £132,992 last year, and
the saving of £12,542 should turn the present loss into a
profit of £10,300. So it undoubtedly will if the gross
income remains the same and no more losses turn up, but
the income for the year just ended was £23,000 less than
that for 1895, and there is no guarantee that it won’t keep
on declining; and though the present fall is set
down to drought and low prices, 1895 was also a year of
drought and low prices. And even if things get no worse
£10,300 annual profit isn’t much. The paid-up
capital was £1,168,000 at June, 1896, but the
awful writing-down process to provide for more losses
has since reduced it to £135,798. And the one
incurable trouble is that the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile is
now working on £135,798 of its own capital (or, rather,
about £99,000, for over a quarter of the nominal capital
is lost), and £3,311,272 borrowed on debentures, whereon
the interest has to be paid alike in good seasons and bad —
which is a fearfully top-heavy arrangement. Still, if the
institution could see its way, when things improve, to set
aside £lOOO a year or so towards wiping off this liability,
it might, at compound interest, get entirely free of it in
about 10 centuries, and then have a prosperous and plea-
sant future before it. It only requires about £6790 a year
to pay a 5 per cent, dividend on the much-diminished
capital, and, if the N.Z. L. and M. A. is ever going to get
round the corner (supposing there is any corner), it should
be able to pay that, and have something over towards a
much-needed reserve. But, on present appearances, it
needs to keep the div. hard down to the 5 per cent, limit
for the next half-century.
* * * *
Something phenomenal in the way of wretched-
ness is the report of the Victorian Farmers’ Loan and
Agency Co., a large land-owning concern of the mallee
district. This institution has been in a bad v/a,y for a long
time, but the directors seem at last to have made a clean
breast of things, or something like it. After writing-down
the value of their properties in the land of Godforgotten
to what they think is about present value, it appears that
the paid-up capital is £86,339, and the accumulated losses
are £177,174, which, on the face of things, seems to imply
that the concern is insolvent to the extent of £90,000
unless it can collect something very large in the way of
calls. But as it appears to have only got in about £llOO
during the past year, and over £51,000 of calls are
in arrear, the prospect looks very blank. It con-
fesses to a bank overdraft of £201,134 (£12,000 more
than it was two years ago) against which it puts down
its live assets at £113,000, consequently the present writer
wouldn’t like to be that bank. (The balance-sheet states,
by the way, that the co.’s bankers are the Commercial of
Australia, which isn’t a very good advt. for the Commer-
cial.) Until this year the Vic. Farmers’ and Agency
reckoned the goodwill of its awful business as an asset
worth £25,000, but the item now disappears; the co.
apparently hadn’t the gall to keep on pretending to itself
any longer that anybody could possibly give £25,000, or
even Jd. for such a business. The usual auditor certifies
that, now that goodwill and various other ruins—over
£lOO,OOO in all —have been written off, the sheet gives “ a
correct view of the company’s affairs.” And last year,
when all these losses still appeared as assets, The Bulle-
tin presumes that some auditor or other certified just as
cheerfully that that was also “ a correct view of the com-
pany’s affairs.” The Bulletin never yet met with a
balance-sheet that the average auditor wouldn’t cheer-
fully put his certificate to.
* * * *
Explanation by a policy-holder in the Maori-
land Government Life Insurance Office, who wanted to be
transferred from the abstinence to the ordinary branch :
“ I beg to say that my discontinuing abstinence from in-
toxicating stimulants is solely due to the fact that I have
given up the practice of abstaining.”
* * * *
Twelve months ago there were 5300 men and
youths employed at the Broken Hill mines. Before the
fire at Block 12, the number had risen to 6400. Imme-
diately after the fire, when it became necessary to run
down the furnaces, 4800 men were at work ; but, by the
end of the year, the number had increased again to 5600.
At the same mines, when production was highest,
there were under 4900 employes, and, a little later, only
4100. The change from carbonate and kaolin to sulphides
has demanded the outlay of more labor in production.
Seeing, however, that almost exactly half of the aggre-
gate of B.H. divs. goes direct to Europe, while wages remain
m Australia, the change is not one to be grieved over.
• « * «
It’s amusing to compare the official reports of
the tin-pot concerns of Tinned Dog Gully and those of the
big Broken Hill Proprietary, with its hundreds of differ-
ent workings. The Proprietary people don’t worry about
reports. For instance, two weekly statements were printed
together on Dec. 22—one for Dec. 8 and the other for
Dec. 15. The former ran into just four lines, and told a
breathless public that something had been driven 28ft.,
and something else 13ft.—no more. The latter was even
more exhilarating : “ Started north drive, Brodribb’s No.
3, from No. 1 east crosscut, and extended 16ft. to connec-
tion with rise from No. 4 level.” Of course, these ordinary
reports are a farce ; ditto the output returns. Only the
divs. and half-yearly accounts speak articulately.
* * * «
The Silver Hill Junction tributor is to pay the
co. “10 per cent, net cash on all ore produced.” The
term is only six months. Directors announce to share-
holders that “ the ore has not turned out quite as well as
was expected, 8 tons of crudes yielding only 1 ton of con-
centrates”—which, of course, means little or nothing
until you know what the concentrates assayed, and what
went away in the tailings and slimes. But a little thing
of that kind is neither here nor there in connection with
these doomed Junction pups.
* * * *
B.H. Junction looks up—and time, too ; for
efforts in the creep ground have given dismal results.
There has been a new development of importance in
Blowne’s Southern stopes, and the new mill is readv.
* * * *
Once more the Yuba is heard from. The co.
now wants some prospecting-vote from the N.S.W. Govt.
“ A small winding-plant has been hired” ; also, “a smali
experimental crusher ” has been got, and the stuff will be
hand-jigged “ to thoroughly test the value of the ore as a
marketable commodity before deciding on a suitable con-
centrating-plant for turning out a large quantity of
marketable ore.” The getting of the “large quantity of
marketable ore ” will, of course, be a mere incident.
* * » «
Block 10 was the only Barrier silver stock which
closed ’97 at a higher price than it opened, and that was
a rise of Is. only—from 70s. to 71s. Biggest slumps—
Junction, from 665. to 325. ; Junction North, 295. 6d. to
235. ; B.H. Prop. 495. 6d. to 40s. 6d.
mmmm
The weekly capacity of the concentrating mills
constructed or under construction at Broken Hill is
28,000 tons. At present about 17,000 tons of ore are
milled weekly. A small quantity of Block 14, British,
and Broken Hill Proprietary ore is smelted without the
preliminary concentration.
‘*« * *
Broken Hill’s rainfall-1895, 7TBin. ; 1896,
6'soin. ; 1897, s’36in. ; total for three years, 19'04in. And
as this was spread over 136 days, not a third of it was
what might be called beneficial.
* » * *
In face of the fact that no divs., and nothing
but baby crushings, ever come out of Wattle Flat (N.S.W.)
the amount of mining news from that camp is becoming
unendurable. Everything, no matter how bad, is “satis-
factory ” or “ looking well.” One man is going to crush for
Bs. a ton, and this means a boom for the field ; another is
going to resume work in his mine after the holidays, and
the shareholders of a co. are to have a meeting soon—“ to
decide on a site for the plant.” This is mining news !
♦ * * *
From London we learn that, though zinc of the
highest quality was produced in the first four months’ run
of the Ashcroft electrolytic process at Cockle Creek,
N.S.W., the results were commercially unprofitable. Ash-
croft attributed this to defects in the plant, which was
closed down till the necessary alterations were made.
Another start has been made under Ashcroft’s direct
supervision, but it is understood that the electrolytic
works may possibly close down, and operations at Cockle
Creek be confined to smelting concentrates produced at
the Central Broken Hill mine.
» * * *
Big things were said and big results foretold by
the chairman of the Anglo-Australian Exploration in London
last month. All the representations concerning the Gibral-
tar—-the first off-shoot—had been realised; the mine was im-
proving with depth, and the developments to-day entitled
it to be considered one of the biggest things in N.S.W.
They were now fully assured of the ultimate success of
the Gallymont—the second off-shoot —the ore assaying
from 2oz. to 3oz. to the ton. Some £12,000 had been spent
in opening-up the Bimbimbi area in the southern district
of N.S.W., and their consulting-engineer (Eissler) reported
that a tunnel had proved the lode for 400 ft., and shafts,
sunk on its strike, proved its existence 1400 ft. in length.
In this development, he estimates 40,0000 z. of gold to
be in sight, with a permanent reef going down under foot.
Also mentioned that the Gibraltar would be on the div.-
list shortly.
* » » •
Mining as it is done at Trunkey—N.S.W., of
course : “ A check crushing from the Rob Roy reef proved
satisfactory. The crashing was onl,» a small one, and the
result is not known.” How very satisfactory!
'* • * •
Victory Forest Reefs, N.S.W. : “The manager
promises that the next crushing will consist of dirt from
all the faces.” Also : “Whenever time will permit, intend
putting down canvas tables to catch the fine and coated
gold which otherwise would be lost.” If there is virtue in
canvas tables, why not put them down at once ? Good as
they are in places, they- are not a universal solvent, but an
experiment might be made with a little one at the cost of
£l.
* * • •
Miners and others throughout Australasia are
reading and listening to the great lies told of Klondyke,
and the probable result will be a big rush next year. The
world has been worked up for a Klondyke boom, and
Klondyke is just the remote, unapproachable, God-for-
gotten place which people always take for granted. Hun-
dreds of thousands will start for the frozen fields, and in
all probability some thousands will go from Australia.
The sort of boom that is coming is indicated by the
“floats” already offering in America. A fair sample :
“The Jas. Ladue Gold Mining and Developing C 0.,”
capital, 5,000,000 dollars, of which the promoters, some of
the biggest non-mining men of the U.S., take 1,500,000
dollars cash, a heap of stock, and leave 1,000,000 dollars
working capital. The Engineering and Mining Journal
of New York jumps on it in deadly earnest. It wants to
know if any of the big guns acting as directors, who grab
vast sums out of the affair, yet disclaim all responsibility
on the ground that they know nothing of mining, would
put up money themselves on any scheme whose promoters
refused to be responsible for anything. It also declares
that from information supplied by reliable mining men
who have examined the field the boom is largely unwar-
ranted. But the boom will boom all the same. It is
much easier to stop a rising tide than a mining-boom
when humanity is bent on having one.
* * * *
The Rosebery co.—it ought to be King Black
Jack—West Coast, Tasmania, is trying to come to some
arrangement with the Colebrook mine re using the ore of
the latter show as a flux. It is confidently stated that the
Mount Lyell co. has offered to smelt the Colebrook ore
free of any charge if delivered at the big mine. Nothing
like making early arrangements re fluxes. They are not
over-plentiful near the West Coast mines.
* * * *
Tasmanian item : “ The Tasmania mine
crushed 2435 tons for 8501 oz. amalgam. Work has been
retarded owing to a rise of water in the mine.” That has
always been the trouble. The mine was practically shut
down for years till the water was mastered. It cost some
£40,000 to do it. The water pouring out of it would keep
all the Hannan’s mills running, and the mine would be
flooded in no time if anything serious happened to the
pumping plant.
» * » *
The London co. that offered =£250,000 for the
new Golden Gate mine, Tas., and could not get it at that
figure, has taken up the adjoining mines and provided
£25,000 to put them in shape. The statement that over
£30,000 has already been spent upon them in plant and
development work is no recommendation.
* * * *
Charters Towers estimated gold-yield for ’97 :
357,0000 z. This includes all got by cyanide. About
200,000 tons crushed for 241,0000 z. Value of all gold pro-
duced, £1,039,000; divs., £340,243. “This,” says one
paper, “beats Kalgoorlie both in gold and dividends.”
The figures of each district are not sufficiently complete to
say definitely, but Charters Towers may already take it
for granted that this year Kalgoorlie will leave it hope-
lessly behind—unless the water gives out.
» * * *
For the first 11 months of ’97 Queensland pro-
duced within a shade of 707,0000 z. of gold, and the re-
turns for December should bring this year’s production
up to 786,0000 z.
* * • •
A syndicate is being formed to test alleged large
coal deposits in Port Curtis country (Q.)
* « » *
Messrs. Ellison and Evered, stock and share
brokers, 371 Collins-street, Melbourne, issue a map of the
Mount Lyell district showing all the changes and amalga-
mations of the various mines to date. It will be found a
very interesting and useful publication.
* * * *
The sewer catastrophe at South Yarra, where
four men perished by foul air, recalls Foul-air Point at
Taradale (Vic.,) nearly 40 years ago—probably the very
worst country for deadly gases in Australian mining his-
tory. The symptoms at Foul-air Point were exactly the
same as at South Yarra, but the gas was met with only
down to about 19ft. Many men were killed at Taradale
whilst being lowered into the shaft.
* * * *
A start has been made to treat about half-a-
million tons of tailings from the old Black Horse mine,
Vic., by cyanide. Trial lots so treated returned 2dwt.’
but ljdwt. is estimated from the bulk, and this is
expected to mean a profit to the operators, while the co
will get from lOd. to Is. a ton as royalty.
* » * *
That awful mining bore, Ballard, who has
written so much about the richness of the Lake View
mine, turned up at the Associated meeting in London,
and declared that he would rather pay £4 each for the
new shares than take them at the price offered, £2 10s.
Pity the directors didn’t oblige him. His reason was that
he knew he would get 1000 per cent, on his money 111
future. He had come prepared with a big speech again B * l
the idea of selling the Iron Duke block. “It was an inr
mense mass of metal. It was freely intermixed
with gold, and the tree gold itself would pay, but
it was all a mass of metal interspersed with gold,
and it would be a great folly to part with it.”
The audience got very much intoxicated with joy
over Ballard, who, the writer believes, has never seen the
mines on which he poses as an authority. Some time
back he issued a circular, wanting to know what had
become of the vast stores of bullion lying at the Lake
View mine, and under the blissful idea that all tellurida
ore contained 33 per cent, of pure gold, went into fear
some calculations of the gold tonnage in sight in the mine.
* • • *
A returned Queenslander tells how a specimen
was found in a Westralian mine, on which were plainly tc
be seen the mystic letters F.D. By a singular coincidence,
the same letters may be found on a British sovereign, and
sometimes they remain there, if the melting of the coin
isn’t done properly.
• * * *
In the Black Flag Proprietary Westralia has
one low-grade mine, at any rate. Last crushing, under
two dwt. to the ton. Capital, £650,000, and some
£50,000 spent on plant alone, including a 50-head battery
erected regardless of cost. The very low-grade nature of
the mine having been established by the crushing of
thousands of tons, 70 men have been paid off, and only
sufficient kept on to hold the leases.
• * * *
Sydney people who own the Pride of the Valley
mine at Ivalgoorlie have had the straight “ griffin ” from
R. D. Thompson about the potential richness of their
show. He says : “If there ever was any 3oz. stone on
your mine there is none now. There is no stone, reef, or
formation that will average sdwt. per ton. . . . The
belt 16ft. wide that has been called a formation is not a
formation, as known here ; it is an intrusive bed of horne-
blende schist, which has never been known to carry gold.
The rock now being sunk on in the shaft is talcose schist,
the class of rock generally found in the gold-bearing belts
of this district. ... I wish it to be clearly understood
that your mine is a prospecting one only, nothing of value
having been found.” Only another recurrence of poor
Sydney’s luck in outside camps.
* * * *
Decided to prospect the Boulder Main Reef
mine at Hannan’s by a diamond drill instead of by cross-
cutting. This has been tried in many Australian mines,
but has seldom been a success. As a rule the section of
country represented by the core is too small to base
calculations upon, and when anything good-looking is
found the cross-cut has got to follow, anyhow.
* * * *
From Westralia comes another story of a miner
who showed real pluck at a critical moment. He was
winding his mate up out of the shaft, and had got him
almost to the top when his foot slipped, and, in trying to
save himself, he let go the handle and it “ bolted.” Most
men who know anything of the infernal machine would
sooner try to stop a steam tram or a mad bull or an
avalanche than a “ bolting ” windlass with a good weight
on the rope, but the aforesaid miner threw himself on it
at once, and managed to stop it just in time, with a
fractured jaw and a generally-wrecked countenance as
the results of the struggle.
* * * *
Bull seems to have a consistent producer in the
Bellevue mine, Mt. Sir Samuel, away in the north-eastern
part of the Goolgardie fields. Last crushing, 180 tons,
3350 z. For some time, a Sydney syndicate fondly imagined
it owned this mine. It certainly equipped a prospector
who had something- to do with the lease. That man is
dead, and the syndicate has to console itself with one of
the adjoining leases. The awful endings of nearly all the
W.A. prospecting syndicates are remembered with so
much bitterness that no man can propose sending a pro-
spector to Klondyke without endangering his life.
• * * *
Kalgoorlie gold output for '97 is said to be
306,0000 z., or as nearly as possible double that of the
previous year, and about ten times that of ’95. What it
will be this year is hard to indicate. With an abundance
of water it would be possible to double the ’97 production.
This is almost assured by the new producing mines
coming forward, and the arrangements being made by the
leading mines to enlarge their output. The number of
distinct lodes found in its wonderful auriferous belt, the
length to which they have been opened up, the consistent
richness of both the oxidised and sulphide zones, with the
many signs of permanency and value at greater depths,
secure for Kalgoorlie the position of the leading gold-field
of Australasia, and it is not difficult to imagine that, with
equal conditions, it would become the world’s greatest
gold-producer. It has no boom—it has had it,
and is still suffering therefrom, but had it not
to shoulder the effects of a blasted boom outside
its boundaries, Kalgoorlie would have had another
boom by this time. If it were a questioned more gold, or
another boom, the boom would win hands down. In a
mining manual, issued in London, appears a list of Wes-
tralian mines floated during the boom, with the amounts
paid in cash and shares to the vendors and promoters.
There are some hundreds of them. Many are in liquida-
tion ; fully two-thirds of them ought to be; others are
going through the throes of reconstruction ; and the div.-
payers can be counted on the fingers. Some men even
argue that the finding of Kalgoorlie pardons all this
villainy.
* * * *
Brown Hill, Hannan’s—2lo tons treated at
Dry Greek—l696oz., or an average of Boz. to the ton.
This co. will soon get to work with a second new plant,
the last, on which some £20,000 was spent, having proved
an . ignominious failure. The present plan is on the same
principle as that of the Associated Mines —drying the ore,
then dry crushing it with ball mills, cyaniding direct, and
if the refuse is found good enough, recrushing and running
the pulp over amalgamating tables. By this means the
Associated Mines are doing the best work on the camp.
The process uses little water, and it is, the writer is
informed, the only one on the camp which leaves so little
gold in the tailings that they are regarded as valueless
and are thrown away in proof of it.
* » * *
Smith and Brown were mates on the Coolgardie
goldfields, and concluded that all that was the matter
with their blocks was the want of British capital. Brown
went “’Ome,” steerage, to get it. He happened to
arrive in London when the Westralian boom was at fever-
heat. When first asked how much he wanted for a block,
he replied, “I want £lOOO, anyway”—expecting to come
down £5OO, but, almost in the twinkling of an eye, the
£lOOO was placed to his ciedit. Brown was jubilant, and
thought London was a great place for speculation.
Confidence begets confidence, and he determined to have
a shot at share-dealing himself. A few days after making
the £lOOO, he saw advertised the prospectus of the Great
Bonanza Something Mine. It fascinated and fixed him,
and, proceeding to the place where subscriptions were
invited, he put himself down for £lOOO of the stock. A
few days later, he was found tearing his hair and kicking
himself all over London. He had invested his £lOOO in
his own “cat,” and the interest he now held might be
represented by the tip of its tail. He tried to get out,
but failed, and, as the shares didn’t boom after all, the
affluence of Smith and Brown vanished on the spot.
A sergeant at Melb. police head-quarters
received a wire from an Irish policeman : “ Please
excuse from duty; suffering from eternal pains.”
When on duty the next day the sergeant playfully-
pointed out Hooligan’s mistake. “Divil a mis-
take was in it at all ! ’Twas pains in me lower
raygions I had, right enough ! ”


d
i f
ORIENT —^
s CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
. nTi cc )
SYDNEY.
WATSON S WHISKY.
Society
Endestin
COON
A.J.8.” writes from Tasmania :
Some years ago I went on the tin-fields of N.E. Tas-
mania, and located near a Chinese camp. When I got
there the pig tailed multitude was in a state of great
excitement, and the camp hummed like a hive of
bees. The trouble was over the disappearance of two
white girls whom the Chinese had recently bought by
subscription for £1 a-piece. I gathered the tale in
broken English from the boss heathen, and afterwards
pieced it together. Two sailors, deserters from theii
ships, had come up to make a fortune on the tin-fields.
They brought with them a girl apiece (ages 17 and 19),
whom they had met in Hobart. Tin-mining didn’t
pay, however, and growing tired of it, and tired of the
girls, and the rum having given out, and, moreover, there
being barely enough rations for two to take the back-
track with and not nearly enough for four, they started
their retreat in the night, and left their companions
behind them. Next day, however, the girls caught
them up, and refused to be thus deserted. That night
four ill-assorted people camped close to Chinatown—
two profane sailors and two dusty, hysterical, footsore,
dishevelled girls, and the loud remnants of love’s young
dream made the Tasmanian night hideous. Naturally
the inhabitants of Chinatown took in the w'hole circum-
stances—it was impossible to avoid doing so, for the cir-
cumstances were being explained hysterically all the
night through and in the morning a Mongol deputation
offered to buy the girls for 20s. apiece. The bargain was
made, though it was only after a very severe thrashing
apiece that the goods were got into a sufficiently subdued
frame of mind to make delivery possible. There was no
township and not even a single white resident for very
many miles, and it was nearly three months before the
pair made their escape. One of them afterwards became
a barmaid, and the other, I heard, was married to a rail-
way employb. I never heard of anything happening to
the Chinamen who made this remarkable deal. Do you
reckon that £1 is cheap for a healthy white Tasmanian
girl of 17 or 19 ? What are the latest quotations in the
girl-market of Van Dobson Land ?
* • * *
Viator : “ Sabbatism and holidayism are
carried to a maniacal extent in Melb. ; even
Glasgow is not in it. Now here came Christmas
Day on Saturday, Boxing Day on Sunday, and
another Boxing Day on Monday, with infernal
weather, so that, in the first place, pretty well all
the meat was spoiled on Saturday, and putrid on
Sunday, and on Monday it got up “on its own”
and went out for a walk with the other meat from
round the corner. And in this city of barbaric
snuffle fresh meat did not come till Tuesday.
Imagine an attempt to put London, New York,
or Paris on the Melb. regimen, with the white
choker round its gullet, twisted tight behind
with a stick ! What is the use of making pious
regulations which the Almighty will not conform
to ? He sends maggots just the same on Xmas
and Sunday. A fiendish regulation has just been
made in Melb. about Sunday milk to prevent poor
little children from getting this necessarily fresh
article. These pietists would even look up the
mothers’ breasts on Sunday if they could.”
* • * *
At Bris-
bane (Q.) po-
lice - court a
Chow was de-
fendant, the
other day. Pa
P i n n o c k :
“Can he speak
English?”
Cautious po-
liceman: “He
could this
morning, yer
W o r s h ’ p.”
P.P. (to de-
fenda n t) :
“Can you
speak Eng-
lish ? ” Chow:
“Me no sav-
ee. ” Cons e-
quently his
blother coun-
tleeman gets a
job as inter-
preter.
* *
Like the
spinster who
turns nurse
when she
reaches the
spectacled and
gorgon period
of life, the old
war - tub Nel-
son, of Hob-
son’s Bay, has
been emptied
of her ammu-
nition and
things, and is
to be converted
into a floating
hospital, sta-
tioned off the
quarantine-
station, at Sor-
rento. In or-
der that Mel-
bourne may
not be left al-
together unde-
fended, the
Cerberus has
been shifted to
a former berth
of hers, near
the Williams-
town foreshore
—a calm, un-
ruffled corner,
where she can
only fall to
driftwood by
slow degrees.
THE ETERNAL TOPIC.
SCHOOLMASTER: “ What have the people most to fear in Australia?”
1ST PUPIL: “Drought, sir.”
2ND PUPIL: “No, sir; heat, sir.”
SCHOOLMASTER: “ Why heat?”
2ND PUPIL: “Because it has knocked over three of our best cricketers!”
A very well-known Victorian jury-squarer
appears to be suffering from the effects of the
depression. The pristine gorgeousness of his
waistcoat is now disfigured with beer and soup-
stains, and • the one-time shiny hat is garnished
with more than a suspicion of grease. The fall
is said to be all owing to want of confidence and
a woman. In the jury-squaring business the
operator receives the cash, and defendant has to
trust to his honor that the jury is squared. This
particular practitioner, after a long course of
honorable squaring, somehow fell from grace, and
spent on his own unholy pleasures the money
given him to procure the acquittal of a lady in
difficulties. So the lady went to gaol, and confi-
dence departed, and there is now an opening in
Victoria for an upright, God-fearing jury-squarer.
• * * •
The elders of a Melb. suburban church
advertised for an organist, and received replies
from 35 candidates for the billet. Each applicant
was required to give one Sunday’s performance
gratis, as a specimen of what he could do with the
“ kist o’ whustles.” As 27 of the candidates com-
plied with this requirement, the congregation pro-
vided itself with gratis music for six months, and
has now, to the delight of the musicians, decided
to keep the billet open until the kirk becomes
“ mair feenaneial.”
An advertising ironmongery firm exhibits
in its window “ convicts’ leg-irons 12|lb. weight,
unearthed near Perth, W.A.” It isn’t necessary
to dig very deep for such gyves in W.A. The
System is hardly dead yet in the Tinned Dog
Land.
* * * *
A Melbourne girl, “ well-educated and re-
fined,” as the advt. required, turned up at a
Toorak house after the billet of companion. To
her the stately, spectacled dame explained that
she was replacing her* present companion, as she
objected to having her wages reduced to a reason-
able figure. The sum she had been receiving was
3s. a week, and, to put her out of the sumptuous
job, the applicant was offered 2s. ! Whereupon
she naturally fainted with joy.
* * * «
Melbourne had a comedy divorce-case on
hand recently. It began tamely enough with the
usual tale about how the respondent began to have
longabsencesfrom home and how it ultimately trans-
pired that he was away with the other woman.
But he was a mild respondent, quite unlike the
usual variety. He had attacks of violent repent-
ance during which he shed tears at his own sinful-
ness, and fell ill through grief, and asked his wife
to drag him away from his wicked existence. On
one occasion he had three weeks of loud woe and,
at the end of that time, announced his attention of
going back to the co-respondent lady on the ground
that she “ had become a Christian.” He felt that
he couldn’t leave a Christian co-respondent in the
lurch, so he took a Bible under his arm and de-
parted at 3 a.m. for his old haunts. About a fort-
night later the wife called round late at night to
see how he and the converted co-respondent
were getting on. They both came to the door,
in a state of casual undress, and they both
repented bitterly in the passage by the light
of one candle with the cold wind blowing
about their feet. The co-respondent, especi-
ally, wept something tremendous and asked
to be forgiven ; and the husband entreated his
wife to take him away on the instant and
lead him to a better frame of mind. As it
was late, and the husband was not in full walking
costume, she declined to remove him, but he ran
after her all the way back to the family residence.
After some hours of hard repentance he was for-
given and taken on again. A few months later
he fled once more to his co-respondent, and the
wife found them on board a steamer starting for
Sydney. Whereupon defendant repented on the
spot, and, abandoning his co-respondent, he in-
sisted on going home with the wife of his bosom,
and cherishing her for the rest of his life. She
flatly refused to be cherished, but he came home
and cherished her ah the same. Two days later
he disappeared for about the dozenth time in
search of his co-respondent, and this was his final
vanishment. For six months the deserted wife
lived in expectation of hearing any night a loud
snuffling at the keyhole, and finding her husband
again repenting on the doorstep, but he never
turned up again. So the usual proceedings were
resorted to, and Judge Holroyd granted a decree
nisi.
• * * *
The end of the sensational Bennett divorce-
case, which has supplied Sydney with several
weeks’ thrilling reading, is mainly costs. In fact,
the only definite end arrived at is costs. Appa-
rently the fashionable toothsmith and his wife
were equally anxious for a parting ; they led an
ill-assorted life in the gilded halls where he
dragged out the decayed molar for a livelihood,
“THEY DIDN’T GET IN.”
MR. DONALD COHEN: “ Two chiltren's tickets,
please.”
TICKET-SELLER: “ But you’re not children .”
MR. DONALD COHEN: “Yes, we vos chiltren of
Israeli”
and were just about as happy as two strange cats
on one roof. They both applied for legal sever-
ance, and for several weeks they and their wit-
nesses made dreadful allegations about each other’s
character. Some of their witnesses were highly
sensational —especially one very frank soiled dove
out of a restaurant who swore t h at she was invited
to fall several times, and fell enthusiastically.
And after the court had heard all this evidence it
acquitted both the dentist and his wife of all the
charges against them, and fired them out of court
without a speck on either of their characters.
The same decision naturally implies that the
flashy girl who says that she “fell” didn’t “fall”
at all, so far as the purposes of this particular case
were concerned, so apparently she is left in the
position of being liable to a prosecution for per-
jury for falsely alleging her own badness. This is
a tolerably remarkable position for any girl to get
WHERE VISIONS MEET.
Here I stand on common land,
With all around me noon ;
For you afar there burns a star
And a red autumnal moon ;
Travellers we—you on the sea,
And I upon the sand.
But, friend, behold ! your Western gold
Is dawn to a land remote,
Where dews fall soft, and larks aloft
Send silvery songs afloat;
And one stands there with a purpose rare,
And watches the rose unfold.
Your gaze is cast where day dies fast,
And his on the dawning brink ;
Here at my feet two visions meet,
My noontide is their link ;
Your day is dead—his dawn is red
And my day midway past.
RODERIC QUINN.
TWO GOOSSIPS
FOR THE BULLETIN.
Ipstfs j'ox-jAce.cf virqjM. hohJ [or yyoßci,
•' R« P eqTs, rous .sl^s
sourly 5/nile3 .slip3
WiTfx QusTo [row nl\Je (lp3.
bf\d eNoug^f^ 1 — b<JTT I isT"a /vmn
fesside
TKis iMITeiR lady, jooisi /v\y wor3)
"R# [& nPS >2>ke fyeMßci
BREAKER.
THE LAND OF NO AVAIL.
There is a land no eye hath seen
By day or night,
Unlit of moons, unloved of stars,
And mantled in twilight.
’Tis haunted by dim hooded shades
That may not smile,
With wan white lips that whisper low
But make no mirth the while.
No word is said, no song is heard,
Sick winds go by
And cry their ghosts to shrouded stars
Beyond the marbled sky.
It is the land of no avail,
Of fruitless pain,
Of poet-songs that craved a voice
But craved a voice in vain.
It is the land of broken loves,
Of sweetness missed,
Of dreams dethroned and fancies lost
And kisses never kissed.
RODERIC QUINN.


IHOT
HB2
The
Victor
Camera
Ul-
na
Duplex
Camera
t
plate,
151-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 23.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
CELEBRATED
LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; used with mar-
vellous success in the London Moorfleld Eye Hospital.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-
street, Sydney. Open all Night—also Sundays
and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6, each.
Recommended by the leading- Physicians of
Tropical Australia. , '
B. MQUNTCASTLE Si SONS,. SoleJlanufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
into. Meanwhile, the Bennetts, in addition to
the costs, have the advantage of a clear state-
ment in print of what they think of each other,
and, with this before them, the law (which doesn’t
believe in divorce for mere incompatibility of
temper or cat-aud-dogism) tacitly decides that
their mission is to go and be happy together ever
afterwards.
* * » *
\j In an undertaker’s advertisement lately
refused by a Melbourne paper the practitioner
described himself as a “ scientific boxer ”—boxer-
up of the dead, presumably.; also “ stiff ’uns laid
out with neatness and, despatch ” ; and “bodies
cremated by a first-class chef.” The ghoul has
surely reached his goal.
♦ * * *
The Norton-Carruthers case provided at
least one disappointment for the public last week.
When an order was issued that Susan Blackburn’s
evidence should be kept strictly dark, and sat
upon, and buried until further notice, the general
assumption was that the lady’s revelations were
something quite unspeakable. This opinion
was strengthened by the appearance of her photo.
—a very stout and aggressive photo., with a
squashy hat—in the Daily Telegraph. Yet,
when the evidence did come out, it wasn’t nearly
so picturesque as most people anticipated. It was-
mostly a rather ordinary story about a woman
who used to clean out an office 12 years ago, and
the tale was so like any number of other tales,
that the public didn’t get the beautiful shock it
expected.
♦ * ♦ *
This is the time of year when the dailies
are filled with wearisome reports of school speeches
and notices of songs and recitations given by un-
fortunate infants who would rather be playing
cricket or fishing. The only gleam of humor in the
whole arrangement is the awful names under
which most of the youngsters stagger to “dux”
and glory. In a Melbourne suburb one small
Kindergarten with 30 pupils gives away no less
than 12 prizes, to Eileen arid Popsy and Dulcie
and Trixie and Yera and Reva and Rita and
Reggie and Finley and Norman. Plain Jack
Smith and Tom Jones are getting to be as un-
common as a fat woman on a bike.
* * * V
Four or five visitors, one of them a Minis-
ter of the Crown, dropped into a N.S.W. charity
institution lately, and, after a look around, made
modest donations. A reporter called in, a little
later, on the hunt for news. “ Oh,” exclaimed the
manager, “ the Minister and party were here.
The Minister subscribed a guinea. Don’t forget
to • say the Minister subscribed a guinea. Oh,
everything was right; they liked all they saw.
But don’t forget to mention in your report that
the Minister subscribed a guinea.” “Did the
others give anything?” “Yes; Captain Dash
gave two guineas, and Mr. Blank J>l. Oh, yes,
they all subscribed liberally, and will appear in
our own report. But put the Minister in the
paper. Don’t forget to mention that the Minister
gave a guinea.” As the reporter got through the
gate, the manager again yelled, “ Don’t forget the
Minister’s subscription ” ; and that evening a note
reached the newspaper office, the manager once
more informing the editor that “ the Minister
subscribed a guinea.”
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin, —Is it not a gross absurdity
as well as an injustice that N.S.W. new Pharmacy
Board should have power to prevent qualified
chemists from other parts of the world from being
registered here? In my own case, I served four
years’ apprenticeship to a qualified chemist in
England, was ten years assistant to leading Lon-
THE REAL DRAW.
“ Her rich voice seems a great attraction for the young men.”
“ yes, but nothing like the attraction of her rich father!"
don chemists, four years assistant to a qualified
chemist in another province, and two years in
business for myself ; and yet, because I have not
been apprentice or assistant in N.S.W., I am
refused registration and must shut up shop. It is
further worthy of note, as a matter of public
safety, that while I—a chemist fully qualified by
examination, cannot get registered, any nincom-
poop _ who has been an apprentice to a N.S.W.
chemist for one year can, when he has served
two years’ apprenticeship, open shop as a
fully-qualified chemist.—Pharmacist.
“WATCH - NIGHT SERVICE. ”
A “lydie once ” sees the old year out, etc. Sketch in Sydney Domain , ’97-98.
Victoria is evidently going the way of
America as regards education of the sexes. Xmas
exam, returns from Melb. University give the
girls an overwhelming victory all along the lines
in algebra, geometry, trigonometry, English and
history ; French, German, elementary apatomy,
physiology and botany; whilst the boys have
taken exhibitions in only chemistry and physics,
and the dead and decomposed languages. All
sport and no study is the matter with town-bred
Jim now-a-days. His intellectual pursuits are
confined to the evening newspaper, and, when he
has learned how to smoke, he seems quite con-
tent, as a rule, to let Sissie represent the mind-
culture of the family. Perhaps the first result of
Woman Franchise, when it comes, will be a bill
for the compulsory higher education of Jim.
* * * *
Some time ago The Bulletin commented
on the miserable failure of the average suicide.
Particularly it commented on the inefficiency of
the double-barrelled suicide; when a man and
woman agree to die together, the almost in-
variable result is that the man kills the woman,
and then, after feebly carving a bit of meat off
himself, is arrested and gets five years. Apropos
of which painful subject this paper pointed out
that a reasonably certain way of death for
two is to go out in a boat to some place where
there are 10 fathoms of green ocean under-
neath, and tie the anchor tightly to both parties
by a thick rope and eight hard knots, and then go
overboard. Apparently that idea has not been
wholly wasted. Within the last few months a
Maoriland suicide with a grindstone lashed to him
has been fished out of Auckland harbor. A de-
funct has been found in a western river with' a
bag of stones and a bit of iron rail attached as
sinkers in order to prevent him changing his
mind, and as a guarantee against unauthorised
interference. Also an old gentleman at Banks-
town, near Sydney, was found last week in his
own well with two large flat-irons suspended to
his neck.
* * * *
In connection with the proposed N.S.W.
legislation for the control of inebriates, Dr. Creed,
M.L.C., relates some curious experiences. One of
them concerns two Maoriland country doctors.
They were both under legal alcohol-pro hi bit ion, so
they used to fall sick by turns and prescribe for
each other the otherwise unprocurable whisky.
And in due time they both drank themselves into
the grave.
• * * *
A feminine Diogenes :
V OUNG Widow wishes to meet honest Man, from
p country pref., view marriage. Mrs. L., Woollahra
Probably she will meet him, too ; there are plenty
of men who are too tired to be dishonest, especially
in this hot weather.
• * • •
Moral from a recent divorce case : Never
tear up your love-letters. Burn ’em—and care-
fully overhaul the ashes.
N. : “Know-
ing intimately the
locale of the foul-
air murder of four
men on the sew-
age works, South
Yarra, I declare
the operations
there are wholly
unnecessary. Peo-
ple are only got
to live in that par-
ticular vicinage by
a delusion. Once
in a cycle of years,
not very long, the
whole region is
flooded. The last
time was about
six years ago. As
in the lower parts
of Punt Road,
Richmond, the old
denizens clear out
after this visita-
tion, and after a
while they are suc-
ceeded by a new
crop of the ignor-
ant. Various parts
of Melb. are in-
dustriously se w-
ered at great danger to the workmen, which
ought to be condemned for habitation. Why,
for instance, was building ever allowed on Colling-
wood Flat? ”
* * * *
T.D. : “Thanks to for his remarks
anent the wizened progeny of the dancing-girl.
At a recent public picnic I met a young married
woman, just recovered from serious illness, flushed
and almost fainting as the result of half-a-day’s
dancing, with the thermometer close up to 90 in
the shade. It is no uncommon thing, either, to see
fair trippers on the light untimely toe who would
obviously be more wisely employed in the pre-
paration of baby-linen.”
* * * *
A Westralian mine-manager lately had a
trip to London with specimens. “The night
before the meeting of directors,” he says, “I got
mixed up in a row which left me with a black eye
and a cut nose. Next day, when I came before
the directors, they hustled me out, and were going
to give me in charge; so I put my hand in my
pocket and produced a specimen, and was imme-
diately offered a chair. Then they whisperingly
suggested some dirty work, but I wasn't on—sim-
ply having a black eye doesn’t necessitate' doing
dirty work. Yet I know they would never have
dared to suggest it to me if I hadn’t had that
black eye. In the opinion of the world, a man
with a black eye is capable of anything.”
* * • *
A Melbourne brewer estimated that the
city’s consumption of beer on Boxing Day was
about 40,000 gallons. “ The figures don’t look
very big,” says the tanglefoot authority, “but,
after all, there’s a good deal of steady drinking to
be had in 40,000 gallons of beer —about a pint for
every man, woman, and child, not counting the
babies.”
• » * •
Dear Bulletin, — You may remember that
some time back a bad young man was discovered
with his eye at a knot-hole at a Melbourne
ladies’ baths, and was removed to gaol for six
months. That is all right, but I have just dis-
covered that there is a man constantly on duty at
the ladies’baths, and it is his business to parade
around, keeping his masculine eye on the fat
females, and the lean females, and those who are
just middling, as they splash about in the brine,
and to see that no accident happens to them. The
law never feels called upon to remove him with
violence, somehow.—S.S.
« * « *
An average Boulder (Wesfcralia) washing-
bill for a fortnight runs to about 10s. But that isn’t
a circumstance to the washing-bills that used to
happen in the early days of Broken Hill. A lonely
young silver-king once went south and brought
back his bride. When they landed there was an
accumulated “ wash ” of two weeks and three
days, which the unsophisticated darling “put
out.” It came back the next Saturday evening.
“How much?” “<£3 10s., please.” Water was
then 255. per 100 gallons—present price also in
Boulder.
• * * *
Cairns (Q.) has got its regular Kanaka
leper on hand. At least, they have a very strong
suspicion that he is a leper, but, until absolute
certainty is arrived at, the suspect is confined in
the yard of the police-station. This opens up a
lot of possibilities for the local police. Said yard
is divided from the street by a picket fence only,
and, when the wind rises, the germs blow into
Cairns. Also, the local small boy stops to poke
borak at the leper through the fence —which im-
plies more possibilities.
* * • *
On Ist January the Federal Coffee Palace,
Melbourne, formally recreated itself as the Federal
Palace Hotel, with a colonial wine license to work
upon at present, and the expectation of being able
in the near future to meet neighboring grog-shops
on level terms. There is no vestige of teetotal
cant attaching to the Federal Hotel management
nowadays. Shareholders in the business ask for
a dividend, and temperance principles having
been tried and found wanting in annual profits,
the Rechabite conscience has become educated up
to the maxim that half a pub. is better than no
bread. For outsiders who don’t care a button
whether the business eventually gets a spirit
license or otherwise, the Federal’s chrysalis state
is interesting. Thusfar there has never been a
palatial boarding-house where the sale of Aus-
tralian wines was pushed in a way likely to benefit
the national industry. The Federal Hotel will do
more to encourage a taste for light versus heavy
alcoholic liquor than all the other Melbourne pubs,
put together.
From the cross-examination of Mrs. Susan
Blackburn, in the Carruthers-Norton libel case:
“ Can you produce any letters of Mr. Carruthers’
beginning anyway except ‘ Dear madam ’? ” Wit-
ness : “ Those are the only letters I haVe kept. I
did not know I had them until a few weeks ago.
He has written to me, ‘ Dear Miss Thompson,
yours, in love, till we meet again.” It is a truly
painful thing when the letters which breathe an
atmosphere of red-hot love can’t be found, and the
only surviving correspondence starts “Dear
madam.” The public has a genuine grievance just
here.
If for nothing else than that the Crown
were unable to produce any earth or blood-stained
clothes worn by the unfortunate Suffield on the
night of the alleged assault, the case should have
fallen through. Almost everyone who knew
Suffield knew also that he had only two suits —
a working and an out-of-doors one —yet there
could be found no marks on either of these ! Pos-
sibly the Crown theory is that Suffield wore the
old fig-leaf costume of Genesis on that cold and
drizzly night.
* * • *
They had just been married, and ivhen
they stepped into the vestry to sign their names,
the parson, in shaking hands with the bride,
offered his congratulations. “ Congratulations be
! ” she replied, in a way that seemed quite
natural; “ it’s ’ini as oughter be congratulated;
THE RIGHTS OF MAN.
HALICE : “"Oo. Bolyer, yer smokin'!”
BOLGER : “ Well, yer needn’t yet wet,fer I tells yer
str’ight I don’t give a cuss fer a woman as
erlgects to a man ’avin ’ a smoke! ”
’e don’t have my sorts every day ! ” The newly-
made husband only sighed deeply, but said nothing,
and the preacher realised who was destined to be
the head of the house.
Dear Bulletin, —How the Narrabri (N.S.
Wales) sleeper-cutters get jolly and fat. The
men get 2s. 3d. a sleeper delivered in the yard.
They have to pay Is. a sleeper to get them carted
from the bush, a distance of about 20 miles. The
Govt. exacts 7d. per sleeper for the revenue ; then
the railway department confiscates over 10 per
cent.—Bd. per sleeper—for what are called “con-
demns.” These are re-purchased at a nominal
rate and used on the line. This leaves sd. a
sleeper for the cutter to get jolly and fat on. A
smart axemen by working hard can a erage 30
sleepers weekly, so his earnings amount to, say,
2s. Id. a day.— Sleeper-Chopper.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of Ms
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Messrs. Fletcher, Fletcher and Co., of
London, deserve the deepest thanks of the Aus-
tralian people for putting Vibronaon this market.
It has been recommended over and over again in
the most convincing language by the British
medical profession, and in this age of quackery
and false pretences it is most satisfactory to ob-
serve that Messrs. Fletcher and Fletcher take the
highly commendable course of offering any medical
man the right to inspect the many original
medical testimonies certifying to Vibrona’s effi-
cacy. Among others, Dr. B. H. Paul, the eminent
qumtologist, editor of the Pharmaceutical
Journal, has undertaken to periodically examine
add report on Vibrona. He says : “ The claims
of Vibrona are fully substantiated.” And these
claims are that in anaemia, neurasthenia, in coin
valescence from influenza, diphtheria, pneumonia,
or typhoid, &c., &e., the restorative power of
Vibrona is remarkable, while in neuralgia and in-
somnia it acts like a charm. One praiseworthy
feature is that it is never likely to produce any
craving for alcohol, and also that after a course of
Vibrona the system so recovers its natural tone
that stimulants are neither required nor desired.
The Sydney agent is Mr. G. F. Birks, 18 O’Con-
nelbstreet. *
SIEGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her eyes make valorous advance,
And so besiege my heart
With mocking archery of glanee,
Surrender seems the wiser part.
Yet, should I dare return the fire,
At the first flash her eyes
Desist from battle, and retire
In shy confusion and surprise.
THOROLD DALRYMFLP.


'. s .. ■
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “ Travellers’
Gazette” and ‘‘Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
C ooj
fojbtfllW
From a Prominent Citizen.
Eocklyllnn, Arthur-street, Marrickville.
November 12th, 1897.
To the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company.
Dear Sirs, —I have been for some years subject to
biliousness and headache, and, seeing Bile Beans were so
extensively advertised, I decided to give them a trial, and
accordingly put myself under a short course. I can
truthfully state that I experienced relief from the begin-
ning, and to-day I feel in perfect health. I can conscien-
tiously recommend Bile Beans to anyone suffering from
Biliousness and Constipation. You are at perfect liberty
to publish this statement when and where you please.—
Yours truly, W. HESTLEHURST.
The above letter is valuable not from its lepgih
and fulness of detail, but because Mr. Hestlehurst
is a well-known citizen and one of Sydney’s most
prominent business men.
BILE BEANS for Biliousness are a well-estab-
lished remedy, and not a quack preparation of
mushroom growth. They are made in one of the
largest and best-equipped laboratories of the world
in the city of Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and have
been used in that country for years by the best
physicians. BILE BEANS are an undoubted
specific for the ailments mentioned above. The
low price is due alone to the enormous sales every
year, amounting in the millions. To be obtained
at all Chemists. Price, 9£d. per box, small size,
or Is. lod. regular size, or send direct to the Aus-
Depot, the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co.,
19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ Sydney, January 4, 1898.
Mr Dear Mtee—
At Randwick races on New Year’s Day the
most gorgeously-apparelled persons were the book-
makers’ wives, sisters, and cousins. The gentle
Gentile public unostentatiously trotted its woman-
kind around, mostly in brown holland and washing
drill. Such a practical object-lesson of the com-
parative profits accruing from laying and backing
the gee-gee a makes you hesitate before placing
your modest half-sovereign on your fancy. The
wife of one well-known ringman surrounded her
large person with brocade and grey chiffon,
another with an hour-glass waist floated in black-
barred pink and a tea-tray hat. All had that
hall-mark of the puffeck lydy, a silk foundation.
.By the way, rustling isn’t going to be de riyueur in
the near future. A cheap imitation frou-frou hav-
ing been placed on the market, the lower ranks
no.w rustle at a nominal price, and next season’s
skirts will be absolutely as silent as a nurse’s gown
should be. Every second woman had a few
fathoms of gold cable hanging round her neck,
with a bright gilt heart like Mother Eve's fig-leaf
dangling therefrom. These chains and pendants
are the latest trinket-epidemic, along with the
bunch of keys which every smart woman now
carries.
The stalls at the Lyceum are just now exten-
sively patronised by the gilded (and otherwise)
youth. ‘ Dick ” appears to be a young man’s
panto., judging by the highly-interested male con-
tingent in the audience. One attractive stage-boy
had a whole row of admirers one evening last
week ; the following was lavish with clapping, and
its little button-hole sprays thudded on the boards
to emphasise every point. Daisy Holly, the grace-
ful back-bender—she will soon be able to rap the
floor with th(*back of her head, if her spine doesn’t
crack in the process—will shortly depart for the
Jr* , A;? ? * r 'P> as Bessie Clayton’s successor, in
the Chinatown ” co.
Pantomime rehearsal is no joke. Twenty-one
hours was a working day for one co. now performing
m Sydney ; the mummers went at it from 10 a.m.
one day till 7 a.m. the next. All-night sittings were
frequent during the preparation of all the current
shows. J. C. Williamson is an inexorable re-
hearser. Sitting in front, he directs the scenes,
which must be gone through with business-like
promptitude, and his commands are sharp and to
the point. Discipline is his watchword. “It’s
just like school,” murmured one astonished novice,
who had thought stage-life was all beer and
skittles.
The stage-boy’s idea of humorous biz is to slap
her tights briskly and give a little kick on the off-
side when she puts her arm round the stage-girl’s
waist. The book seldom allots an alleged joke to
the feminine hero, and she never thinks up any
funniments of her own. Nellie Farren still
remains as the one and only example of a humor-
ous stage-boy. She had no appealing “ pretty ”
ways, and never threw herself on the mercy of the
Court, with an air of “ Don’t you think I’m very
clever— for a woman ? ” She wasn’t self-conscious
and she had a sense of humor. Nobody says now
that women have no sense of humor, but critics
allege that women take for wit that element which
is unfit for publication. Because some “ smoking-
room stories” have humor, they reason that all
humor consists in smoking-room stories. There is
a type of face supposed to belong to the woman-
with-a-sense-of-humor; possessing a broad cheek,
flat nose, and large mouth, it suggests a cross
between Socrates and a South Sea Islander.
The New Year’s Eve noise-distributors last
Friday were helped along by their lady friends.
Some of the most loudly-yelling “squeakers”
were performed on by women. One young lady
in King-street towards midnight was using a
mouth-organ of such exceeding shrillness that
competitors near her gave up in despair. She and
her escort of “boys” were left in possession of
the street. Sand has nearly superseded flour as
the up-to-date bag-filler. It’s cleaner on the coat,
but much more blinding when the bag bursts full
in the eye. One man had a shower-bath of the
tiny colored-paper confetti which are scattered
around so freely in gay Paree in Carnival time.
It might pay an enterprising importer to intro-
duce these and the long paper-serpents and card-
board trumpets in time for next New Year’s hoot,
and thereby impart a touch of boulevardian ele-
gance to the yellings of the push. Disgusted
globe-trotters, surveying the midnight revels from
balconies of swagger hotels, professed to be flab-
bergasted at the scarcity of bobbies in the throng
as compared with the übiquitousness of the men
in blue in England.
Some anonymous person is attempting to work
up a Stoddart matrimonial boom by firing into
various society organs an abrupt bullet about the
English cricketing captain. “ Stoddart is looking
out for a wife ” —only that and nothing more. If
the correspondent would only obligingly state
whose wife the cricketer is looking out for, the
missive would take on a deep and libellous in-
terest.
All the Gregory family are great cricketers.
Mrs. H. Donnan, Mrs: Varley, and two Misses
Gregory, all sisters of “Syd.,” took part in an
exciting ladies’cricket-match at Lady Robinson’s
Beach, lately, between Kogarah and Rockdale.
The teams were clad in blouses and short skirts
and business-like playing-accessories. Miss G.
secured top score with 45 runs, and her younger
sister proved the best bowler of her team.
In one of the theatres, the other night, a be-
reaved widow sat in full panoply of woe fenced off
from the rest of the d. c. by the correct amount of
white cap, cuffs and collar on stiff and voluminous
crape. The weeds of this sad weeper after the
departed were agitated by the giggles of the
wearer at all the stage funny business; as an
ostentatious display of mourning they failed dis-
mally. Another queer example, of taste was
seen in a high-toned tea-room, last week, when
into the midst of the tea-imbibing throng there
sailed the respondent in a recent divorce-case,
accompanied by several of the lady-witnesses.
Everybody present dropped his or her bath bun in
amazement, but the party, apparently, rather
enjoyed the sensation it created than otherwise,
and chatted loudly and happily.
Miss Rose Scott and some of her friends are
agitating on the subject of having cooking made a
oompulsory item for girls in public schools. The
opinion of these forethinkers for the digestions of
posterity is that the vast subject of boiled pro-
vender needs to be systematised. The drawing-
room meeting stage of the campaign has been
passed, and heavy practical leaders on the subject
now begin to appear in the dailies. Domestic
economy as a newspaper topic can’t make any-
thing but dry, uninteresting reading, which the
public shy at.
Women are exasperating shoppers. The other
day a girl went into an Arcade toy-shop in search
j toy. She was hard to please,
and in a short time the obliging proprietor had a
whole menagerie in clockwork jerking itself spas-
modically about the floor, and a Lilliput Redfern
in full working order under a chair. But the
alleged customer arose without purchasing, and
the enraged toy-proprietor followed her to the
door with some withering home-truths. “You
come in here for a rest, get me to waste my time
and amuse you by turning over all my stock, and
don t buy a penn’orth. There’d be a lot in shop-
keeping if all customers were like you. Yah ! ”
Another, case in point: A breathless matron
walked into an oyster shop and said abruptly,
without any punctuation whatever: “I want a
oysters they must be fresh there were three
tt&d in the last bag and five in the bag before I
think you ought to make up the eight I’ll
take the eight with me.” Her husband, who had
followed her in, said meekly, “ Nonsense, my
dear,” blushed apologetically at the oyster-man,
and walked her off. It was only a dark and deep-
laid scheme to get at the hot and harried fish-man
for eight gratis oysters. I beg to enter these two
as earnest triers in the Mean Woman’s Cup.
Boiled down, the substance of all factory legis-
lation js the cheap blouse. Incidentally, trousers
come into reformers’ plans, and skirts also, but
the too-familiar slop-made cotton misfit, with
badly - laundried cuffs and collars, and a brass
safety-pin at the back failing to hold up the
sagging skirt, is the crux that worries legislators,
rouses philanthropists into organising factory-girls’
clubs, and leads pessimistic speakers to allude
despairingly to woman’s ineradicable and fatal
passion for cheap-and-nasty shopping. At the
annual meeting of the Working and Factory
Girls’ Club, the other night, the general tone
of all the speakers was one of regret that
such an institution was needed. Women,
working or playing, won’t combine even to
better themselves—they hold their own abilities
in such contempt that they snap at any work at
any wages, and they force sweating-rates on em-
ployers by their own craving for bargains. Alto-
gether, the sex politico-economically is a dismal
failure. The emblem of all its industrial work is
the shabby, sloppy two-bob-a-dozen blouse.
A shriek against modern dressing in one of
the recent magazines, in which Ouida has an
an g r y say about the unspeakable awfulness of
everything cut to present-day patterns except
the free and flowing tea gown, is merely an in-
stance of how wildly astray are those soulful folk
who put art before common, everyday sense. The
great clothes-idea consists in being unobtrusively
useful. Men’s garments, especially, should be
business-like and not get in his way. A man
hasn’t time to lean classically about in flowing
draperies, as they used to do before the world was
tired. How would a man in a toga or doublet and
hose look driving a train, or doing pick-and-shovel
work, or laying a telegraph-wire, or editing a paper,
or leaning up against a bar, or playing golf, or
backing a winner? A man can wear what he
likes now within certain limits, and he never had
any more liberty than that even in the toga days.
Also, in present-day fashions, he can keep himself
perfectly clean at small cost, but, in the good old
days, immaculate spotlessness was the privilege of
the high and lofty, and they don’t seem to have
attained it altogether. In women’s attire the
same sartorial virtue is attained at small expense by
the neat-and-natty, though commonplace, belted-
in girl, whereas the tea-gown woman is a floppy-
sloppy horror in the morning, washing up the
breakfast cups and cleaning up house perfunctorily
in a draggled, shapeless wrapper, that whisks up
all the floor-dust, and gets the cat tangled up in its
untidy tail, and causes her husband to muse re-
gretfully over her vanished waist. The tea-gown
is too luxurious a garb in a world where nine out
of ten women have to put in a day’s hard work
between morning and night.
An inquiring person has traced the royal and
aristocratic game of golf to a humble origin. A
lonely shepherd, to kill time, used to knock round
stones into a rabbit-hole with his crook. In itself
golf is a long-drawn-out pastime just fit for shep-
herds and other cranks. As a game for girhath-
letes, however, it has caught on, because on such
a large playground a man and a girl can get a
considerable distance from other people and take
a long time getting back to them. In this it
ranks only second to the bicycle. Golf and the
bike together are killing tennis. You are too
near your neighbors all the time in tennis.
The two De Moleyns, brothers of Lady Hope-
toun, who have a sugar-plantation near Cairns
(Q.), have made their cane-growing pay. They
started in these alligator-haunted wilds with a
modest four-roomed humpy, but in place of this
primitive tenement there now stands a swagger
verandah-all-round mansion, and the industrious
brown islanders have surrounded it by a tidy
flourishing garden. To be asked to dine at the
De Moleyns mansion is to be top-notched for sas-
siety among the Cairnsites and surrounding
planters. ISlobody ever mentions now the sinful
libel that the name used to be Mullins.
Station - owners Out - back don’t appreciate
“johnny” wool-classers, but prefer a rough-and-
ready person who gets on well with the shed men
and has no irritatingly superior airs. A well-
known Western squatter was disappointed in
securing his own tried and trusted “ grader ” this
season, and wired his Sydney agents to send him
a classer. In response there arrived at the station
an innocent-looking, blue-eyed babelet elegantly
tailored, who announced himself as “ the-ali-
new wool - classah.” The staggered employer
didn’t care to try the experiment of inti’oducing
that to the shed and to the ribald mirth of Bill
and Jim. But he wired indignantly to the
agents: “Wool-classer duly arrived, but you’ve
omitted to send along the child’s mother.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: —
“ During the Sydney test-match, people win
assembled outside Melb. newspaper-offices to
watch the progress of the game were harangued by
a crack-brained enthusiast, bubbling over with a
March-hare system of his own for ‘ cooking ’ the
scores. ‘ See here,’ he hissed, oornering a startled
spinster who was hurrying past to keep an ap-
pointment with her dentist at the top of Collins-
street, ‘you say the English have made 510 ! Well,
you’re wrong. Put nought before, a number,
number remains the same—oslo equals 510. Put
nought after it, number remains same—-510 equals
5100. So the blessed Britishers have made 5100.’
On the same mathematical principle he fixed Ire-
dale’s second score as ‘ 180 ’ instead of 18.
‘‘Last Thursday afternoon, when Melbourne
thermometers registered 109 degs. in the shade,
the ardent admirer, who looks at his Maudie as
though he would like to eat her, might easily have
secured some of her sweetness in a liquid form by
wringing the sleeves of her white linen blouse.
Several Maudies on the Block were observed to
drip from the elbows as they bore their sunshades
aloft, and visions of pink skin glowing through
the dampness added to the warmth of the effect.
“ Somehow, the frocks on the first day of the test-
match fell short of the high standard set up by
cricket costumes earlier in the season. Perhaps
women felt too limp, after the heat, to get into
full war-paint, or, maybe, the first tender bloom
has worn off most people’s summer things. Any-
way, this time, wearers of blouses and sailor hats,
instead of skulking in their seats all day, held up
their heads with the best. Lady Brassey clung to
her black brocade, but cooled it down with a cream
vest and summery hat.
“ On Boxing Night seamen ad. lib. were asked
to tea at Tour Mont, the residence of Premier
Reid’s brother-in-law. Every Jack brought his
Jill by special invitation, and thanks to musio,
games and girls, the signal for the plaintive home-
ward - bound chanty came all too soon. Mrs.
Mason and her pretty daughters helped with the
programme, and the Speaker himself cut up the
Christmas cake, rich in hidden treasures such as
rings, sixpences and thimbles. Tom Bowling, of
course, is superstitious and moreover a double-
dyed man, so his mates did not scoff when
he nearly piped his eye at unearthing the thimble,
ominous of old-bachelorhood.
“ The marriage of Miss Hetty Morrison, young-
est daughter of Dr. Morrison, principal of the
Scotch College, sets very old Scotch collegians
dreaming of that long-past day when their proud
pedagogue treated them to a spread in honor of
the birth of his first girl. The infant of those
times, now the wife of a prominent Melb. bar-
rister, goes back to the college, hubby and all, to
kfpr, house for her father, vice the bride of last
month.
" m Dr. Morrison’s case, the scholastic goose
has been an untiring layer of golden eggs. As
many of his numerous ‘bairns’ as could be in-
duced to mind their books were exported Europe-
wards, regardless of expense, to have their minds
and manners revised and improved by the best
Continental authorities. All the Morrison girls
have married well, and, like their brothers, have
been fairly prominent figures in Melb. gaieties,
thanks to their money-making dad, who, not con-
tent with educational grist, dabbles profitably in
butter, eggs, and the care of bees, supplying the
college direct with dairy produce from his own
farm.
“Talking of books : in Australian educational
competitions girls seem determined to make hacks
of male candidates. A year ago one of the three
Queensland Govt. Exhibitions (value £3OO each)
went to the so-called ‘ignorant sex.’ This year
Miss Theodora Copas, of Maryborough (Q.),
winner of fiye medals and the Fairfax prize at the
Sydney Senior, has also gained an exhibition at
Trinity College (Melb.), while a whole swag of
Ormond College (Melb.) scholarships have been
jumped by girls. And at the recent Melb. matri-
culation, four out of six exhibitions and 17 out of
23 first-class honors fell to lasses, O !
“A touring widow, returning to Australia and
her grown-up family by a recently-arrived mail-
boat, plighted her .troth en route to the sweetest
young thing on board, a boy apparently younger
than her own elder children. She taught her cap-
tive to call her ‘Tiny’ in the prettiest way all
over the ship, and, in return, she coined for his
pet-name ‘ Pie-jo ’! At one of the first Australian
ports a detachment of male sons and daughters
met in a and pa that is to be,’ as Belos Hodges,
of the ‘ Claudian ’ company, calls his father-in-
law elect. Strange to say, peace and harmony re-
mained unbroken, and the bride-elect, watching
her girls promenade with ‘Pie-jo,’ told onlookers
smilingly that ‘ Mr. X. was learning to know his
daughters ’!
“In the good old boom days a Melb. family
built a handsome vault in a suburban cemetery.
Another branch of the family acquired the adjoin-
ing section, and with the ruling passion for allot-
ments strong even in the bone-yard, it cast
covetous eyes on the symmetrical little tomb
alongside. Then hard times came ; the elder
branch of the family moved to Sydney in very
reduced circumstances, and the one which re-
mained in Melbourne offered to buy the burial-
place at a reduced price. But the refugees clung
to their little necropolis. One day, after years of
fruitless negotiation, the Sydney people received a
wire to the effect that mother was dying, and had
expressed a last wish to be buried in uncle’s vault,
and would they kindly sell out? But even then
the fallen boomers refused to part, and, as mother
is in perfect health to this day, and the price of
fashionable tombs is going up again in Melbourne,
they are glad they held on.
“A Melbourne doctor, giving journalistic ad-
vice re the best food for hot weather, casually
describes his own repast of the previous day.
Beginning with ‘ a delicate preparation of soles in
aspic, served on ice,’ he next dallied with a roast
pigeon, and finished up with baked custard and
ripe fruit. En passant, he admits that this menu
might not suit poor people, and I don’t suppose it
would. Ice alone was a ruinously expensive com-
modity during the hot spell.
“A Melbourne Judge, by the way, was sud-
denly bereaved of his cook on that awful Friday.
Poor wretch ! I wonder if she had been roasting
birds and trying to make aspic ‘ jelly ’ throughout
that torrid week.
“ What a fortune awaits the author of a cheap,
durable, wooden olothes-peg, warranted to hold
“ heavy washing ” on the line, in defiance of all
the strong winds that blow! Whenever, under
the present old-fashioned system of pegging-out,
the voioe of the tempest roars in the back yard, a
wet sheet is bound to break away from its moor-
ings, and Bridget’s valuable time is devoted to
rescuing fallen linen from the dust. As for
handkerchiefs and other small goods, they are apt
to get blown no girl knoweth whither, owing
to the absurd lack of grip in the primitive two-
pronged delusions which profess to keep even
blankets in captivity. True, there is a more re-
cent wooden peg, with a spring fastening, but its
spring goes wrong on slight provocation, and of
the two evils the old original forked-radish
arrangement seems to be generally preferred.
These remarks are inspired by a clatter of falling
pegs, followed by bitter cries of woe from the
family wash-house. Certain “ things ” are no
doubt doomed to another soaking, and all for the
want of some simple patent contrivance not yet
invented. How long, how long ?
“ Professor Tucker, the dandy among Melbourne
pedagogues, has taken to doing the ‘city ’ in a
brown velvet coat and waistcoat, and a brilliant
necktie. Tucker and Harrison Moore are the
only Melbourne professors who are not mere
slouchers in their attire, but this brown-velvet
rig is an aesthetic departure.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.
Judge Backhouse, who tried the Car-
ruthers-Norton libel-suit, is the same merciful
fentleman who released attorney Rofe under the
'irst Offenders Act.
Over 40 more Japs—including nine women
—reached Queensland by the Tsinan last week.
This in spite of Nelson’s and Tozer’s reiterated
declarations that a diplomatic arrangement had
been made to prevent further arrivals. There are
now upwards of two thou sand Japs in Queensland;
and a special line of steamers —felicitated by
Tomjoe Byrnes and the Govt.—is bringing a fresh
consignment every month. Soon Japan will have
such a hold on Queensland that it will be im-
possible to legislate effectively against her little
brown men. For Japan is at this moment
the greatest naval power in the Pacific. When
her ships now building are completed she
will have (says an expert in the North American
Magazine) the most modern and thoroughly-
equipped fleet in the world—not excepting Britain’s
—and she is the only nation to whom recent war
has taught the potentialities of a modern fleet.
And this is the power which aspires to the hege-
mony of the Pacific; and which Australia, through
Queensland, is permitting to establish a solid
settlement on her territory (Thursday Island at
this day is nothing but a Jap. settlement)!!
The push had a lively time at Brighton
(Victoria) on Boxing Day. The push spent) all
the morning filling itself with beer, and then it
sailed out into the blazing 154 deg. sunlight, and
began to fight it out. At one time fights, more’or
less free, were going on in 17 different directions,
and five or six weary, kicked, sunstruck, foundered
policemen were struggling heroically to suppress
the tumult. Just when they were in the thick of
their troubles, an 18th insurrection broke out, and
a hairy man started to strip himself naked on a
cliff, and hurl his garments into the sea. Then the
force abandoned all hopeof makingheadway against
the battle, and contented itself with snatching
rioters from the outskirts of each scrum, and limp-
ing with them to the lock-up, where presently all
the cells, and the henhouse, and the woodshed
were full of prisoners, and there was only room
for one more in the dog-kennel. Next to stoking
the middle furnace in Gehenna, there is probably
no hotter shop open for a policeman than Brighton
on Boxing Day.
N.S.W. Marine Board will doubtless en-
quire into the circumstances attending the
foundering of the Sydney-owned brig Minora,
carrying coal from Newcastle to Port Jackson.
Seven lives were lost. The vessel was of 249 tons
register, and was carrying either 450 or tons
when she foundered. Did the bottom fall right out
of her ? Capt. Gallant—good name !—was the
only one of all hands saved ; after being 23 hours
in the water he was picked up by a passing vessel.
Soon after the brig went down, and while several
of the crew were still afloat, the captain says :
Before the mocn went down a schooner-rigged steamer
came in sight. We called out, and she heard us, and
turned her head round and came within speaking distance.
Someone on the forecastle head sang out to me, “Have
you got a boat?” I answered, “ No, we are on a piece of
plank. Send a boat for us.” The steamer then went
astern, turned her head round, circled round us once, and
finally lay with her starboard and masthead-lights visible
to us all night. At daylight she stood out to the east-
ward, and then went south, as if going to Sydney. If the
steamer had laid as she w r as when I spoke to her, instead
of going astern, we could all have swam to her. At that
tune I could hear the crew singing out two and three men
at a time.
Ladies First. —lf you come to Sydney to spend
the New Year, be sure and leave your measures with our
dressmaker for future reference. Gentlemen next.—Our
tailors will be pleased to take a correct record of your
measures also, for future reference. Ladies and gentlemen
unable to call in and personally select their requirements,
please write, and we will send you what you want, de-
livered free to your dborat.Sydneypric.es, if the parcels
post reaches your district.— Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street only, Sydney, between Market
and King streets. (No charge made for registering
measures).'''


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they wiM
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
■IIMHIkV* ii ll \ f I'V-di
lilt v »YiV.,\v
/TO
1 1,11,1 1
jV «>* *. j il ' il liii !■
•illl
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
FOSTER’S ALE
Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Francis Lord, an Australian by birth and
N.S.W. ex-politician, who has just died in his 86th
year (he was bom three years ahead of Waterloo)
was the last survivor of the Mixed Parliament of
1844.
Baronet Saul Samuel’s heir is an ex-hussar
officer, who had to retire from the army through
an accident in Ireland, whereby he lost a leg.
It is an unlucky title that has a wooden leg in the
second generation.
Out of four Melbourne University Chancel-
lors two were Roman Catholics. Also, the first
and last (Barry and Madden) were Irishmen and
nati' es of Cork. The other two (Brownless and
Moorhouse) were English.
Andrew Lyell, accountant, who lately de-
ceased at Melb., was, very long ago, a Foreign-
trade M.L.A. for Emerald Hill. He went down
when M'Culloch introduced his Protectionist
tariff, and vanished out of politics.
“Neild, Major J.C., M.P., Commanding
7th Regiment, ‘Greycairn,’ Edgecliff.” This is
not a Chinese puzzle, nor a character in the panto-
mime.. It is only the way Jawbone Neild ap-
pears in the N.S.W. telephone-list.
Chief-Justice and Waxellency Madden
must have about the thickest skin in Victoria.
He delights in submitting his shiny bald pate to
the friction of a whalebone machine-brush, which
is more than the average hairy-headed customer
can bear with equanimity.
James Russel, mining pioneer, who died a
few months back in Victoria, was a survivor of
the wreck of the Royal Charter (1859). Having
made a “ pile ” in the early gold days he, with his
wife and two daughters, went home in the Charter,
and the three ladies went down with her.
The other day the convict Butler, of the
notorious Sydney divorce case, made a confession
of bigamy and attempted to commit suicide in
prison. The reason assigned is that the widow
whose chemist’s business the convict managed and
coveted, has re-marrisd. A case of blighted affec-
tion !
Captain Russell, of Maoriland, interviewed
the other day in Sydney, seems to be the only
sanguine man among the seven Opposition leaders
of Australasia, unless Clark of Tasmania be the
other. Lyne, MTntyre, Downer, and the man,
whoever he be, who runs the show in Queensland,
all drag a dejected tail in the dust and have no
hope worth mentioning.
Dr. Cockburn, S.A. Minister of
Agriculture, is an enthusiastic ama-
teur carpenter, and made most
of the furniture in his pri-
vate residence at Mt.
Barker (S.A.)
WHAT SUSIE KNEW.
SUSIE : “ Don’t make such a noise, Tommy!”
TOMMY (who receives religious teaching at school) :
“ Before thou takest the mote out of thy
brother's eye ”
SUSIE : “ Now, none of your horrid school-slang!
You know quite well mother doesn't like it."
Geo. Alfred Lloyd, M.L.C., who died the
other day in Sydney, aged 83 years, was a cute
business man of the olden time. In* the days
when arriving ships were signalled in the primi-
tive semaphore fashion from South Head to the
Observatory Hill, Lloyd was largely engaged in
the importation of breadstuffs. One Sun-
day, so goes the ancient story, word was
brought him in church that a ship was out-
side consigned to him. Flour was then very
scarce, and on the rise. Lloyd promptly made for
the station, where he signalled the ship to keep
out for two or three days till the price of flour got
still higher in the hungry settlement. The result
was a large increase in his profits. In later years,
however, G. A. Lloyd’s luck deserted'him, and he
died comparatively poor, after long suffering from
paralysis.
G. R. Dibbs swore in the witness-box in
Arm id ale, giving evidence in the Carruthers-
IN orton libel-case, that he lost his Tam worth elec-
tion through the circulation of the canard that
he had told working-men to eat grass. Dibbs
stood twice for Tamworth. In 1894, when the
canard was in the heyday of its publicity and in-
fluence, he was elected ; in 1895, when it was dis-
proved, rejected, and practically impotent, he
was defeated. Dibbs comes very close to Wise in
the confused state of his facts.
The feature of Brisbane’s general ceme-
tery is the hill in the centre on which the local
one-time big guns are at rest—two Governors, two
J udges, several old politicians, and various private
citizens who left money enough to pay for their
half-ton monuments. Just beyond this summit,
as though anxious to be away from the crowded
ground, stands a newly-erected granite monolith
to the memory of Drury, of Q.N.B. fame, and
carved in conspicuous letters beneath the usual
formal details one reads—“ Now the laborer’s task
is o er. ’ What a task it was, too !
One millionaire, at least, is about to re-
tire from the clump of London newspaper owners,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
amidst the heartfelt thanks of every j’ournalist.
ihe pioneer ’a’penny evening daily, the Echo,
seeks to bestow .£lO,OOO annual profits on a new
proprietor, whilst Passmore Edwards, broken-
hearted by the weekly expense for paste and
scissors-sharpening, intends to devote his latter
years entirely to battling with old women and
work-girls for a seat on the ’a’penny ’bus. Seventy-
three years of age, his hat bronzed with the wear
that has greenery-yalleried his coat, mean as a
society man with a small income, Passmore passes
out of I leet-street, let us hope forever. Once a
zealous reporter rich with ‘ copy, ’ ragged through
rough usage, tore himself and some of his gar-
ments from the violence of a Trafalgar-square
meeting, and, with the shredded remnants of a
255. silk hat around his neck and ears, ripped out
a capital report for the Echo, and asked that he
might charge for a new hat. The self-advertising
philanthropist raised his hands in horror. ‘ A
new hat?’ he screamed; ‘ why, I’ve never bought
a new hatpin my life !’ The scribe removed his
concertma-’d necklace, gazed long and contemptu-
ously at the economist’s head-covering, said ‘ I
believe you,’ and retired from the Echo. The
money that should have gone in paying his em-
ployes a fair wage has been spent bv Passmore
Edwards in erecting suburban libraries, &c., with
his name glaring o’er the portal, and with the
stipulation that not only his left hand, but both
feet, each sock, and the world’s ears should know
what P.E.’s right-hand was doing.”
Melbourne possesses a cabman who bears
a really astonishing resemblance to a certain
moral politician well-known in the city.
Lately. two ribald and ungodly men
beguiled this cabman into an hotel,
and they set ’em up for him again
and again. Having made cabby
deplorably drunk, they fitted
him out with a belltopper and
a frock-coat, just like those
habitually worn by the
moral politician, and they
took the limp, lowly in-
ebriate, each support-
ing an arm of him,
and they paraded
that awful, wet,
wobbly drunk
along the city
highways, and
people seeing
them were
pained and
grieved, and
said: “Behold
Blank, Esq.,
M.P. ” Blank’s
reputation as a
shining light
and a son of
temperance is
not worth a
bone stud now.
The two men
who perpetra-
ted this joke
were the par-
ticular friends
of Blank, M.P.
It is always
one’s particular
friends who do
little things like
that.
Librarian :
“ The current idea in
Queen Victoria’s young
womanhood, that she would
never bear children, perhaps
gave some edge to the appre-
hensions of the Duchess of Kent
for her safety. The Duchess had
morbid fears that Victoria would
be poisoned. This fearfully enraged
old William IV., because they were
chary about dining with him. In those
days the Duke of Cumberland, who had a small
following of disreputable ex-army officers and
others, really had ideas of seizing the crown by
a coup d’etat, and it is just within the limits of
possibility that his crowd would have poisoned
Victoria had the chance presented itself.”
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, who, accord-
ing to a puffy press claqueur, has just declined the
sixth pressing honor of a minor ecclesiastical
billet in England, was, when a young man and
perhaps less anxious for an eminently respect-
able benefice than now, twice arrested for obstruct-
ing the thoroughfares in the London slums.
Police-reports of that date are said to designate
him as an eminently vigorous street-preacher.
Died, in Wesfcralia, a few weeks
back, Dave Armstrong, a Barrier pioneer,
one of the first workmen to put a piek into
the Broken Hill Proprietary. Of course,
being a pioneer, he didn’t make a pile.
Dr. Walter Roth, author of the new
and epoch-marking book on north-west-
central Q. aborigines, was not “made in
Germany.” He was born in London in
’6l of an English mother and a naturalised
English father. The latter was one of the
Hungarian patriots who fought with Pul-
ski, Kmeti, and Kossuth, and took refuge
in England in famous ’4B.
Rabbi Davis, chief Rabbi of Sydney
Jewish Synagogue, is in the 36th year
°f his ministry in N.S.W., and is 70 years
old. It was reported recently that he
would presently retire in favor of some
younger functionary ; but the ancient
gentleman intimates that while his strength
holds out he will remain at his post, which
has a most liberal stipend attached.
Wragge’s rival meteorologists won’t
publish his forecasts, and Ward, M.L.C.,
has been waging war on his behalf in S.A.
Parliament for two years without success.
o.A. Govt, urges that it would cause a
iresh deficit to pay for the windy eccen-
tricities of the Brisbane man, and the
matter is shelved until Wragge sub-edits
himself a bit.
Thomas Bossence, who died the
“® r day. at Kilmore, Vic., was the hero
ot the immortal question, “ Wud any other
gi ntlenian loike to ask Mr. Bourke a ques-
nV> i e rst £ en %man had asked
lir. Bourke, then a parliamentary candi-
date, a question, and had been promptly
knocked on the head and thrown out with
great violence. Mr. Bossence, whom all
the district knew as “ the grand old man,”
had been for 46 years most of the life and
much of the soul of Kilmore.
Slab from Governor Jerrysmith’s
speech at Coolgardie, the other day :
Lady Smith and myself will be paying
Coolgardie a visit next May, and I hope
the town-folk will go to a reasonable
amount of trouble to procure suitable ac-
commodation for us.” Rough on Mor-
gans, M.P., who was acting host during
'£**” ,A ]so at the opening of the
8001. -Kalgoorlie railway, when Jerry was
staying at the only decent camp at Kal.,
his host was informed, per medium of
A.IJ.C., that “ haw—His Excellency de-
sired a table to himself—haw.”
Percy Frederick Halfey, the gor-
geous Melbourne insolvent who, according
to one witness, spent £5 or £6 a day in
drink, was a son of Halfey, formerly Win-
ter s partner in Melbourne Herald. The
old man made <£240,000, mostly out of
Johnson’s Reef, and left <£Bo,ooo to the
celebrated drinker abovementioned, who
apparently . performed the astonishing
feat of turning practically the whole of it
into liquor.
John Calvert, who died on Nov. 5 in Eng-
land, aged 86, ‘ claimed that he was the discoverer
of gold m Australia.” Heavens, he could talk!
He was out here seven or eight years ago, with a
private secretary,” whose chief duty was to dis-
tribute copies of a glaring account of the old man’s
• an aw ftJ portrait of him in the
middle. Calvert was then full of a marvellous
process he dreamt he had got hold of for leaching
out the salts of gold, and he imagined he was
making millions a year—or was it a week ?—out of
some South American mines, where he was work-
mg it—or thought he was.
Victorian Leg. Councillor Thomas Brunton
is notable principally for his deeply studious ex-
pression. Once he was buttonholed by a Melb.
representative citizen ” who is liberally provided
with feet, and who wanted to lay a grievance be-
fore him at great length. Brunton listened, gazing
downwards, and presently the citizen broke off
?< voPii ln °f his views and said,
Well, you needn t look at ’em ; yours are not so
small.” And now a corpulent man goes round
mentioning to all the fat men he meets that
Brunton is not the “ right-thinkin’ pusson ” he’s
cracked up to be, and ought to be opposed next
election by a man of “sound principles.”
Since Henderson Africanus died, Melb.
journalism has not boasted anything strikingly
picturesque in the shape of imported ebony, but
the local ’Ekald recently made a valuable find.
It is tall and thin with lofty cheekbones and a
weirdly fascinating smile. It was a “ hand ”on
board a ship, and somehow the ship sailed
without it one Saturday. But that night the big
Melb. fire broke out, and next day 6ft. of live mid-
night volunteered tosell ’ERALDspecials. The ebony
was dressed, as befitted the holy day, in a blue-
black belltopper (b.c.), blue-green frock-coat (valu-
able relic, uncertain era) and coke-colored trousers
the earthly ends of which flapped about the place’
where most people wear the calves of their legs.
Of course, the ebony wore white socks, and its
boots were enormous and so densely hobnailed
that when it walked the noise was like that made
by bagman Raphael’s grey pony when he ties it
to a verandah-post. But the ebony cleared 15s. on
his Sunday launch into journalism, and since
then it has gone into the business reg’lar.
It sleeps the Salvation Army’s newly-opened
“ Metropole,” but it leaves a change of clothes at
the newspaper office, for it has lost three pairs of
boots at the “ Army ” doss-house. Its most
treasured possession is an old watch and chain,
and it roosts with the watch clutched in one hand’
and the chain wound tightly round its fingers.
Mauritius, probably, bore it, and it threatens to
become a character. It had no authentic name
up to the time of going to press.
SYDNEY'S NEW MAYOR.
W. K. Simms, the rich Adelaide brewer,
who died lately, was at one time the biggest
Australian holder of Broken Hill shares, and was
still one of the biggest at the date of his death.
Died, suddenly, in S.A., Fred May, in-
ventor of May’s jigs, mostly used in concentrating
the B.H. sulphide ores. May’s and Hancock’s
machines, in fact, divide the work. The works of
the May brothers were at Gawler, S.A,, to which
town May was introduced by James Martin, at a
time when the engineering output of the place
consisted exclusively of a few agricultural imple-
ments.
The Maoriland Salvationists deny that
Philpott, accused of the murder and secret burial
of his mate, Hawthorne, was ever a full-fledged
member of the Army ; though he played in the
band and helped to spread “ the Word ” among
the Maoris. Bosher, hanged for the murder of
an old couple, at Petone, a very little while ago,
was a full-blown member of the blood -an d -blazes
brotherhood.
The best ant-eradicator is sugar mixed
with tincture of arsenic to form a paste. The
ants that .eat it die, and their arsenicated bodies
are cannibalised by the survivors, who in turn
perish, and are eaten, and pass the poison along
to their consumers. This goes on till all the colony
is dead and done for.
Dear Bulletin, —Are insects—red-back
spiders and the like—more venomous some seasons
than others? Experience out West (N.8.W.)
seems to indicate that they are and that this
summer the poison has been particularly deadly.
The list of victims is much longer than usual ;
one of those who died was C. M‘Rae, formerly
manager of Yanko and Mt. Wood, a man who
reckoned that he was proof against most of the
plagues of the bush. —X.
Indian police item from the Western
Star
A correspondent expresses amused amazement at a
street episode witnessed by him, the other day. A couple
of Pullayar women were caught in the act of cutting
grass on the roadside, which, of course is against T.I.C.
Rules ; wherefore the Nair bobby, who saw the culprits
thus infringing the law, called them to account. But as
it would be rank pollution to touch the lowly culprits
our policeman found himself in a dilemma, as he’
obviously, could not take them into custody without con-
taminating his too clean hands. The law, however, must
be vindicated ; and this was effected by the women being
made to slap themselves on their cheeks with their own
sinful hands, by order of the law’s representative—who
stood afar off while sentence was being executed.
It must be comparatively easy work to be a police-
man among a population which is so docile that it
can be made to spank itself.
It is a compliment often hurled at the Aus-
tralian weekly press that, as foster-nurseto budding
Australian genius, it usurps the place of some-
thing or other not specifically clearly stated. This
is quite true. It is claimed for the Sydney Mail
for instance, that it “discovered” Rolf Boldre-
wood, and gave, through its columns, “ Robbery
Under Arms.” It appears, from a foot-note
to a “poem” in a booklet which has
reached this office, that it also “discovered”
Ida Lee, and published, per medium of its
Christmas number (1896), that brilliant effort
of genius, “ The Bush Fire.” It will probably go
on “discovering,” and showering on a grateful
world intellectual gems of the same calibre. There
are other poems in Ida Lee’s volume besides “ The
Bush Fire,” which is itself unique. As Mark
Twain would observe, “ There is nothing like it in
the Vatican”; and, it should be safe to add,
“nor anywhere else.” An eerie suspicion arises
just here, however. Among the Sydney Mail’s
gifted ] Kiel’s contributions to eternal song there is
one entitled “ White Sea Horses.” Now is Rud-
yard plagiarising? Or did Ida Lee plagiarise
Rudyard ? This will be one of the curiosities of
literature when Kipling is forgotten.


“ THREE GOOD THINGS ”
. . Madps in England. . .
Holbrook’s w******™ Sauce
Holbrook’s •*-*** Pickles
Holbrook’s *■»*“ Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce HAS BEEN AWARDED MORE PnZ6 Mod&lS
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
WabnEb’s Safe Cube is a Specific fob Livkb
and Kidney Disease.*
Liverpool asd Lopdoi?
# (Slobe iQS&raoce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. 11. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MR. F. TRESCOTT, of ALICE-ST., NEWTOWN
near Sydney, who SUFFERED from SEVERE
INDIGESTION, writes
“ Two doses of Loasby’s Wahoo relieved me, and by the
time I had taken half a bottle I was entirely free
from pain, and have been well ever since.”
Loasby’a “ "W-A-Ho O,’’
2s. 6d. Everywhere; Post Free from
Loasby’s ‘Wahoo’ Manufacturing 1 Co. Ld
171 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
FRANZ JOSEF .
FIX-BEKTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Sup
Qualities.
LASER B€€R
Aboriginalities.
Dear B. —Marvellous ho w the far- back bush-
fuan, as a rule, remains immune from hydatids
and kindred diseases. Out on the runs he swal-
lows all sorts of stagnant water, mostly teeming
with insects, often covered with a fetid green
scum. The holes are few and far between, and in
hot weather he comes to each with a ravenous
thirst. He seldom carries a pannikin, and pull-
ing a ‘strainer' of grass or herbage is too
much trouble. Dropping on all fours, he dabs his
mouth in the water, and drinks like any other
animal—germs, insects, scum and bully-frogs,
just as they come. Each water has its own par-
ticular taste. One has such a decided cow-yard
flavor that you expectorate frequently after
quaffing it, and hurry to get your pipe alight.
Another is so impregnated with eucalyptus that
it seems more like a dose of medicine than a plain
drink ; while a third is simply gidgea tea, which
gives you the “ barcoo ” for a week after. Then
there are the mineral waters, each one asserting
its own little peculiarity in regard to your innards.
For color you can’t very well go wrong. They’re
all there—from lime-white to jet black. Often
the water is in mere potholes. But the thirsty
one never takes into consideration the probable
variety and condition of his predecessors—dogs
that lapped it and rolled in it; the tired old gin
who soaked her sore feet in it; sheep with can-
cered lips, oxen with pleuro pneumonia, and
crows and hawks with beaks freshly stained with
the oily entrails of the ’guana. I’ve seen it all at
different holes, and there is nothing to prevent
the lot happening at one. It makes one shudder
to think of the incongruous mixture that a man
thus carries home in his stomach after a day on
the run. I once drank at a small running stream,
on the road from Nanango to Jondaryan. It was
spring water, clear as crystal, but of rather
sweetish taste. I attributed this to the presence
of minerals. I also noticed a lot of fibrous matter
floating down. Roots of herbs, I thought. Rid-
ing towards the spring just afterwards, I dis-
covered a dead cow lying lengthwise in the
middle of the course. She was pretty well washed
out, and the water was running clean through
her—a sort of tunnel as it were. The herbage
roots, I noticed, were being dislodged from the
more ancient parts of her.—6xB.
THE BEAUTY OF HOLINESS.
SKY PILOT (to bullocky): “ Oh, my good man, it’s — ah—fearful to hear you—ah—
taking holy names in vain."
BULLOCKY (just after offering up a prayer): “Lord bless you, mister — ’tain't in
vain. The cows wouldn’t go a yard without it. ”
Dear Bulletin,—Saw some blacks travel-
ling lately north of Milparinka, N.S.W. The
gins were loaded with the usual paraphernalia—
wardrobe, blankets, piccaninny, tucker, and spare
weapons. The old man carried a couple of
boomerangs in his belt, a spear in one hand, and
a water-bail in the other. In no other part of
Australia have I seen him burdened with a water-
bag. The country must be passing dry when the
aboriginal monarch gets down to that. — Werri-
MEE.
Out in the far North-West a zealous Baptist
farmer named Gumridge lent a corner of his pad-
dock to the dippers whereon to build a chapel. A
boss Baptist came up and declared it well and
truly laid, blessed it, and took up a collection. A
few days afterwards a breeze came down a certain
gorge to the west, lifted the chapel up and took it
over the fence into Smith’s paddock. Smith ob-
jected, so the sect hitched on a couple of bulls and
dragged the building back to Gumridge’s. Every-
thing went along all right after that until one
Sunday, just as the audience was leaving and the
parson was counting the funds on the back step,
a gentle cyclone, accompanied by a whirlwind’
carried the doomed church skyward, spun it round
a few times, and landed it on its head over in
Smith’s. The whirlwind then went back for the
parson and blew him over among the ruins, where
he was found in a dazed condition clutching the
collection in both hands. Smith was very much
annoyed at this second invasion, and said it would
give a bad tone to his farm if they didn’t at once
remove the wreck. The congregation then
organised a bee and threw the church back
over the fence bit by bit, and decided
they would abandon the luckless tabernacle
for good. Gumridge volunteered to build
her up again, which he did, even putting in
a new bell and rope. But it was no go ; the folks
weren’t taking any. Then Gumridge opened the
front door and turned it into a cow-shelter. One
Sunday after this the inhabitants were astonished
to hear the chapel-bell tolling about 10.45, and
thinking some celebrated dipper had come up on
a special trip, and the weather being calm, they
all dressed up, and, armed with Bibles, started off
to church. When they arrived at the old familiar
entrance, they found the chapel wasn’t there.
They could still hear the bell tolling, however, in
the hazy distance, and at length discovered Gum-
ridge’s black cow dragging the church round the
paddock by the bell-rope, which had become
twisted round her leg during the night. Gum-
ridge cut the rope, and remarked that, as the
building was now handier to his homestead, he
would turn it into a milking-shed. The people
returned home rather disgusted. What they want
now—and want it badly—is another wind to come
across and carry the old cathedral clean out of the
district. And they wouldn’t be very sorry if
Gumridge’s black cow went along with it.
A couple
o f months
back, a big
buck-larri-
kin was be-
fo r e the
Mel b. city
court, and,
after it had
been related
how he
fought “more
like a wild
baste than a
mahn,” the
loyal Panton
broke into a
eulogy of the
said larri-
kin’s phy-
sique, told
him to to go
the Indian
frontier and
fight for his
Queen, and
became so
moved at his
own picture
of the push-
man dying in
a far country
for his be-
loved mon-
arch that lie
let him off
with a nomi-
nal fine. The
brawny
youth got the
hang of Pau-
ton’s re-
marks all
right, and
last week the
o pporfcunity
came. A
couple of
Afghan haw-
kers strolled
alongSpring-
street, and
wandered
right into the
arms of Pan-
ton’s pro-
tege. The
latter in-
stantly re-
member e d
the magistrate’s good advice, and, remarking
hastily “ Gor Save the Bloomin’ Queen,”- stoushed
both the aliens vigorously. Unhappily, Panton
was absent when the loyal young man was
brought before court next day, and he was fined
* * * *
The beetle-catching industry is proving a
golden harvest to the freckled kiddies of Banana-
land sugar districts. The youngsters were first
paid so much a score or so much a hundred
beetles, but the wearied officials finally decided to
give up counting and pay the urchins by weight.
And every boy in the beetle industry immediately
commenced to soak his beetles in water over-
night, and the beetle, being absorbent, grows
heavy, and fetches double price when pay-day
comes.
An artesi-
an bore has
worked won-
ders for the
back-blocks,
oattle-route,
overlanding
township of
Thargomin-
da h. Not
only is the
place elec-
trically light-
ed, the elec-
trical dynamo
being worked
by water-
power, but
the wa te r-
service of the
town itself is
used for driv-
ing punkahs,
at least one
wood - turning
and opal - cut-
ting lathe, and
a printing-ma-
chine. Mean-
w'h i 1 e, the
sleepy metro-
polis of Bris-
bane is going
blind on poor
gaslight, elec,
trie - lighting
being as yet
only a sporadic
luxury there.
* *
Dear Bul-
letin, The
gins on the
Rich m o n d
River will
never mention
the name of a
dead blackfel-
low. Saw a
woman coax-
ing one for an hour to tell the name of her departed
husband. But the poor old lips were sealed. His
name, according to the'rites of the tribe, must never
more be spoken. Is this custom general, and
what is the reason ?— Werrimee.
* * * *
Jacky grinned from ear to ear as he
entered the store. “ You gib it bottle gin—tick
um up,” he suggested to the storekeeper in his
most seductive manner. “No fear, Jacky; no
tick here. Bring the money or clear out,” re-
sponded the storekeeper severely. “ Gib it bottle,”
persisted the uncrowned king. “That one gin
mine been have um baby.” The storekeeper’s
daughter looked interested. “Poor thing,” she
remarked, and the father, relenting,' said, “ All
right, give him a small bottle. I suppose we’ll
never get paid, but, under the circumstances, let
him have it.” The girl got down the square face,
and handing it over to Jacky, followed him to the
door. “When did she have the baby, Jacky;
this morning?” she asked as the dusky one
stepped into the street. “ Hoo, no, gin have um
baby long timo. Baby grown up now.”
* * * *
Anyone who loves to write poetry about
the bushman’s lonely grave should see an abori-
ginal “ mourning.” A blackfellow comes in with
news of the death of a countryman. The gins at
once commence a blood-curdling howl, which anon
drops into a dismal chant or death-song. They
throw themselves down in apparent anguish, some-
times on top of another noisy mourner, when they
bash and kick and hug one another, and roll over
into agonies. This lasts perhaps an hour. The
males squat round the fires, beating time on the
ground with sticks, or with their hands, their
heads bowed down —silent. When the news ar-
rives early in the day a preliminary “mourning ”
is gone through, and the “ big feller cry ” begins
in earnest about nightfall. w hen it’s all over,
another black, ignorant of what has been done,
may arrive with the same sad news. Then the
cheerful function and all the variations have to be
gone through again—the little fellow cry and the
big fellow cry and all the rest of it.
Dear Bulletin, Besides many other
things, a drought has a fine knack of upsetting
bush signs of rain. “ When the sugar gets damp,”
they say in the bush, “it’s going to rain.” So it
is, according to mulga weather-prophets, when
ants run up a tree, and frogs quawk at night, and
when the flies are bad. When your corns ache,
and rheumatic pains run up and down your spine,
and black cockatoos screech and fly westward, it’s
a dead certainty to rain soon ; and when ground
spiders cover their holes, and there’s a ring round
the moon, you can lay heavy odds that it’ll rain
within the next 24 hours. Should your dog bark
at a quarter to 1 a.m., it’s the deadest certainty of
all that it 11 rain, and you’d better repair your
spoutings and stuff up the leak in the roof before
daylight breaks. These “ signs ” are undeniably
THE SHANTY-INDICATOR.
THIRSTY CYCLIST (after a twenty -miles run out back): “We’re nearing a
pub. at last."
“ montes ” when rain is close at hand or shortly
after it begins to come down ; but in time of
drought they’re the most unreliable tokens of wet
weather or anything else on this beautiful earth.
For the past four or five months I’ve noticed every
one of these “signs” in their turns, but up to-
date they’ve all turned out miserable failures. Not
a drop of rain has fallen to uphold their reputa-
tions. But, perhaps, ’97 happens to be the very
year in which their term of service has expired,
and the new “signs” which have replaced them
are still unknown, and have not yet had an oppor-
tunity to prove their reliability.—6 xB.
♦ :
Messrs. J. Albert and Sons, the well-
known Sydney firm at 118 King-street, claim to
have revolutionised the musical trade in their
town by selling good articles at low prices. They
are retailers and wholesalers of pretty well every-
thing from a jews-harp to a church organ.
Specialities are violins, mandolines, autoharps ;
while of guitars zithers, anglos, flutes, accor-
deons, cellos, cornets, banjos and strings, there is
an immense collection, sold on time-payment or
for spot cash. The firm is particularly proud of its
very own Boomerang and King Billy mouth-
organs, which have brought Joy to Bill and Jim,
not to mention Augustus. Also, the firm sells all
sheet music at a much-reduced rate ; and the har-
mony with which it has flooded Australia is a fact
which takes the same size in corsets as Kosciusko.*
PRETENSION.
In the long run a man almost always passes in
the world for what he is personally and morally
worth. Very idle is all curiosity as to what other
people may think of us, and all fear that we may
remain unknown. What we can do, and are
doing, is seen and virtually acknowledged by
those who know us, and with whom we are from
day to day associated. The world is full of judg-
ment days ; and in all the relations and actions of
life, men are gauged and stamped, and their true
value understood.
All men and all things must stand on their
respective merit. Among the scientific agents
which have stood the test is Warner’s Safe Cure.
Mr. D. Giovannoni, the well-known vigneron, of
Daylesford, Vic., reports : “ I was suffering
from a bad liver, and used Warner’s Safe Cure to
great advantage, and can recommend this medicine
to anyone suffering from the same.”


When you feel tired, hot and dusty, a hot
bath with Scrubb’s Antiseptic Skin Soap will
revive your spirits—it acts as a stimulant as well
as a cleanser. Cleanliness is the only skin beau-
tifier, and those who desire a clear, healthy skin
should use Serubb : s Soap and no other. It is the
purest soap made ; it contains delicate emollient
properties which soften the skin, so that it becomes
velvety as a baby’s.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION. •
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Antipodean makes its annual reap-
pearance this year after a considerable break in its
existence (this way of stating the case is distinctly
Irish, and may be set down to the disturbing
influences of the ’9B centenary). The book is well
printed and admirably illustrated by such artists
as Frank P. Mahony, Geo. W. Lambert, A. J.
Fischer, Percy Spence, and Alf. Vincent; and it
contains a couple of reproductions from etchings
by Livingston Hopkins, many reproductions of
capital photographs, and some drawings to illus-
trate an article on Polynesian art by C.
Hedley, F.L.S. The reading matter consists
of 17 contributions in all, many of them by
well-known Bulletin writers. Probably the
best of the prose is Roderic Quinn’s “On the
Dividing Chain,” but “Steele Rudd’s” tale of
a selection and Dyson’s “ Fossicker ’’areclose up ;
also, Essex Evans’ “ Gulf Idyll.” Henry Lawson’s
“ Daughter of Maoriland ” is a blighting satire on
Hinemoa, that legendary sweet brown girl, who
has filled these provinces with so much beautiful
delusion, and made so many readers forget the
fact that the head of the Maori maiden is apt to
be rancid with much old whale-grease, or some
similar compound. Also, there are two poems by
“Banjo” Paterson. “ Saltbush _ Bill’s Second
Fight ” has many streaks of humor in it, and,
if it isn’t quite so desperate an encounter
as Bill’s first conflict, that probably arises
from the fact that even Bill can’t keep
up to quite the same level of ferocity all the time.
Saltbush Bill, if followed up, might become an
enduring personality like Bret Harte’s Jack Ham-
lin and Colonel Starbottle. He seems to have
good lasting qualities about him. J. B. O’Hara
and Miss Ethel Turner are among the contri-
butors, and various people supply articles on
various subjects of deep Australian erudition—
Meston on the local aborigine being among the
most interesting of the lot. Also, veteran J.
Brunton Stephens contributes a poem which com-
pares well with the best of his early work.
APENTA.
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“ Its composition is constant.” —Lancet.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Co. Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
The name and goodwill in connection with the word “Dunlop” having been acquired from the Dunlop Cycle Company
Limited—makers of the famous ....
Z&
VJV
■IKS*
•a
by the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company Limited, in deference to the wishes of Dunlop Tyre customers, we have
decided ....
. . TO . .
adopt forthwith the name of Ariel Cycle Company liimited, as makers of
ABIEI. BYCT.ES
I mm IHW— —m—mi mihi i hi—ii immmmmmmmmmmmtmmmMmmmmmnmMtmmmtwmmmMnnMwmmmmmmtmwmmwmmmummmun —
The design, quality and manufacture of Ariel Cycles will be identical with that of the
Dunlop Cycles, whilst all the many World’s Records, etc , and Testimonials belonging to
the Dunlop Cycle Company, and made on Dunlop Tyres, will apply with equal force to
the Ariel Cycles, and the
ARIEL CYCLE COMPANY LIMITED
(Late Dunlop Cycle Company Ltd.),
Head Office: 116 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS— (Signed)
Tlie Austral Cycle Agency Limited.
3M
msm
Ef«
J
•
- v,*
' A, :
V
Manager.
Head Office : 139, 141 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; 391 George Street, Sydney.
Depots at Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Charters Towers, Warrnambool, Launceston, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
When the Bogan sent a cricket-team, the other
day, to play the men of dreary Dandaloo, it was found
that the Dandaloonatic bats had gone a-missing, and the
match was played with pick-handles. The top score was
a whole half-dozen.
* * * *
An umpire story. The city team was playing the
Gum-Flat Excelsiors and their crack batsman came in. In
the first over he was obviously caught, but the umpire said,
“ Oh, I’ve no doubt he hit the ball; but I’ve ’eard this
young feller is a great bat, and I want to see wot ’e can
do. Not out! ”
* * • •
In Victoria the Law seems conducive to cricket.
Bruce and Johns are solicitors, and James Quirk, captain
of Melb. University team for years, has only come out of
his shell since his recent admission as a barrister. His
latest score is 94.
* * * *
Cynic: “ Cricket consists of 11 grown men
running after something worth 2s. 6d.” Another cynic :
“ Cricket consists in running all day after something, and
throwing it away as soon as you get it.”
* » • •
A very clever timber jock., whose mounts are
always backed by the lambs, has been losing for the last
12 months in a most masterly manner. One day he will
accidentally give some steward a pill, and then—down
goes M‘Ginty.
* * * •
A broken-down Melb. bookie recently induced a
money-lender to advance him £3 on the only pawnable
asset he and his Leah had left in the world, i.e., his wife’sen-
gagement-ring. He wanted the money to make up their
joint fares to the West, but finding he was still short he
“ gave the £3 a chance ” the same day at Aspendale. He
backed five winners, won £llO, and is happy. A very rare
instance of fortune favoring a last-chance gamble.
* * * »
Dear Bulletin, —I am quite of your opinion ;
the time has arrived for Tatt.’s to protect the public from
the barefaced robbery they are subject to. Why not drop
the horse element altogether and make them all money-
prizes at once, and so strike a death-blow to the barnacles.
The horse element is quite unnecessary.—A. B.
* * * *
Rudyard Kipling, in one of his “Plain Tales
from the Hills,” makes one of his characters a Victorian
jockey, who was smashed up whilst riding over the stiff
jumps in the Maribyrnong Plate ! Next.
« * * •
A beautiful moral lesson is embodied in the fact
that there are eleven heavy professional backers of race-
horses confined in Pentridge at the present time, but not
a single bookie of any pretentions.
*'m * *
A Northern jockey had just lost a coveted race
that he had tried his best to win. He had been in the
habit of advising the owner to win small races at first,
but the owner had acted contrariwise and won a big event
(for that part of the country). This had weighted the
horse, and the specially-coveted stake was lost. Jockey
led the horse back into the saddling-paddock, with down-
cast face. Owner: “ Well, you didn’t doit?” “ No, an’
it serves you bloomin’ well right. You wasn’t content
with a cottage at a time, but you mus’ go an’ snavel a
bloomin’ terris in one shot an’ get hover-’andicapped.
Bah ! you blokes knows nothin’.”
* * * *
Few pugilists have the knack of teaching
the noble art in addition to being first-class with both
knuckles and gloves. Mace was a wonder with knuckles,
but, by the time he had finished that portion of the game,
his hands were smashed up, and, when glove-fighting
came in vogue, he had the good sense to travel on his
past phenomenal reputation. When Jem came to Aus-
tralia his hands were too far gone even for teaching, and
the writer has seen him wince again when he jarred
them in setting-to with a pupil—whereupon James
usually brought the lesson to a close with a hard punch
from the other hand. A broken-handed man of even
Mace’s wonderful science is about as useful as a Carbine
with faulty feet. Larry Foley stands, perhaps, as the one
man who has succeeded at the three phases of the game-
knuckles, gloves, and teaching. Captain Macdonald was
chock-full of sound theory, which Larry had the sense to
pick up ; and, when Mace came along with the practical
portion of the game, it put the finishing touch on Foley.
Larry proved himself a first-class man both in the fields
and on the boards, and when he took to the teaching
business, he turned out such men as Fitzsimmons, Peter
Jackson, Griffo, George Seale, Slavin, Dooley, Jack Hall,
Jem Hall, Jack Molloy, and others too numerous to men-
tion. A truly brilliant record.
* » • *
The news of Dan Creedon’s defeat by “ Kid ”
M‘Coy, the Yankee boxer, comes as no surprise to The
Bulletin. Modern glove-fighting has proved that the
old-time style of stocky, short-reached fighter has no
show with the modern six-footer under Queensberry
rules. M‘Coy, who is stated to be a very clever fighter,
must be the beau-idtal of a modern middleweight,
spreading his lOst. 101 b. over sft. llin. in height. Creedon
never showed himself a “ clever ” boxer in this country,
and the writer ventures to predict that, when details
arrive, it will be found M‘Coy landed when and where he
liked on the slow, short Australian.
* * * »
The dispute between Melb. City Council and
the Crown authorities re the opening of a road right to
the gates of the M.C.C. Ground is peihaps the most fat-
headed deadlock in Australia at present. Nobody knows
the exact circumstances of the case, and nobody can
understand why a road is not opened, but there is a vague
idea that the dignity of the City Council is at stake, and
the Mayor would be lowered in the popular estimation in
some way if that road were opened. Nobody ever sus-
pected the Council of having any dignity, but, all the
same, the public has to get out of its cab afar off, and
wade through the dust to the ground, and the Australian
adjective gives the atmosphere a crimson tint. The
other day a cab was wanted at the ground gate for a
busted cyclist, and the sports-managers had to ’phone to
the town-clerk for permission to bring that vehicle into
the park, and, by the time permission arrived, the
damaged rider had gone home on a barrow, or some-
thing of the kind.
(Continued on page 24).
NORMAN HARDY.
fhe above is a representation of Norman
Hardy, for the last six years special artist of the
Sydney Mail, to which paper he has contributed
many admirable sketches of Australian life and
scenery. Mr. Hardy started his art career before
he was out of infantile petticoats, but the only art
school in which he studied was that of 1 red
Brown, then President of the New English Art
Club which has counted among its members,
Whistler, Wilson Steer, Stott, and other eccen-
trics. For the rest Mr. Hardy followed his in-
stincts ; and, considering that his grandfather,
father, mother and brother (Paul Hardy) are all
votaries of Art, it was natural that his instincts
should lead him a very considerable way on the
path to success. Mr. Hardy, who is leaving for
England, says he has enjoyed in Australia six
most pleasant years, and, from a social point of
view,much regrets leaving a country where he has
made friends so many and so valued.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted , whether sent by po t or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
J.H.D. : A nicely-written nothing R. All-
bery : Not nearly up C.W.W. : Commonplace and
slummocky The Shaker : Lamentable scribble. Verse
especially shouldn’t be cryptographic... Leo D. B. :
Without form and void P. : Don’t care to make jokes
about the widow who aims dreadful verse at her hus-
band’s memory. She means well, anyhow The Kiley :
“Hunter” will do Nil: All three poems ac-
cepted with thanks D.B. (Dulwich) : Poem small
and weak and quite harmless. .. L.A. : Poem begin-
ning “ Ranji, Ranji, Ranji, Ranji ” is hereby rejected
W.R.W. : The things we would like to say about your
suggested cartoon would get us six months .... D.B. :
“ Early in the Morning ” is only a nice little bird-twitter
with no force in it S. O’B. : An old-man drought is a
rushing river by comparison with the dryness of your
“ Dry-Hash Shearer,” and a mummy is drinkable along-
side it Wattle : Sorry, but Steele Rudd has a mono-
poly of Old Dad and the selection. If you want to write
you must invent quite a different Old Dad of your own
Wandus : Xmas soliloquy poem bumps too heavily on the
hind wheel Belshazzar B. : Both very nearly
good enough, though neither quite gets there. Try
for more promising subjects, and don’t cultivate the low-
spirited variety of verse Albert Lee : Some promise,
but hardly good enough. Metre rough in places ; some
good verses, some very bad Tindog : “ Married and
otherwise ladies” is good O. : Not taking any high
shearing tallies this week Jeannie : Are you the
painfully advanced female who asked us to insert that
underclothing item ?...i..Drover : Old and pointless
W. : Dreary as a sermon in a desert W.L.B. : You
send five verses saying you can’t write verse. And you
certainly can’t Phoenix : Not interested in the church
hat A.L. (W.A.): Do we think your style dry
enough? We think it’s simply parched ! Ajax: Go
ahead. We like to hear you shriek. .. H.G. (Young:
Many thanks Jay : Take more pains, and drop that
howling, tearing style of verse J.C. (Fremantle) :
Below par Dargo : Will probably publish shortly
X. : The statement that “Life is a river” isn’t wildly
original. J. Crawford: Thanks........ Styx : Received
with bricks Diamantina Dick : Probably when your
regiment of Australian buckjumpers went to devastate
Britain’s enemies in the East they would encounter an
enemy who could buckjump just as well as they could.
The Reader : Will inquire Frank H. : Screed
illegible Pot: Tin-pot ! L.B.T.C. : Dead flat
F.W. : “You can stick it in 3'our next issue.” We’ve
stuck it in the basket H.H.W. : Some grace of ex-
pression, but no force or distinction Dock : You ought
to be in one. Rank, raving libel W. Skey : Very in-
different ; not your line F.B. : Maudlin rubbish.
L.M. : You say you feel “ a poetic presence in the
howling winds.” Then stop writing yourself and ask the
howling winds to send along a contribution instead
Constant Reader : The creditors can make you insolvent.
Lay the case before them if they press you, and either
offer them long-dated P.N.’s, with interest, or at the
worst see if they will take over your chance of the rever-
sion among them in full payment ... Kellen : Cucumber-
yarn is eucumbrous .... Jube : A man according to strict
grammar doesn’t “ fall prone on his back.” “ Prone ”
means face downwards; the other way is “ supine ”
Besides, your screed falls both ways E.P. : Story hasn’t
got enough clothes on it. We are still blushing
Angel : Can’t discover any sign of wings about you .. .
Steve O’B : “ Day of Change ” nearly up to mark. The
pathos is genuine ; whereas in the other it is forced.
Difference between sentiment and sentimentalism
Swampy : Malarial verse.


rj z=jST W’f £/c’s_w/'£A7rw£/? ■
U rfjj|p\ /^ OJ « M?iho-u.Hie Scnrxatet-a*
/ M fV -/otA-nct' 1
f Tl /"S. \M * ?72 0 l/re/ ~f' eK^CXXA - s t ecl condtfton, /
Wilr / ° lcL jV/e/< j “sAo'oi Collects eci on YAm~ '
/ / j
I o >a « /J
iff' m/ssfon. JJ
' j TO~jy /Tc? Zsir<xs doz-ne /&~ llti
I) / I I'm J W/t M* Acs/oi/al ied. Jj
/ ___ II ' c£o&f<,*
J / — —J I, JT = *’ , ,
ft. ./ na.cZ vaZcmcecZ 4/s s, /^e
/ooA AAe fi-atee /Ae. fia~t/eii£j cnicZ Sa/cZ;
A/e s C<ff /icteci ~Uz-IZ/l /ecct '
ktCite S— W'he.f-e 1 heu, police. ? W^et-e
OLte. ~/Ae ?
J& /vVe- . - AUnAf*
-fool ( Mej/'z-e
im d&f h~ •
The police had a very lively time of tt s,t
Brighton Beach on Boxing day owing to the
enormous crowd of people who gathered
there from, all the suburbs of Melbourne.
Amongst others was a large number of lar-i
rikins of both sexes from Richmond and
Collingwood, and towards evening a» the'
combined effects of the beat and beer sjpt ;
gan to tell,. matters assumed .a lurid ■ com-
plexion. Hostilities commenced in ..the.
baths,
Later on several fights were in progress,oil
the beach and in froiit of the hotels, afid
the pplice came in for somerougKjiajidliiy
/4<£ /
A/n/<: s ///6oss/Y/e^
7Y -maAe c./- 1 e.A ef-
h ea. r-a hi z. -oj-zYA Yfie.
jAc*SS <=i/~ / S'B . iccty
//' tsV-OT*. Icl
Cot / h < /7
great heat. ,
WIDESPREAD IN ITS EFFECT
SYDNEY CRICKETERS AFFECTED.
Occasional hot days are naturally expected
dn summer, but it is unusual to experience
.such enervating and oppressive heat as has
prevailed in Melbourne during the last few ■
days. Many strange things have happened,'
but nothing is more singular than for a:
cricketer born and' bred in Sydney to be
seriously affected by the Melbourne
weather,
mmmj—
laPWlßii
“ y)d
d l !r ?
A
f
r y ” J
" ?n^
' / / ) )
<■> ...
/*'
f W 111 r ¥ '' i I>VY .
If nf L x-y* Ki
H f <PJ C ° V' ft .b'l 1 *
1/41 I k ** h'f
3|/- ’ Y
THE MELBOURNE HEAT WAVE AND OTHER MATTERS.


\%
\ ffM
N v Jy
A*
O—JrJ
S H I im Tije
■*> T^W
p‘t r
The’Sabbs
(MTi+B.
jVVooja
I>/||SsS)EAE>KOOKe
tt\e rAf\ ID IN
J^I<_kV^ITTINC,ToN
AS K-s W
ik t^e Q i^ist ~nft
Ki Lt-E
'(OM
VfooTvgtu-
AT
\
T^EAr^e
Roy^u.
/u\l*w £ \
Tlaw e jjuBB/\s.E>
AT Tifft THEATRE
Royax— ,
’H. \
T^cwe,
U^>Al s£+^>
'
-LVCC
ri R Sh«i£
AT LYCEUM
,S V T <e
as "rVuSY'
\n HER Gtoo^'Soxc^
at Jack -sne C^t
<ni-ER. "
AT THE SYDNEY PANTOMIMES.


mi)
innuni.
SECOND
YEAR OF
ISSUE,
....JUST 0UT....
Chronicle of NS W. Events. Alphabetically
Arranged. Well Indexed. One Shilling-
ANTED Complete Files of The Bulletin
for 1882. Apply, Manager.
A SILVER WATCH
C3H - V3E33XT -A.'W-A.Y.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
C*M*L*M*IM*S OF T* E |
S’AS’N. ;
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
j’ou purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
“ I have received the watch and chain per terms of the
advertisement, and in perfect order, and the quality of
which gives me more than satisfaction. —Yours, &c.,
Mrs. W. M’CARTHY, South Broken Hill.”
Address—THE MANAGER
The English V/atch and Jiwellery Company,
No. 9 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (2nd FLOOR)
PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
AND AT 33 and 35 OLD EXCHANGE, ADELAIDE.
j)auid graham & (Jo.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
<aCQtlen)Cl)’S —K —
—H — S(litil)gs
For the Coining Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Viekerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clotliing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
Missing Friends.
CROW.— Wanted to know the whereabouts of
PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hear of something to his advantage. Information
thankfully received and acknowledged.
FEE BY LETTER
(INCLUDING MEDICINE).
Des. FREEMAN and WALLACE IN THE CONSULTING ROOM .-(See page 1.)
FEE BY LETTER - £l.
(INCLUDING MEDICINE).
FREE
CIGARS
S map3° IN THESLCmteBS=E
m.
rrtlfE
iiuiiiminiiiimmii
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
The SUFFIELD CASE.
T o
NEWSAGENTS AND OTHERS.—A 64 pp. Pamphlet, giving full evidence in this
ous Case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of Alleged Outrage. Just Published.
Post Free from “ The Bulletin ” office, 7d.
Publications.
'absolutlyl
jhe^BestJ
m
tT)ey Contain
PIANO VOLOS
P/ANO DVETS
yOCAL DUETS
SONGS +?
Lists
.M/ul&d
Ff^EE
v
MS
&
G-eo. Robertson & Co *>
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney. .
Wholesale 8s Retail Booksellers 8s Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fa «°Ypeathei
Goods Ladies 1 Work-baskets. Smokers Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet _
Photographs of English & Colonial Celebmttei
FOUR SYDNEY NEWSPAPERS SPEAK.
THE LANGUAGE OF COMTE
It is an easv enough thing to get a testimonial from an unscrupulous member of tliegreat unktimvn
referred to, and apart from any outside dictation whatsoever.
“ SYDNEY TRUTH.”
« -ruiVilin have seen so much reliable evidence that the Minerva remedies have done, and can
do whaUs P dSmed of the?n no room for doubt is left. The Minerva preparations are gaming
nn ev erv side and this paper is glad to see that their virtues are widely recognised. A London
. fRo pffir.oAv 0 f the Tonic have below them the signatures of some of Sydney s leading citize ,
Sd lhatiKmlta’i„"SAme»ded by leading sldne, doctors a, the best that was ever put on
the market.”
“ SYDNEY EVENING NEWS,”
TT the heading of “A Popular Tonic”:— “The Minerva Tonic and Emulsion are two of the
iremSdßThe most able physicians who could.be retamed for the purpose, and that the result has
justified the means is evidenced by the testimonials received.
“ SYDNEY SUNDAY TIMES,”
man in a leading position who derived benefit from taking the Tonic.
“SYDNEY FREEMAN’S JOURNAL,”
SStwS™. carrying such evidence as this of .t. value may be safely recommended.
t „y
they speak with the voice of Stentor, carrying prompt and lasting conviction.
Took
is the greatest restorative that was ever put on the Australian
market, and just as it is without an equal now, so it is likely to
remain without a rival during the present generation. Compounded by chemists of the first Pharma-
ceutical attainments from a formula the result of the most modern medical research and scientific in-
vestigation, it is put up under the sign and seal of Minerva, the classical trade mark of the Proprietary.
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Miijcn/a Took aod EnjtilSioo
l the last issue of the Queenslander, two of a comprehensive list.
are not the only preparations ot
the Company, but, as was shown
For instance,
Nv-C<>
is a delicate combination of the hypophosphites of iron, soda, lime,
potash, manganese, and quinine, and is invaluable in all cases of
debility. Containing a less quantity of iron than the Tonic, it can be continued for a lengthy period.
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS.
MiQcrVa Wiijc
is a Tonic Stimulant composed of matured vintages, combined with
approved mendicaments, and is highly recommended by the faculty
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS.
MiO'n/a Con>po6i)d Iroi) Pills
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS.
MiQcrVa Little Nen/e ai)d Brail) Pills
(White) act
Tonic t o
as a
botb
Nerve and Brain.
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Pilij are t * le P°P u^ar mo( iern family aperient.
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS,


“ DOWKIDGKE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM. MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion ia a
measure of the general strength.
* . fi
“ Melbourne,
“ 24th S< ptember, 1897.
"To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“ Gentlemen, —
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it. —Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“ American Cyclist.”
FISHER’S TONIC
—IS THE—
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d. per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fauldinq & Co.
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Fauldinq & 00. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
T)0 YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d.; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d., 55., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
$
mm
m
SPECIAUP:
W Li.
UNM 1
NBili
m
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE ?
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee;
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It Is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPINC THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,* I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, aboijt six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.” ( From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church , North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.—“ After suffering for nearly
A A two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT ’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTlON.— Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT.'
Without itj you have been imposed on by a WOK TH LESS imitation . Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
66
pipes.
WARRANTED
Finest Hand made BRIARS.
VICTORIA. ABTU TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 1897,
.and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
IN PRIZES GIVEN FRFF -
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical‘‘Premier”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers „ £1 Is. „
Cloth Bound Books „ £lOO
roßnoM
U^SmiGHfiOAPf.
War DOES
' .[ A WOMAN_
“look old"'
SOONER THAW
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which, will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to BURGESS BROS.. HOBART.
j, mckenzie & co., launceston.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
'
■
• 1
. PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF . .
Gold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores *| products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake lllawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Brokep Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled ’facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on af/reement-of Assays.
Rates quoted, arid all information supplied on application to
JOHN
HOWELL
(late General ! anayer of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
m
. . . ELECTRICITY !
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
»uoh great success by
JES. J. & 3D. OURRAKT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)ln. long, f/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS,
worlced up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapektin Aus>
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzell,'
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY. _:
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send etampß for full Prioe Llsfc. '
Prompt attention'giv®n to Country Order*,
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Explosions Impossible
Always Ready for Use.
"We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
H
OWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash,&c. Queen-st., Woollalira.
H
OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD'S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases; com-
plete, from 12s, 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra,
H
OWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from,
ail kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra,
Jd
OWAHD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra,
H
OWARD’S Mouth Organs (4 tone)., from t>d,
tol guinea, great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
OWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
Black, &c„ great variety. Queen-st.,' W’h’ra.
H
O WARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Wdollahra.
H
OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
215., best German make. Queen-st., W’h’ra,.
H
OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
H
O WARD’S Double Bass, three or four string,
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra.
H
OWARD'S Supplies Country Residents with
‘Goods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
H
OWARD’S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 25g5.; casli or terms.
H
OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish,
French, and German ; terms.
American,
Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Saxhorns or E Flat Tenors, brass
. and silver; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
I
OWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated ;
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
H
OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
. and silver; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
GRIEFEUDORFF’S
‘KEPRO.’
TESTIMONIAL.
Maldon (Victoria), 21st September, 1896.
I have much pleasure in stating that the South
German Gold Mining Company has used Griefen-
dorfTs “KEPRO” to paint the inside of our
Cyanide Vats to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold liquor. We are pleased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
and can safely recommend it to others.
W. B. GRAY,
Managing Director South German G.M. Co., Maldon.
A LSO useful to Squatters for COATING
XI Waters Tanks; Electricians and Chemical
firms for COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Agents,
ALFRED LAWRENCE & CO
,527 Coixins Street, MELBOURNE.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
And especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF ;
Australia gives us BILLY TEA,
By which we play ’em both.
If “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold their
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !! !
Let them “ train ” upon GBANUUA,
“The finest of the wheat.”
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA!
—From “ Bards of the Wood Blocks
N€W YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ESTABLISHED 1845. PURELY MUTUAL.
Assets - - £38,513,664.
RESIDENT BOARD EOR AUSTRALASIA
(With Power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, &c.):
The HON. SIR JOHN LACKEY, K.C.M.G., Chairman (President Legislative Council, N.S.W.)
G. 0. WESTGARTH, Esq. W. E. WARREN, Esq., M.D.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PTJRVES, A.1.A., General Manager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 ffeorgo Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction, Jtooins.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltek Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
Alexander Cameron,
10 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
SMOKE
i
OUR CHIEF/
. . THE . .
Finest Dark Tobacco
IMPORTED
FROM AMERICA.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Judge Chubb (Q.) : “There is not in
Queensland one newspaper whose reports you can
take as accurate.”
“ However much a political party may
gain by making promises, it always loses by ful-
filling them.”—Joe Chamberlain.
British Premier Salisbury is said to be far
gone with diabetes. If he collapses, the chance
of Judas Chamberlain should have about arrived.
Scavengers in Melb. city work, as a rule,
between 12 and 13 hours a day, and get ss. for it.
Melb. City Council is the wealthiest corporation
and about the hardest incorporated sweater in
Australia.
Q. Labor-member Dunsford’s latest raw-
meat metaphor: “The Minister for Obstruction
mutilated what was at the first a misshapen abor-
tion, and the Premier, on his return, had gouged
out its eyes and cut out its tongue.”
Vic. : ‘ ‘ Gillies and Shack ell are yet the
champion Damon and Pythias. Their amity, like
that of Brougham and Lyndhurst and other dis-
tinguished ones, began in enmity. Shackell spent
£3OOO trying to disqualify Gillies for Rodney.”
A TIGHT PLACE .
CONTORTIONIST REID : “ I've wriggled through a
few in my time, but this is a teaser! ”
Untrustworthy rumor has it that Q. Labor-
leader Glassey intends contesting Toowoomba
against Groom at the next elections. Groom has
held his seat for 35 years and is the father of the
House, also its grandfather and most of its other
ancestors.
The death of G. A. Lloyd still leaves nine
N.S.W. ex-Treasurers living—See, M‘\Tillan,
Bruce Smith, Burns, Dibbs, Saul Samuel, W. A.
Long, H. E. Cohen and James Watson. When
Reid meets the deserts of his awful finance and
becomes “ ex ” also he will make ten.
N.S.W. Government is preparing a big
irrigation scheme according to which canals are to
be carried across the mournful plains that lie about
Hay, Jerilderie and Moulamein. Considering the
nature of the country, this should be a nice, easy
plaoe for the first big irrigation experiment.
Vic. Legislative Council complains that the
income-tax is driving capital out of the country
and produces less and less revenue every year.
The tax actually collected was .£140,000 in ’95;
£167,000 in ’96 and £179,000 in ’97, so the 48
Rich Landlords seem beastly inaccurate as usual.
Q. boss Tozer :
If the State-aided grammar schools are to remain in
the province, it becomes the duty of the Government not
enly to find the money but to find, the boys and girls.
!!! Seems as if there is a text here on which a
happy and well-informed viceregal speech might
be made.
N.S.W. Crown Law Department has pecu-
liar ways in criminal prosecutions. In the sedition
case against John Norton, Pilcher, Q.C., engaged
at a big fee, prosecuted at the police-court, while
a junior (Wade) conducted the Crown case at the
Superior Court. Again, in Carruthers v. Norton,
Pilcher, Q. C., again appeared at the police-court,
and two juniors (Garland and Noble) at the Court
above.
The Maoriland Old Age Pensions Bill had
1021 speeches made about it in the House of Re-
presentatives before it got through. The small
Tory Opposition made 509 of these in the course
of its bitter stonewall, and the waverers who are
described as the Government Left Wing made
200. Then the Council made about two casual
remarks and threw the measure out.
John Douglas, resident magistrate at
Thursday Island: “My own impression is that
all coast tovvns will receive contingents of
Japanese ladies, who, though they behave very
properly, are not a desirable addition to our popu-
lation.” Considering the occupation of these
little brown ladies who behave very properly what,
in Douglas’s opinion, is the kind of lady who be-
haves improperly ?
If Dr. Cockburn goes to England as S.A.
Agent-General, and Playford returns to Australia,
the probability is that it will simply be an amic-
able exchange, of billets. Cockburn will take
Playford’s job in London, while Honest Tom will
run for Cockburn’s seat at Mount Barker, and, if
he gets in, take Cockburn’s portfolio. Playford
is 60 years of age now, and has been leaving his
large footmark on S.A. politics for 30 years.
It is now openly admitted that Joseph
Chamberlain’s scheme of imperial union was
simply Ereetrade within the empire and a Protec-
tionist. tariff, uniform throughout the British
dominions, against everybody outside, which
would be simply straight-out Protection-as it is
understood in such countries as Russia and the
United States. They, also, have internal Free-
trade and Protection against everybody outside.
Queensland Minister Barlow, M.L.C., told
the Leg. Council recently how a man once came
to him with a claim for an electoral right to be
attested, and said, “You’re a J.P. ; sign this.”
He refused. Pat Perkins: “What difference
would one vote have made?” Barlow: “One
vote might elect a member of the Assembly. One
M. might become a Minister. One Minister
might do a lot of interfering with the rights and
privileges of the Council.” i
The Federal Convention meets this month,
and the finance committee, which was to be ready
with some scheme to get over the awful Federal
money difficulty, is, at time of writing, no further
advanced than it was at the beginning. Reid, of
N. however, “thinks” that Walker, of
N.S.W., has a scheme partially prepared. The
other members of the committee, apparently, are
not even so far advanced as to think that some
other fellow is moving in the matter.
Victoria has a specially red-hot law against
bribery and corruption “at Parliamentary elec-
tions.” The courts, however, have just decided
that this term only covers the short period be-
tween the day of nomination and the day of
election, and before nomination-day any candi-
date can be as corrupt as he pleases. If this re-
markable decision holds water an amending act
is wanted in hot haste, else nobody but the Fab
candidate will have much show hereafter.
After nearly two months’ earnest canvass-
ing for signatures to a congratulatory address to
A. I. Clark, Tas. ex-Attorney-General, the
Hobart committee announces that it has 1500
names. Hobart Mercury chronicles the fact and
remarks:—
Many more could have been had, hut for the extraor-
dinary difficulty of finding many of the people, even of
such a small city as Hobart.
Probably they couldn’t be found because they
were in bed.
The very latest technical objection to Vic.
Eactories’ Act was raised last week by a big Mel-
bourne tailor. The Act stipulates that the
factory or shop door shall be closed at a certain
time, but it does not say who is to close it, so
the tailor pleaded that he was relieved of all re-
sponsibility in the matter, and the man-in-the-
street was just as blameworthy for the shop being
open as the proprietor himself ! And this wondrous
piece of logic was duly “ noted ” by an allegedly
sane magistrate!
Faiz Mahomet, boss Afghan merchant of
Westralia, kicks at the proposed alien legislation
of that province. He recounts all the good things
the Afghan camel men have done in opening up
the goldfields of the country, and even makes a
proposal to clear the lot—lock, stock, and barrel-
out of W. A. if reasonably compensated. Also, he
alludes to other colored races in the country, and,
in his classification, he puts down Japanese as
“ Laundrymen and cool-drink women.” As if a
Mahomet didn’t know better than that.
Saul Samuel gets a New Year’s baronetcy.
Australia can hardly be kept loyal by K.C.M.G.*
ships much longer, for K.C.M.G.-ships are so
numerous that hardly anyone weeps with joy now
on getting one, and even Privy Councillorships
are growing common. A judicious sprinkling of
baronetcies —-just enough to make every loyal poli-
tician feel that he may get one, yet so few that
the commonness of the thing won’t make him feel
sick when he does get it—will help materially to
make the “bonds ” hang out a while longer.
H. : “ What a barbarism it was, in Melb.,
for us to be left without a morning newspaper twc
whole days—Christmas Sunday and Boxing Day !
Up in China they were making history at a furious
rate, and the news was kept on hand from Satur-
day to Tuesday with as much indifference as the
stale butchers’ meat and bread. This sort of thing
is a relic of the old pre-newspaper world. Very
soon the Sunday paper will become a necessary of
life. My ideal is the Chicago newspaper office
which never shuts its door, like an ear always
listening.”
Apropos of a recent slander-case :
Under an old English law which still pre-
vails in Maorilaiul a woman who is
slandered by being called immoral
and unchaste has no redress un-
less she can show that the slan-
der caused her to lose her
situation. She may lose her
peace of mind, her friends
and her intended husband
through it, but the bagman
instinct of the law takes no
account of these ; the only
thing it takes account of
is her billet. Verily the
law is a—commercial tra-
veller.
The latest sew ei
catastrophe has in
spired Premier Turne
with a determination to
race through with a
Workmen’s Insurance
Bill. And it is about
time. Fitzgibbon’s drains
run blood by now, having
killed over a score, and
wounded and maimed many
more. Possibly the House
of Pat Men would not dare
to fight such a measure to a
finish, if it could be put forth
whilst public sentiment is still
warm, but, unluckily, it can only
come along six months hence, when the
great public heart will be beating violently
over a cricket - match or a new burlesque,
and these four dead men will no longer wield
any political influence worth mentioning.
Premier Nelson alludes to tlie prosecuting
of the individuals responsible for the Q.N. Bank
disasters as “dirty work.” And the Brisbane
Courier quite logically remarks that if the prose-
cution be “dirty work,” then all the antecedent
enquiry and tabling of reports is “ dirty work ”
also. This stigmatising the execution of justice
as “ dirty work ” is a truly fine effort. Did any
Queensland Minister lament about the dirty work
which the Government undertook when it prose-
cuted the leaders of the shearers’ strike a few
years ago ?
Ex-Governor Norman has resigned the
Queensland Agency-General, on the ground that
he is very old (71 years) arid battered and war-
worn, and is in much need of rest. At latest
advices Horace Tozer was reaching out for the
billet. The great trouble in the Queensland
Ministry is that Tozer and Byrnes can’t be safely
left alone together for fear of breakages, and since
Byrnes is coming back the best thing, is obviously
for Tozer to get out. The latter has now had
consecutive years of office, so he has had his fair
share of the bread and the whale.
A canvasser, giving evidence before the
Elections and Qualifications Committee in Melb.
the other day, said he had gained a lot of votes
for White, M.L.A., at Albert Park, by tel-
ling the electors that White once lived in a tent,
and slept on the hard ground under a bit of can-
vas. So the electors pictured White as a horny
pioneer, and voted for him. Yet the real White
is a fat and flabby old man with the most terrific
monkey-shave in the province, and his tangled
sentences are nearly all without predicates, and
have no object worth mentioning.
MOSES IN THE BULRUSHES.
(A suburban character.)
Bryan O'Loghlen, recently returned again
to Vic. Assembly after three years of private life,
is the one Victorian politician who has learnt ab-
solutely nothing from the crash of the boom.
O’Loghlen continually bewails the cessation of
THE ADVENT OF SUMMER.
The N.S. W. school-teacher as swimming instructor.
borrowing, and can’t understand why any Minister
should be troubled for ready cash when the British
Hebrew is just bursting with millions which he
would be glad to lend. Bryan’s idea of good
Government is to borrow early and often, whilst a
willing lender remains on the face of Europe.
“ Borrow money and build railways,” is Bryan’s
war-cry.
The lately-deceased. “Hoppy” Hopkins,
of Geelong, was one of the men whom the Agb
ousted from Vic. Assembly when J. B. Patterson
made his appeal to a. scornful “country.”
Hopkins had been casually referred to in the
almighty organ as a sleeping iguana, or something
of that sort; anyway, the description was so
damaging that Geelong lost faith in its wealthy
representative, and cast him forth. The rich old
man’s seat seemed so sure, and the idea of Geelong
rousing sufficient energy to eject any established
institution seemed so wild that, when news came
of Hopkins’ defeat, the Patterson party recognised
that all was over.
Apropos of Premier Reid’s idea of turning
the N.S.W. Council into a mild, unobstructive
and comparatively democratic body by making its
members irresponsible. nominees for a term of
years instead of irresponsible nominees for life,
Maoriland adopted Reid’s temporary - nominee
system in ’9l, and since theh all appointments
have been made under it. The visible result is
that the Council, last session, put up a record by
throwing out every democratic measure presented
to it. The nominee who doesn’t represent the
people and isn’t responsible to the people is about
as hopeless a case whether he is a snag for life or
only a snag for a term of years.
A Tipperary man, Pennefather, is chief
law-officer in Westralia, where it has just been
decided for the first time in sand-groping history
that murder of the blacks by a white is a crime
to be met by legal retribution. Murder of
blacks by whites in N.S.W. was first stamped
with full legal reprobation in the Attorney-
Generalship of the Roscommon man Plunkett.
Plunkett’s fight for the recognition of the principle
that an aboriginal is entitled to a decent chance of
dying at a good old age by the natural process of
rum was fought in the face of opposition which
iems incredible nowadays. Myall Creek station
ost seven of its hands to the gallows when the
point was finally settled.
Westralia preserves a rigorous quarantine
against all manner of Eastern pests, which, how-
ever, seem to get there just the same. Rabbits
have crossed the border and got as far as Esper-
ance and Norseman—a serious matter for the pas-
toralists, who have a hard struggle to raise any-
thing at the best of times. Tick has made its
appearance in East Kimberley, coming overland
from the Northern Territory. The fruit-fly,
brother demon to the codlin moth, is established,
and the codlin moth cannot long be kept out, in
view of the smuggling of fruit by passengers.
Also, a member of the Assembly recently an-
nounced the appearance of sparrows in Perth, and
asked the House to take action.
The Vic. Government’s proposal to appoint
a board to overhaul and re-classify the public ser-
vice aroused sundry Oppositionists to demand
indignantly why Turner didn’t do the work him-
self. Yet Turner attempts to do so many things
already that he has hardly time to get his clothes
off at night, and his fate, if he sticks at it, is
obviously to fall down dead at the pump like
Ballance. The willing horse who sits up till the
small hours of the morning pegging away at State
matters (patent metaphor) gets very little con-
sideration. Nelson, of Queensland, who lounges
through his sunshiny existence, is never harassed
with demands that he should “do it himself.”
The idea of Nelson doing anything has never yet
occurred to anybody.


i
w
Everywhere..
Over this grand and glorious New
South Wales, ladies are wearing my
OP-TO-TliE-CJITEST
Boots and Shoes.
What’s the reason? Because they’re
good. None can give you better.
See them. If you live in the country
drop us a line, and we’ll get there
all right.
OHN HUNTEK) —The Boot King of Australia!
City Boot Palace, George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Branches all over the City, in the Suburbs and Country Towns in N.S.W. and Queensland.
[5855] : Land and Income Tax Office, Custom House,
Sydney, 21st December, 1897.
LAND AND INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT OF 1895.
'M'OTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of the above
Act, that Returns of Income received during the year
1897 for the" purposes of the assessment of Income Tax for
the year 1898ifcre required to be furnished to the Commis-
sioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before the Uh
day of Februjary, 1898 ; and all persons who are in receipt
of income, arK all persons liable under the provisions of
the Act in ady representative capacity to furnish returns
for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby informed that the
prescribed Forms of Returns are now available, and, ex-
cept those for Companies, may be obtained on application,
at any Post Office, Police Office, Customs House, Railway
Station,' and'the Office of any Clerk of Petty Sessions in
New South .Wales, Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney, or at the Taxation Office, Custom House, Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained at the Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or pro-
fession on their own account are required to furnish In-
come Returns irrespective of the amount of their income ;
but no Retard of Income is required from any person in re-
ceipt of salary or usages only if the gross annual amount
of such salary or wages does not exceed £2OO.
All employers of labor, whether they-themselves are
liable to make' Incotne Tax Returns or not, are required to
furnish to the Commissioners of- Taxation the name,
occupation, aiid’address of all employees whose salaries or
wages for the ygar 1897 aggregated £l6O and upwards.
Public attention is called to the fact that a penalty not
exceeding Twenty Rounds is imposed on any person
neglecting to furnish the Return required of him within
the time above mentioned, and that persons failing to
furnish such Return are not relieved from liability to the
penalty by. reason only that they may not have received a
notice to furnisgßthe Return, or that the prescribed Form
may not have been delivered to them.
The attention.of owners of taxable, lands subject to mort-
gage is invited to the necessity for furnishing the requisite
particulars, in order that they may derive the benefit of
the deduction toVwhich they are entitled in respsct of the
interest on thefjpiQrtgage. of their lands, including im-
provements thercSm; Without these particulars the Com-
missioners will be unable to make the statutory deduction
from the tax on the unimproved values.
Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained on
application at any of the abovementioned offices, and
should be furnished on or before the above date.
N. LOCKYER,
R. N. JOHNSON,
L. S. SPILLER,
f Commissioners
\ of
V. Taxation.
N.B. —Particular attention is called to the observations
and directions with the Forms of Return. 2-C-4.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
I
m
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
' cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. • Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Biding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/6. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving' ad-
dress and instructiohslijiearly written. We tvilt attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to' please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
fST“ Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
Fire, business will be carried on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSELL ST., and 234 FLINDERS ,ST. All communi-
cations to be addressed to 30 ELIZABETH ST., where
our Temporary Offices are situated.
m H E LAST OF SIX
PRICE—Is.: Per POST, Is. 3d.
SMITH PREMIER TYPEWRITER.
i#r
«,!***
“IMPROVEMENT THE ORDER OR THE AGE.”
Australia’s Pavorite Writing Machine.
Used throughout the Metropolitan and Suburban Police Courts
of Sydney, in the Department of Justice, the Supreme Court,
Government House, and the leading commercial houses. Used
by the Hansard Department of Brisbane, the Queensland rail-
ways ; and largely in Melbourne, Perth, and New Zealand.
The SMITH PREMIER Keyboard is specially constructed
for this market. The brief, or lawyer’s machine, is the lightest
and easiest running typewriter made. The only machine with
solid ball-bearing carriage, and direct interchangeable platen
with key-locking device.
. . We are also Sole Agents for . .
A, B. Dick’s Goods ; Edison’s Mimeograph (the best duplicating instrument manufactured). Large
stocks of Stencil Paper, Inks, etc., always on hand.
The S; T. Smith Typewriter supplies : Carbons, Ribbons, etc., for all machines.
The Century Paper Fastener ; the Capillary Copying Bath ; Stenographer’s Adjustable Chair; Type-
writer Folding Tables and Desks.
Second-hand Typewriters, of various makes, from £5 on easy terms.
I £2T Agents wanted in all the leading cities and towns.
A few good Second-hand National Cash Registers for Sale—at Low Prices and Easy Terms.
FISHER & LINGHAM (W. a Esher), Importers,
VICTORIA ARCADE, STDNET.
“System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national (ash Register
A Pressure
on the . .
Key . . .
Saves
A Pressure
on the . .
Brain. . .
. IS A .
MONEY SAVER
IN ANT
Retail Store or Hotel.
Prices, £5 to <£6B.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGS AM,
General Manager for Australasia.
“People dig their graves with their teeth.”
“Englishmen are patriotically ready to
fight—through the hired man.”
Dear Bulletin, —I meant to say some-
thing in reply to “R.’s” remarks re the “bard
who does nothing at all.” But since the “ bard
who does nothing at all,” doesn’t do any barding
and isn’t of bardic or any other account, his very
existence demolishes “R.” more effectually than
anything I could say.—6 xB.
From S.M. Herald’s remarks upon the
action of Maoriland Legislative Council in re-
jecting the Old Age Pensions Bill, one would
think that awful gang of depraved old men
was a popular Chamber of hairy Socialists
dragging a slow-going Assembly by the ear along
its Democratic track. The Herald has so often
told the lean old lie that M.L. Council represents
the people that at last it believes it to be true.
The Old Age Pensions Bill was not “a leap in the
dark.” At present, M.L. and N.S.W. both pro-
vide for their destitute old people (provided the
said d.o.p. make noise enough), in a sort of round-
about way, by sending them, at the public expense,
to gaols or benevolent asylums—to wit, Liverpool
and other dreadful places. And the O.A.P. Bill
tot ? lerely an a^eni Pt to do decently what both
M.L. and N.S.W. are at present doing in a
hashed-up, indecent way, at about the same cost.
Dear Bulletin,— You put forward only
one side of the game when you refer to Graham
Berry s choice — when you say a man of his ability
would have worked that South Yarra grocery into
something better than all his honors put together
long ere this. Surely there is something beyond
the mere coin to be looked at. Surely the man
who does what Berry has done has his reward—
outside and above all pecuniary considerations !
Berry, as a great “universal provider,” probably
would have died a semi-millionaire, but it is
doubtful if Berry’s thoughts on Berry would in
that case have been pleasant thinking. There
could be no choice between Graham Berry as we
know him and Councillor Berry, ex-Mayor of
Prahran ; proprietor of the big supply stores, with
a mansion and a carriage and a fat bingie. The
old Tribune has his reward, though few of us can
appreciate it!— F. Croson.
Ellis, ex-M.L.A., in the correspondence
column of Sydney Telegraph :
Each loan has been issued on the good faith that certain
public works would represent the borrowings and the ex-
penditure. In what way are we keeping faith with .the
public creditor ? As the loans fall due we renew them for
the full amount, notwithstanding that a large proportion'
of the works are now not in existence. Bridges built 30
3’ears since on borrowed money have been worn out, and
rebuilt on newly-borrowed money, and the Government
has not hesitated to even carry out repairs with borrowed
money. Every conceivable sort of public work has been
treated in the same way. To clearly define what is going
on I will refer to the shipping appliances at Newcastle.
Over 30 years since steam-cranes were erected with bor-
rowedmonev; those cranes paid forthemselves many times
over ; but when they were worn out new hydraulic cranes
were erected, but with borrowed money again, and New-
castle stands debited with two sets of cranes, although
only one set is in existence. The present Government re-
newed a loan in which was originally included coal shoots
at Newcastle and Morpeth ; but although these are W'orn
out and not now in existence, the money is re-borrowed.
All our public assets, such as tugs, dredges, wharves, &c.,
are treated in the same way, and it is an everyday occur-
rence to see alterations and repairs carried out with !
freshjy borrowed money. The late Mr. Eddy eompla ne 1
that the railways were unduly weighted in the capital
account. Why ? Because rolling stock and rails, work-
shops, machinery, tools, &c., had originally been pro- |
cured with borrowed money, and, when worn out, replen-
ished with fresh borrowings.
A fortnight ago, in Brisbane, John Douglas
stated that divers in Torres Straits often attained
a depth of 30 fathoms, and sometimes exceeded it.
Outside time at that depth, five minutes; often
only three. No less than 20 divers lost their lives
during the last year. , r
• ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
| ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
OMC
'ia n 'i*!*
’KW‘
*^OM ; **
%Jl/\JC Q\sdLAA*+*> <£
jjowvvvv/Xo
OUA^t
& MV
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Palling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. 2 16 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England .
w
S ANITAS
COPYRICHT BOOK
How to Disinfect’
The
Bethnal Green
D "
An Unanimous Verdict.
THE TRADE,
THE PUBLIC,
AND
RACING MEN
are
all
of
the
one
opinion—
that
1
r -4?-
ARE THE BEST!
FIRST IN 1888. FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The flunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Swanston-street, Melbourne ; Franklin-street, Adelaide ;
King-street, Perth; and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIIIM'HKK IM:I»I4KI> KATES.
PAWN BROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERBAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlercagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every £\ to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over J2lO
4d. per month for every pound over j£2o
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of. Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ (SOIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
THE UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE.
Elder Conservatormm of Music
(To be inaugurated in MARCH, 1898).
EARLY APPLICATIONS are invited for positions as
follows:
I. —Teacher of Singing (Solo and Class). Salary
£4OO per annum.
11. —Extra Teachers for Pianoforte and for Singing.
111. Teacher of Organ playing.
IV. —Teachers of the following orchestral instru-
ments : Double Bass, Harp, Flute, Oboe,
Clarionet, Bassoon, and Horn.
Applicants to furnish testimonials, and to state
age, qualifications, and experience.
For further particulars apply to
THE REGISTRAR.
29th November, 1898.
ISM
P £
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
PILES.
mHE Advertiser having: suffered for years from Piles and
A tried all sorts of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address —
D. C. DAVIS, Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE
WANTED AT ONCE, in every locality, an
intelligent person to act as our Agent. No special
knowledge required, and without interfering with
present occupation. An excellent opportunity for
a capable young man or lady.—Address, Morse
Manufacturing Company, 3, Red Lion Court,
London, E.C.
Hotels.
MELBOURNE
OTICE
VISITORS.
WTM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
uijoy the luxury of rest arid'quietness.
• All modem conveniences. "
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QTTIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited .
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
capital Paid-up .. .. .. £t>o,ooo o o
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,770 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and niients, 31st December. 1896 £6,056,847 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,706,590 12 10
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. .. 43,409 7 2
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. ~ _. 760,000 0 0
O OAK VQP
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,’
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuekett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison. South Australia (Adelaide), with Branches
throughout South Australia. Local Director: John
Bagot, Esq., J. P. Manager: T. A. Edmeades (pro). New
South Wales (Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill.
Local Director: Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager:
George Turnbull. Western Australia (Perth), with
Branches throughout Western Australia. Local Direc-
tors: A. R. Waylen, Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H.
Amherst, M.L.C. Manager: H. R. England. London
Office: 123 Bishopgate-street Within, E.C. Manager:
A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP _ _ £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY .. «. 246,050
RESERVE FUND „ „ 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland Qatiunal Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 455,361 17 7
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A.;
John Cameron, Esq.; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital ... .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L. A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Tbi& Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
The
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mobeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarlte & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
_ree on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE')
GEELONG
PORTLAND f:
WARHNAMBOOL J
Beregririe, Saturday, Jan, 8, 2 ip.m.
-Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 11, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturdaj 7 , January 15, % p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 8, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 11, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong-, Tues., Jan. 11,' 5 p.m.
No transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, January 8, 2 p.m.
- Konoowarra, Tuesday, Jan. 11,5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 15, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, January 8, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, Jan. 11, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Jan. 15, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
I©'WEST CIIKKENT FAKES TO AM PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Ss SONS, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
|7IN GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengerafor London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway. Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
0 A :r
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, ’
Ore Testing fy Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen street,
Telephone No. 1716. b OCI I* I) S-
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidgb,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QXJEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
1 London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.O.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Allinga (from Sydney)
Friday, January 7,
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, January 8.
ALBANY, -v
FREMANTLE, 5
Transhipping at Fremantle
to V
YASSE, DONGARRA, I f
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Allinsra (from Sydney)
Friday, January 7.
S.S. Innamincka(from Melb.)
Saturday, January 8.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
January 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairjis
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
January 11.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
For London.
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Marseilles.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here ■on
favorable termsfor passages from England. G. DOUGLAS
MICHIE, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO — '
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS. >
Fares and Freights at Lowest Crurent Rates,
Canadian-Australian Koyal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY*.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Rates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pit b-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U. S. IN. Goy. Ltd.
Royal' Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE— Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEV, MELBOURNE, adILAIDIS and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY- Burns,.Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE - Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton. .
.BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency
, Coy. Ltd. Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR— - 5
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL "PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare —London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney; .
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe', America, etfc., can be prepaid in the colonies. *The
S.S. P.R. Luitpold and following steamers will call at
Fremantle instead of Albany. J. MERGELL, General
Agent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


3
Telephone, 26 KOGrAßAH — connected with Sydney Exchange.
Til© L< Lick House Hotel 99
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes. LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH, On the Banks of Botany Bay
LOPTV T r HE FAVORITE HEALTH RESORT. .. .
BEDROOMS, and Luxuriously FURNISHED DRAWING ROOMS, READING ROOMS, BILLIARD
„ . . ROOM and BATH ROOMS.
etc a Sn-f];t^ n 11 Parties carefully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private Dinners,
and Hot SaPwiL, n , d U will accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths ; also, Electric
Boating f also splendfd iSblrng Accommodation.^ 10 ° 0n 'P lainte >> one minute ’ s ™ lk from hotel. Fishing and
Terms: From 251- a week. Special Tariff for Families. For further particulars, apply to
“ I*ICX HOUSE HOTEL,” or 16 York Street, Sydney.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’S Bakiog Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOCJL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions A ccurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Loiv Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiUgtoi) N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Church-street, Parramatta.
AND AT
fldams’s Hotel and marble gar
and
ADAMS’S CAFE,
PITT & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY,
OFFER EXCEPTIONAL ADVANTAGES.
0
SITUATION MOST CENTRAL.
APPOINTMENTS MAGNIFICENT.
Accommodation Unrivalled.
Table Unparalleled.
-— o —
and Cafe have separate kitchens,
each under first-class chefs, and visitors
have option of using either hotel dining-
room or cafe, an advantage offered by no
other hotel in the colony.
Terms from Bs. per Day upwards.
Telephone 728. WM. J. ADAMS, Manager.
ZRO-A-HD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
• „ , . Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone
. Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. Ihe proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article and caurecom-
rneud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Cus ard Giveita trial
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
Bedstead and Woaen Wire Mattress Combined.
Made with extra strong, double rolled sides, and our No. 3 Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire
Mattress attached to each Bedstead by a new Patented Method, which dispenses with the use of loose
clips and shaky joints. Made to tighten at the head end. Any size Bedstead can be set up in two
minutes. No tools required to fix them. >,
2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in.
Prench, lin. posts, very strong ... ... ... 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do. .. ... ... 30/- 32/6 35/- 37/6
SPRING WOVEN WIRE MATTRESSES.
• _ 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6iri. 4ft. 6in
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires ... ... ... 6/- ... 6/6 ... 7/- ... 8/-
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires... ... ... 7/6 ... 8/- ... 8/6 ... ! ' 9/-
No. la, Extra close woven double wires ... ... ... 8/- ... 8/6 ... 9/6 .;. 10/-
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands ... ... 8/6 ... 9/6 ... 10/6 ... 12/-;
No. 3, The Trusty, close woven, with 14 bands ... ... 10/- ... 12/- ... 13/- ... 15/-“
No. 7, Folding Stretcher, double wires... ... 10/-' ... 11/- .;. 1? ... ; l|//j
Von CLUBS, HOTELS,
•BARRACKS,
SCHOOLS.
HOSPITALS & OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MAKE A SPECIALITY OP MANUFACTURING j
Purified, Healthy Bedding, and Superior Woven Wire Spring
Mattresses a
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want!
A JjTj WE ASK.
Try us for your Bedsteads, Bedding-, Kitchen, Dining,
and Bedroom Furniture, Austrian and American Chairs,
Java Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers, &c., &c.
——
Country STOREKEEPERS and DEALERS. Now is
the time to Replenish your Stock. Do not hesitate,
but Call and See, or Write, for our New Wholesale
Catalogue, with Designs and Prices. If you want
, to.buy in the CHEAPFST MARKET, WE ARE READY
with LARGE STOCKS to give you just the kind of value to draw Trade to your S, .es, and letting your Cromers
know you are alive. Let us talk the matter over with you. When Goods are Cheap, buy freely. Ours are always
Cheap and Saleable; population must increase. Do not delay until you see signs of getting busy. Begin now by
sending us your orders. You are somebody’s customer ; why not ours ? We have been established more than 30 years
on the same spot. No change of firm. No failures, nothing but continued and steady progress. The above facts are
certainly evidence of merit and fair dealings.
John Lawler & Sons
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES—No.
Telephone, 66.
4, 6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
Established 1860.
12-
ROOK OF NATURE
—AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, Is;
post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair 'Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post'2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book', Is ; by post Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
BE, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free B<L
Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d. ,
Tiie Serpent Tempted Her : A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love,' Dress, etc>, 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post free.
Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post free,
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free Is 3d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price is ; post Is 4d. ~
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free,
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
HUM S marvellous MIR RESTORER
si
■1
*
&
°e.
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully' prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
M-
$
%
m
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
An Australian lady, now residing in England, says : “Truly, Mr. Holland, my hair
is a walking advertisement for your Hair Restorer. It gives me pleasure to recommend it
everywhere I go. All my friends who are using it through my recommendation speak most
highly of its wonderful hair-producing properties. It is so pleasant to use too. And it
keeps the head free from scurf.” ‘
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.— 9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
KTOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of alh
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Elates;-
takes pictures 2J x ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, fid.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4Jin. x 3}in. (}p.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking- Plates sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price
12s. fid. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d!
DRY PLATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. :
for “ DUPLEX," per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. ; for “ HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A .
Snap-
shot.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
See
60 BZin\TG STREET,
Our Advertisement on Society Vaye.
SYDNEY.


The Prahran (Vic.) police have scored a
record. One day last week a hardened ruffian,
aged four, and his interesting victim, a little girl
of six, were dragged before the local Bench, charged
with “impropriety. ” The Bench heard the sicken-
ing details, and then declared the charge to be
ridiculous, and dismissed the depraved rouA of four,
and told his victim to toddle about her business.
And The Bulletin asks, in a voice of thunder,
why heartless libertines like this are permitted to
escape just punishment, and are set at liberty to
further pollute our homes? Also, where is the
W.C.T.U., and the Social Purity Society, and
our boasted civilisation in general ?
“ O.” to The Bulletin :
Brunton Stephens’ criticism on the bulk of Australian
verse is interesting- and just. Is it not equally just as
regards the bulk of all verse ? So much easier is it to
imitate or to pull to pieces than to create. Any savage
can do the former ; it takes a god, material or otherwise,
to do the latter. So easy is it to find fault—so hard to
enunciate a flawless remedy. This holds good for every-
thing, including politics (which are not poetry)— e.g.,
W. J. Lyne. Versifying is like measles—we all catch it,
sooner or later, some worse than others. We catch the
rhyming eruption—but the ideas ! no mere heating of
the blood can bring them to the surface. They enter from
without. Gleams and scents from other worlds, they are
not part of man’s corrupt clay. And when the fever
takes us, if the afflatus be not there, what can we do bub
rail and write rubbish ? .
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CUKSCKNT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
HUMBER CYCLES
(AMERICA)
reduced
Lady’s
Gent s
p 26
*25
~ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at our Beeston Works, and age of the Most Approved American Design. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give the SAME GUARANTEE
“ ,,Ttb ““ “ BSTON I ‘ 4OH,NES " country agents wanted. The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
When the player of young hero characters is notoriously
growing old, paragraphists usually exaggerate the truth.
Somebody states that Kyrle Bellew must be “ nearly 60.’’
Why must Bellew be so old? The tale goes that he sub-
mitted his first serious attempt at acting to (among others)
Marcus Clarke, who would presumably be quite as old as
young Bellew at the time. Well, Marcus Clarke was born
in 1846. The writer remembers Bellew in London as a
man who didn’t look more than 30, off the stage, 17 years
ago. And considering that the curly one was then
(alas, with great success) “mashing” the writer’s girl, he
couldn’t have concealed very much of his age from the
jaundiced eye of the observer.
James Carter Edwards, who delivers much gusty blank
verse in “ Claudian,” should be remembered by old Eng-
lish playgoers as a member of an erstwhile company that
was very famous in its day. He played (mostly villains)
for years in the company of Mdlle. Beatrice (real name,
Beatrice Binda), who was the daughter of a distinguished
French exile. Carter Edwards used to be a prolific writer
of verses of merit, but a long career of stage crime has
probably caused the death of his muse. Barrett appar-
ently selected him as a sound, withering, vociferous
curser, and certainly he does “ cuss ” with the weight of
a corporation steam-roller.
Old Londoner : “Wilson Barrett has still got that peach-
stone in his mouth. Ninety-nine out of every hundred
elocutionists have it, and' the newspapers say the voice is
‘mellifluous.’ Listen to his peach-stone Hamlet, if he
ventures it here.”
M.S.: “ Some of the warriors of ancient Byzantium, in
‘ Claudian,’ appear in what seem to be Scotch kilts, of
faded Stuart tartan, and carry bucklers of leather, brass-
bound ! Perhaps some old ‘ Macbeth ’ properties have
been pressed into requisition. But what of the archeology,
of which a special bit of brag is paraded on the pro-
grammes ? One quite expected one of the hairy battlers
—several wore red beards, too ! —to describe Maud Jeffreys
as ‘ a braw bonnie lassie,’ and to offer Claudian a pinch
of snuff and a wee drap o’whuskey.”
“ At the Shaftesbury, on the opening night, William-
son and Musgrove’s ‘Scarlet Feather’ danced and
fluttered in the appreciative breezes of a waving welcome
—in the first act,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent. “ Early in the second it struck an equatorial
calm and slowly wilted to a sad death of weakness and
stagnancy. As there are but two acts'it may be summed
up that half of the comic opera is ciinking, and the re-
mainder is pallid failure.”
The 4th November last was the 50th anniversary of the
death of Felix Mendelssohn Barthold.v, which calls up a
little yarn of Abraham, father of Felix. Previously to
Felix becoming famous in music, Abraham had always
been alluded to as “ son of Moses Mendelssohn, the great
banker.” Afterwards, he became, in print, “ father of
Felix Mendelssohn, the great musician.” Asked, on his
deathbed, if he wished to give any Special instructions as
to his funeral, he answered “ No ; but, for Heaven’s sake,
let my obituary notices be about myself. For the last 10
years, I have been the father of my son ; before that, I
was the son of my father. Let my last passport be in my
own name.”
New York journalist W. G. Carleton is suing Nat Good-
win, our old friend of “ In Mizzoura,” for 50,000 dollars
damages on the ground that Nat’s play, “ Congress,” is a
barefaced plagiarism of Carleton’s “ Ambition.” Both
plays are to be performed before a jury of 12, which will
decide the question.
The Intendant of the Court Theatre in Dresden has
requested Mrs. Brown-Polter and Curly Bellew to per-
form there. It is stipulated that old English comedies
should predominate, but Shakespeare is also to be paraded
for inspection. Should this venture succeed, the Curly-
Potter co. may invade Austria-Hungary later on.
Royal females get very little of the giddier kind of re-
creation. The Duchess of York, for instance, had never
seen a London music-hall show until the other week,
when she was taken to the Alhambra.
New York Herald publishes interviews with the maids
of Maud Hobson and other lady members of a lately-
arrived Gaiety Co. One cf them told the reverent inter-
viewer that she had frequently been mistaken for an
actress when emerging from the stage door.
When an actress is mistaken for her dressing-maid, for-
sooth,
The mistaken soon awaken to a knowledge of the truth.
But, when the maid so lowly who a part has never
plaj'ed,
Passes muster as her mistress, with the stage-adoring
youth,
Well, then, by all that’s holy, it is rough upon the
maid.
The big cricket fixtures this year have been
planned with gate-money as the consideration. Viotoria
v. N.S.W. match was fixed for Monday, December 27, and
the second test for the Friday following, and this the
hottest time of the year. Again, N.S.W. and S. A. is fixed
for Jan. 7, and the third test for Jan. 14. With rail-
travelling in between, this conies terribly hard.
• * • •
Member: “ After the England v. Victorian
match you published a letter from me re what is called
the ‘ boy’ nuisance in the M.C.O. reserve. Sul seq lentlyt
Melb. papers published similar complaints, and. the club
advertised, vaguely enough, that boys, and girls would
not be admitted to the reserve during the second test
match except on production of a ticket, and that ‘ boys
may be admitted on production of a lady's ticket.’ This
admits that hitherto boys and girls were allowed to swarm
vT “ ono P9 li se the pavilion seats without tickets!
The boy pavilion nuisance was worse than ever during
fhe recent N.S.W. d. Vic. match. But the seat-rushing
by boys is only part of the nuisance. The evil that needs
most attention from the ornamental committee is the
general conduct, and especially the obscene yarns, of gangs
of louts (aged 17 to 21) from the big public schools.
These individuals, as a rule, take no interest in the play ;
e yJ°. uc ily vote it a ‘ boah,’ and the only visible reason
for their presence is their desire to swap language unfit
for publication.”
* • • *
Writes S.S. : “ Truly dreadful was the inter-
provincial cricket tournament in Melb., Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday, with the thermometer fluctu-
ating between 98 degs. and 109 degs. in the shade, and
half the players in the club-room on ice half the time,
whilst the rest fried out in the Hadean atmosphere, and
played cricket like tired fatmen bearing great phj'sical and
spiritual burdens. The game was simply a farce, and the
men were all guilty of fatuous foolhardiness in going into
the field on the last day, when heat apoplexy was being
dealt out in the city, and a great, red-hot sorrow brooded
over the country. Nobody turned up to see the match,
but about two hundred looked in to encourage the caterer,
and the teams only staggered on to the green in response
to an alleged sense of honor, which did no earthly good
to anybody. There was really nobody there to know
whether the teams were honorable or not.”
* • * *
Captain Maclaren’s management of the
Britishers’ bowling, on New Year’s Day, was not likely
to strengthen public faith in the uncompromising earnest-
ness of gate-money “test” cricket. Richardson and
Hearne, both at “Home” and abr.'-d, stand head and
shoulders higher than the other English bowlers. Their
present season results in eleven-a-side games previous to
the second “test” were as follows, or thereabouts :
Richardson, 29 wickets, cost 27 runs per wicket. Hearne,
21 wickets, cost 20 runs. Briggs and Hirst together had
taken 10 wickets only for an average of about 72 runs per
wicket. Hirst, in his three latest attempts, had taken
no wickets for 157 runs. On Saturday the attack was
Opened by Richardson and Hirst, and, after the tall
Surrey man had bowled 6 overs for 2 runs, he was taken
off for some inscrutable reason, and put on again at the
other end, where he proved to be rather less successful.
After bowling 11 overs in all for 12 runs, the score then
being 54, Richardson was set aside and didn’t resume
operations until the board showed 115 runs. Meanwhile
Hirst and .Briggs were being freely pasted, whereas
Hearne, who didn’t bowl at all during the first hour’s
play, had managed to avoid heavy punishment.
When Richardson went on again (score 115) it
was in plaGe of Hearne The board at this time suggested
that the two “ crack ’’ English bowlers ought to have
been at either end, without intermission, from the start,
instead of which they had bowled on the “ one down
t’other come up” system whilst the batsmen were
making the game somewhat lively at the expense of the
vastly inferior Hirst and Briggs. And what was the ex-
planation of Maclaren’s fondness for these well-estab-
lished failures, in face of the fact that Hayward, bowl-
ing on the same ground against Victoria, had taken
6 wickets at an average of 19 runs? Hayward wasn’t
asked to bowl in the second test-match until the Austra-
lians had scored 155. Then he went on, with Briggs
at the other end. In his first over he nearly
settled Macleod, and in his second Hill was
caught at the wicket. And yet, when Maclaren ordered
another change, it was Havward, and not the much-wal-
loped Briggs, who made way for Hearne again. Although
Richardson, Hearne, and Hayward are clearly the three
most effective of the English bowlers—their average in
each case being fully 40 runs better than that of Briggs
or Hirst—-they were worked in shifts until the Australian
score had mounted to 210 for two wickets. Then, for the
first time, Richardson and Hearne bowled alternate overs
from opposite ends. The Bulletin doesn’t say that the
English captain played to give the game an attractive ap-
pearance for the Australian public. The Bulletin merely
says that the first object of a test-match, or any other
match, is gate money.
The monotony of the Australians’ first innings,
on New Year’s Day, was fairly broken when Storer took
his pads off and started to bowl. Gregory put one up
flukily, and, altogether, seven runs were scored off the
over, which concluded with the death of M’Leod—a clean
bowl. Five minutes later, Gregory drove one of Storer’s
tricky slows straight at Hayward’s “ bread-basket,” and
the fieldsman, in missing the catch, got his thumb dis-
located. More excitement. The crowd felt very grateful
to the versatile English wicket-keeper.
* • • •
The Melbourne crowd gave Storer a chivvying
over his repeated appeals for l.b.w. Australian cricket-
goers read the newspapers, and are perhaps getting a bit
full of the rather outspoken criticisms of the Britishers
on the “brutal barracking” of the Australian cricket at-
tendances. Even Ranji., who dearly loves to figure
in print, may get himself disliked.
• • • •
Nobody watching the return of a successful
batsman to the pavilion can doubt the awful importance
of these public performers. The man who has scored
his “century” or more comes back with wrinkled
brows and chin on chest. His vanity doesn’t permit him
to look satisfied with himself. He assumes the aspect of
one suffering from a painful accident.
* • * *
Reuter’s “ special ” with the English cricketers
is “Tom” Kelynack, of Melb. Herald. Kelynack is a
first-rate mimic, and has every Melb. celebrity in his
throat, or “ on the Kelynophone,” as he calls it. When
Grace broke his bat on the M.O.C. ground a few years
ago, and called out “ Another baht! ” Kelynack did such
a beautifully accurate reproduction of the champion’s
bellow in the press-box that Grace was half-inclined to
leave his wicket and run after and bash the man who had
trodden on his dignified professional corn.
• • • *
It was generally expected that, in the course of
the Melbourne Cricket Ground improvements, the press-
box would be removed from its present absurd position
to a better one. The box, however, remains where
it was, but it has been considerably improved and
enlarged. Also a wash-hand basin and tap have
been at last provided—the Melb. cricket authorities
formerly were under the impression that newspaper-men
never washed—and of the water from that tap the less
said the better. As the new box is composed mostly of
glass, it can be recommended, on the fifth of five blazing
days, as one of the hottest spots on earth.
* * • •
Veteran cricketer “ Tommy ” Horan has sud-
denly grown 16 years younger, also tall and thin. Ranji
was practising on the East Melbourne ground, one day
last week, and Thomas couldn’t resist the temptation to
have a shot at him. “ A beauty 1 ” exclaimed Ranji, as
the first ball was half-way, and he prepared for one of his
“marvellous” strokes. Next moment there was an
astonished Indian looking after a wicket that had flown
in three separate directions. For two days the Melbourne
cricket world dropped the painful subjeot of the first test-
match and calked instead about Horan's glorious wiping-
out of Eanji. “
London Sportsman says Iredale was onoe in the
hardware line. Iredale’s ancestors started the business
now carried on by Lassetters. The Iredales drifted out
with the ebb and the Lassetters came in with the flood
tide, which has been rising ever since.
• * * •
E.M, : “ Howell bowled Ranji. three times at
practice, in Melb., a few days before the second test.
But it would never do to run the risk of Howell topping
the bowling average in the big match. What a farce this
selection business is 1"
• • • •
Ranji says Charley Turner, with practice, would
be the Charley Turner of old. Maybe, but the showing
of Charlton and Ferris in Melbourne is not likely to
enhance the chances of has-beens in the future.
* • * *
The spectacle of benevolent Hebrew bookmakers
standing on barrels on S.A. racecourses and offering to
receive tote investments and return full dividends with-
out retaining any commission, is quite exhilarating to the
Gentile backers who have been plucked so long. The
bookies apparently rely on backing likely horses in the
machine for their profits. The flaw in the new Act is
that it does not prohibit totalisator agents. Anyhow, the
idea of Cohen reduced to trying to make an honest crust
by investing his own money on the tote is something that
never before entered into the public’s wildest dreams.
* • * *
The long arm again. Singular the number of
doubles brought off in Victoria lately by one horse
winning two races on the same day. Coincidence, or
——? Nov. 24, Aluminium ; Dec. 10, Leeze Me ; Dec. 12,
Vanity ; Dec. 18, Vanity ; Dec. 21, Sioux. No less than
five of these wins were credited to E. Lewis.
* * * *
Backers had a great outing at Randwick on
New Year’s Day, the opening day of Tattersall’s Club
races, no less than four favorites getting home. Kelso’s
stable was in luck again, carrying off the Carrington
Stakes and Pace Welter with Loch Marie ; and the Hor-
dern ditto won the Juvenile Stakes and Club Handicap
with Miss West and Mirella respectively, a couple by
Nordenfeldt. With his team in such form, Mr. Kelso
should feel tempted to postpone his trip to England until
later on. On the second day the reversals of form began,
only one favorite winning. Mr. Long’s Sweet Alice, who
started an even-money favorite for the Nursery Handi-
cap, was this lonesome exception. The feature of the
day was the extraordinary success of Lochiel, whose pro-
geny won three of the five flat races on the card—Cherry,
the New Year’s Gift; Old Clo’, Tattersall's Club Cup ; and
Duddington, the Welter Handicap. Mr. S. E. Kennedy
pulled off the Steeplechase with Bernal, a 12 to 1 chance.
Seven horses started, and all finished the stiff course
without a mishap.
• • • •
The aggressive demands of horse-owners for a
share of the sweep-money have led to trouble in W.A.
According to the North Coolgardie Herald “ When
the sweep on the Coolgardie Cup was drawn in August
last Le Var fell to a ticket held by Mr. Jessup, of Mt.
Malcolm, and he was apprised of his good fortune from
the Courier, which arrived in the same envelope
as one from P. Bolger, stating that unless Mr. Jessup
laid him £2OO to nothing he would scratch his horse.
... It was decided to lay Bolger £lOO, and a wire
was sent to that effect. The offer was accepted.
Le Var won the race, and Mr. Jessup remitted
his winning ticket by post to the Courier office. He
duly received a receipt for it, and, up to date, that is all
he has got, because the management of the Courier
declined to pay him over the full amount of his
prize. They state that Mr. Jessup must suffer
them to deduct from his prize the £lOO he laid to
Bolger, but Mr. Jessup takes up the position that
his wager with Bolger is no concern of the
Courier’s, but purely a private concern between him
and Bolger. The Courier management, however, are
steadfast in_ the position they have taken up, and so Mr.
Jessup has instructed his solicitors in Coolgardie to issue
a writ against the Courier proprietary for the full amount
of the prize. . . It is highly impolitic that the sweep-
promoters should be allowed to take any cognisance of
the betting transactions between their clients and the
owners of horses. Such a state of things would enable
a dishonest sweep-promoter to go to the different owners
of horses, disclose to them the names of the holders of
their horses in the sweep, and ‘ whack ’ with them any-
thing the holder would lay off. . . It is not suggested
that anything of the kind has been done in this case, but
if sweeps are legal there should be something to make
any such means of fleecing the public impossible.’'
If the above is a correct statement of the case
it is an interesting episode. When the demand of the
horse-owner for a bite out of the sweep arrives separately
it looks as if someone connected with the sweep supplied
him with the names of lucky ticket-holders, so as to assist
him in his nefarious demands, and that is bad enough.
But, if the demands of Bolger, or anybody else, for a share
of the sweep-money arrives in the same envelope with
the official notice of the drawing, as seems to have been
the case in this instance, then it is a great deal worse, and
the inference that the sweep management doesn’t object
to Bolger’s proceedings becomes irresistible. And why
should a sweep-promoter help Bolger to squeeze the
harmless, necessary prize-winner ?
* • » *
The A.J.C. stewards fined a jockey on Boxing
Day for appearing in soiled pants. As the jockey had
started in three races previously, it would be interesting
to know how many pairs of pants the official gentlemen
expect a jock, to carry around with him. Why don’t
they pass a regulation that no horse shall be allow’ed to
perspire, or throw up the dust? Then such troubles
would be averted.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin, —How long will lucky drawers
of horses in “ Tatt’s ” sweeps submit to be “ gathered in ”
by the sharks of the turf? The owners of a certain horse
engaged in a recent cup were offered £lOOO to nothing.
They wanted £l5OO, and because the drawer did not
agree the horse was scratched, although the writer was
assured by the owner that it was a certainty as far as
human knowledge could tell. “ Tatt.” has the remedy
in his own hands. Let him draw the sweeps on the day
of the race. The reason constantly advanced against
this arrangement is that it would not give the drawer a
chance to hedge. But very few drawers want to hedge,
and it doesn’t matter a straw even if some occasional
individual does want to. — Snake-Juice.
* * • *
The horse-owner who sent a wire to a Sydney
racing-dub,. “ Your handicapper ought to handicap pigs,”
has been given six months rest.
• * * *
Messrs. Barden, Megson, and Kellovv will all
have cause to remember the Protestant Alliance Gala,
after which they were disqualified for one month. The
effect of this disqualification will be (unless it is removed)
that neither of the three men will be able to compete in
the League and A. N. A. meetings. Megson is more seri-
ously affected, inasmuch as he was called upon by Walne
to defend the Brassard Badge on January Bth at the Mel-
bourne Exhibition track. If this disqualification is not
removed, then the Badge and the accompanying £5
a week will fall to Walne. In the event of this’happen-
ing, Don Walker will be called upon to meet Walne on
the Bth instant., so that whichever way things go there
will be a paced match for the Brassard Championship.
The Dunlop teams, consisting of six triplets and two
tandems, will pace the contestants.
* • » *
Barden threatens to take next boat ’Ome. Pro-
bably, however, the long Britisher will think twice before
he returns to the land where first-class men have to battle
for a stake of a couple of pounds.
Payne won the double with a couple of splendid
sprints, but, with the test-match in progress, cycling was
utterly forgotten, and there were more officials than
spectators on the track.
Megson’s place in the Brassard will probably be
taken by Green, and the battle between the sturdy New-
castle man and Walne should do more to revive Vio.
cycling' than anything short of the return of Bilmartin.
Both performed at Castleniaine on Saturday, each taking
a first to the other’s second in the two scratch races.
Green’s winnings within the last three months total over
£350.
* * * *
Negotiations have been entered into for a match
of multicycles—England v. America. England would be
represented by teams selected from the famous “Dunlop”
stable ; and America—it is more than likely—by 3ome of
the speedy teams that have been pacing Michael.
» * * *
Platt-Betts again lowered his own time for the
five miles Australian record, at Newcastle (N.S.W.), on
New Year’s Day. Paced by two quints, and a quad., he
covered the distance in 9min. 58sec\, being 1 2-ssec. better
than his previous time. Betts leaves for Westralia
ln -ii u^ ’ w * le . re he will stay a fori night, and
will then proceed direct to England, to endeavor to regain
the world's records that he has lost whilst in Australia.
Betts, on his Dunlop-tyred machine, has lowered all Aus-
tralian records up to 10 miles, and, in one instance,
equalled the half-mile world’s record.
» » * ♦
Narandera (N.S. W.) bikists are proudly sticking
out their manly chests. Platt-Betts honored their course,
last Boxing Day, by riding up and down it once or twice
behind a triplet. The up and down part of the track
evidently made Betts feel a bit nervous, for he repeatedly
advised his pacers in a loud tone, after a specially hard
bump, to “be careful.” Previous to Betts’ arrival in
Narandera, a rumor had circulated that he was billed for
the same day at Yass, and many who had never seen him
before doubted his identity, and believed a pseudo-Betts
was “rungin” on them. But thegenuine article appeared
all right, and now every bikist in Narandera is going to
christen his next baby John Bicycle Platt-Betts Record
Hooligan.
• •
The pneumatic seat for bicycles, lately patented
in Philadelphia, sounds promising. The seat is “ blown-
up” with a tube, just as one inflates the tire, and the
result is a resting-place which adapts itself to the circum-
stances of the human form divine. For the lean and
angular kine among bikers the pneumatic saddle should
prove a blessed relief.
* * « •
Scene: A road outside a Western Queensland
town. Sand, dust, flies, heat—losdeg. in the shade. A
party of cyclists comes along panting, puffing, perspiring.
As they pull up at the verandah of a wayside pub., a pass-
ing Chinaman in a cart thus apostrophises them : “ I say
—you lot allee same bloomin’great fool."’ John could
understand hard graft among the cabbagee for filthy
lucre on a hot day, but sport of this kind was clean beyond
him. And it takes a lot to make a Chow so verbally
aggressive as this.
••- • •
Some M.L. boroughs have put their incorporated'
heads together to block the scorcher :—“ A piece of road
which lends itself both to ‘ scorching ’ and observation
will be measured, and at one end Someone will be posted
to give a signal when a given mark is passed. At the other
end an observer will be placed with a stop-watch to
record the time taken over the measured mile. If the
time so taken denotes an unreasonable speed on the part
of the cyclist, a signal will be given, and further along
the road a barricade will be lowered, before which the
cyclist must perforce halt. Here his name and address
will be taken with a view to proceedings.”
**' * •
Vic. railway department now grants special
concessions to racing cyclists ; when six of these bump-
tious and utterly useless, and not particularly ornamental,
individuals travel together, and they are prepared to
assert that they are not engaged in any useful business,
but are bent on racing only, they get return tickets at
single fares. Six men going out to irrigate a patch of
mallee desert, or to open up a new reef, pay full fares—
quite naturally.
• * * •
The Yic. amateur cyclists, with cash pigeon-
shootist Coldham as their high-priest, are eternally
giving themselves airs about the intense purity of the
sport as run by them, and the complete absence of any-
thing like a craving for filthy profit in the ranks of their
riders. Yet it is a matter of common report that every
rider whose name is known is riding a machine presented
to him by the bike-shop as an advt., while a score of
others are getting for (say) a fiver machines which cost
the ordinary buyer four times that amount.
• • * «
Jackson is having a bad time in the States. The
Baldwin Hotel, San Francisco, where he used to stay, and
where he was a big draw in the heyday of his glory, has
turned him out on account of his color; and, greater
crusher still, scratching, gouging rusher sailorman
Sharkey says he will not meet a colored man in the ring.
It is about time Peter came home.
• • * *
Last week F. Lane set at rest the Newcastle
unpleasantness by decisively beating Sid. Cavill in the
220yds. championship of N.S. Wales. Lane won by 7yds.
in 2inin. 41sec. If Lane does not overdo it, a great swim-
ming career is before him.
_ Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
The other day Panton, P.M. (Melb.), fined
a youth £4 and <£l costs for “ stoushing ” a
church deacon. Accused had no business to lam-
baste the deacon, and so far deserved what he got.
But it wearies the ordinary brain to get at the
reasons for the scale of punishments. A man can
kick his wife to within five feet of the cemetery
for less money than it cost this young man to
wallop a church deacon in a very mild way. One
pound is the fixed rate for road-metalling a police-
man. And any festive larrikin in funds can
indulge, for a couple of quid, in the prime amuse-
ment of crippling a citizen or two, if they are not
deacons.
There is one thing which may generally
be reckoned on to wake up a heavy sleeper, and
that is a big fire in the house. Last week, there
were so many big bush fires in the S.E. corner of
Tasmania, down near Hobart, that the whole
Island of Fast Asleep has yawned and sat up in
astonishment. Unfortunately, several lives were
lost in the course of the unexpected awakening.
The country on Tasman’s Peninsula and the ad-
jacent mainland was ablaze for miles. At Mt.
Lyell, and the mines in its vicinity, the fire
destroyed every building, and the residents had to
fly for their lives. Large numbers of people found
shelter in the North Lyell Tunnel. One man
jumped down a shaft 50ft. deep. Another got
into the water and covered his burns with
mud, after which the fire, passing overhead,
literally baked the mud on him. At the noto-
rious Port Arthur, celebrated in convict history,
nearly all the old-time points of interest have
been wiped out of existence. The hospital peni-
tentiary and adjacent buildings are now heaps of
ruins, though the commandant’s old house, the
hotel, and other buildings have escaped. Amy
Sherwin, the one-time operatic singer, was driving
through the blazing bush, and had a narrow
escape. Heavy rains have now extinguished the
flames; and on Mt. Wellington, near Hobart, at
time of writing, snow was falling on the smoulder-
ing embers. The loss of property is very con-
siderable, and the oldest residents of Raspberry-
land cannot remember having received such
another shock.


Vs we have said before, Red Bird Cycles are the strongest cycles.
M
lip
■ SBIBWHi
A few New Zealand Oyellets testing a RED BIRD.
MANUFACTURED, SOLD and GUARANTEED by . . .
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.
: Australasian Branch: 64 King-street, Sydney;
also at 245 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ;
Factories : RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE-
Brantford, Canada. WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Agents Everywhere.
Three horses proved three alibis in Melb.
County Court last week. A small boy had been
kicked in the jaw by a nag and wanted .£249 from
the animal’s alleged owner, one Barker. But
Barket satisfied the judge that one of his three
nags was shifting furniture at the time, and that
the other two were in the stable. None of the
three was called to say neigh on its own account.
POOR CARBINE
has dropped into oblivion ; the talk of London at
present is Ogden’s Guinea Gold high-grade Cigar-
ettes. !•
TANGLEFOOT
%
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
FCy PAPER.
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. & W. THUM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
M’f’t’rs.
Sold Everywhere.
'Ladies! Whisper Low!
C. 6. Hatte’s
14th
GREAT PAIR !
Great: Fair!
GREAT EAIR I
14tli i
NOW^ON! j
. . . WRITE FOR ...
FAIR BOOK and PRICES,
FREE EVERYWHERE.
NEWTOWN. |
S.A. Lands-Minister lately told Parlia-
ment that the artesian witer thrown up at some
of the far-northern bores—Kopperamanna, and
others-possesses the same curative properties as
some of the Maoriland springs. At some of these
bores diminutive and absolutely eyeless fish are
thrown up.
Newman & Snelson,
. . The Governor’s Chemists . .
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have eclipsed all other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific. Safe, sure and speedy. 10 doses by post, 1/1.
v* .*<2?
A NOVELTY!
AIL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
%v natural perfumes.
Obtainable of Chemists, ❖
K, Stores, Perfumers,
or direct from _A V
Stree^j
KING OF CY -^- s
Price,
£l2 10s.
TH€ ROAP
THE MOST WONDERFUL VALUE EVER OFFERED.
SPECIALITIJCS-Weldless Steel Tubing through-
out, Gear to Order, Handle-bars 3 shapes, Oil-retaining
Barrel Hubs, Frames 24 and 26 inch.
CATALOGUES POSTED. EASY TERMS
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
□F»la.iz » Cycle Works,
DRUITT STREET (Next Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an i
Duplicate parts always in stock. lIVI PE RIA L. ’
Wewill supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
y carria Re added), and will send a' SAMPLE
. , Y ,V2 E J; O an y.P ar t of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia,:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 CIiARBNCB S trust, SYDNEY
AND THEY JOURNEY
.FROM ALL SECTIONS
TO THIS
GREAT MECCA OF HEALTH.
THE SICK ARE CURED, AND THE
SCEPTICS LEFT TO WONDER.
In this nineteenth century science has made
rapid progress in treating with disease in every
form. Researches and study have brought to
light many remedies that are invaluable to suffer-
ing humanity, but, without doubt, the greatest
and grandest in the annals of medical science is
the accurate location of disease, which it would
seem from the great errors that are made could j
not be acquired, but must be a direct gift from
birth. That the POLYPATHS can, without
feeling the pulse, looking at the tongue, or asking
any questions of the patient, locate unerringly
each disease of which a patient may be suffering,
is a fact that can easily be tested at their Insti-
tute, 84 Collins-street, Melbourne. Never in the ■
history of Melbourne has any body of men created ;
such a sensation or been the object of such wide-
spread comment and universal praise as has been
accorded the POLYPATHS since their Institute
was founded in Melbourne. But it is as it should
be, and only goes to prove that the citizens of
Melbourne are fully competent to discriminate
between the good and the bad. Their success has
spread like wildfire far beyond the borders of Vic-
toria among those who had given up all hope of
ever being well again, and they are by hundreds
availing themselves of the Polypathie system in
both the diagnosis as well as the treatment of
chronic disease.
Here begins the very first starting point of van-
tage with the Polypathie school of practice, for its
chief exponents are men who from a natural and
overpowering sympathy with all forms of disease
and suffering are able to determine by quickened
sense, surely and with determination, the exact
cause of all that makes life a burden to thousands
all over the land. The highways of medical prac-
tice are strewn with the wrecks of wrong diagnosis,
with the going out of innumerable lives because of
improper location of disease, far more than from
the use of remedies of themselves hurtful. Here
Polypathy plants its foot firmly down and de-
clares that not alone the instinctive, keen sense
of its consulting chief should be taken as a finality,
but that what he determines is the real trouble,
with all the causes that led him to the clear
conclusion, shall be placed before the full faculty
of the Institute and his judgment meet their
approval.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the
good and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has
formulated special treatment for itself in all
chronic cases ; it prepares its own medicines, and
applies them in the light of nineteenth century
progress.
The success attending this new system is almost
miraculous, but it is in accordance with natural
and applied science, and wins its constant vic-
tories over disease because of the true following
out of that which natural ability and the highest
developments of Medical Science has shown to be
sure and true. All sufferers are welcome to the
fullest investigation of the POLYPATHIC
MEDICAL INSTITUTE, of 84 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. Wm. HENRY GAZE, M.D.,
L.S.A. Lond., L.R.C.P. Lond., M.R.C.S. Eng.,
is Physician in charge.
Those who cannot call personally, can
write. All communications are strictly con-
fidential, and an opinion will be given in all
cases by return mail where the consultation
fee of 10s. is enclosed.
More capital invested, more physicians
employed, more cures made by the Poly-
pathic System, than by any other similar
Institution or body of Physicians in the
world.*
OVER 65,000 Machines were made and sold in
1896 by the manufactures of
6R€VILL€
BKYCLCS.
A large output means low prices without sacrifice
of quality. Dunlop Tires, Steel Rims, 4§in.
Tread, and Hygienic or Padded Saddles, are
features of the New <£ls Men’s and Ladies
Models. A post-card will bring you the most
complete catalogue of the year, illustrating
mechanical details fully.
C reside TGrocr Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY:
168 King-street, NEWTOWN.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE I
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American f .cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVE RLE T
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
((
MACKLIN
HENLEY
GBJMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY,
“ Tales of the
. Convict System.”
The Great Dental
Divorce Case.
%
m
\
ITEMS FROM THE EVIDENCE*
Did you suggest to R ds that he should take
some Kola Nut Tonic?
Witness : I may have; I think he was taking it
at the time. _ I think that is in answer to a tele-
gram from him saying he could not come up that
night. (Laughter.)
Another Witness. *
Have you had a drink to-day ?
Witness : Nothing but a glass of water.
Mr. W 1: Perhaps some Kola Nut Tonio?
(Laughter.)
Witness: Yes.
Do you find it good for you?
Witness: Yes, it is fine and strengthening.
(Laughter.)
The Foreman of the Jury asked the witness
several questions about the size and architecture
of the petitioner’s house at Strathfield.
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong, beg to
intimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonio with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET FORM.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
"ALOK ”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter: What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “ Oh! my favorite reviver—
"ALOK,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOR
“ALOK.” I
Mighty " ALOK ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIC
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MTT.Tr
If You Do Not Specially Order
“ALOK,”
THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS
HITHERTO—
IN ITS BITTER FORM.
j IN EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM,
WITH SODA WATER,
fICOK/MpereU
2s. 6d. & 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
—ASK FOR—
“ALOK”
(REGISTERED).
MIGHTY " ALOK.”
PHARMACY:
337 George Street
(NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P. OFFICE),
SYDKTEY.
K>«<t
*sBs
>
In thk Morning—
Before going to Fisher and Co.
NUT TONIC.
for KOLA


In the...
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house-
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. «X. O. Ayer <& Co,,
LOWELL, MASS., XJ. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
Ladies. - can and
see our OH HAP
ivi ACH I NBS.from 20s
eaeb. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
Jlascotte
TOBACCO.
///,
mm
t-hat
yo*s get
IT —
MASCOTTE
iMftSCOTTEj
Peafpcss
and HEAD
I NOISES
Wilson’s Common
•Sense Ear Drums
Relived
Believe all conditions of Deafness
vnd Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aijbal Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, nodan-
t "gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by Physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OP VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
ITTJDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
( Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Dear Bulletin,— lf “R. Williams,” Gil-
gunnia, refers to the plain turkey in his query, he
is wrong in thinking that he found eggs, in that
bird. Possibly he found one egg on dissecting
the bird ; but the other so-called eggs were merely
unimpregnated ovaries. Unquestionably the
plain turkey (Otis Australis, Gould) never lays or
hatches inore than two eggs annually. The term
plain applied to O.A. doesn’t mean common ;it
simply means that the bird, which isn’t a turkey
at all, is found bn or frequents the great plains of
the interior of Australia. Latham’s tallegallus, or
brush turkey, lays from 12 to 16 eggs annually,
and is a true turkey Otis Australis is a bastard.
The brush turkey is gregarious in its nidification ;
from 20 to 30 frequently lay in the same nest or
mound. The mound is composed of leaves, grass,
sand, &c., the heat of which, in decaying or fer-
menting, acts as an incubator, and the eggs are
successfully hatched ; not more than 4 per cent, on
on average prove infertile. The “ mallee hen ”
(Leipoa occellata, Gould) is also a true turkey, or is
classed as such ; its habits of nidification are strictly
analogous to those of. the brush turkey. The
plain turkey (0.A.) sits on its eggs - the male and
female birds taking turn and turn about at the
hatching. The nest is extremely simple, nothing
more than a depression scratched in the ground.
-H. J. M‘Cooky.
Dear B, —My father was an old school Scot,
who adored ‘‘ Robber Burns ” and despised fiddlers,
artists, or pianists. Had he lived to read the
recent articles on Burns the chances are he would
have Bilmartined The Bulletin staff and burnt
the office. For 364 days of the year he was a
peaceable, sober, hard-working citizen, but, on
that cursed “Februar’ morn,” the acrid smoky
aroma of Scotch whisky filled our house from
dawn. Even his bitterest foe on that day was
pressed ,to drink to Bobby’s memory. All day it
was a gentle simmer of “ Get up and bar the
door,” “Rob Tamson,” and “ A man’s a man for
a s "that.” The children were dressed in kilts, and
all day long endured with silent rage the taunts
and gibes of Irishers and Deutschers, who, if they
were cursed with a national poet, cared not one
blank dash for .his memory; but night brought
the climax. Dad was the boss Caledonian of any
“ Burns Supper ” he chose to honor with his pre-
sence. When he sang “ Scots-vvha-hae,” his voice
would jar the windows like a discharge of artillery,
and turn a hundred, hard-headed money-grubbing
Scots into roaring lunatics. Ten minutes later
he would have them wiping away tears with the
tails of their kilts as he sung the same tune to the
words of “The Land o’ the Leal,” given in a
solemn, pathetic Glenlivet voice. The next
phase would be bursts of Homeric laughter at
“Tam O’Shanter,” or “ The Laird o’ Cockpen.”
The last act would be a head like Andree’s bal-
loon and a big slump in words and music. And to
think there are thousands like him who have con-
sumed oceans of whisky and endured headaches
that buzzed like the engines of a tramp steamer,
all in honor of a miserable impostor. Truly,
“saith the preacher, all is vanity.’’--MauParritch.
CJSmM
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
** VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Ulustr’n., £l2 12/-
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
227 Lit. Co!lins=st.,
Melbourne.
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS »
Tbe Finest ai}d Largest WareljoOS?
X3XT AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC AT
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDIXTEY.
THE
‘ Plum’
p;o
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We.
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves,
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price -f Single E' azor ) in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extr <.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
1.. -Jf,
3^
rm
/ *
&
f ■
Go Nap-
on '
OWN,
‘GUINEA-GOLD
v " QGARETT£3.
Joy ROYAL WARRANT of APPOINTMENT to “ THE QXJEEKT.
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE ”
Schweppes
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SODA WATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co., Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IHVALIDS
, AND
THE AGED.


The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Proprietor of tbe ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES (Registered.)
Has much pleasure in presenting to the Public the following overwhelming evidence of the great virtues
his REMEDIES contain.
Testimonials.
Ax Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-st., Melb.
IJPMP'SIr,—I have much pleasure to inform you that a'
ciwrrse of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
•erere case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fllll Y» A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus: To Herr Rassmussbn. —Bear
* ,r ’~ l ~ ,'. nk ifc . my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. a. LUCKHaM.
A Much-valued Testimonial from one of
Australia’s Most-Prominent Explorers.
Grand Hotel, Spring-st., Melbourne,
-iv. t, March 7th, 1895.
To Herr R-ssmus-en,
Proprietor of the Alfaline Remedies.
. ■P ear ?' r > in ves me great pleasure to inform you that
I have derived great benefit from your celebrated Alfaline
Remedies during my exploring expeditions throughout
Australia, and I consider them invaluable to all travellers
in the bush.—Yours very truly, B. fiIITTON
(Formerly a Councillor, Brighton, England).
Witness: A. F. Heker, Manager, Grand Hotel, Spring-
street,-Melbourne.
Mr. Buit-N writes later:—“The Pills I had from you
were of great benefit to me and others. In one case,
when three hunters and trappers were travelling about
the ranges near my place on the Rose River, one was taken
very ill ; his mates intended taking him in a waggon to
Wangaratta (about 60 miles) next morning to see a doctor.
I gave him a few of your Pills. lam pleased to inform
you that, having to pass their camp next day, I found
him up and pegging-out his skins and looking well. This
speaks volumes for your valuable Remedies.”
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the effichey Of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
caBf* was a most serious one \ it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excrusiating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
’ Cycle Agent Tobacconist,
Narrandera, N.S.W.
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir, I hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the S/stem for oyer seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to Anyone suffering as I was.
, CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband', 95 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
The Alfaline Remedies have Cured
over 100,000 for the Blood
and the Nerves.
CALL AND SEE NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
HERR RASSIWUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
Herbal Remedies for the Blood, Nerves,
Liver and Kidneys.
AWARDED THE PARISIAN GOLD MEDAL.- Many Thousand Testimonials.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Pasmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. X have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully,
J. NERVIN.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
I**” ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus—PROPRIETOR,
Box 208, General Post Office, SYDNEY.
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend yottr
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. B. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
General Debility; Costiveness, and Liver
Complaint Cured.
Arcadia, September 23rd, 1896.
To Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Having for.some time been a sufferer from
costiveness and Liver Complaint, I was induced to try
your Alfaline Herbal Remedies, with the result that for
12 months I have been entirely free from indigestion and
irregular motions of the bowels. I can safely recommend
your Herbal Remedies to anyone suffering from the above-
mentioned complaints. I might also mention that you
cured me of General Debility of some standing. I am
now married and happy. I am, dear sir, yours faithfully
(Signed) A. G. GILES,
Post Office, Arcadia, via Galston, N.S.W.
P.S.—You are at liberty to publish this testimonial, or
do whatever you think proper.
Testimonials.
A Member of Parliament Cured of Sciatica
and Rheumatism.
„ TI _ Parliament House, Sydney, August 12,1892.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number Of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I
hear complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind
regards, I have the honor to he, yours truly
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
An Affection of the Liver and Kidneys
Cured.
Mr. Sola Graupner (brother of the celebrated Miss
Horne Graupner, the great actress) writes as follows:
„ _ 345 Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. 9 3 '97
Dea . r ,? i , r ’-l t s ives me (rrear ' pleasure to inform yoti that
your Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills completely cured me
of a severe affection of the liver and kidneys. I found mv
illness to interfere greatly with me in my profession, as a
teacher of singing, but I am very pleased to say that all
my pains are gone, and all my former vigor and strength
have returned, and I feel like a new man. I may say that
before taking your Pills I had a great lump on the liver
which could be felt from the outside, ar.d which com-
pletely disappeared as soon as I took your Pills. You are
quite at liberty to publish this testimonial.
SOLA GRAUPNER.
Blood Cured.
- Parkes Range, Southern Cross, W.A.
I have much .pleasure to inform you that your Alfaline
Blood Pills completely cured me of a serious blood affec-
tion of three years’standing. I shall always be glad to
recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my friends.—Yours
gratefully, JAMES NELSON WILLIAMS.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen. August 1894.
Dear Sir, In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long he spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l
remain, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
‘ JOHN KEAY.
U/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Constitutional General Debility Cured.
To Herr Rassmussen. January 9, 1897.
Dear Sir,—l, William Judge, do hereby testify that the
Universal Alfaline Pills, together with the Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills, have thoroughly cured me of general
debility of the whole system of seven years’ standing or
more, after spending pounds in other advertised remedies
and doctors—all to no purpose. lam very thankful to
you and your Herbal Remedies for the great and com-
plete cure of the distressing complaint that j was
affected with, and I feel it is only right that others
should learn of the great virtues contained in the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies. I am willing to answer any
letters or interview any person who doubts this testi-
monial. The following address will always find me. Yours
truly,
(Signed) W. E. JUDGES,
Western Road, Parramatta, N.S.W.
LIST OF HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ALEALINE REMEDIES
AWARDED
IiITWO GOLD
EDALS
ALFA LINE PILLS?
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD v NERVES.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
, and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 12s„ and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Corn Cure— Cures Corns, Warts, and
Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Cakes— Destroys and expels any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills- An Excellent,
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also m comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor
Boxes, 6s. s '
Alfaline Headache Tablets —An instant euro
or all kinds of headache, no matter how caused Is ner
packet. ' F
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Electric Belt-This Electric Belt is
guaranteed to contain a genuine electric current and is
protected by Royal Letters Patent. It is without’a doubt
without its equal, and may be relied upon to invigorate
and strengthen the whole Nervous System, and will also
cure Lumbago, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Weakness of
the Spine.
Prices with 1 Battery 30s.
» 2 „ 425.
jj .. 3 „ 63 s.
Send full particulars of measurements over the hi ns
when ordering one. F
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
HPRR will Post his Valuable Book.
The Natural Doctor, free and unobserved, to
anyone. It contains most Valuable Infoimation for
all Complaints.
WARNING.
HERR RAS MUSSEN is the Original and Only
Panisti Botanist in Australia. Patrons should always
obtain Remedies direct from his own establishments, as
advertised on this page. All HEliu. RA'SMUSSEN’S
l KM PIE- 1 can only he obtained from his own Offices
and uranohes, as mentioned.
ADVICE FREE.
Any ADVICE desired, and all Particulars required re
the Remedies will Jbe siven FREE at HERR RASS-
MTJSSEN’S offices, or posted in sealed envelopes to
anyone on application.
IMPORTANT.
REGISTER all LETTERS with Money. Make Cheques
or Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN
whether you send to his Head Office or Branches.
Herr Rassmussen’s
HEAD OFFICE
Intercolonial
Branches :
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street.
Charters To\yers—Royal Arcade.
{
Queensland
New Zealand :
91 .Lambton Quay, Wellington
- ■
547 George Street, Sydney.
South Australia :
Adelaide— ls 4 Randle Street.
Victoria :
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street.
W.A.—Perth : Hay-street, next Royal. Theatre.
Coolgardie—(Near Freemasons’ Hotel, BaiPy-,street.
Fremantle- Henry-street, next corner of High-st.
Kalgoorlie—No. 2 Lindell’s Chambers, Hannan-st.


Amusements.
T YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING!
1 LYCEUM GORGEOUS PANTOMIME.
DICK WHITTINGTON UP TO DATE.
150 UPON THE STAGE 150.
An altogether new and original version of the famous
storv of Dick and his cat up-to-date, up to Dick, and up
to the most exacting requirements of the vast Lyceum
audiences.
The same Popular Prices—2s., Is. and SIXPENCE
J._and C. MAC MAHON.
QKITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
Frank Thornton—“ Charley’s Aunt.”
Undoubtedly the Greatest Success ever Produced.
It ran for over four years in London. The Record Run
of the Record Reign.
THE SUN NEVER SETS ON CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Ss, 2s, Is —Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is. No early doors. No
extra fee for hooking:. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
. Manager, ,L. J. LOHR.
TTER- MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening. Matinees, Wednesday A Saturday.
The grand, gorgeous, spectaoular, comio pantomime,
Tb* Babes it) tbe Wood.
Interpreted by a Great Burlesque Company.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 3s„ 2s„ and Is.
FITZ-GERALD BROTHERS’
HUGE
COMBINED SHOWS,
INCLUDING
Carl Hagenbeck’s Zoological Circus.
A TRIUMPHANT AND INSTANTANEOUS
SUCCESS.
CROWDED NIGHTLY BY LARGE AND
ENTHUSIASTIC AUDIENCES.
The-Lion and Elephant riding a Tricycle
| A SENSATION.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 O’CLOCK.
LOCATION:
Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
PRICES— 4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
Day Shows—Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Doors open at 2 ; Performance at 3.
The Splendid Band under the conductorshlp of Herr
Von der Mehden. Box plan at Nicholson’s.
tjl HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY^
Sole Lessee and Managing Director, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Overwhelming Success of the First Pantomime of the
Season,
JACK, THE GIANT KILLER.
The array of Talent engaged for Mr. Rickards’ first
pantomime is the talk of Sydney. PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Book seats at Paling’s. Matinees every Wednesday and
Saturday. Children half-price.
tjl IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Coolest Theatre in Sydney owing to the Sliding Roof.
Reappearance, and Magnificent Reception Nightly of
Mr. Harry Ridtards.
A Perfect Fur Ore created each evening by
8 The Hellinoea 8
The most marvellous Gymnasts and Acrobats yet seen
in Australia.
Entire Change of Programme Each Week.
Box Plan at Paling’s. George-street.
■pHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
■*" Sole Lessee & Man. Director—Mr. Harrt Rickards.
GORDEOUS XMAS HOLIDAY PROGRAMME.
First Appearance in Australia of the Celebrated
HEG-LiEM:A.Kn\rS.
The acknowledged champion Flying Trapeze Artists and
Athletes of the world.
First Appearance in Melbourne of
JOSEPH — THE WALDRONS ETTIE
Supported by the entire strength of our Double Co.
2s fid, 28, Is, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
RIN CESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers:
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Wilson Barrett Season. Wilson Barrett Season.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
“ OLA.XJ3DIA.3XT.”
SATURDAY, January 8—“ THE MANXMAN.’*
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
Before
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Remedy for Sea-aiehnesa.
Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer; Ask your Hotel
lor a Bottle.
2s. 6d. and 4b. 6dL. ALL COLONIES
Also at thb
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Tb*S(iffieldCasc-
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
H a ®MSXON’S gigantic circus and
““wsAr pE,uroHM -
LOCATION: PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
A CYCLONIC SUCCESSt
EVERY EVENING.
Matinees Every Wednesdays and Saturdays.
T^'n LoVe ’^. ana,rer; CoL B - Hi ckB, Representative:
Joe Brown, Press and General Agent.
mUBATKE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
SUPERB XMAS PANTOMIME.
dick WHITTINGTON.
MAGGIE MOORE supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Prices as Uusual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Acting Managers—For Miss Maggie Moore and Mr H
R. Roberts, Mr. Percy Ward; for Messrs. Holloway 'and
Anderson, Mr. Jas. Hardy. y
Alexandka theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
BACK TO THE OLD SPOT!
Grand Christmas Attraction by the Most Popular
Organisation that Ever Played in the Alexandra.
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In the Romantic, Yivid, Absorbing Stage Story of
Christmastide in Old England,
A GILDED SI3NT.
Dan Barry’s Popular Prices —25., Is., and SIXPENCE.
JJIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the management of Miss Ada Juneen.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, Jan. 6) and until further notice.
GORGEOUS' XMAS PANTt MIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
EVERYTHING UP-TO-DATE.
H. C. Ward General Manager.
Our 1898 Registered Novelty “ Bird Brooch.
Surpassing the old style of Twin Swallows for Strength and Durability.
9-earat Gold,
15'-
15-carat Gold,
GfS 'Alliance
JTejf/sf'erec/
CLOSED
OPEN
6
16-carat Gold,
with
ftondella Bead
in centre of
chain, 22/6.
Gold Lucky Wish-Bone
(Merry Thought) Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
. Pearl centre, 20/- each.
Plain, large size ... 7/6 each.
tt small size 5/- each
Pearl Set all round ... 20/- each.
Tusk Links.
Silver-mounted, 4/6 pair.
Gold-mounted, 13/6 pair.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant,
13/6 each.
With Bell and Chain Pendant, 12/6 each.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
6 Lovely Opals, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
Solid Plain Plat.
9-carat, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-
16-carat, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-
Silver, 5/-
RICHLY CHASED.
9-carat, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-
16-oarat, 35/-, 40/-, 46/-
Silver, 4/-, 6/-
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Silver-Mounted
Gold-Mounted
4/6 each.
13/6 „
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
Hundreds of other Novel Designs
—IN —
RINGS, lINICS, BROOCHES, &c.,
POST FREE.
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-.
Buby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
Plain Band Ring.
9-carat, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
15-carat, 20/-, 22/6, 27/6
18-carat, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
With any name, 1/- extra.
9-ct., 22/- pr. 15-ct., 37/6 pr.
Silver, 4/6 pr. 6 patterns.
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
1
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
SYDNEY— II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH —7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LA UNC ESTON— Hedbey Button.
Has No Ribbon.
Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of tree Trial.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
s? 'THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IX THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOU) ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and a/- each.
Proprietors! GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO,, LEEDS. ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales t
TIU.OCK A CO.. KENT and MVERPOOI, STREETS, SVDKET.
North, South, East, West
-A-
Pattisons’ Whisky is the best
T
South, North, West, East,
T ”
Pattisons’ at every feast.
x
East, West, North, South,
s
Pattisons’ in every mouth.
o
West, East, South, North,
XT
Pattisons’ calling praises forth
S’
l 4^ /r
w
A Wholesome and Agreeable
Stimulant.
xx
Of Unrivalled Quality and
Flavour.
i
The Pink of Perfection.l
s
Oldest, Finest, Purest.
K
Sold Here, There, and Every*
where.
~ST
SOLE PROPRIETORS.
Pattisons, Ltd.,
Highland
Distillers,
Leith, Ballindalloch, and London.
Head Office :
Constitution Street, LEITH.


Stocktaking Closing-Out Sale
FINNEY ISLCS & CO.’S
IS NOW ON.
GOODS in EVERY DEPARTMENT are
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED for this
CLEARTNG-OUT SALE.
ORDERS should he sent EARLY, with a care-
ful description of requirements, naming prices
wished to be paid, and enclosing REMITTANCE
TO COVER AMOUNT.
Any Change over, after executing Orders, will
be at once refunded, and COUNTRY CUS-
TOMERS may rely upon getting the benefit of
all reductions, and goods nearest in price to those
mentioned.
DRAPERY GOODS of the value of £2 and
upwards that can go by Parcels Post, with the ex-
ception of certain heavy or bulky low-priced lines,
are sent by us to any Parcel Post Office in the
Colony, POSTAGE FREE.
Goods are thus Delivered to all parts of the Colony
AT Bill SB AN hi CLOSING-OUT PRICES.
During Closing-Out Sale it is often useless to order from
samples. When once lines are sold, they cannot be re-
placed. In sending samples, therefore, a first, second,
and third choice should be made in each instance, and, in
the event of all being sold, authority should he given for
us to subst'tule the nearest. In suhstitut ing goods, our
best judgment would be used in selecting the nearest, both
as regards pattern and price.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank Drafts, and
Cheques payable to
FINNEY ISLES & CO., BRISBANE.
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of'all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Haiki>ki:sm:i:s a \ i* avkihaki its
To tliv Trade.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, •comprising 14, 1(5, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cot ton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
vnri‘ '<- of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mil ors Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving -oap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, Scalpets, &e.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
Clrt-A-IGr <sc AITKEN
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 082 Oeorge Street, Sydney.
k.
Voufl Life or thatSioaJet tobacco!
HOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
IARCEIL A CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Piucic W AIMING ; Is. 3d. posted.
Dear Bulletin, —It is a stupid error to
call the Australian tea-tree a “ti-tree.” More than
this, it is a new-chmnism, a relic of Gov. Phillip, a
Botany Bayism—on which The Bulletin ought
to jump with both its No. 10’s at once. The tree
in question received its name from Capt. Cook’s
sailors, owing to the close resemblance of its leaf
to tea ; and they used the leaves as tea. Tea-tree
is the name of this well-known shrub —not “ti-
tree.” —H. J. M'Cooey.
The chief obstacle of the philologist in the
isles of the south is the extreme politeness of the
natives, who seldom tell their instructor when he
is at fault. In translating the Bible into the
language of the Sandwich Islands some particu-
larly bail blunders were made. For instance, the
saying that it is hard for them that have riches to
enter the Kingdom of God came badly to grief.
In the island language wai-wai means property —
riches ; vae-wae means legs. And for years the
natives allowed their preachers to go on telling
them how difficult it was for a man with legs to
enter Paradise.
lie rabbit-proof fences. Along the border,
commencing at the meet'ng-point of the three
provinces (N.S.W., Queensland, and S.A.) and
separating N.S.W. and Q., is an alleged rabbit-
proof fence, which, with the necessary cottages,
gates, and other conveniences cost the country a
considerable sum of money. Here and there
boundary-riders are stationed to look after it;
there is also an overseer in receipt of a good
salary. And while the fence is persistently main-
tained, the country on each side is thickly infested
with rabbits, increasing by thousands every month,
and they can be seen night and morning exchang-
ing greetings through the meshes. What the
whole fabrication is there for nobody knows, and
nobody, save the tax-burdened working-builock,
seems to care.
Melb. : “A Melbourne tradesman ex-
humes, and sticks behind his plate-glass, a large
two-page contemporary engraving of the fancy
ball given 30 years ago to the Duke of Edinburgh.
Beside it he gums up a cutting from thf*AGE of
about 20 years ago, which may be refreshingly
fetched in once in a while. This is a County
Court case. Murder wall out, indeed. A perfect
lydv of that era sued for slander, on the ground
that she had been called no better than she should
be, in the, shape of the ugliest word going. G. P.
Smith, for the defence, pleaded justification.
.Evidence was given that a Melbourne detective,
of the regular force, engaged rooms from her at
.£5 ss. a week for the Duke of Edinburgh, who
occupied them with a girl whom he brought from
Sydney in H.M.S. Galatea —under the auspices,
of course, of Captain Lord Pimp. Case dismissed.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer,' quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Consider the J.P., how he performs. The
other day a man of “ respectable appearance ” was
| brought before the Fitzroy (Vic.) Bench, charged
j with indecency. The accused had already been
convicted in another suburb on a similar charge,
but the defence brought various gentlemen in
black clothes and belltoppers into court to swear
that he was a nice, quiet, married man, and a
church deacon ; whereupon the Bench concluded
that it was sure he didn’t mean it, and he was
discharged. Next case : A seafaring man, with
the ordinary appearance of the common person
who hauls tarry ropes and scrubs greasy decks.
He was charged with exactly the same offence,
and made exactly the same defence. There were
no convictions against him, however, and the
police did not know anything to his discredit, but
he failed to bring along a lot of persons instore
clothes and high black hats to say he attended
church regularly, and respected the cloth and the
plate. So the Bench took what it called “a
lenient view of the case,” and sent him to gaol for
three months.
“ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
l*ricc, 10s. <>«l.
Sole Agents :
9
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st, Sydney
A BOON to SYDNEY.
Il
, z'.l
'•7k'
y=sT
Ou\
[IVES
BY THE
Centennial Insect Powder.
Will kill Mosquitos, Pleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers— Elliott
Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Washington H.
Soul, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO. LIMITED, 02 Queens-
land Offices, Bridge-street, Sydney.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
r
TO ALL
k MEN i
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re toied so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain maybe had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Mg
[’fTfl
ill
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
>S For the House, Conservatory
{;! and Carden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
x Carden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c., from
Moth.
Eids Dogs, Cats, and Fowls of
Parasites-
HARMLESS TO ANIMAL LIFE.
CAUTION. Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
ml
PAiLRoT
BR^ND"
P HPu QIU for/
V/oundc
CoOGMS (pLPS 2c /
Beware op
k /AMTATI°MS
MELBOURNE.
ffflfitt?
POST FREEv^ 1
WATCHES-CLOCKS- JEWELLERY-BIRTriDAT*
Wedding z CHristeiMg Presents
H FIIZARFrri ST*
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
"Ootialla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
' | —godalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
—godLalla. EEa.ms
In Get-Up and Quality are. equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.— It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholesale Agent,
230 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in .Large Logs. .
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. 3VXIIIS,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
oveicome Deafness
►and Head Eoisfs, no matter of
Ihowlong standing. Are the same
to the ear« a s glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address -A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
VIOLINS, 7s 6d, 12s 6d,
v 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25sand 30s; Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. ”08 and 90s; Banjos, best, 63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos -'ss and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang Mouth,
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, or Is. weekly. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON. 118 King-st., Sydney.
Ft
O
IP
OLD
RNS
SUNBU
FIMg
«/?
HA
CP
&C
2^V£
Y
i
P *o
p f?»ET
ORS . $
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYME.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this, well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
i its best recommendation.”
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s ow'n
gift to man— Electricity.
Our E'ectric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can he felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full anjount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say. and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing' we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), o-ivmg illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Pee £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dy. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NerVoftS WcakQcSs - -
AND
Cerebro-SpiQal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who >vill
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.'
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr,
WILBEK KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.


WILLIAMS’ LIFEBUOYS!
THE INVENTION OF THE AGE.
bettek known as
Pr. Williams’ Pipk Pills for Pale People.
Travellers by Land and Sea the "World Over Swear by Them.
Anaemia Anticipated.
Caroline Fenton, of Glenmore Draggon,
W.b.W., stated recently to a press representa-
• ‘ ,gl “H e Slxtee . n years of age I have been suffer-
ing until recently from Amemia or poorness of the
• 1 tned doctors and medicines, but with no
good results. The money thus spent was simply
wasted. I was very weak, indeed, so weak that I
could not walk at all.
My appetite disap-
peared, and mysystein
became quite ener-
vated, with the result
that headaches of a
severe character set
in. Toothache was
also causing me great
trouble, which was not
to be wondered at con-
sidering the state my
nerves were in. Soon
I got so terribly weak
that I frequently went
off into dead faints;
indeed, I was so ill
that I considered it
simply marvellous that
I did not die. One
morning, whilst lying
in bed, I read in one
of your books an ac-
count of the cure of a
girl who had suffered similarly to myself by Dr
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People." I decided
to give the pills a trial. The first box told favor-
ably ; the pills seemed to move what little blood I
had. I continued with them, and was soon out
and about again. I was always on the move, and
kept getting better rapidly, until now, at twenty-
one years of age, I am strong and fat; in fact, I
am stronger than ever I was, and I feel in splendid
condition. I suffered intensely before I found out
about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. I
gave them a fair trial, taking ten boxes in all, and
they completely cured me.
“I have recommended Dr. 'Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People to several of my friends, and they
have taken them to their marked benefit.
“(Signed) Caroline Fenton.”
Sciatica, Nervous Debility and
Insomnia Cured.
(From the Seymour Express, Victoria.)
In a neat little reel and white cottage, near the
old Victorian town of Seymour, our representa-
tive found Constable William Greenaway taking a
well-earned rest, having just carried off the Sep-
tember pigeon -shootrug trophy. For many years
he had been a sufferer from insomnia and nervous
debility, and consequently could never altogether
rely upon himself. For him a steadier was
necessary, and although he had divided many
pools, he had not before won outright. His story
is interesting, and we,give it in verbatim
“I have served in all sorts of places and seasons
I was engaged in the capture of the Kelly gang,
after the shooting of Sergeant Kennedy and
Ins comrades outside Mansfield. Our trial and
privations were so heavy that I contracted sleep-
lessness and nervous debility, and ultimately
sciatica. Nothing that I could do had any effect
upon the sciatica, until I was induced to try Dr
Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People. I treated
the idea at first with ridicule, but my condition
being desperate, and causing my wife great
anxiety, I tried them. I would lie awake, gazing
at the ceiling, turning restlessly from one side
to another, till dawn, when I would doze off
through sheer exhaustion. This went on for
years. My temper got unbearable, and my health
was breaking fast. I lost my appetite, and though
I consulted all the best doctors, and took all sorts
of nauseous stuffs, nothing but strong narcotics
ever brought me sleep. It was not a natural
slumber, but an artificial oblivion. My weight
went down to 10.2. I was but a shadow of my
former self, and was indeed in a very desperate
condition. It meant death or the mad-house if
this sort of thing went on ; so I tried one Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pill after each meal, at my wife’s
earnest solicitation. After a week I tried two
pills after each meal, and almost immediately ex-
perienced a change for the better.
“ This was April last year. My health improved
by leaps and bounds, and before the month was
over my sleep and appetite returned. I then in-
creased the dose to three pills after each meal.
During the six months that have elapsed since I
started the experiment my weight has increased
to 11.3, and I have no longer any sleepless nights,
nor do I suffer from nervous debility. The plea-
D? WILLIAMS’
ALE
EOPLE
Imitated ! Copied f
Substituted, t
But Never Equalled!
sures of life have returned, and the precision of
my Greener ’is unerring. lam devoted to all
sport where the gun is used, as my three ripple
shot English setters could tell you, could they
speak. The first match that I have shot in, since
taking the pills, was the single-barrel competition
Cartridge Co.’s trophy.
This I won by killing 12 consecutive birds,
ai J . 1 entirely attribute my success to the good
which the Pink Pills have effected. I now sleep
like a top, and the gratitude we all feel at the
change is expressed in the smiling faces around
me.”
Rheumatic Gout Succumbs to
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
(From the Hobart Clipper).
What at first sight reads like an improbable
story, but the truth of which is beyond any doubt
6 sma^es t detail, comes to hand from Port
Arthur. Mrs. C. Fairclough, wife of the pro-
prietor of the Carnarvon Hotel, Port Arthur, and
formerly a nurse in the hospital at Launceston,
reports a case of marvellous cure by the use of
Hr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. For
years past she had been a sufferer from rheumatic
affections, which at first seemed trivial, but in
spite of ordinary precautions continued to increase
to such an extent as to give rise to considerable
alarm. The doctors pronounced the case to be
one of much severity, the complaint being rheu-
maticgout. _ Everything was tried that could be
tried, but without avail, and Mrs. Fairclough be-
came at length a pronounced invalid.
Worrying over her illness brought on a variety
of other complaints The least cold in the world
affected her to an abnormal degree. She was
seized with pains in the feet to such an extent
that she could hardly walk, even a feeble effort
her considerable pain. She was com-
pelled to sit m a warm place constantly, and her
appetite fell away to such an extent that she ate
but one meal m three days. It is, perhaps,
needless to remark that every effort was made to
secure relief, the best medical advice procurable
being obtained. It was without avail, however,
for she, so far from getting better, grew steadily
worse. J
For months she was hopeless of ever recovering
the use of her limbs, and the pains which she
endured were absolutely beyond conception.
-Hot sea baths were tried, but failed to make an
impression upon her; and, in fact, she was
looked upon as a confirmed invalid by all her
friends. J
In her extremity she was willing to try any
possible remedy, and hearing of some of the
marveUous cures effected by the use of Dr.
Williams Pink Pills for Pale People she decided
to try them. Her husband laughed at the idea,
and condemned the medicine as being useless and
inoperative. But, acting on the belief that if
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills did her no good a little
could not do any harm, she gave them a trial.
ohe noticed a decided improvement in her con-
dition after commencing to take the pills. The
pains were not of so aggravated a nature, and
sne could stand without assistance, a feat which
previously she was unable to accomplish. Soon
the pains in the feet ceased altogether, and she
felt like a new woman. Delighted with the dis-
s° ver y which she had made, she continued to use
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and, after carefully
aking them continuously, according to directions,
tor a period of two months, she felt that she had
im longer any occasion to use the medicine
I cannot explain to you,” Mrs. Fairclough
said, in answer to enquiries made, “ how grateful
1 am for having discovered a cure for my com-
plaint. I was in torture, and completely broken
down with despair, for my condition. I felt that
life was a burden, and I seemed to be in every-
body s way by day and by night. My husband 'is
as gratefu! as myself for the cure effected, and we
both feel that I owe a new lease of my life to the
use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
xhey have left no after-effects whatever and I
v ' e jy khat they have completely driven
out the demon of rheumatic gout from my system.
1 am now a new woman, and, being well and
strong and hearty, am able to perform all my
A nrl oil in
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST HEADACHES.
“ ‘ Merrylands,’ Barradine Creek,
ttrr , t. nr “ Via Narrabri and Pilliga.
lo» thes Dr. Williams Medicine Co., Queen’s-
place, Sydney.
‘*Sir, —I have much pleasure in ordering another
box of your wonderful Pink Pills. I can safely
say they are a won-
derful medicine;
from the use of
them I have derived
great benefit. I
have already had
two boxes of your
Pink Pills, aiid I
am now ordering a
third ; but I can
already testify as to
the good your Pink
Pills have done me.
The first box I re-
ceived in the sum-
v. , .. T „ mer months, during
which time I suffer extremely from headaches,
etc. Last summer I enjoyed splendid health,
toeing never troubled with either pain or ache.
I heartily recommend them to all sufferers as
being a really good medicine. Enclosed find 2s.
“d. m stamps for another box of Pink Pills.
“You can make whatever use you think fit of
this testimony. t
“ Yours respectfully,
“ ELIZABETH FORREST ”
Extraordinary Cures.
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF NEWTOWN.
A visitor to the .suburbs of Sydney might spend
a more profitless amount of time than would be
occupied in calling upon Mr. Salter, of 89 Rose-
street, Darlington, and inquiring into the veracity
of the marvellous cure which had been lately
effected in his own particular case by that weli-
known and unrivalled Blood Builder and Nerve
Restorer, “Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for P;.le
People.” Mr. Salter, upon being interviewed by
a reporter who was despatched to interrogate him
upon this point, replied :
“Yes, truly, I have had a marvellous escape
from an agonising death, but I am now able to
get about and pursue my calling, which is one
that requires considerable bodily stiength and
activity.”
“What have you been suffering from, Mr
oalter ?
V.
“Pleurisy in its worst form ; and when I tell
you that I was an inmate of Prince Alfred Hos-
pital for four months, and went through a terrible
operation there, you can fully realise that mv ill-
ness was no child’s play. ”
“How did you contract your illness, Mr.
Salter? ”
“Well, my occupation is one that compels me
to be out of-doors in all weathers, and getting cold
and wet, and not taking proper care of myself,
was, of course, the commencement of it.”
“ And this operation you speak of, Mr. Salter?”
“ It was an operation to remove the ‘ pus ’ from
the lungs, and a very critical one it was, too. I
was forced to have two ribs removed, and little
dreamt I should ever be able to go to work again.
On leaving the hospital, I had a number of
doctors, but I cannot say that they benefited me
much. Numbers of my friends were very kind to
me my landlord and others —for my being laid
up for such a length of time did not conduce to
my prosperity.”
“ You look fairly well now, Mr. Salter ? ”
“I feel wonderfully well, and it all came about
through a friend of ours—a Mr. Green.”
“Do you mean Mr. Charles Green, the well-
known provision dealer of Alice-street, Newtown?”
“ None other. He had been suffering for a long
time from indigestion and a bad cough, and he got
completely cured by taking a course of ‘ Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.’ ”
“ So, I suppose, he persuaded you to try them?”
“ He did, and I am very grateful to him for
having done so, fori experienced relief after the
first box, which I took according to the printed
directions, and I went on taking them until I was
able to go to work again ; and I have now been at
work for a fortnight, as Mrs. Salter or any of the
neighbors could tell you. My wife here has gone
in for them herself, as she has not been at all well
lately.”
“ Is that so, Mrs. Salter ? ”
“ Undoubtedly. I have been suffering from a
severe pain in my left side, which has been on me
for six years, and which leaves me very weak and
languid. lam taking the Pills, and they already
have done me a great deal of good, as I feel twice
the woman I did, and I am going steadily on with
them.”
A Salvation Army Miracle.
EXHAUSTION AND PRIVATION
REDUCE A ZEALOUS OFFICER TO
DEATH’S DOOR.
HER RESCUE EFFECTED BY DR
WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
It is not London alone that is haunted with the
drums and trumpets of the Salvation Army. A
letter from a very distinguished Parisian physician
describes the incident in the life of a prominent
lady officer of the French Salvation Army, in
2
ABT.E TO MARCH.
terms very gratifying to the publishers of this
book.
The medical man referred to is the well-known
Dr. Thierry Mieg, M.D., a distinguished physician
of Versailles, who is decorated with the Honor-
able Ribbon of the Legion of Honor. He de-
scribes the ease of Ensign Bonjour, of the Salva-
tion Army, as one of many patients belonging to
the Army who have been treated in his practice.
Rightly or wrongly, this lady has thrown her-
self with enthusiasm into the work of the Salva-
tion Army. Exhausting marches, terrible priva-
tions, hard work, cold, damp, and all the fanatical
energy of a Salvation Army officer had brought
her very low, and in danger of death. Her ner-
vous condition was most pitiable. She could
hardly crawl into the consulting-room of Dr.
Thierry Mieg, and she had to be helped out of the
waiting-room by two or three of the hundreds of
patients who throng the learned doctor’s clinic.
Supported thus, she made her way feebly into
the preser.ce of the famous physician.
The reputation of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills has
extended to France for some time, and the French
doctors of medicine, more liberal-minded than
their English congeners, have for a long time been
among the best customers. Of course, there is no
reason why any English medical man should not
prescribe Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, as they are a
scientific remedy, discovered by a legitimate and
legally registered practitioner, a graduate of Edin-
burg University : but the fact remains that pro-
fessional prejudice is in this country stronger than
scientific conviction, and, as far as open recogni-
tion goes, the medical profession seems to know
no better than to place Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
in the same category as empirical remedies and
patent medicines, which is, of course, absurd to
anyone who knows the facts.
France, which is behind England in every other
respect, honorably takes the lead in this matter.
1* re rich physicians will prescribe whatever remedy
will cure their patient. In this case, Dr. Thierry
Mieg at once prescribed Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
THE SALVATION ARMY MIRACLE.
In his own words this treatment “ wrought a
miracle.
Dear Doctor,” the lady wrote (of course in
Erench), only a few days afterwards, “ thanks for
the second box of Pills which you have sent me.
1 cannot sufficiently thank God for the good that
has been procured to me by Dr. Williams’Pills, on
which lam sure He lias cast his benediction. I
am not the same person I was a few months ago.
1 could never have done the work which I am to-
day able to accomplish. I cannot tell you how
much they have done for me. I suffered in the
head, in the limbs, and especially with extreme
nervousness. Under the influenee'of the Pills you
gave me I have been able to march, to work hard,
and to assist every evening at the services of the
Army without fatigue, and for yourself, my dear
doctor, I pray that heaven may richly bless you
tor all that you have done for me and my sisters
of the Salvation Army.
(Signed) “Ensign Bonjour.”
Pale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth?
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step,.there are dull eyes, pale, sallow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeak disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents and guardians rests a great re-
sponsibility at the time their daughters are bud-
ding into womanhood. If your daughter is pale,
complams of weaknesses “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion ; if she is troubled with head-
aohe or backache, pain in the side ; if her temper
is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
of the most dreaded of all diseases-Consumption.
-Li you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
> they will enrich the blood and restore
healths roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
msist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
-fink Pills upon the approach of the period of
puberty, and thus avoid all chances of disease
or early decay.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have a remarkable
efficacy m curing diseases arising from an im-
poverished condition of the blood or an impair-
ment of the nervous system, such as rheumatism,
neuralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St
Vitus dance, nervous headache, nervous prostra-
tion, and the tired feeling arising therefrom, the
after-effects of la grippe, influenza, and severe
colds, diseases depending on humors in the blood
2H.9n. as scrofula, chronic erysipelas. &e. Dr’
and 18 Plnk i Pllls gjve ? health .y glow to pale
and sallow complexions, and are a specific for the
troubles peculiar to the female system, and in the
case of men they effect a radical cure in all cases
arising from mental worry, over-work, and ex-
cesses of any nature.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold only in boxes
bearing the firm s trade-mark and wrapper (printed
in red ink). See that.each box is encircled by a
blue warning label. y
These pills are not a purgative. Tfiev are
Pb!k Pilk f Y W p h , th u fu , n I,a,ne > 1)r - Williams’
1 mk Pills for 1 ale People, and are sold by all
chemists and by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Com-
pany, bydney, who will forward (post paid) on '
rece'pt of stamps or post order, one box for 2s <td
atonic for «


*The great Malaysian bat —Pteropus Javanic its—is some-
times sft. across the wings.
X
SoftCai)VaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 /- per 34-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
AS AN ESS is
FULL OF MEAT,
MARK FOY’S
R«pl«t« With
Seasonable Benefits.
CTOTT ai)d HOAR€
(ESTABLISHED 12 YEARS),
REMOVED TO LARGER PREMISES,
Martin Chambers,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Tb * REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER
OUTNUMBERS as 3 to 1 the COMBINED FORCES of COMPETITION.
It Keeps Pace
with every discovery in Typewriting Machines, and combines every known
improvement up to date.
If} all Speed Contests
the REMINGTON has come out “top.” Why? Because it is so easy
to manipulate, the mechanism being more simple than on any other Type-
writer.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO 3DEFY COMPETITION 1 .
WINES The Best Br<mds Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Ask for VELTEN . . .
/ /
MIEDITERRANTEE
As Supplied to
The Messageries Maritimes
Company.
LASER B€€R.
" Double or Quits!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To all Malaysia was “ Flaming Flanagan ”
known ;to none of it favorably. Still he had his
uses, and, when it was discovered that Van
Booben’s unostentatious departure from the
Lugar ruby-mines meant also the evanishment
therefrom of a score of splendid stones, the
Dutch authorities saw Heaven’s finger in the fact
that Flanagan happened just then to put into
Landak. The Flamer, once Irish and sur-
geon, was now cosmopolitan and more than half-
buccaneer —a burly, ferocious, good-humored,
reckless, red-bearded ruffian, who, having missed
the 16th century, was doing his level best to make
the 19th atone for the blunder.
Unto Flanagan thus summed-up the mines-
superintendent in what he fondly imagined to be
the English tongue. “De sdones pack pring, unt
de man if can you—but de sdones pring everyhow.”
And then he named a number of guilders which
made the demi-pirate do some hard thinking as
he went back to his craft, a stout little sea-boat of
a schooner that had one night gone mysteriously
a-missing from a pearling-station up Luzon way.
“ Angelos ! ” he shouted the moment he got
aboard. Angelos, who rejoiced further in the
appalling patronymic of Spavidroskoulos, was a
skinny little Greek, three-parts moustache —the
rest rascality and seamanship ; and into this un-
angelic angel Flanagan briefly fired the facts.
“ What I want your opinion about, me boy, is
this. Aeht duizend guildern they’ll give, to get
these rubies back—say a thousand pounds. But
Mynheer’s motto, as ye know, is ‘ Nothin’ for
nothin’, an’ divilish little for a halfpenny ! ’
What percintage do ye think, now, they’d be
givin’ on the value of the jools ? ”
“ Two or tree per een’.! Not so mush as five ! ”
“ Take it at three, then ! That would mean for
the stones a value of —let’s see—thirty thousand
pounds, or so ! ”
“Tirty tousan’ poun’!” echoed the Greek.
“ Seven ’under’ an’ fifty tousan’ franc! ” and then
the Hellenic rascal and the Celtic looked hard
into each other’s eyes before Flanagan said: “ An’
now, me angel of innocence, is there anny parti-
cular idea that strikes ye in connection with the
highly interestin’ calculation ye have just per-
forrum’d? ”
The little man twinkled —eyes, ear-rings, and
teeth. “Yas! Tirty tousan’ poun’ mush bettair
dan von tousan’! ”
Flanagan pulled out his cigar-case and offered it
to the Greek. “ It’s a mighty quare coincidence,”
he said as he bit the end off his own weed, “ but
that's the very identical notion that was passin’
through me own brain at the moment! And now,
me noble descindant of Agammimnon, to arrms !
—or, rather, to say ! ”
“Varevego? Sout’?”
“Ay, south to begin with. I’ll tell ye more
when we get down the coast a bit. Get your
anchor now as quick as ye like. And—l say ! get
Dutch colors bent on the insign-halliards. It’s
not much in love I am with Johnny Bull’s red
rag ; still I’ll be d difl go thief-catchin’
under it ayther ! ”
* * * *
“ The divil fly away with this monsoon ! ”
quoth Flanagan. “ Look here, Angy, that’s
Boarjah Point, isn’t it ? ”
The Greek came over to the lee-rail, well down
into the churning of the schooner as she gnawed
her way up into the stiff sou’-wester.
“ Danjin ! ” he said—“not Boarjah ! ”
_ “ Danjin, is it? Come now, that’s better than
I bought! Still, me jintleman may be half across
Borneo be this time rubies an all.
( You know vare he is.
w , know where he was when we left Lan .
Where he is now, the saints only know !-thanks
f° thls mfa ™al monsoon ! Get the square-topsail
loose > anyhow Well put hey before it as
soon as we re abreast of the point-Widambary
R lver s Josl behind it.
* * * *
The cocoanufc plumes tossed wildly still
upon the crest of Danjin Point, but, in the lee
thereof, the Kini-Balu lay motionless upon the
sunset-gilded river. The crew half-a-dozen
Javanis and a Chinky cook—were gobbling rice
and fish upon the forecastle-head, with many a
glance towards where, upon the skylight aft, the
Greek mate sat, bled freely from a cut over the
eyebrow, and cussed melodiously in many tongues,
The cut was from the fist of Flanagan, who,
after being on shore for half-an-hour at the Dyak
village, had come off again in haste, bluntly or-
dered the mate to remain on board, knocked him
down out-of-hand for expostulating, and gone
below for his revolver.
And now, was he, Angelos Spav-etcetera—hav-
ing so far shared the scheme—to be thus ignomi-
niously kicked out of its fruition ? By all his
gods he swore it should not be !
Up came Flanagan again in five minutes, with
booted legs and belted waist. He laughed as he
dropped down into the dingy,
“ Mind what I told ye, me little man,” he called
out, “or, bedad, it’ll be more than a knock in the
eye ye’ll get when I come back! ” Then he sculled
himself over to the bank, already fading into
darkness, and hid the boat beneath the drooping
nipa leaves. But he hadn’t gone 50 yards before
the Greek, dripping and determined, had him in
sight again.
* * • *
Yan Booben slept. It was a cave in the
limestone rocks above the Widambary valley-
clammy with mysterious moisture, faintly lit with
fluttering fire, ghostly with the flitting to and fro
of black and monstrous bats.
And now stole in another shadow—bigger, and
as black—as Flanagan came with bootless feet to
where the ruby-stealer lay, with his revolver
underneath his feather-fern pillow. Flanagan felt
f or it j drew it swiftly out, and flung it behind him,
a s Yan Booben gripped him desperately in the
dimness. The Dutchman was no chicken, but in
] ess than a minute the red-bearded Titan was
sitting on him and cheerfully expostulating,
“ Take it easy, now, me Dutch friend, and don’t
rejooce ine to the peenful necessity of squeezin’
your respected windpipe ! ”
Holding his captive with one iron fist, he threw
fresh sticks upon the fire, took a piece of rattlin-
stuff from his pocket, and coolly trussed the un-
lucky Dutchman neck and heel,
“ Webley’s, I purceive, mynheer,” he observed
cheerfully, as he picked up the other’s weapon.
“ And a very dacent stamp of pistol, too ; though
I prefer the second-size Colt, meself ! But now
to business!” And he drew his own pistol,
“ Where might these rubies be now ?—quick ! ”
Yan Booben had no rubies—so he said, in Dutch.
“ Speak English, me friend—ye know it well,
’Tisn’t much of a lingo, God knows !—but, anny-
how, ’tis better than Dutch. And, as for the
rubies, I know ye have ’em, an’ I’d find ’em easy
after I’d put a’ bullet through ye ! As I will—
without anny more palaver—unless ye speak up,
quick ! ”
He levelled at the Dutchman’s head, and in-
stinct warned Van Booben that it was no pretence,
He gave in.
“ Bedad, then, they’re beauties, an’ no mis-
take ! ” and Flanagan held the stones to the blaze,
“ But they’re not all here—eight, nine, ten ! Only
tien here, me injaynious young friend, and it was
twinty ye collared. Twintig, do ye hear!
Where’s the rest ? ”
The other groaned. “They’re round my
waist,” he said.
Flanagan turned him over like a log, and found
a hard-stuffed belt. He slit the leather with a
practised hand, and brought the contents to the
light.
Then he gasped. The other ten rubies were
such stones as he had never dreamed of. Again
and again he held them up to the blaze before he
f°™d speech. _
“Holy Moses! Young man’ he said I
dont wonder that ye made a dash for these.
They re worth the game But ye ve lost it, me
boy; and now ye ve got to settle up with lim
Flanagan, no less.” . .
He sat silent for a time again, fingering the
stones. Van Booben watched him wondering.
As for the Landak people, 1 lanagan went
on presently, divil a one of these stones ever
they ll handle again. It s between you and me
now, me boy . an, if we had a pack of cards be
d , d if I wouldn t play ye fair for em—double,
or quits ! You to take the stones and clear, leavin
me a couple of ’em to cover the reward—that is, if
If ye lost '
u -p, ou wou i ® r . u I f s ,
Flanagan looked at him half-compassionately.
“ I’d take more,” he said slowly ; “ I’d take your
life! You don’t catch Tim Flanagan leavin’
annybody behind to tell fairv-tales about him.
then PUUed " P
Sh ?f™ at the other uiiderstood.
Why don 11 do that, in anny case . ye were
gom to say. Well, three-parts because I d like
to give ye a show for your life ; the rest because—
oh ! d n me, if I know ! Because I’m a born
gambler, I suppose. .
. put the rabies m an inside pocket and
jumped to his feet. The night s wearin out,”
he said. We must settle this. He went to the
cave-mouth, already outlining against a faint light
m the sky. A bat napped inwards past his ear,
and sent him back to his prisoner with an idea.
Look here! he said—“the bats are comm
home. I’ll empty my pistol at ’em as they come,
an’if I don’t plug six in six shoots—you’re on
top. If ’twas full daylight ye wouldn’t have a
show ; as it is, ye’ve got about two chances in the
six. Remimber, too, I’ll stick to my word—one
way or the other. If I shoot the six bats ye’re a
dead man.”
Pistol in hand he faced the growing daylight,
unconscious that while his back was turned a
shadowy form had glided into the eave and dis-
appeared. Van Booben saw it, but said nothing.
case rmilHn’t be wnrsp
Mis case couian t be worse.
A bat came fluttering to the entrance poised
for a moment—and dropped ; while, at the pistol-
crack, a flock of chose already lodged went squeal-
ing out again into the twilight. Back they came
in half-a-minute, down went two more, and on the
Dutchman’s brow the sweat broke out. “The
creatures were as big as tiger-cats,”* he told him-
self. “No chance of this man missing them ! ”
He was right. Within five minutes the sixth
bat had fallen. Flanagan, putting in fresh cart-
ridges, turned to Van Booben.
“ It’s Double l” he said. “If ye’ve anny prayers
to say, say ’em, an’ say ’em quick ! ” And then
he fell like a log—knocked senseless into the dying
embers by the butt of the Dutchman’s pistol,
which the lurking Greek had picked up and thus
applied with hearty good-will.
* * m »
“What are ye grinnin’ at, ye miserable
little shark-skin ? Tell me all ye know, or, be the
piper, I wouldn’t think twice about makin’ a hole
in ye ! ”
The chief of Widambary didn’t understand
English, but he understood eyes. He touched
his parang-handle.
“Red man,” he said, in Malay, ‘ thou art
foolish ! Needs but that I lift a finger ftr thee to
be sliced like a water-melon ! ”
Flanagan, blood-stained, burnt, and rueful,
clapped his hand to his side, then remembered,
with a groan, that his teeth were drawn —he had
no pistol.
“Goon ! ” he said, sullenly. “ Tell me all
ye know! ”
“ Not much is that! ” the Orang answered.
“ The little man of the ship—he whose upper lip
beareth hair like unto the horn of a buffalo—he
followed thee last night into the hills. This morn-
ing came he back, and with him was the Belanda,
about whom thou didst ask so many questions.
They said thou hadst started across the mountains
to the Galara country. That I knew was a lie —
no man ever crossed the Lupang in this part.”
“ And I might have been lying murdered up in
that cursed cave ! ”
“It is so! ” answered the chief, stolidly.
“What have we to do with white men’s quarrels ?
Enough have we of our own ! ”
“More of that to ye!” muttered Flanagan.
“I’ll get level yet with all hands, an’ I won’t
forget ye in the account, Mister Orang-Kaya ! ”
Then, in Malay, “Know you which way went the
vessel ? ”
“ Salatan 1 ” and the chief pointed to the south.
“Some writing did they leave for thee. Bring ! ”
he said to his son, who had been hopefully awaiting
a signal to cut the white man down. The disap-
pointed amateur went out, and came back in a
couple of minutes with a board—apparently broken
out of a boat’s stern-sheets. Upon it, in big letters
of black paint, was the single word “ Quits 1 ”
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
4,
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
m
m
mm.
m
i
mm
m
•ys////
mm
///.■V//////
mmi
f/j
r :i„ w/
Oif/i/fi Wf/Z/0
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
Life’s Overland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grey-lying miles to the nor’ward of Nor’ward,
Red-leaping leagues to the westward of West,
Further than keenest of sight follows forward,
Further than boldest of hearts ever guessed ;
Still with its secret to man unimparted,
Still with its beckoning wealth unattained,
Lies the dim goal that has never been charted,
Down the long road that has never been chained.
Day after day, and from morrow to morrow,
Pointing the way where the wide road begins,
Sweep the red scorpion-scourges of Sorrow,
Lashing her children out West for their sins ;
Beefwood and whitewood, and redgum and wilga,
Lead them and goad them, and guide them and
guard,
Till hidden in tangle of sandal and mulga,
The gates to the East and the Southward are
barred.
Westward and Nor’ward ! and fainter behind them
The roll of the waggons, the roar of the whips,
The tow’ring red dust-storms that waltz down and
wind them,
The blue mocking mirage that lies to their lips ;
Beyond the last camp of the furthest-west drover,
Beyond the last team-track, the last rotting
steer,
Beyond the last foot-pad the camels crossed over,
Beyond the lone grave of the last pioneer.
Westward and Westward! Out past the last
horror
Of thirst and starvation, of lorn lives and lost,
The bleaching white bones of the boldest explorer,
The scrubs and the plains that have never been
crossed;
Where the heat haze no longer in mockery dances,
Where no more the sand-drift whirls, brown on
the blue,
Where the pitying sun lays at rest his red lances,
With white flags of truce where his war banner
flew.
The last birds have waked them, they sleep now
no longer;
The last dark has lifted, the} 1 ' take no more rest,
For the aching feet heal and the tired heart grows
stronger
As every league bears them a league to the
W est.
Gold! Did they hear her sweet voice as they
started ?
Now she is dumb to them, scorned and dis-
dained,
And their goal is a goal that has never been
charted;
Their route is a road that has never been
chained.
Westward and—Homeward! Brown hands at
the back of them ;
Far in the distance white hands —and the rest;
One by one, outward, we lose the last track of
them,
All the world wending its way to the West;
One after one, till the last shall have started,
Yet no more the last than the first shall have
gained
In the lore of the goal that/has never been charted,
Down the long road that has never been
chained.
WILL OGILVIE.
One Christmas at Our Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three days to. Christmas ; and how pleased
we were i For mo „ths we had looked forward to
it . Kate an( j SandV) whom
we hadn’t seen since
they wenfc on their election, and Dave, who was
away shearing for the first time, were all to be home.
Things were in a fair way at Shingle Hut too ;
rain had fallen and everything looked its best.
The grass along the headlands was almost as tall
as corn > the Bathurst-burr, the Scotch-thistles,
and the “stinking Roger,” were taller. Grow! Dad
never saw the like. Why, the cultivation wasn’t
large enough to hold the melon and pumpkin vines
they travelled into the horse-paddock and climbed
trees and over logs and stumps, and they would
have fastened on the horses only the horses were
tat an d fresh and often galloped about. And the
stock ! Blest if the old cows didn’t carry udders
like camp-ovens, and had so much milk that one
could track them everywhere they went—they
leaked so. The old plough-horses too—only a few
months before dug out of the dam with a spade
and slung up between heaven and earth for a
week, and fed and prayed for regularly by Dad—
actually bolted one day with the dray because Joe
rattled a dish of corn behind them. Even the pet
kangaroo was nearly jumping out of its skin ; and it
took the big black “goanna” that used to come after
eggs all its time to beat Dad from the barn to the
nearest tree, so fat was it. And such a season for
and an empty wme-bottle or two, and one might
***«*“ -s™
....
Two days to Christmas. The sun getting
low . An ( J )ld cow and a hejfer in the sto ck-yard
Dad in> adfeiring them . mofcher and Sal squi j lting
through the rails ; little Bill, perched on one of the
round t nurs i ng the steel and a long knife ;
Joe ru Y hard from the barn with a plough-
rein.
Dad was wondering which beast to kill, and ex-
pressed a preference for the heifer. Mother said,
kd ! *j^. e °P W ', T>ad inspected the cow again,
an d shook his head.
Well, if you don t, she 11 only die, if the
winters a hard one, then you 11 have neither.'
that settled it. Dad took the rope from Joe, who
drived aglow with heat and excitement, and fixed
a runnin g noose on one end of it. Then—
T em r . ou £ d , ! hooried.
J° e threw his hat at them, and chased them
and rou “ d the J ard - P ad turned filo \ v ly
ln ie cen t re > hke a ring-master, his eye on the
co . v '', ’ a cod . °/, rop , e was bl hl s l hand, and,
with the right, he measuredly swung the
loop over and over his head for some time.
At last the cow gave him a chance at her
horns, and he let fly. The rope whizzed across
the yard, caught little Bill round the neck,
and brought him down off the post. Dad could
hardly believe it. He first stared at Bill as he
rolled in the yard, then at the cow. Mother
wished to know if he wanted to kill the boy, and
Joe giggled and, with a deal of courage, assured
Dad that it was “ a fine shot.” The cow and the
heifer ran into a corner, and switched their tails,
and raked skin and hair off each other with their
horns.
“What do you want to be always stuck in the
road for? ” Dad growled, taking the rope off little
Bill’s neck. “Go away from here altogether!”
Little Bill went away ; so did mother and Sal—
until Dad had roped the cow, which wasn’t before
he twice lassoed the heifer—once by the fore-leg
and once round the flanks. The cow thereupon
carried a panel of the yard away, and got out and
careered down the lane, bucking and bellowing
till all the cattle of the country gathered about
her.
Dad’s blood was up. He was hanging on to the
rope, his heels ploughing the dust, and the cow
pulling him about as she liked. The sun was
setting ; a beautiful sunset, too, and mother artd
Sal were admiring it.
“ Did y’ never see th’ blasted sun go—go down
be ” Dad didn’t finish. His feet slid under
a rail, causing him to relax his grip of the rope
and sprawl in the dust. But when he rose !
“ Are y’ going t’ stand staring there all night ? ”
They were beside the rails in an instant, took the
end of the rope which he passed to them, put it
once round the gallows-post, and pulled—pulled
like sailors. Dad hung on close to the cow’s head
while Joe kicked her with his bare foot and screwed
her tail.
“ Steady!” said Dad, “that’ll about do.” Then,
turning to the women as he mounted a rail and
held the axe above the cow’s head : “ Hang on
there now ! ” They closed their eyes and sat back.
The cow was very patient. Dad extended himself
for a great effort, but hesitated. Joe called out:
“L-l-ook out th’axe dud-dud-don’t fly and gug-
gug-get me, Dad ! ” Dad glanced quickly at it,
then took aim again. Down it came, whish!
But the cow moved, and he only grazed her cheek.
She bellowed and pulled back, and mother and
Sal groaned and let the rope go. The cow swung
round and charged at Joe, who was standing with
his mouth open. But only a charge of shot could
catch Joe; he mounted the rails like a cat and
shook his hat at the beast below.
After Dad had nearly brained her with a rail
the cow was dragged to the post again ; and this
time Dad made no mistake. Down she dropped,
and, before she could give her last kick, all of us
entered the yard and approached her boldly.
Dad danced about excitedly, asking for the long
knife. Nobody knew where it was. “ Damn
it, where is it?” he cried, impatiently. Everyone
flew round in search of it but Joe. He was
curious to know if the cow was in milk. Dad
noticed him ; sprang upon him ; seized him by the
shirt collar and swung him round and trailed him
through the yard, saying : “Find me th’ knife ;
d’ y’ heart ” It seemed to sharpen Joe’s memory,
for he suddenly remembered having stuck it in
one of the rails.
Dad bled the beast, but it was late before he
had it skinned and dressed. When the carcase
was hoisted to the gallows—and it seemed grue-
some enough as it hung there in the pallid light
of the moon, with the night birds dismally wailing
like mourners from the lonely trees —we went
home and had supper.
* * * *
Christmas Eve. Mother and Sal had just
finished papering the walls, and we were busy
decorating the place with green boughs, when
Sandy and Kate, in their best clothes-—Kate
seated behind a well-filled pillow-slip strapped on
the front of her saddle ; Sandy with the baby in
front of him—came jogging along the lane. There
was commotion ! Everything was thrown aside to
receive them. They were surrounded at the slip-
rails, and when they got down —talk about kissing !
Dad was the only one who escaped. When the
hugging commenced he poked his head under the
flap of Kate’s saddle and commenced unbuckling
the girth. Dad had been at such receptions
before. But Sandy took it all meekly. Arid the
baby! (the dear little thing) they scrimmaged
about it, and mugged it, and fought for possession
of it until Sandy became alarmed and asked them
to “mind.”
Inside they sat and drank tea and talked about
things that had happened and things that hadn’t
happened. Then they got back to the baby and
disagreed on the question of family likeness.
Kate thought the youngster was the dead image
of Sandy about the mouth and eyes. Sal said it
had Dad's nose, while mother was reminded of
her dear old grandmother every time the infant
smiled. Joe ventured to think it resembled
Paddy Maloney far more than it did Sandy, and
was told to run away and put the calves in. The
child wasn’t yet christened, and the rest of the
evening was spent selecting a name for it. Almost
every appellation under the sun was suggested and
promptly rejected. They couldn’t hit on a suit-
able one, and Kate wouldn’t have anything that
wasn’t nice, till at last Dad thought of one that
pleased everybody—“ Jim ! ”
* * * *
After supper, Kate started playing the
concertina, and the Andersons and Maloneys and
several others dropped in. Dad was pleased to
see them ; he wished them all a merry Christmas,
and they wished him the same and many of them.
Then the table was put outside, and the room
cleared for a dance. The young people took the
floor and waltzed, I dare say, for miles, their heads
as they whirled around tossing the green bushes
that dangled from the rafters; while the old people,
with beaming faces, sat admiring them, and sway-
ing their heads about and beating time to. the
music by patting the floor with their feet. Some-
one called out “Faster!” Kate gave it faster.
Then to see them and to hear the rattle-of the
boots upon the floor ! You’d think they were
being carried away in a whirlwind. All but Sal
and Paddy Maloney gave up and leant against the
wall, and puffed and mopped their faces and their
necks with their pocket-handkerchiefs.
Faster still went the music ; faster whirled Sal
and Paddy Maloney. And Paddy was ori his
mettle. He was lifting Sal off her feet. But
Kate was showing signs of distress. She leaned
forward, jerked her head about, and tugged
desperately at the concertina till both handles left
it. That ended the-tussle, and Paddy spread him-
self on the floor, his back to the wall, his legs ex-
tending to the centre of the room, his chin on his
chest, and rested.
Then enjoyment at high tide; another dance
proposed ; Sal trying hard to persuade Dad to
take mother or Mrs. Maloney up ; Dad saying
“ tut, tut, tut,” when in popped Dave, and stood
near the door. He hadn’t changed his clothes,
and was grease from top to toe. A saddle-strap
was in one hand, his Sunday clothes, tied up in a
handkerchief, in the other, and his presence made
the room smell just like a woolshed.
“Hello, Dave!” shouted everyone. He said
“Well!’’and dropped his hat in a corner. No
fuss, no kissing, no nothing about Dave. Mother
asked if he didn’t see Kate and Sandy (both were
smiling across the room at him), and he said
“ Yairs”; then went out to have a wash.
All night they danced—until the cocks crew—
until the darkness gave way to the dawn—until
the fowls left the roost and came round the door—
until it was Christmas Day!
STEELE RUDD.


Bonnington’s Sarsaparilla, 2/6
AN ALTERATIVE, TONIC AND BLOOD PURIEIER. Removes
Sores, Pimples, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
FOE LOT, STOMACH, & KIDNEY COMPLAINTS. Stimulates
and Creates a Healthy System.
POKER MACHINES.
EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
gfCICAR^FREE^JJ
eTMMnffig
57^^t^jV:^^rr^raqgriEgcEgggs
'DHQP39 IN THE SLOT P
m
MB'S
iiiriiSi :
iillllll-111111l
AGENT for the following
Albo,
SEND FOE OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobaeeo Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS' FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brush ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers*
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes,
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
GOLDEN PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE CAN’T
BE BEAT, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ UNION, DERBY, ’
WILLIAMS.
AND —
is
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLET A. LA
PAROLA, EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (P. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA,
ALPINA MANILA, &c„ &c.
Tobacconists supplied tliro ghout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
£r Goods forwarded to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Tr ide supplied
cheaper and better than any other Wholesale Establishment in the colony.
LTi
1'
Tobacco Merchant & Importer,
HAIMARKET, SYDNEY.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £ 1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
GOUT
Readers of this paper shoufd
know that to effectually cure
Gout the gre.it thing to do is to
eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause
of the malady, and nothing
does this so effectually as
Bishop’s Citrate of Lithia. All
doctors prescribe it. Of all
Chemists in two sizes. A Book-
let on Gout sent post free on
application.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, B
CURED.
Whitehead’s
Telephone No. 427.
Head Office: King & York ste
Sydney Parcel Delivc
Despatch Store : Washington-st.,
near Druitt.-street.
Company.
Goods Delivered to and from every Suburb Daily.
Special Vans any hour. Furniture, &e.,'Stored. Furni-
ture Packed and Removed, by experienced workmen,
with Covered Wajrssons. Customs Entries Passed.
WHEN" YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BE£T.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.AV. A«E.vrs : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Ei'calymts On. Op. Urn., Hobart.
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY,
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Terms: ...
{
From 10s. per Day, and
£2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE Q.RO.
THE CRAMP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H '' BT 2SS». SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Centrally Situated.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that, the
Jmperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
li>!limis 1 i >! limis a £, d Ner vous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
} faddiness, fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
Avirr a ? d ad Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
& a 1 V A te l«-^- I T, one Box of these PiUs > and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A.
u uXBI i* A A. BOX.’
LEECH AM S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly jemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitled by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
IN ervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Laraest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. 1 ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENBLAHD.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9Jd, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
/O
m
iiiM
J/ yf W//)
!• A P if
/ # t
f /
ml
m/L
m-lh
tw;..
A ONE-SIDED AFFAIR.
“What are you goin’ to give your brother Jack for a new year present?”
“Oh, nothing much. Jack’s forgiving, not forgetting!”
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK .
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SOUS, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
BoQQiQgtoo’S
IRISH MOSS
WILL CURE ALL KINDS of COUGHS or COLDS (recent or chronic)
INFLUENZA, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling, of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and ill similar complaints.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
BoQi?ii)gtoi)’S Pills.
An unequalled aperient. A safe and easy remedy for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Flatulence, Constipation, Torpid Liver.
Is. a Box.


EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING-
COC 0 A
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
XI OLLOVV A V ' S I’lL LS AND DIN XM E NX,
B K Tliere is not. a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these maud medicines have not jeen
recognised l).v thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are sunplied for th -ir use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY I'HEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-s.t., Lo; dn. ?*r Fur-
chasers should look to the Label on t.h ■ Foxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street., London, they are
spurious.
iSP
.
The Ballet girl
With 22 Racy Illustra-
tions, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid.
Post Free, Is. 6d.
‘On the Diggings,’& Other Tales of the Golden Fifties.
ILLUSTRATED. POST FREE, Is.
To be bad Only of
■PA.KT2SA,
BOX 913, G.P,0., SYDNEY:
MADAME’S List of UNIQUE BOOKS and NOVELTIES
on Application.
The Manufacturers of ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
—ABE —
W. MAM MATT & SONS.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF —
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
03 ITorls.
CHAMBERS,
Str set, S
~ymvr-F5-
too P(imp;i)S EogiO« Conjpaijy
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brothers.
(Australasian Branch.)
82 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Sydney, JN’.S.W.
Agencies
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.-
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneera of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSJ.EM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more);
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS {Refreshment) -92 King 1 Street and 23 Royal iircade— for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at fJ3 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “ HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARR TJR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
ASetlta Everywhere. H. p A TESON, MANAGER.
IMPROVED 6ft FRUE CONCENTRATOR
(with NEW “LIP FLANGE” BELT)
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “ Frues” sold to-
day than all other vanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being ‘ just as good as the Frue.”
There are worthless imitations in the market.
Genuine Frue Vanners are now all fitted with
lip flange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining 1 Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
, ______________ PRICES AND CATALOGUES EREE ON APPLICATION.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
THE - -
OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE
CHAIN STITCH
Bather's
B * kin 9 Powder.
IXSOLV. Xf K STATE
WEA DON, THOM VS & CO.,
GUNMAKERS,
CORNER LITTLE COLLINS AND. ELIZABETH STS.,
.MELISOLHNE.
The Trustees Offer to the Public, to clear,
The Balance of the Stock.
I Double-barrel Breech-loading- Guns, best twist barrels,
walnut slock, double grip, box spring- triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete.
Usual price £B, reduced i 2 17s fid each, com f dele.
5 Double-barn- Bi-eccb loading Guns, snap action, wal-
nut stock, very best- choke bore, steel locks, with
Cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
i 10 Ins, reduced 13 17s (id each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading (inns, engine-turned
rib, ex tension'rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right, band barrel modified choke,
with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
an i cleaners complete. Usual price .1:14, reduced IS
at-min:- niimi rim - --each, complete.
i! I >ru 111 •-1 > tn-el lire -VI >\ ting Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments. unequal for quality, wit It cartridge nnebinesand cleaners complet e. Usual price 21, reduced fc74Qsea. complete.
8 Single barrel Breech-loading Guns, box spring triggers, best walnut stock, steel looks, double grip, snap action,
with cartridge machines rind cleaners complete. Usual price £6,- reduced £2 7s (id each, complete.
4 Winchester Repeating Shot. Guns, six consecutive shots, extra well finished, latest improvements, with cartridge
machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £4 15s each, eoinpiqte.
4 Single-barrel Duck Guns, large size here, best twist barrels, walnut stock, will kill at 160yds. Usual price £l5,
reduced £6 5s each.
6 Winchester Repeating (titles, very host, quality, highly finished. Usual price <;7 los, reduced £3 15s.
Cartridges can lie supplied f or the Breech-Loading Guns at 6< (id per 100 in any size shot. Ail Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
H, P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. 345 Eourke-st., Melbourne.
Steam huf/ines lit StocL • (Horizontal and Vertical) from 1 h.p.
■s
m
wmm
mm
m
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Ludlow’s Open Gate Valves.
Mason’s Reducing Valves.
Pickering’s Steam Engine
Governors. -
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors.
Sturtevant’s Fails and Forges.
Every description oi Engineers’ Hand and Machine-Tools in Stock;
' AI.S<V. /
all kinds of Engine & Boiler- Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies,
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
