

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
n..i
D6St«
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent
Sydney*
Street,
—fob —
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants,
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briseoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
1
A
v
%
s;
o
o
o
<RAckAj?-oC.K>
o
o
C
o
*L
JS?
o
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE &. CO.,
85 Fitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRAOTORS for, treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SOM, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the _ _
. - Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. . ,
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
ik.ucL see that you get it.
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaglit Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
£DE
PROOF
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CKHETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
Before vijifing the Ct/witelo the Manager for
Ora Of Tariff. (orre;pondence promptly amended to.
TIECIEJ
<jrosVsi)orNotsl,
The
Grosvenor Square ,
B'S’Z>3NTXI , !Z I .
only Hotel in the City with four clear Froi
*
What is Health?
Jfheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Ac,,
Completely cured by Mr. O. Jf.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Pa&adb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
J&foaa£
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
m
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Ef* Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is-~
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
IXOBAR.T.
m ”
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
'ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Few Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, akd
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY, v A 1 LIQUEUR THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol 19.—N0. 950.]
("Saturday, April 30, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE ROBERTSON AND
booksellers and stationers.
CO.
PER R.M.S. OROTAVA—
(Nat), Gentleman Rider, 2s, post 2s 4d. ; Savage’s
Shadow of the Pyramid’s, 2s, post 2s 4d ; Farjeon's Grif,
2s 6d and3s(id, post 3s and 4s ; St. Aubyn’sFair Impostor,
2s bd and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Homer’s Hernani, 2s 6d
an j o c j 4s I Carmichael’s Carstairs, 2s 6d
an i o S /.j ’ P ost anc * > Lorimer’s Josiah’s Wife, 2s 6d
and 3s bd, post 3s and 4s ; Austin’s At Random, 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Barrett’s Was She Justified, 6s, post
hs 6d; Cox s Prospecting-, ss, post 5s 6d ; Davies’ Miner’s
Arithmetic, 4s 6d, post 5s ; Brook’s Street Railroads Loca-
tion, 6s 6d post 7s ; Mills’ Railway Construction, 21s, post
22s ; Aflalo s British Vertebrates, 7s, post 7s 6d : Simpson’s
oide Lights on Siberia, 16s, post 17s ; Hardy and Bacon’s
Stamp Collector, 8s 6d, post 9s.
NEW AUSTRALIAN WORKS.—ROBERTSON’S
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
GF A SIN, by Alex. Montgomery.
WHEN IASSION FLIES, by Gerald Wolf. Paper
CO rriTT t’ l’ oB *- 3s ; cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
„™E DEVELOPMENT OF AUSTRALIAN LITERA-
TURE, by Henry Gyles Turner and A. Sutherland. Cr.
Bvo., 6s, post 5s 6d.
LORAIN E and Other Verses, by George Essex Evans,
with a portrait. Or. Bvo., ss, post 5s 6d.
a MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, a Story of the
Australian Desert, &c. Picture boards, 2s, post 2s 4d.
Just PuWislied : THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr. Philip
Muskett, author of “The Art of Living in Australia,”
heeding and Management of Australian Infants,” &c.
Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s.
GEOKGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AMERICA v. SPAIN!
“ Cry havock! and let slip the dogs of war ”
' ' ' ' '
The djsturbance now going on round about Cuba will not
aiiect the supply of
... CAMEO CIGARETTES ...
as our arrangements have been made with a view to such
a contingency, and all our Cigarettes and Tobaccos will be
shipped in British bottoms, and under the flag that has
u braved a thousand years the battle and the breeze.”
THE RED PAGE.
iThab particular bundle of appetites, moods,
and yearnings known as Sam Walter Foss com-
menoed independent reaction to the Uni versa!
stimuli in 1858 ; so it has now been hard at wor c
litmus-papering for forty years. But it didn’i
take Foss forty years to get out of the wilderne
of why and whether into the land of a promisi
workaday philosophy. At about 25, or thei
abouts one imagines, he was settled in the ere
that —for himself and others —the wav
make the best of this-only-world-so-far-as-th
evidence-goes is to ‘keep a-goin,’ and ‘keep e
j yin yourself, and lift your horn an’ cry hullo
cheerfully to an out-of-luck comrade in the ranks
at Feggers-Away. Foss’s three books of vers
Back Country Poems,’ ‘Whiffs from Wil
Meadows, and ‘Dreams in Homespun,’ collec
/he random rhymes in which he has inculcated h
:reed during fifteen years through half-a-doze
lews papers —but mainly through the Bosto
xankee B.ade,’which (according to last vague
uough accounts) he has edited from 1887 and sti
a its.
* * » *
Foss is no remarkable poet in the ordinar
ense; and his serious essays in verse read jus'i
ke any others of the millions of flat American
shoes of the Masters. But Foss wants to reach
nd touch the inarticulate, half-educated masses—
-16 crowds of honest, healthy people who liave to
ork so hard with their muscles that their brain
imam unfed, dormant, but who nevertheless
ave a good, instinctive comprehension of the
irtue.of effort, the shame of shirk, the tickle or
amor, and the thrill of pathos. Subtleties,
tiler of form or matter, lie beyond the ken of
osss audience; and he doesn’t bother with per-
ct rhymes or regular cadences : he is not eompe-
nc to interpret the loftiest messages of Thought
e sweetest visions of Beauty. Down oil the
oadest plane of humanity he deals with
imanity’s simplest affairs, most primitive
lotions. Naturally his fiddle has few strings
it they vibrate strongly. Withal Foss is
mething_ of a ‘faker.’ Apparently lie left the
ternal New-Hampshire farm too young to
quire the most intimate acquaintance with
ral life : he is not so keen and capable a
untry man as Whitcomb Riley, for example:
t he utilises his acquaintance to the farthest it
H go. It is an easy way of verse-building to
te, as Foss takes, some familiar farmyard
m and educe a general application. Foss
ines specially in the quaint and pithy homeli-
-38 with which he states and illustrates
i theme. An amalgam of W. T. Goodge and
snry Lawson would make something very
e a Foss. Singly Lawson is too serious; Goodge
lot serious enough. Foss's picture prefixed to
3 of his books shows an energetic Yankee with
iroad head and what looks like a, streak of
tch in it: stoutish, merryish, alert and alive—
>d fellow, apparently. And, in response to
ders who have been inspirited by fragments of
is’s meat to ask for more, here is a whole page
•e. °
▼
How shrewdly he hits a typical American
loafer in A Modern Malthusian ’!
A MODERN MALTHUSIAN.
I can’t git no job ;
’Tain't no good to try.
There is too many born,
An’ there ain’t enough die )
There’s too big a crowd
Fer a man to wedge in.
I can’t find no job,
An’ I sha’n’t try ag’in ;
You oan’t git no job
In the kentry or town.
There is too many folks in the worl’,
An’ there ain’t enough jobs to go roun*.
Wen the worl’ wuz cut out,
’Twas out out too small;
'Twarn’t made big enough
Fer its purpose at all.
The crowd is jammed in,
In a terrible cram ;
Be*t thing you can do
Is git out er the jam.
So I’ve crawled from the crowd,
An’ I’ve jest settled down.
There is too many folks in the worl’,
An’ there ain’t enough jobs to go roun’.
My talents is large,
But they’ve no room to grow ;
The worl’ is too small.
An’ they don’t get no show.
‘An’,’ sez I to myself,
* You. Sempronius Lang,
Clear out er this mob,
An’git out er this gang ;
For the mob’ll jest crowd,
An’jest trample ye down.
There is too many f >lks in the worl’,
An’ there ain’t enough jobs to go roun’/
An’ it don’t do no good,
An’ I ain’t goin’ to look,
Fer all places is filled,
An’ the jobs is all took.
The worl’ it wuz built
On a too narrer plan ;
So I’m a shut-out,
An’ a left-over man.
So what is the good
For to rush up an’ down ?
There is too many folks in the worl',
An there ain’t enough johs to go roun'.
There wuz jest one job left
In Bill Green’B cotton-mill}
All the one I could find
In the hull worl’ to fill.
But I’ve sieh a big heart,
This one job of my life,
I jest give it up,
Gen’rous-like, to my wife;
An' there ain’t no more jobs,
■So I’ve jest settled down.
There is too many folks in the worl’,
An’ there ain’t enough jobs to go roun*.
w ‘ T i f e Spare Room ’ illustrates Foss’s noticed
familiar d faof Ing a h \ b, f moral froin fche small and
tamilmr fact. Anybody can do it—it’s as easy as
finding the pea under the thimble. 7
THU SPARE ROOM.
Our front room, it was furnished fair,
But closed to all the life of home j
A reservoir of mouldy air,
A corpseless catacomb.
A stern domestic quarantine
Scared childish footsteps from its door,
As if a powder magazine
Were kept beneath the floor.
But when our folks had company
The unused doors were opened wide,
And on the lavish luxury
We feasted open-eyed.
But we were strangers there, and henoe
A nervous terror flushed each cheek;
Before the grand magnificence
We dared not move or speak.
And so we sat in vague alarms,
And sighed for some supporting peg*
For our unnecessary arms
And our superfluous legs ;
We smiled our india-rubber smile,—
A long, perfunctory, muscular grin,
Which advertised to all outside
How bad we felt within.
Our hearts were in the barn at play,
Or played at tag about the shed ; ‘
Our bodies, statuettes of clay,
Sat in the parlor—dead.
In moveless suffering we sat on
And wept for back-yard haunts to roam.
As, by the brooks of Babylon,
The Hebrews wept for home.
In intellectual kitchens dole
Strong men their ohoioest life away,
And keep the front rooms of the soul
Unopened to the day.
They keep the pantry well-equipped.
The cellar they will never scant,—
The parlor is a darkened crypt
Without an occupant.
Henoe, blest is he who quits the quest
For wealth, or fame’s receding goal,
And every day returns for rest
To the front room of the soul.
Who lets the tempest rave and roll
Around him ; in his glad release,
Within the front room of the soul
He findeth perfect peace.
The climax of ‘ls Little Bob Tucked in?’
verges on the anti—but not for Foss’s audience
the melodrama-audience. He has made it, may
be, as delicate as he dare, if it is not to be missec
IS LITTLE 808 TUCKED INI
‘l’ve gotter go,’ she said, ‘an’ see
If little Bob’s tucked in ;
He II git his death if he’s uncovered
In this col’ storm an’ win’.’
'Oh, little Bob’s all right,’ said I,
‘ You’ve bin to tuok him in
Four times this evenin’, an’ I wouldn’
Run ’way upstairs ag’in,’
But Cynthy’d worry, fret, an’ stew,
An’ raise a dreflle din ;
‘W'y, I mus’ go ag’in,’ says she,
‘An’ see if Bob’s tucked in.'
‘ W’y, Cynthy, jest set down,’ I said,
‘ An’ git some good er life.
A feller wants a chance to talk
Some evenin’s with his wife.’
Then she would take her knittin’ out,
Or work upon her spread,
An’ make b’lieve lissen, though she didn't
Hear quarter what I said.
She wouldn’t much more than git sit down
Than jump right up ag’in,
An’ say, ‘ I mus’ run up an’ see
If little Bob’s tucked in.’
Young Bob was alius on the jump,
An’ filled the house with din,
An’ kicked his quilts off ev’ry night
Fast as she tucked him in.
His Inigs they went so fast all day,
As long as it was light,
An’ got up speed so they couldn’ stop,
An’ kep’ a-goin’ all night.
So Cynthy'd keep a-gittin’ up
An’ gittin’ up ag’iu ;
‘l’ve gotter look an’ see,' says she,
‘ If little Bob’s tucked In.’
She stood above the coffin there,
She bent to kiss his face,
To pat a stragglin' ourl of hair,
Or fix a bit of lace.
Her heart was breakin’ with the thought
That Bob, so round an’ fat,
So full of pranks and fun, should sleep
Within a crib like that;
But still she’d fix his little robe,
An’ then come back ag’in,
An take a long, last look, an’ see
Her little Bob tucked in.
That night a storm er snow came on,
An’ how the winds did rave !
The snow fell, like a coverlid,
On little Bob’s new grave.
‘ I m glad it snows,’ his mother said,
‘ It looked so hard an’ bare,
So hard, so cruel, an’ so bleak,
I cried to leave him there.
But God has sent the blessed snow,
I think—an’ 'tis no sin—
That he has sent His snow to see
That little Bob’s tucked in.’
iOnce more the general-moral from the parti-
cular-instance : half Foss’s virtue lies in this
deductive knack.
THE HEN-FEVER OF JED WATSON.
‘ After it! follow it l
Follow the gleam / ’
—Tennyson.
Jed Watson, he was after it; he followed up the gleam •
dreifm tHe e ° rSeoU3 Vi9ion of his lifo ' s Perpetual
He had a faith that urged him on through all life’s wastes
and fens, '
That he could build a fortune up by simply raising hens.
Jed watched his growing pullets, and there oame a vision
fail*
3f palaces with porticos expanding in the air ;
ind those cloud-bannered palaces reared not of stones or
bricks,
° f all thS Unlaid e * S 8 0t aII IliB unhatch
le preached the poultry gospel unto all men every wher
lis wife said he’d permit a hen to lay eggs in his hair,
rom morning, when the great red sun rose from t
ocean foam,
le’d sit and theorise on hens until the cows came hom
Cen hfs a bmin d fr ° m h ' S heart - Btrin * s > and made nests
md great gigantic hencoops were his palaces in Spain:
■nd ah his active intellect was focussed like a lens
P on the all-absorbing theme of hens, and only hens.
One hm will lay twelve hundred aigs, I oalkerlate,’ sa
An’ hatch a thousan’ ohickens that’ll mourn her w’e
she s dead.
hese chicks will raise a million more, an’ hev a few
spare;
II sell ’em fora dollar each-an’ I’m a millionnaire.’
> Jed he built a hen-house that was after his own heart
lough his own house in which he lived was falling a
apart; s
e gave his pullets dainties all, of corn and malt an
meat,
hile his own wife and his two boys had plain salt por
to eat.
a went to all the poultry shows, and travelled here an
there,
id put a mortgage on his farm to pay his railroad fare,
id went to hen conventions ; and he talked to poultr
men
i * The Boundless Possibilities of the Developed Hen.”
Jed he followed after it; he followed up the gleam,
id chased his hen millennium down the vista of hi
dream.
■he hin-house door’s the way to wealth,’ said he • ‘no
way is surer.’ ’
it every extra hen he owned made him a dollar poorer
s hens would not forget to eat, but oft forgot to lay •
id if they laid, forgot to hatch-a hen’s provoking way
r hens are haughty as the gods, and whimsical as men
din ten billion leagues of hens there’s not one perfect
hen. •
t Jed he followed after it, he followed up the gleam •
r every hen that clucked and scratched was perfect'in
his dream.
3 dream-hens all were perfect hens, but full of faults
his real—
sre is a marked discrepancy ’twixt actual and ideal.
poor Jed lived a bankrupt life, and died a debtor
slave ;
d then his hens went out and scratched the flowers
from off his grave.
, myriads of delusions vain have grown since time
began!
; the hen-dream is the vainest dream of all the dreams
of man.
■ we all follow after it, we follow up the gleam ;
1 we all raise expensive hens, all dream the sweet hen-
dream.
ly philosophy is true, no man was ever made
o has not speculated some in this same poultry-trade.
And, for a last word, with a fiercer, prouder
emphasis, take ‘Uncle Seth on King's’— l
* XJNCLE SE'L'K ON KINGS,
Them kings in Europe over there are settin’ on their
thrones,
Their thrones built on the necks of men for their founda-
tion-stones ;
But trod-on men, I’m ;>lad to say, have learned to squirm
an’ creep,
They re willin' ; soon you’ll see them thrones come
tumblin’ in a heap.
Support my soldiers,’ says them kings, ‘my men who
shoot an’ hack ; ’
Till now each peasant carries roun’ a soldier on his back.
But that poor peasant’s growin’wise; there’s fire in his
blood.
Just wait a bit; you’ll see him dump that soldier in the
mud.
Theie s men across that bound’ry line that you must go
an’ kill ;
Go shoot em for us,’ says them kings, ‘go stab ’em ; ’tis
our will.’
all, kings, bimeby them men will say, ‘we don’t ob-
serve no sign
Thet men are vipers to be killed across that bound’ry
line.
If you want butchers to kill beeves, a bargain might be
made ;
If you want butchers to kill men, w’y, that ar ain’t our
trade.
If you want blood by hogsheadsful, don’t seek it at our
store ;
bor we ain’t killin' feller-men an’ brothers any more.’
Hall, kings, this ain’t the kind er talk to soothe a royal
ear,
But jest erbout the kin’ er stuff thet you hev got ter
hear;
lor we ve about made up our minds to lay you on the
shelf,
lor each man now hez come to know thet he’s a king
himself.
The kin er king that Europe wants won’t wear no jewel
crown.
An’ he is coinin’ w’en your thrones hev all been rattled
down.
He 11 wear a hat like other men, an’ set on a plain chair ;
But he will be a king er men, an’ rule ’em everywhere.
Notw’at he wears outside his head will be his kingly
pride;
Not w’at he wears outside his head, but w’at he wears
inside.
He’ll want no throne; a king er men can alius rule his
own
If he sets upon a nail-kaig, jest as well as on a throne.
He’ll say, this king that’s coinin’, to his soldiers old an'
new,
Break ranks, my frien’s; disband; go home; ain’t no
more work for you.
I legalize no more the art of takin’ people’s lives.
Your job hez gone ; break ranks; disband ; go home an*
see your wives.
‘ An’ beat your sword-blades into scythes. Go home an’
cut your grain ;
Make green with corn and w'ite with wheat the blood-red
battle plain. •
Though mowin’oats an’mowin’ grass is tiresome work,
but then,
Tis more respectable an’ clean than mowin’ feller-men.’
This is the kin’ er king we want; the ol’ style breed of
kings,
W’y, they hev bungled long enough, an’ made a botch of
things.
This king is cornin’ by an’ by, an’ let the roun' sky ring,
‘Hip, hip, hooray I hip, hip, hooray! God save, God
save the king I ’
And now it is reckoned ‘ The Bulletin ’ is about
even with tha people who wrote to ask where in
Australia was the sense of wasting a page on the
incomprehensible poetry of Stephen Phillips.


Drs.FREEMAN&WALLACE
fc'l
X M
The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathirst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE
. NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the HEAD OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. Tha
they have investigated further into the mysteries of life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease, than then
)Llt * ess success^u l associates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience is lifelong, and TIIEIR
RECORD RIGHT HERE IN SYDNEY is *
A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS IN THIS LAND TO-DAY WHO ARE PRAISING THEIR
NAMES, BECAUSE THEY HAVE MADE THEIR LIVES HAPPY, AND BROUGHT SUNSHINE INTO
TUFTD HAWr'C!
Our valuable treatises
“NERVOUS AND PRIVATE
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication.
Our New Medical Work,
“ RESCUED at L AjST over
300 pages letterpressf 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of 'its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward <£l by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
DOING PIED, PIIDDGE-IGED S OLD PIED.
If jou are troubled with Pimples, Bashfulness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
Energry, Ambition, and Self-confidence, and Absolutely Unfit for Study, Business, or Marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. GET WELL AND BE MEN !
vi are . r^oll . san< fs °f y° n Troubled w'ith Weak, Aching Backs and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
and Sediment in Urine, and other unmistakeable signs of Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Many die of
this difficulty Ignorant of the Cause, which is the second state of Seminai Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
CASES OF THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele and Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CURED I*
without Fain or Detention from Eusiness. ,
s pnor
All Trams stop at the Door.
CORRESPONDENCE DEPARTMENTS AND
MEDICINES BY PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
take advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
ti* C'J,
2 T<l*rv'^7re.'^
. Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
THREE CLASSES OF MEKT
To whom we would Commend reading “ Rescued at Last.”
ffj (/ (t /
1
’
*=s
/
v\ \
g£r
£
K-JN,
£
@
ft
w
WH
A
m
%
w
m
///A
Vs
W/m,
m
w.
*W
Young Men,
Have you been indulging in a manner which has wasted your
powers, your health, your nerve force, your physical vigor, and
Manhood ? As if Nature would never ask for an accounting.
Are you weak, nervous, unfit for work, or pleasure ? Are your
vital powers weakened and on the verge of collapse, bodily and
mentally ? Don’t, for your physical and mental welfare, hide
such a weakness, but seek a cure by consulting DBS. FREE-
MAN and WALLACE.
Middle-aged Men,
There are Thousands of you suffering from Weak Back, Aching
Kidneys, Frequent Passing of Sediment, or accompanied by
Loss of Vigor or Power and Impairment of General Health.
Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the cause, which is the
Second Stage of Spermatorrhoea.
Before it is everlastingly late consult DRS. FREEMAN and
WALLACE, who thoroughly understand your trouble, and can
cure you.
Old Men,
who, as a result of overwork, business cares, imprudence, or
excessive indulgence in former years, now suffer from some
distressing trouble,
All May Find Immediate Relief, Many May
Be Radically Cured
by Consulting Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE, who have built
up an extensive practice by making cures when others have
failed. We have permanently established our reputation as
being the
Leading Specialists of the Age.
In seeking the services of •
Drs. Freeman and Wallace
you place yourself under the treatment of highly educated
physicians, whose ambition is to excel, whose whole life is de-
voted to the advancement of the science of medicine and relief
of suffering humanity. We have no single remedy which we
deal out as a cure-all panacea, nor any mechanical contrivances
which are heralded to the world as a remedy for all ills. Our
medical education condemns such methods. ' Our lofty aspira-
tions and honesty in practice place such modern impositions
back to the days of witchcraft and quackery, where they
justly belong. Through constant study and deep research we
are always abreast of the times. There is no new discovery in
medicine, no new apparatus to assist the physician, but what is
at our command as soon as science proves it to be of worth and
benefit. Every case that we undertake to cure is treated scien-
tifically with such remedies and such means as in our judgment
that particular case requires in order to effect a speedy and
permanent cure. We have no experiments to make, for we
are thoroughly educated and prepared through experience
already gained to accomplish our work in the field of medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS.
Write your troubles, if you are living away from the city, as
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE have a system of home treat-
ment that is entirely their own. Thousands are cured at home.
Our small pamphlets, 48 pages, post free, on application.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualifi-
cation and Registration Open to Inspection.
“rescued AT LAST.”
A treatise on Nervous and Private Diseases, 300 pages letter-
press, 16 pages colored plates, 75 engravings, highly instruc-
tive. Every farmer, mariner, miner, and other workers should
purchase a copy. Price, 10s., post free, or including our 10
days’ series of medicine, X‘l.
[Please mention Tiir Bulletin when writing.]
Ora. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Cornet Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney. P.O. Box. 1359.
B
m
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
DK>. and Surgeon, received hia education in the English and Scottish universities, and
GIBBONS, completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On. Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
win
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send Gd. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, tile Latest Edition of Lis Celebrated
Work, in wlucli you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBI ONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS, are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Dai'v,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy E NTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
■ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to loe the
Equal of your Fellow-man ?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force —the foundation of:
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking ire
this element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak:
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information ore
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Cori'ore Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly ?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and rememlner
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is;
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call mnoiy
sav e future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as;
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments-
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
Mkn’iion ti:is Paper.
in IVSen^
Wa ted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted seal-d 6 stamps. Address-
. J. HINTON-WILLIS,
V Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. A
RUPTURE
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulated
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible.
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at
what you will learn. This Truss positively
does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any
ruptured man or woman. If you want the
BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. 11.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
■JPHM DURANT
-SPECIFIC CAPSULES
FULL
ENCLOSEOf
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD &' CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
%ZT
O
IP
OLD
HMs
at
SUNBU
fIHQ
uO
fed
€?
HA
&.C
S
y
z/tE
%
Y
N
Y.
P *o
**etors
—-r
VTIHE MODERN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia.
Health, Strength, Vigor , Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice of q'uacks and pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still mote flaming.books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us and we will correspond
with you by return post.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ADELAIDE C. May 11.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
hTame_
Address
BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me__ .shares in the above.
Name
Address.
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscrilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
Name
Address
£ « :
ROSEHILL C. June 25,
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee Reducers
friends of the family’
-AND-
Up to date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. , .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
says
“ Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
you i*
hair
from
falling
off.
'happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
n ; ce clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Hair Failing, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Harr. i 2 6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, S‘ores, &c.
; THE K°KO M»RICOPAS GO,. LTD.
t 6, Bevis Marks, London, England.
Pub ications, etc.
&
Ki
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
a^/\-TY/v!
FOREIGN STAMPS.
fIOLLECTIONS of 1000 Varieties
kf complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
__ Missing Friends.
S A MUEL JEPP, th“ Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W.,
, ' ast heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
? a cy under his late father’s will conditional on the
irnstee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
5“ t ' lat he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to be sent to
HILL AND SCOTT,
194 Hereford Street, Christchurch* N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
In Melbourne, recently, Robert Brown,
carpenter, fell 40ft. off a ladder, through a gal-
vanised-iron verandah, on to an ex-M.P., and then
rolled down the steps of an adjacent public-house
cellar. But when people went down to pick up
Bob Brown’s pieces they found him dusting his
jacket, and swearing because he’d torn his trousers !
A lunatic from Bairnsdale (Vic.) was re-
cently sent to the asylum. He had attacked nurses
and doctors, and played up generally, but his
sanity was first really doubted when he was found
engaged in washing the Bible in a bucket of water.
Yet there are a good many things in the Scripture
which badly want washing.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
c warn
'VWNTNJ
C 3-0 TO HELL-
IUOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for la. 611.
Illustrated Priee List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
U ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Busrgies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS,. 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. BARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS'
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
Send for a Catalogue.
IT. HILLIER, 135 <(• 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,’ is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exception all y good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE•
Positively the Best Dressing
Edwarps^bUl^r
ENE
!,{
SdS
FOR
PRESERVING So BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Sp ecially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Une.
“H ARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Be aid and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes. Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Aekworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly us p d.
I/-, 2 0 and (triple 2,6 size)4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W-C.
MICROBEitTSOirS CfiEMK GUIQ-
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes , Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Eull Set
Samples.
Sold all r onfectioners, Chemists & Stores.
- Fitgroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Works :
LOOK OUR P
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Note Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manul
Send for Ou.r Iliu
JFIIC£JS !
Our Special
No. 2.
~r
J
Including Splash
boards , Silver Bash Bail
and Lamps.
•9 -QI BJ
ifacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
LStrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Delicicuc v and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations JVIADAML
ADELINA PATTI writes :“I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent. 1 his boap
cures shiny and greasy skins. . , . , , . , , . „
DR. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffin ess under the eyes, it
keeps the skm soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove fieckles;
•vrhilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price d/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD.j 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury— Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird's Custard and Bl * ds C . David
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, »o
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Easter Hymn.
The long-neck spurs are idle, and the shoes are off
the brown ;
The saddle-hacks are spelling at the back of
Boona Range;
The engine’s fired and waiting, and it’s hey for
Sydney Town !
The sheep can go to blazes, for the shepherds
want a change.
A twelve-month we’ve been toiling, as the best of
sheep-men must,
Playing games of woolly billiards, with a pine-
stick for a cue,
And wearing down the rollers of our long-necks in
the dust,
And saying little prayers to the gentle full-
mouth ewe!
Now —the roaring of the traffic and the flashing of
the lights !
Now—the ships upon the harbor and the crowds
upon the quay !
Now —the revel of the mornings and the riot of
the nights !
The long-worn fetters broken and—the freedom
of the free !
The crowds are keeping Easter and the shrines
are overflowed :
We shall trouble not the churches or the chapels,
comrades mine,
There are other altars hold us on the broad and
flowery road,
And the gods we go to worship are the Gods of
Love and Wine!
In a fortnight you’ll be weary of the streets that
slack and fill,
Of the nights of restless revel and the noons of
languid ease,
And you’ll wish that you were riding at the back
of Boona Hill,
With the miljee at your stirrups and the gooma
at your knees.
You can ride the bucking harbor when the tide
rips thro’ the Heads,
You can mount the moving tram-cars in a smoke
too thick to see,
You can mash the merry barmaids, you can “ do ”
the show-yard sheds—
A gallop down the Yarran flats is good enough
for me.
N.S.W.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
On the Sands.
All the air was tranced and the sea was stilled,
And we stood and dreamed of a world to be ;
When it seemed to me that our souls were thrilled
With a sudden sympathy :
My life’s long riddle at last I read,
And the spirit-face I had sought I knew ;
All the past’s far years to this hour had led
On the sands alone with you :
And you —you thought that the skies were fair,
And such twilight peace you had seldom known ;
And you never guessed that a soul was there
That hungered for your own.
You never knew —there was just the lack
Of a passioned look that would thrill me
through ;
But the night swept down, with its shroud of
black—
And you never, never knew !
M.L.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Prometheus Proletaire.
If tears at times unbidden rise
Ye need not ask me why they come ;
I never weep o’er woes of mine,
On private griefs my voice is dumb.
But when I see the forms I love
In bitter need around me stand,
And see myself without the power
To aid them strain my fettered hand ;
’Tis this that slowly breaks my heart,
’Tis this that rends my soul in twain—
To gaze from out my gloomy night,
For Freedom pine—and pine in vain.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Conscience-Stricken.
It pleases me that you are not more wise,
For now you think me greater than I am,
And scan my life with simple, loving eyes,
Which may not see its hollowness and sham.
My loving tliee such great delight doth give
That nought can harm the trust in which you live.
I pray that death will be the end of all,
That you may never know in after life
How poor a thing had held your soul in thrall,
And dared to claim your love as slave and wife.
Thy loving me doth give me such delight,
I fear to be made smaller in thy sight.
RAPHO.


TVdStraliai) MiitGal T,,,*
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ““ •OVICI ® ly t O I€l y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors -The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
Esq ‘ ’ THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. i. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A..F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
XXead. Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HOTEL - -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
lrams, &e. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 3 2/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
P&B Euberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOOJM ’
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
vw*
VNJN
VONK«
VCCC*N
ViKow
\\v\\v
52
M
SN'*-
R.V
h
s®
h
1
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
VISITORS TO THE OLD
■
COUNTRY.
5X931]
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
. KENSINCTON
(Under Royal Patronage.) , , ,
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all M O TEL
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter.
moderate tariff.
Queen’s Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
Ask for
WHITE
WHISKY.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels ,
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
just : been received speaking of this product, says This Brandy was
nnffivr&T^A I nnTnM f j- e 1 XI) i ertS J Q in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English
TO 11 COMPETE 6,7 FAVdVa RT eS m product of this class ABLE
1U OUMFrillt FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD - EKTADT
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.” JtbIAHLISHED
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER.
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of liriflyemorlc.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
, ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We“ guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
OS £3 v <c~l ,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
Wgm
IKS' wSfc-3^
was
r=
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in f existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & 13. CURRA.N,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
m
ptsu um
«*
!|j. SPEC!rtL
USES
NB.il.
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Firo
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divid<d
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasime.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo >»'' :-i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Krnp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessoi>, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting flixson s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Vaokw Poodle.
The Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cbari)pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqG?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)tei)Qial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole Rothschilds.
Bonanza 4 Havana and .American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 950.
SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 1898.
Price, 6d,
MORE powder and less
PRINTERS’ INK.
“ There have been several sui-
cides in the States through sheer '
patriotism.”—Cable.
“ Why, I’m darned if you ain't my long-lost
brother! ”
’TiB sweet to die foi
one’s country.
It has been suggested that Consul
and Consul Don Alonzo
Frankfreehillo meet, say, in Wyn-
yard-square, and settle the war once
Editor of Daily Paper : “ I say, Mr. Turps, is that the
largest scare type you have ? ”
Turps (the head printer): “It is, sir ; and we haven’t too
much of that.” (Editor has to content himself with a leader
i 1 On Our Unpreparedness For War.”
' GHASTLY PUNCTUALITY.
“ Now, look a-here ! At ’zactly 6 a.m. I’m goin’ to begin shootin I’’ 1 ’’
' Shade of Christopher Columbus tPm sorry now that I ever dis
covered you! ”
Young Australia : “ It's a thousand pities it isn't an
international cricket-match ! ” A sentiment which is heartily
subscribed to (for once in a way) by
WARS AND HUMORS OF WARS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ■ ... ... ... 0 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing u'ith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Illaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and lil Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — 11. A. Ttiompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maorlland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Oivingto the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, d special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 1898.
The Reasons Why.
The Bulletin offers the following as a few
of the reasons why every Australian should
vote “ Yes ” at the Federal poll next June :
(1) It is agreed by all political parties that Federation
is desirable. Even the bitterest of Provincialists declare
this. The unanimity on this point is so unanimous as to
be almost incredible.
(2) There is no possible guarantee that by delay the
provinces will get a better Federal scheme than the
present one. They may get a better one, or a worse
one, or none at all. If the present scheme is rejected,
events may happen to so rouse up provincial animosities
that it will be 100 years before there is another serious
attempt at union.
(3) It is claimed that it is a small matter if the present
dratt Constitution is rejected, because the natural growth
of the Federal sentiment Will bring union to pass all the
same. In that case the Bill should he accepted. If the
Federal and brotherly sentiment is growing, as alleged,
that is a guarantee that whatever defects there are in the
Constitution can be easily amended later on.
(4) The community which waits for a perfect Consti-
tution before it starts never will get started at all.
(5) The community which waits to unite till it gets a
Constitution which will please everybody—ultra-Free-
traders, ultra-Protectionists, hard-shell Tories, advanced
Democrats and Socialists, will never unite.
(6) The opposition to the Constitution Bill includes
Tories who claim that it is too Democratic ; Democrats
who claim that it is too Tory ; Protectionists who claim
that it commits the country to Foreign-trade ; Foreign-
traders who claim that it commits the country to Protec-
tion ; small, mangy politicians who have no'prospect of
getting into the Federal Parliament, and who fear that
their local Parliaments will be reduced to insignificance ;
property-owners who want an assurance that the Federal
capital will be located in their city, in the hope that the
consequent increase of population will enhance the value
of dirt and bricks and mortar; and the bang-crash
variety of politicians who can’t construct anything, and
who have to pull down what others have constructed in
order to keep themselves befofe the public. And when
so many miscellaneous characters are against the Bill,
they furnish at least a negative probability that it is a
reasonable measure, which holds the balance as fairly as
possible among all parties.
• * * •
(7) The proposed Constitution provides for the amalga-
tion of the five separate military departments, which will
make the defences of Australia cheaper as well as more
efficient.
(8) It will combine the posts and telegraphs of five pro-
vinces, thus making a great reduction in expenses, saving
four out of five Postmasters-General, and making rates
uniform throughout the Commonwealth.
(9) It will create a uniform tariff outside the Common-
wealth, and absolute Freetrade inside. All the costly and
troublesome paraphernalia of Border-customs and cus-
toms-officers will be swept away. By making trade abso-
lutely free over an entire continent (for the ultimate
adhesion of Queensland is inevitable, and the special
arrangement with Westralia lasts only five years), it will
be the greatest Freetrade movement which the world has
seen this century. The Freetrader who is against Fede-
ration under such circumstances is an anomaly.
(10) The Commonwealth Bill gives power to the Fede-
ration to take over the State debts. And as the Federal
Government’s credit will be better than that of any in-
dividual State the Commonwealth will be able to con-
solidate the debts at reduced interest, and thus save,
probably, £1,000,000 a year. This will be an immense
reduction of the public burdens. All the land and in-
come taxes of Australia are required solely to make up
this one sum which is annually fooled away under the
provincial system.
* o * *
(11) The Commonwealth Bill does not provide an
ideal Democratic Constitution. BUT it provides a more
Democratic Constitution than any now existing in the five
federating provinces, South Australia possibly excepted.
There is no nominee Council as in New South Wales ; no
property qualification for Councillors as is the case with
the elective Councils in Victoria, Tasmania and Westralia.
There is no plural vote-it is expressly stipulated that
in the elections for both Federal Houses each elector
shall have one vote and one only. And the Federal
Senate is liable to dissolution when it comes in collision
with the popular will, w hereas no Upper House in Aus-
tralasia is dissolvable. This gives the people for the first
time a firm control of the Upper House.
(12) The Federal franchise will be almost certainly the
most liberal in the world. The first Federal Parliament
will be elected on the provincial suffrages now existing,
with the reservation that no plural vote is allowed.
Therefore New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia
will elect their representatives on the principle of abso-
lute manhood (or, in South Australia, manhood and
womanhood) suffrage. These three Democratic provinces
will command an immense majority in both Houses—and
(hey will fix the Federal suffrage. Their people have
plus a chance to start afresfc themselves and to start Aus-
tralia afresh under absolutely Democratic conditions—
s uch a chance as they never had before and as few
Countries ever have.
(13) If New South Wales stands out. and leaves the
ot her four provinces to federate by themselves there will
he no reliable Democratic majority in the Federal Senate
to make a liberal suffrage absolutely certain.
(14) If New South Wales stands out and the present
movement fails it may not start again at all. Or it may
start again with all six provinces in it. And if Queens-
land is still under the present regime it will probably
make another Tory vote, and, again, there will be no sure.
Democratic majority in both Federal Houses to fix the
Federal suffrage. By a wonderful combination of cir-
cumstances the Democratic party has an absolutely sure
hold on both Federal Houses, if it only grasps the oppor-
tunity with both hands, and federates now. It can make
the suffrage the most liberal in the world. It can elect
the second Federal Parliament on the basis of an absolute
manhood vote, and then add the Referendum to the Con-
stitution, and thus make it wider and more Democratic
than it was originally. In fact, it can do anything if it
only seizes the opportunity while the combination of
three Liberal, as against only two Tory, provinces leaves
the power in its hands.
(15) The proposed Federal Constitution gives the
States, large and small, equal representation in the Senate.
But in the House of Representatives the States have
votes practically according to population. In theory
the equal vote in the Senate is an injury to the principle
of majority rule. In practice it is not—at least, not to
any extent worth mentioning -for a number of reasons.
(a) If any question should arise in which the three
small States, with their majority in the Senate, are
on one side while the two large ones, with their
majority in the House of Representatives, are on the
other, the House which speaks for the majority of
people has the advantage because the Ministry is
responsible to it only.
(b) It has this further advantage : If the Senate passes
a bill which the more popular House rejects, the
. Senate has no redress. If the popular House passes
a bill which the Senate rejects, it can obtain a dis-
solution of both Houses and an appeal to the people.
If the deadlock still continues, the popular House can
get the matter referred to a joint sitting of the two
Chambers, where a three fifths majority will carry
the bill in spite of the Senate’s veto. And New South
Wales and Victoria—the provinces which represent
the majority of people—have the three-fifths majority
and something over.
(c) Thus in the end the power rests with the more
populous States. The Federal Senate has no
absolute veto, whereas in New South Wales the
House of Nominees has an absolute veto, and so have
the Councils of the other provinces elected on a pro-
perty qualification. Therefore (despite the unfor-
tunate three-fifths majority provision) the Common-
wealth Parliament will be the only one Australia has
ever possessed where the people have a real control
over both Houses.
**x * *
(16) The Federal Constitution can be altered at any
time and in any way by the vote of a majority of both
Houses, a majority of the people, and a majority of the
States. The three Democratic provinces (New South
Wales, Victoria, and South Australia) command a majority
in all three respects, so fhe future of the Constitution
rests with the Democracy alone.
(17) If, by any possibility, the Federal union is a
failure, the way out is easy—easier than the way in. All
that is required is to amend the one word “ indissoluble ”
out of the preamble of the Constitution and to pass an
amendment declaring the union dissolved. To make the
union requires the consent of ten Houses of Parliament,
the assent of a majority of the total number of people
voting, the assent of five separate 'majorities in the indi-
vidual provinces, and it is also requisite that these
majorities shall comprise 142,000 votes. A vote of two
Houses of Parliament and the assent of New South Wales,
Victoria, and one of the small provinces will be sufficient
to dissolve it again. The allegation that the provinces
are taking a leap in the dark, which leap can never be
retraced, is mere foolishness and ignorance and premedi-
tated bunkum.
(18) The Federal Constitution leaves the fiscal question
absolutely open and the question of Freetrade or Protec-
tion is left to the people to decide—all the allegations
about “ Braddon’s Blot” to the contrary notwithstand-
ing. Braiiuon’s famous amendment provides that one-
fourth of the customs and excise revenue may be re-
tained by the Federal Government towards its own
expenses, and three-fourths must be returned to the
States. This leaves the Federal Government absolutely
free to pay its expenses out of direct taxation, or out of
customs and excise, or partly by one and partly by the
other. The meaningless Braddon amendment leaves
things, so far as concerns the fiscal question, exactly
where they are now. J
(19) The-Constitution does not, unfortunately, provide
definitely for the taking over of the railways by the
Commonwealth. But it gives the Commonwealth power
to take them over with the States’ consent. It is pro-
posed in some quarters that Federation should be post-
poned until the federalising of the railways is arranged
That also means waiting till the States‘consent And
there is no reason for waiting. The federated States will
consent just as soon and just as easily as the unfede-
rated States would.
* * * *
(20) The Constitution Bill prov ides Australia, for the
first tune, with what is practically a final Court of
Appeal of its own. Hitherto the final Court of Appwil
has been m England, 16,000 miles away, and justice has
been hideously slow and remote in consequence.
(21) It leaves the fixing of the Federal capital to the
federal Parliament the Parliament from which the pro-
perty vote is absolutely excluded.
(22) It introduces the principle of liberal payment of
members in both Houses, and abolishes all property
qualification for members. Unpaid Upper Houses with
propeity qualifications have hitherto been the stronghold
of Australian Toryism. The Federal scheme builds both
Houses on a Democratic foundation.
(23) Whatever is bad or deficient in the Constitution
it leaves the power absolutely with the people, and thev
can repair these faults or deficiencies as they please.
Equal representation in the Senate gives rather more
than a fair share of authority to the Tory provinces of
Tasmania and Westralia. It also gives rather more than
a fair share to South Australia-the most ultra-democratic
ATJhnw ;^i UStra^ a - whlch is a fair counterbalance.
Anyhow, the three Democratic States-South Australia,
Victoria, and New South Wales—have the balance of
power every time, and all the time, and if they can’t make
the Federal Constitution all that a Democratic Constitu-
tion should be they have only themselves to blame.
These are a few of the reasons why The
Bulletin gives its vote for the acceptance of
the proposed Constitution. It isn’t perfect,
but it is about the most liberal Constitution
in the world, and it is about as near perfec-
tion as any gathering of five separate States
is likely to get. There are two ways of get-
ting a better Constitution—one is by accept-
ing the present one and repairing it in the
Federal Parliament ; the other is by rejecting
it and doing the repairs in another Conven-
tion. The difference lies in the fact that in
the Federal Parliament the minority will be
governed by the vote of the majority, there-
fore it is possible to vote down the Tory
minority; in a purely voluntary Convention,
theminority, if it objects to thedecision of the
majority, can simply gather up its bag and
leave. Consequently, The Bulletin believes
in taking the Constitution as it is, and doing
needful repairs afterwards. To reject it for
the sake of remaining indefinitely under the
domination of the New South Wales House
of Nominees or the Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords isn’t a cheerful prospect,
anyhow.
N.S.W. Free Newspaper Postage Swindle'
“ Under Federation there will be postage
on newspapers in New South Wales.” Now,
in N.S.W. newspapers go through the post
free. A grateful country carries the wares of
the newspaper proprietor gratis, while whisky,
and fat swine, and ironmonger}', and hair-re-
storers, and tonics, and Pale Beans for Boiled
People, and boots, and large iron boilers, which
are also articles of merchandise, have to pay
their way. The Government deliberately taxes
the people to pay the cost of carrying and de-
livering free the goods of the rich newspaper
owner by train and steamboat and coach, and
other conveyance. It doesn’t, however, extend
this privilege to papers published outside
N.S.W. The penny paper from any adjacent
province has to pay postage, therefore the
local Freetrade paper is protected up to 50 per
cent, against its beastly imported competitor.
The 50 per cent, protection on the Freetrade
paper is the only protective item which the
Freetrade press has never once denounced
as sinful and iniquitous and demoralising
and other like adjectives. And the 50 per cent.
Protection granted to the Herald and Tele-
graph and Evening News —which all support
the Reid Government—is the only kind of Pro-
tection that the Reid Government has never
cursed, or interfered with, or even alluded to.
The spectacle of the press which denounces Pro-
tection as an artificial coddling of weak, exotic
industries, and a robbery of the people for the
benefit of a few capitalists and monopolists,
being itself a protected and coddled monopolist
and robber of the people, is a trifle pitiful—but
things like that will happen.
* * * •
Newspapers are carried free in N.S. Wales
on the excuse that to charge postage on them
would be to “ lay a tax on knowledge.” But,
in the first place, it is not a question of taxing
knowledge, but of making it pay for services
rendered. In the second place, the N.S.W.
Government doesn’t care a straw whether
knowledge is taxed or not; if it did, it would
make education free, and extend the free-post-
age privilege to books, magazines, and news-
papers in general, instead of confining it to purely
local publications. The bald and obvious purpose
of the Government which granted the concession
was to buy the support of the local press. And
the bald and obvious purpose of succeeding
Governments, in continuing it, was to avoid
rousing the wrath of the press more than was
absolutely necessary.
* * * *
By a curious combination of circumstances,
however, the great scheme has gone very far
askew and a time is evidently coming when
even the daily papers will have to agitate for
the abolition of the big State subsidy they now
enjoy. In N.S.W., anything which is published
daily or weekly or fortnightly or monthly, is a
newspaper, and has to be carried free at the
public charge. Therefore, almost everybody in
a large way of business, and many who are in a
very small way, now find it cheaper to publish
their own advertising circulars, and circulate
them through the post at the public expense,
than to put their little advt. in the newspapers
as they used to do. N.S. Wales is full of
alleged newspapers, fully one-third of which
have no possible claim to the name, for they
supply no news of real public interest. About
half the churches now run a little organ apiece,
which gives a report of the Rev. Shem Howler’s
discourse last Sunday, and the text on which the
Rev. Shem Howler is going to discourse next
Sunday, and fills the rest of the space with tea-
meeting and collection-plate items, and appeals
for better attendances, and reports of the open-
air meeting that was held in the school-room to
consider what color the church should be white-
washed. The following are a few sample names :
‘ All Saints (Petersham) Monthly Paper,’ ‘ All Israel
Redeemed by the Lamb,’ ‘ Australian Messenger of the
Sacred Heart,’ ‘ Australian Annals of Our Lady of the
Sacred Heart,’ ‘ All Saints Parish Letter,’ ‘ the Baptist
Central Mission Gazette,’ ‘ Church Gazette,’ ‘Central Mis-
sion Gazette,’ ‘Church of England Intelligencer,’ ‘the
Churchman,’ ‘ the Band of Mercy,’ ‘ the Bathurst Watch-
man ’ (Baptist), ‘ the Church Extension Association,’
‘Church News’ (Merriwa), ‘Church News’ (Kelso),
‘ Church Gazette ’ (Dungog), ‘ Church Notes ’ (Newtown),
‘ Church Notes ’ (Wingham), ‘ Church Standard, ‘ Church
News ’ (Bathurst), ‘ the Deaconess,’ ‘ the Diocesan News,’
‘Glad Tidings,’ ‘Good Health,’ ‘Good I?ews,’ ‘the
Gleaner,’ ‘ the Liberal Faith,’ ‘ the Light of the Nations
of Truth,’ ‘ the Methodist,’ ‘ Church of England
Monthly ’ (Goulburn), Parish Magazine ’ (Merriwa),
‘ Missionary Notes,’ ‘ the Missive,’ ‘ Sydney City Mis-
sion Herald,’ ‘Sunshine,’ ‘the Shield,’ ‘the Monthly
News,’ ‘N.S.W. Fellowship Union Witness,’ ‘New-
castle and District Newsletter,’ ‘ the Olive Leaf,
‘ the Presbyterian,’ ‘ the Presbyterian Messenger,’ ‘ the
Presbyterian Record,' ‘ the Presbyterian Church (Bal-
boa) Monthly Notes,’ ‘Randwick Presbyterian Chroni-
cle,’ ‘ Pyrmont Church News,’ ‘Parish Gazette,’ ‘Primi-
tive Methodist,’ ‘the Parish,’ ‘the Rescue,’ ‘ Redfern
Congregational Messenger,’ ‘ the Ripple,’ ‘ the Roll Call,’
‘ the Sunbeam,’ ‘ St. James’s (Morpeth) Parish Magazine,’
‘St. John's Church News,’ ‘St. Barnabas’s News,’ ‘St.
Paul’s Church News,’/ the Rock,’ ‘ Unionist and Method-
ist Herald,’ ‘ Woollobmooloo Church News,’ ‘ War Cry,’
‘ Young Men’s Magazine,’ 'Y.M.C.A. Lighthouse,’ 1 Young
Men’s Echo,’ ‘ Young Men.’
* * * V
The Bulletin wonders whether the cornstalk
Protestant knows that he is being heavily
taxed every year to hump great masses of Holy
Roman literature all over the country like this,
and to introduce transubstantiation and the
cult of St. Peter into every household. Also,
if the cornstalk Holy Roman knows that he
pays for the dissemination of all these tons of
heretic literature. And if the cornstalk agnos-
tic has dropped to the fact that he is paying to
subsidise the publications of all the sects whose
little snuffle-tracts appear in the above list.
* * • *
And even this is only the beginning of the
commencement of the trouble “and robbery.
There are in New South Wales jewellers,
butchers, tea-dealers, bakers, ironmongers,
bad debt-collectors, stock-agents, dealers ill
stamps, wholesale publicans, life-insurance
offices, and other traders who publish purely
advertising circulars for the purpose of putting
their private businesses and giving the prices of
their wares, and these are registered as news-
papers and carried at the expense of the nation
over 310,000 square miles of territory. One
individual who runs a marriage-bureau circu-
lates his little paper in the same fashion. So
does a person who feels bumps for a modest
consideration, his little advertising sheet being
called a “phrenological journal.” About a
dozen or twenty Cold-Tea publications, not in-
cluded in the above list of pious papers, are
carried free along with the public-house
organs with the latest whisky-quotations
in them. At recent elections a number of
candidates registered little ephemeral journals
containing reports of their meetings, and ac-
counts of the vast crow'd that wasn’t there, and
the applause which didn’t happen, and the
beautiful speech which was carefully revised
afterwards, and circulated them also at the
damage and injury of the national pocket.
And the time is evidently coming when the
push which aims bottles at the casual stranger
will issue little papers called Stoush orBLANKY,
and when the house of ill-fame will publish
a gazette called Flossie, or something of
the kind, with the portrait of the new girl
who has just come to stay there thrown in for
public information. In fact, there is absolutely
no limit to the great free-newspaper-postage
joke in New South Wales.
• * * *
It is the proud boast of the N.S. W. Joe Cook
Department that it carries 45,000,000 news-
papers annually, against only 30,000,000 carried
by the Postal Department of that miserable,
ignorant, Protectionist province, Victoria. But
when the 80 or more little church rags, and the
Matrimonial Gazette, and the bump-feeler’s
paper, and the stock-agents’ circulars, and the
dozen or twenty Cold-Tea organs, and the ad-
vertising sheets of three biglife-assuranceoffices,
and the circular of the man who collects bad
debts, and the political speeches, and the iron-
mongery and grocery and meat and sugar and
jewellery pamphlets, and the stamp-collector’s
price-list, and all the dozens and dozens of
similar literature which go through the post
free at the public cost, are reckoned in, it is
only wonderful that the alleged newspapers
mailed annually in N.S.W. don’t run to 400 mil-
lions instead of only 45. The people of N.S.W.
are apparently only just waking up to the vast
possibilities of their free newspaper-postage
system. Last year 65 new alleged journals
were registered in N.S.W., the great bulk of
them being trade-circulars, or parsonical sheets
calling for more liberality in the matter of the
Plate. And wdien printing and paper are cheap,
and labor is very cheap indeed, and the State
will deliver the beer or furniture or grocery
price-list as a new'spaper to every soul in
N.S.W. for absolutely nothing, there are great
prospects ahead for somebody or something.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Why, Cert’nly.
A provincialist person writes to The Bulle-
tin under the erroneous impression that he has
got a great idea :
Dear Bulletin.—Allow me to remind you that you have
visited me regularly onee a week for many years. We
have, as it were, grown up together, from youthful
Radicalism to middle-aged Respectability, strengthened
by Toryism. Presuming on our lengthy acquaintance-
ship, I venture to submit the following proposal, in the
sure and certain hope it will meet with your enthusiastic
approval. That The Bulletin and I should federate is
the one great ambition of my life. We are brother Aus-
tralians, with one destiny ; therefore let us federate. It
will add materially to my worldly prosperity, and also
satisfy the aspirations of my higher nature ; therefore let
us federate.
Tiik Bulletin is prosperous, with every prospect of
increased prosperity in the future. I am as free from
wealth as a frog is from feathers, and my future
prospects are in the keeping of the bailiff, but,
as a set-off to these drawbacks, I may mention
that I am The Bulletin’s Australian brother, and
also add that my grandparent did snare a rabbit in Hing-
land, and consequently spent the rest of his life in Lag-
land. From this lamented ancestor I have inherited a
profound respect for authority, also a not ungraceful
peculiarity in my walk. For these reasons The Bulletin
will readily admit I am entitled to eight times the voting
power of itself.
The terms of our Federation to be—
1. Both partners to reside in the same house, said
house to be erected and run at Bulletin expense.
2. Tiie Bulletin to chop all wood, I agreeing to
supply the grunting. ,
3. The Bulletin to do the washing-up, all broken
crockery to be replaced at Bulletin expense.
4. In the event of the bloated ruffian next door stealing
our wood, or fowls, or becoming insulting, it shall be
my stern duty to declare war against said bloated
ruffian, and it shall be the proud privilege of Thb
Bulletin’s seven sons to do the fighting.
5. Those points settled, all other matters can be very
well left to adjust themselves.
6. Mvbloominoath.
Sordid-minded persons, men with cart-horse souls, may
sneer at my pretensions in this matter, but you and I,
dear Bulletin, can regard their sneers with calm indif-
ference, for are we not brother Australians, pigs of the
same snout, so to speak, with one great grunt—l mean
one glorious destiny ; and has not an all-wise Providence
blessed us with souls to soar to the lofty and magnificent
heights of Federal sublimity ? —Junee.
The Bulletin receives this communication
with gladness, and hereby offers to federate
with “Junee” on exactly the same terms as
those on which N.S. W. is federating with
Tasmania: (1) Each party keeps its own
property, just as N.S.W. keeps its rail-
ways, public lands, and all its other assets.
If the combined firm wants any of the
property it has to pay for it. (2) Ih®
Bulletin, representing N.S.W., has 31
votes in the directorate, while “Junee,” re-
presenting Tasmania, has 11. (3) Both parties
are taxed on the same scale (according to the
Federal tariff) to pay the working expenses of
the partnership. Or, if “ Junee ” prefers it.
The Bulletin, representing Victoria and
N.S.W., will federate with him, “ J unee ” re-
presenting the three small provinces. Terms are


(1) Each party keeps its own property,
as provided in the Commonwealth Bill.
(2) The joint business is run by two boards of
directors, “Junee” having a majority vote
on one board and The Bulletin on the
other, but in case of disagreement the two
sit as one. The Bulletin, representing N. S. W.
and Vic., has 59 votes on the joint board while
“Junee,” representing the other three pro-
vinces, has 35. The Bulletin is quite willing
to agree that a two-thirds vote shall be neces-
sary to carry anything at a sitting of the joint
hoard, as it will have two-thirds of the votes
and two over. (3) The Federation shall have
power to take over the debts of both parties—
The Bulletin lias more debts than “Junee,”
so it doesn’t mind. (4) The Federation shall
have power to take over the assets at a valua-
tion—The Bulletin has sufficient voting power
to see that it doesn’t get left at the valuation.
(5) Both parties shall be taxed on the same
scale. Will “Junee” kindly come along and
federate with this paper at once ?
♦
Rip Van Winkle.
~Y
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan has been per-
suaded to curse Federation on financial grounds
in the columns of Sydney Daily Telegraph,
and his curse is a sick-aud-sorry spectacle.
Coghlan goes on the dry and desolate figures
of the case thus : The Federal tariff will yield,
say, .£6,000,000. It may yield any other sum,
but £6,000,000 will do as well as anything else
for an example. Of this £4,500,000 is to be
returned to the States. And if the relative
trade of the provinces remains the same—which
it certainly will not —New South Wales will
contribute 41 per cent, of this revenue, and
will be entitled to something like £1,842,000
of the surplus. This calculation is, of
course, absurd, because if a tariff which is
calculated to produce £6,000,000 a year is im-
posed the heavy duties will reduce imports in
N.S. W., and it won’t contribute 41 per cent.,
or be entitled to £1,842,000 of the surplus.
Fhe whole estimate is based on the theory that
if a man is 6ft. high at age 25 he will neces-
sarily be 18ft. high at age 75. Then if things
remain as they are, the next item is that the
other provinces require, to keep them from
insolvency, the following sums out of the
Federal surplus :
Victoria £1,680,000
S.A 663,000
W.A 890,000
Tasmania 295,000
And as they can’t get these sums out of the
£4,500,000 which, it is assumed, will be divided
among the States out of the assumed £6,000,000,
therefore Coghlan assumes that they must
annex part of N.S. W.’s fair share of the Federal
surplus. Of course it would be equally rele-
vant to assume that N.S. W.,S.A.,and Westralia
would conspire together to annex Victoria’s
share of the cash, which is one awkward dis-
crepancy to begin with. Also there is no
shadow of evidence whatever that there won’t
be £5,500,000 to divide instead of £4,500,000;
Coghlan’s figures are based on the assumption
that the Federal Government will choose to pay
all its expenses out of customs and excise, and
it isn’t bound to pay all or any of them from
that source. Also the Federal Government is
bound, for five years after the Federal tariff
starts, to divide the surplus according to the
amount of each province’s contribution, so
Coghlan’s whole theory is based on the further
ridiculous assumption that the provincial
finances will be in exactly the same condition
about seven years hence as they are now. It is
only when the five years expire that the pro-
vinces can appeal to the Federal Legislature to
readjust the division of the surplus. Also, it
is necessary to include the wild inference that
the debts and railways can’t possibly be taken
over by the Commonwealth in the seven years ;
that the debts can’t be converted so as to make
the necessary saving by the reduction of
interest; that the provinces can’t possibly find
any new sources of revenue; that railway,
postal, and telegraph receipts won’t improve ;
in short, that Rip Van Winkle won’t wake,
and that Moses, having been in a particular
spot when the light went out in, say, 1899,
will stay in exactly the same spot till 1906.
Starting on the assumption that everything in
1906 will be in exactly the same position as it
was in 1896, Coghlan’s figures are all
right. But everyone knows perfectly well that
they won’t be ; in all probability by 1906 the
present conditions will be as obsolete as an
armour-clad crusader. It is actually proposed
by the anti-Federationist push to appoint an
“ independent board of financial experts ” to
settle the Federal question for good by over-
hauling Coghlan’s figures and testing their
accuracy. Apart from the fact that there are
no independent experts available (barring, per-
haps, the Auditor-General, whose report on
Reid’s finance is being carefully kept dark),
the real point is that the mere mechanical
accuracy of Coghlan’s figures doesn’t matter a
solitary rap. They are necessarily based on
the theory that the world is going to stand still
—and it never does stand still.
A University God.
Sydney University Commemoration elicited the
usual babyish display from the undergraduates,
and from Chancellor MacLaurin and Gov.
Hampden some curious remarks. The intelli-
gent Chancellor devoted a paragraph of his
curtailed speech to the late Judge Windeyer,
and invited the audience to “strive to imitate
the patient industry, the unflinching devotion to
justice and truth, and the noble scorn of detrac-
tion, for which Windeyer’s memory will long
be cherished. (Applause.)” Dr. MacLaurin
might have added that Judge Windeyer’s
“ patient industry ” and “ unflinching devotion
to justice and truth ” were conspicuously shown
in the Mt. Rennie trial, at which he patiently
and industriously sat for 77 hours in six days ;
and particularly during the defence at that trial,
when he unflinchingly devoted himself (and
sleeping jurymen, and the sleeping prisoners,
and the worn-out counsel) to justice and
truth for 48J hours with 5£ hours intermission;
thereby earning the leading-article remarks of
Sydney Morning Herald that—
Whatever the facilities afforded to prisoners on their
trial may Lie, they can he of little avail when the sittings
of the court are protracted from day to day to such an
extent as to exhaust the physical and mental energies of
counsel and jurymen alike. . . . No case has been heard
of in modern times in which English Judges have com-
pelled jurors and counsel in criminal cases to sit all
through the night, in spite of repeated protests and
requests for adjournment—
and winning from W. B. Dalley, Q.C., the
comment that similar instances of devotion to
justice and truth
“ could only he discovered in some of the darkest pages
of a very dark period of Irish history, when counsel, on
whose hands were committed the lives and liberties of
human beings, appealed in vain to the tiibunal for some
consideration, and for some regard for human weakness.”
Chancellor MacLaurin mentioned that
We are to receive a portrait of our late colleague |Win-
DBYKii aforesaid], which will occupy a worthy place in this
hall, sanctified to him by the recollections of a lifetime.
The Bulletin has pleasure in suggesting that
instead of a portrait, .Sydney University should
sanctify its hall by a gr eat Australian historical
painting representing “Botany Bay Justice”
as seen at 11 o’clock on the Saturday night of
the Mount Rennie trial, with the jurymen
passing round their smelling-salts to keep them-
selves awake, and counsel jabbing prisoners to
wake them up for sentence, and the Judge
fresh and lively after the final 14-hours’ sitting
and “ wiring in ” with the zest of a University
scholar to a penny-whistle. Such a picture
would unquestionably “ take well and give
pleasure to all.” The Bulletin is so charmed
with this improvement on the MacLaurin
programme that it can barely note Governor
Hampden’s counsel to avoid reading bad,
ephemeral literature, as conjoined with his
“ patronage ”of the local trash-novel; also his
advice “ to avoid as a leprosy the reading of
scandalous things about one’s neighbors ”
which is reminiscent of “ Shure Maginnis the
mimber’s a liar, and a thief, and a dirty dog
intirely ; hut indade I niver mind that. Didn’t
he make me a bailiff?” Gov. Hampden
should surely have added his definition of
scandal, and declared that to omit to pay
attention to the scandalous deeds of public
persons is to scandalise oneself as a citizen.
The Three Remarkable Politicians.
The Bulletin is still waiting, in its own
patient, harmless fashion, to hear that Messrs.
Hughes and Lyne and Want have offered an
apology and an explanation to the people of
New South Wales. These gentlemen are sup-
posed to be prominent and honorable politicians
who can be trusted to instruct and guide the
people. And when they inadvertently tell the
people (or a newspaper wickedly misrepresents
them as doing so) things that are grossly un-
true, and which amount to mean slanders about
the acts of their political opponents, and the
utter untruthfulness of these statements is fully
demonstrated, it is natural to expect that they
will retract the statements if they made them,
or, if they didn’t make them, that they will
cause the daily organ which said they did to
consume its wicked assertions. Hughes, M. L. A.,
was reported by Sydney Daily Telegraph as
instructing the public that, in cases of dead-
lock, the federal Senate (the House where the
small provinces have more than their share of
representation) was exempt from dissolution till
after the House of Representatives had suffered
the painful experience of a dissolution and re-
election. There is nothing even dimly resemb-
ling this in the Constitution, bull clause 57 dis-
tinctly provides for both Houses being dissolved
at the same time. He also gave his hearers, or
was reported as doing so, the horrifying infor-
mation that S. A., Tasmania, and W.A. could
alter the Constitution as they pleased, whereas
clause 127 distinctly provides that a majority
of people, as well as a majority of .States, must
be in favor of an alteration before it can be
effected. The Bulletin is waiting for Hughes
to get on a platform and honestly retract or ex-
plain these sinful misstatements. It is waiting
for Lyne to say something manly and respect-
able about his ridiculous fiction (or the fiction
which some paper invented on his behalf) that
because the Constitution says (in clause 87)
that three-fourths of the Customs and Excise
revenue are to be returned to the States and
the Commonwealth is only to retain one-
fourth, therefore it is to pay all its expenses
out of that fourth, thus necessitating a tariff
of £9,000,000 a year. As there is no such in-
ference in the clause, The Bulletin is waiting
to hear William John explain that he is an
honorable political ass and made his ridiculous
assertion through ignorance. And, whereas
ex-Attorney-General . Want is reported as
having endeavored to inflame the provincial
fury of his Cornstalk audience by telling
it that Victoria had “so rigged the
coal contracts and bounties and duties that
hardly an ounce from N.S.W. could get in
there to compete with them,” and whereas this
statement or alleged statement is absolutely
false, inasmuch as there is no Vic. coal duty at
all, and Victoria is N.S. W.’s biggest coal cus-
tomer, taking nearly 600,000 tons a year, The
Bulletin naturally expects King Cabbage-
tree either to deny having made the Ananias
in question, or to acknowledge that he was in-
flaming his bearers against Federation by telling
them things which hadn’t a shred of fact behind
them. Likewise it expects him, as a man of
honor, to apologise for his statement (or to deny
that he made the alleged statement) that the
other provinces “ kicked ” the Referendum out
of the Commonwealth Bill, seeing that it
was never in the Bill and they didn’t kick
it out. There are a good many other points
which call for explanation, but The Bulletin
selects these few examples at random. And it
asks the three gentlemen who talked such in-
sane rubbish through their hats to state
honestly, either that they were misreported, or
that they were not wilfully telling what wasn’t
true and merely made an awful exhibition of
themselves because they were even more ignor-
ant than the people they professed to instruct.
Because if they don’t the public will begin to
assume that they don’t care whether they are
decently accurate or not, so long as they whoop
up their own shabby little gospel of Separatism.
“ My God ! ”
According to Premier John Forrest’s own
account, the only real assault committed on
him at the famous Kalgoorlie “ riot ” consisted
in the small circumstance that he was prodded
with an umbrella by some person unknown
wielding a gamp that has hitherto escaped
identification. The crowd was loud and pro-
fane and hot and blanky in its language, but
the prod with the umbrella was the only actual
assault. No alluvial digger that The Bulletin
ever saw or heard of possessed anything so
ordinary as an umbrella, and it is now solemnly
alleged that the bruise arose through the mis-
directed energy of Forrest’s own private secre-
tary, who was hysterically threatening the mob
with bis silk brolly, ami bit his chief by mis-
take. All the same, the papers publish four
columns of shriekful telegrams in which several
hundred people wail about the “villainous
brutality ” of the mob. The prize shriek of
the collection is contributed by one Brown —
As Government Resident of the Victoria district I beg
respectfully to assure you that our people one and all
scorn and deplore the cowardly, dastardly, and ungrate-
ful treatment which you, the worthy head of our Govern-
ment, have received at the hands of the enemies of law
and order, the enemies of Western Australia, indeed, the
enemies of British civilisation. We are with you to a
man, not merely in sympathy, but if needs be with our
might. My God, I am proud of you ! Our civilisation
requires a Government that will insist upon and establish
the maintenance of law and order. “ What better death
to die than facing fearful odds for the ashes of our fathers
and the temples of our gods.” My kindest regards to you
and yours.
Poor Brown probably meant well, but he got
the first line of his poetic quotation dreadfully
mixed. Also the connection between the
Roman who was prepared to die in his coat of
mail with an iron tail, and the man who was
struck from behind with an umbrella while
making the quickest possible retreat to the
railway-station, isn’t so apparent as it might
be. The idea that Forrest went to Kalgoorlie
to hustle for the ash of his parent looks a little
out of place too. In these days, when
people believe in hell, only a dreadfully clumsy
man talks about the ashes of any other man’s
father.
Premier Byrnes, of Queensland, unburthened
his soul last week at Warwick—and left things as
he found them. Only one portion of his lengthy
speech evoked the least symptom of enthusiasm
—it was his- reference to the Q.N.B. business
and the “ damnosa hereditas ” bequeathed
therewith to the Govt. As to the question of
constitutional reform, T.J.B. is of opinion that
some people want one thing and some another,
and T.J.B. is going to wait till they all want
the same way at the same time—and tell him so.
As to Japanese immigration, Byrnes asseverates
Q. is on excellent terms with Japan, and hopes
she will remain so without insulting the little
brown men by too restrictive legislation. Tom-
joe asserts further he is strongly in favor of a
white Queensland —and is also fully cognisant
of the advantages of alien labor in proper ad-
mixture. Also, the Q. squatters are an admir-
able race of men whose interests must be duly
conserved—and closer settlement at the same
time duly encouraged and promoted. Alto-
gether it was a tame, lame, limping oration
without one spark of fire to set the Democratic
bosom in a glow—an utterance worthy of the
worst days of poor old Nevermind Nelson.
John Norton, in his tremendous anti-Federal
speech last week, explained (according to Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph report) that N.S.W.
shouldn’t Federate because—
The resources and population of N.S.W. were develop-
ing by leaps and bounds, while the populations of the
other provinces were either standing still or decreasing.
The public in general is woefully ignorant, and
will believe almost any kind of yarn if it is told
with sufficient vigor. And the anti-Federal
party seems to live mostly by hard lying and
by trading on the public ignorance. None of
the Australasian provinces are either standing
still or decreasing in population. Last year’s
increases, according to Coghlan, were :
Numerical Increase.
New South Wales ... 25,820
West Australia ... 23,962
New Zealand ... 14,894
Queensland 12,521
Tasmania 5,605
South Australia ... 2,821
Victoria 1,294
Total 86,920
Proportional Increase.
West Australia ... 17.37 p.c.
Tasmania ... 3.37 „
Queensland ... 2.65 ~
New Zealand ... 2.09 ~
N.S. Wales ... 1.99 ~
South Australia 0.78 ~
Victoria 0.11 ~
Average ... 2.01 „
The Bulletin respectfully asks the Provin-
cialist crowd if it can’t conduct its campaign
with a semblance of truthfulness? The con-
stant effort to arouse the passions of the old
Cabbage-tree mob by mean untruths concerning
the Constitution Bill, and its supporters, and
the other provinces, and everything outside the
little Cornstalk circle, is a very poor and
hog-like proceeding.
The following are quotations from three anti-
Federal utterances in N.S. Wales last week :
Federation under any circumstances would mean the
virtual surrender of Riverina to Victoria, and the Barrier
district to South Australia.— Griffith, M.L.A., at Wel-
lington.
The principal function of the proposed commission (the
Federal Inter-State Commission) is to ensure the distribu-
tion of our South-western trade between Victoria and
S.A. — Edward VV. Knox, in Daily Telegraph.
Mr. Ashton then proceeded to examine the Bill from
the point of view—first, of Riverina ; next of New South
Wales ; and then of Australia. Without railway com-
munication to Victoria from the points where the New
South Wales railways terminated—such as Hay and Jeril-
derie—intercolonial Freetrade was a farce. That com-
munication could not be .constructed by the Federal
Parliament without the consent of the State, and New
South Wales was not more likely to construct a line
from Hay to Deniliquin under Federation than she
had been hitherto. Not only would the producers
of the Hay district be unable to get a direct railway to
the natural port, but the existing’ rates would be
materially increased. The clauses absolutely prohibited
the Victorian Commissioners charging a less rate for
goods from Melbourne to Riverina than they charged the
Victorians themselves, and this would mean that the ex-
isting rates on goods to be river-borne from Echuca
would be increased to an enormous extent. Instances of
the different increases were quoted. In the case of wool
river borne to Echuca for dispatch to Melbourne, the Vic-
torian railway rates would be increased from 75 to 122
per cent. This enormous increase would enable the New-
South Wales Commissioners to increase the rates to
Riverina materially, and still retain the traffic. Those
increased rates the people of Riverina would have to pay.
—Ashton, M.L.A., at Kay, Riverina.
This is a skilful distribution of forces.
In and near Sydney the Knox and Griffith
end of the anti-Federal crowd is pointing
out that the inevitable result of Federation is to
send the border trade to Melbourne. And
down on the border Ashton is pointing out
that the inevitable result of Federation will be
to send the border trade to Sydney, whereas
the people want an outlet at Melbourne.
Therefore the border people are asked by
Ashton to vote against Federation because it
will force the Riverina trade to Sydney, while
the Sydney people are invited by Knox and
Griffith to vote against it because it will
drive the Riverina trade to Melbourne. Why
doesn’t Griffith try his little yarn at Hay,
and let Ashton fire off his particular tale in
Sydney ? The result should be interesting—
or bricks.
♦
One of the awful crimes charged against the
Federation Bill in N.S. W. is that, just as the
Labor-party had put old-age pensions into its
“ fighting platform,” -the Convention takes the
business out of the hands of the State. In the
first place, though, it doesn’t. The State can
go ahead with its old-age pension scheme until
the Federation takes up the work. And the
sooner the Federation does take it up the
better ; for any system adopted by one State,
or any system adopted by all the States,
individually and separately, would stand a
good chance of giving a lot of trouble.
For instance, Westralia has during the
last couple of years taken over several tens of
thousands of men from Victoria, N.S. W., and
South Australia ; and if any one of these States
had a system of pensions “ on its own,” its
emigrants would, presumably, lose the contri-
butions made on their behalf. Likewise, what
of the men who follow the shearing from north
to south, or those who go backwards and for-
wards between South Australia and the Broken
Hill silverfield or the West Darling shearing-
sheds ? Working men—the men who want
these pensions most —can’t pay rnt'ch attention
these times to boundary lines ; and if they can’t
do that, no system of pensions or insurance run
by individual States can fill the bill.
Dear Bulletin. —Apropos the Salvation Army
corrobboree. It is noticeable that all their
converts are of low mental type ; so-called
“ saving ” being rare amongst the brainy and
educated, except where the emotional is
stronger than the rational. All progressive re-
ligions appeal to sentiment, the most successful
preachers having bull necks, meaty lips and
jowly cheeks. Also, the religion that spreads
must appeal to the senses with ritual, formula
and show. With the Anglicans High Church-
ism makes the pace with candles, millinery and
incense ; the Broad Church appeals to reason
and empty benches. The Unitarians, strongest
of all sects in intellectual men, make no pro-
gress in numbers. Brains seek no proselytes.
You can back flags and a big drum all the time.
Thus the Free-Thought cult is moribund. The
spectacle of the black-coated agnostic, going to
his hall or chapel every Sabbath to listen to a
paid expounder, was absurd on the face of it—
the expiring flicker of the old creed» Re-
ligions rank with fairy tales as pap for
baby minds ; conveying with their Mumbo-
Jumbo a certain ballast of moral truth, and
sometimes, as with Judaism, valuable sanitary
and physiological regulations. Therefore does
the missionary appeal vainly to educated
Hindoos or Chinamen ; whereas, when a blood-
and-fire enthusiast gets amongst savages he
“ converts ” them by the score. It is a lallacy,
however, to think that by reason we can over-
throw prejudices and sentiment. People have
to (jrow out of religion, as they grow out of
fairy stories ; the devil and angels follow the
giants and bogies ; the miracles fade aw ay with
the fairy godmother, and the sane sceptic can
no more be “ converted ” than a grown man can
give credit to “ Jack and the Beanstalk.” No
effort to liberalise a church can succeed, while
every added ceremony booms the plate. There
is a Klondyke waiting the cleric who can work
in a circus or a ballet with the Wurrd. If
living (Scriptural) pictures were presented even
the bald-heads from the stalls would roll up to
behold the freaks of the patriarchs.—H.F.
The sufferers by the Brunner colliery disaster
brought actions against the co., and have been
awarded compensation amounting to <£7275.
The section of the M.L. Coal Mines Act on
which the Chief Justice had to stand, although
he does not seem to have liked the job, is
almost identical with one of the N.S.W. mining
regulations-—-that the occurrence of an accident
in a mine shall be prima facie evidence of the
owner’s neglect or default. The owners in this
case could not show that the accident was not
due to their neglect or default; and as the
injured men and the dead men’s representatives
could show that they had not been negligent,
they got the verdict. On this side of the water,
though, things have panned out differently for
the miner’s widow. In N. S. Wales, relying
upon the same provision contained in a
regulation, she lias been told that she
has been fooled by the authority of
his Excellency the Governor, and that the
regulation is ultra vires. Moreover, judges
have usually improved the shining hour 'by
scoffing at it as an absurdity, anyw'ay. Also,
Judge Murray, sitting as a Royal Commission,
found and reported last year that not only this
regulation, but a great many others as well, are
not soundly based in law; and still the wretched,
treacherous things continue to be posted con-
spicuously (according to law, which, in the
circumstances, some employers’ agents seem to
take a malicious delight in obeying) “ for the
guidance and protection of the workmen ! ”
Further, there is no hope of any satisfactory
regulations superseding these, because the law
- the act is 25 years old—does not give any-
body power to make them. And, as the party
which was supposed to specially look
after the interests of the miners’ widows is
prominent in fighting against a scheme under
which the Parliament of N.S.W. mi<dit
have a chance to get along with some domestic
legislation, it is apparently quite content to let
an amendment of this law happen any time
during the next 25 years. Possibly, however
the miner’s widow will get tired in the mean-
time, and seek another champion—if, that is
the supposed followers of theparty don’t save
the supposed leaders from the results of their
folly.
Ken, . Is the Australian played out ? Looks
like it. A Russian .1 ew started in the shoe business
some six years ago. Not a word of English did he
know. Now he drives his trap and has a score of
colonials working all hours for a few shillings
a week for him. Said he to me :‘ln my country
we work 15 hours a day—ss. a week. This
country 15 hours a day—ss. a day. This fin#
country.’ ”


The MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
A. FEW COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in prefer
any other :
BECAUSE
it is the
BEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
It is PURELY MUTUAL. All Profits go to the Policy-]
In its Fifty-five Years’ Record it has no compeer.
R is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department
of the btate of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
Assets, December 31, 1897 - - . <£52,112,204
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on, their behalf, after-
payment of all expenses of management, about 14£ millions sterling
more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning the most profitable forms of investment insure
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices or Authorised Agencies.
For the Winter
LADIES’
GENTLEMEN'S
CHILDREN’S
Winter
Boots.
We want to double the
number of our customers
by January, 1899.
a pair of our good serviceable Boots will
prove a lasting comfort. We give you
the best value in Sydney. This is why
we have retained so many of our customers
for a life-time, and why we so thoroughly
satisfy
new
ones.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Virainius.”
Royal. “ Cotton King.”
Criterion “The Idler.”
Lyceum “The White Squadron."
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Royal Standard “ East Lynne.”
Belmore Park Harmston’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ Babes in the Wood.”
Royal. “ When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra Dan Barry’s Dramatic Co.
Wilson Barrett’s version of “ Hamlet,”
which is doing a season of one week at Her
Majesty’s, is probably as much of a success
as anyone can make “ Hamlet ” in Sydney these
times. Except under extraordinary circumstances
the demand for the immortal Shakesbacon is
limited. The present version is very picturesquely
fixed up in those scenes which lend themselves to
spectacular display, and the co. keeps on a high
level throughout. The main character is rather
disappointing at first, but when his view of
Hamlet had time to soak into the writer’s intelli-
gence he was inclined to vote him a Dane of a de-
cidedly high order. Said Dane is obviouslyaged 30,
or possibly 35 ; Barrett’s idea may be that Hamlet
is 20, but he doesn’t even begin to look like that.
Instead, he is a heavily-built prince with a middle-
aged voice as well as a middle-aged aspect; but it
is a very fine mellow voice, and the elocution is
good after the slow, majestic fashion of the
Shakespearian tradition, and the acting is excel-
lent most of the time, though Barrett’s exits are
often spoiled by a desire to linger too long and
rend the last possible ounce of fat out of
the situation. But the final verdict is that
Barrett s Hamlet is a very fine affair and
well worth seeing, and anyone who disagrees with
this view may call personally at The Bulletin
office after 7 p.m. and lay his grievance before the
watchman. The mere fact that Barrett departs
from many of the old traditions of the part is in his
favor ;-old tradition grows just as objectionable as
old fish. Miss Maud Jeffries’ Ophelia is good all
through, and without any reservation. So also is
the Polonius of Horace Hodges, who plays the old
Danish bore to the satisfaction of all the audience
there is; and the always reliable Ambrose
Manning makes one of the very best grave-diggers
within the writer’s recollection. The rest of the'
co. is lumped together with a general benediction.
Its good features are much more numerous than
its bad ones, anyhow.
* * * *
Speaking strictly as a private literary
Goth, the present writer desires to comment on
one aspect, anyhow, of the Shakespearian tradi-
tion. Said tradition is very slow in its walk and
conversation, very majestic, and very gradual in
its aspect and tremendous in its deportment. It
was born in the land of Lots-of-Time and in the
age of Pomp and Sleep. It lives in a mist of
stupendous elocution with one arm extended in the
air and the other ready to be extended when thefirst
one is tired —and these are probably the reasons
why the community takes its Baconspearein small
quantities and without enthusiasm. This isn’t a
reflection on Barrett, who is rather better than
the average, but on the Shakespearian tradition
in general. Speaking again as a private Goth, the
writer has an idea that if Shakespeare were played
a little faster than he has ever been played yet it
would either burst up the Bard altogether, or else
improve him a good deal, or else leave him where
he is now. He wants to see Claudius or Lear step
out with the ordinary velocity of an ordinary
live-meat individual. This idea is thrown out
quite casually ; if it chances to hit any person in
the eye, the necessary steak to put on the
damaged optic must be found at the injured
party’s expense. All letters of indignant re-
monstrance from Shakespearian authorities will
be consigned to the waste - paper basket un-
answered.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum, the “White Squad-
ron,” a cry of red wrath and devastation all the
way from Brazil, has succeeded “Phantoms,”
rather to this paper’s regret. As a spectacle, the '
“ Squadron ”is very fine and extensive. It is full
of military Brazilians in uniforms of loud dazzle,
and gaudy soldiers tramp through it, and the view
of Rio harbor is a picturesque piece of blue
water, and there are all manner of .bright clothes,
loud music, row, bombardment, and sudden riot!
And in matters of literary detail the author fails
shockingly. He represents slavery as still existing
in Brazil in the ’9o’s, and the drama hinges on the
gathering at Rio of five fleets, solely in order that
the admirals may hand in a very small piece of
paper on which they allege that brigandage is bad
in these parts, and must be put down with a loud
whack. The arrival of such a large number of
ironclads carrying such a very small observation is
rather incongruous. The boss brigands are really
the wicked general who is employed to put down
brigandage, and his nephew, the wicked colonel;
and these two futile people steal despatches for
no plausible reason, and abduct girls for no
good cause, and do unprofitable sins that any
sane man would avoid. When they find a dan-
gerous enemy asleep with his tail stretched out
comfortably on the carpet, they always take a
running jump right on to the tail and wake him
up for their own destruction. In fact, all their
troubles arise through getting on to their enemy’s
tail when there is absolutely no money in it.
Most of their time is spent in darkly conspiring
against a British officer whose death would be no
visible use to them, and the rest in the continuous
horrid murder of a Brazilian captain who is still
alive and flourishing when all is over. If any one
would furnish the pair with a respectable motive ;
and it was explained why the white squadron was
a white squadron instead of green or shell-pink or
crushed strawberry ; and if the squadron brought
along a bit of paper nearer its own size ; and if
the slave was accounted for; and if he didn’t
disappear in the last act just when he is most
wanted ; and if a lot of other things were straight-
ened out, things would be better. The “Squadron”
is a live play and keeps going all the time, but its
beginning is mixed, and the middle is chaos, and
the end is a painted delirium.
* » * *
The Lyceum co. has been further strength-
ened by the addition of Miss Fanny Liddiard,
whose representation of a tomboy is a very mode-
rate success. When the depraved general, who
seems to abduct everybody on general principles,
steals Miss Liddiard and carries her off to the
interior, she departs not much regretted. A
burlesque artist of the impossible ’Arry descrip-
tion, played by Harry Shine, is a galvanic kind of
joke which seems to take well with the audience.
Diver makes a fine military figure as the Brazilian
general, and drags that gorgeously-dressed im-
probability through with credit; and Miss Ben-
susan, as his daughter, is a bright-eyed donna who
does her little part well, and casts off her bowelless
parent eloquently, Stanford’s colonel is one of
the best things he has yet done, and Miss Wil-
liamson is reasonably good, though by ill-luck she
is fitted into a part where she has to shriek
lamentably at a window, and again her some-
what damaged top-note is painfully evident.
Miss Williamson would be a really valuable
actress if her lines had fallen in places where she
didn’t require to yell for help.
* * # *
Haddon Chambers’ beautiful play, “ The
Idler,” is due at Sydney Criterion on Saturday.
With any semblance of luck, it ought to turn the
fortunes of the Cartwright co., which has so far
only met with a moderate amount of success—
certainly much less than it has deserved. “The
Idler ” is a pretty large contract for any co. to
attempt. It is associated with recollections of the
Brough-Boucicault combination when it was far
and away the best in the Seven Provinces. This
was before Boucicault’s defection, and before
these latter days when discipline began to relax
and an aspect of Letterslide commenced to per-
vade the co., and the mould of neglect showed
on its surface. The co. which runs, against the
old 8.-B. tradition of the “ Idler ” lias a
lot to do—but The Bulletin wishes it luck
for the sake of its own merits and those
of the play. Meanwhile, the caterpillar of com-
parative failure looms large on top of the “ Tree
of Knowledge.” The troubles of that too-artistic
play begin right in the first act, when Cartwright
tells how his life has become dust and ashes—
merely because he and a siren lived and loved
together, and then parted. The audience wants
a bigger Tree than this. The idea of any man’s
conscience being seriously damaged because he and
a girl whose morals were cut low had once sinned
pleasantly among the lotuses and lilies is too much
for any average audience. After all, it doesn’t
want a speck of refined Sin on a plate, but a
large hunk of red, underdone Iniquity sawn off
the joint—something it can get its big shop-teeth
into.
* * * *
Miss Fanny Wiseman, the bright-eyed
little woman whose Jo and Topsy and other quaint
characters used to bring joy to the hearts of play-
goers, is to have a benefit on sth May at the Regi-
mental Hall, Victoria Barracks, Sydney. Major-
General French, and other elevated personages
lend their patronage, and the programme is
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” with Miss Wiseman in
her old part of Topsy. Fanny Wiseman is an
antediluvian star —that is to say, she was best re-
membered before the financial deluge in ’93—but
she is still young and bright enough to make a
dashing Topsy, and this paper wishes her ben. all
manner of iuck.
* * * *
The “ Cotton King ” is in its third week
at Sydney Royal, and the success with which
Bland Holt keeps this decidedly unpromising play
afloat is a mystery. Even allowing for all the
good points about the company, and the staging,
and the mechanism, the cotton potentate looked,
like a drama which was going. to die young and
have disrespectful things said above its grave.
And at time of writing it looks a little more robust
than it did a week back.
* * * *
The Kellinos and the Haytors are leaving
the Tivoli shortly, but the versatile Rickards has>
new novelties on hand with which to fill the gap,
and the show goeth on for ever. The star of
’Enery Rickards, which wore a somewhat faded
aspect in the days of the Palace spec., now shines
with all its old lustre. Apparently Rickards, so
long as he sticks to the lucky Tivoli, and thus lays
to his book, can hold his own indefinitely against
all comers.
* # * »
The “ Little Detective,” recommended as
a drama which paints the results of crime in tints
of bright, roaring red and inserts a valuable moral
into every household, will be staged at the Royal
Standard, Sydney, on Saturday.
* * * *
Harmston’s circus leaves Sydney on Mon-
day, so the last public appearance is fixed for
Saturday. Considering the horse and the Japanese
fiend on the wire, and the small brown Jap, and
the two visions of loveliness on the trapeze, and
the baby elephant, and the smellful tiger, and all
the rest, it has been a deserving entertainment,,
and, but for the fact that it struck Sydney at a
time of red-hot competition, it would have done
better. _ On Friday there will be a speoial bill and
a big vice-regal night.
*# * *
The only change in Melbourne bills this
week is at the wild untutored Alexandra, where
Uncle Tom has made room for “The Roll of the
Drum.” On the word of Dan Barry, this ram-
sha.ckle outrage is an object lesson in history pro-
duced for the benefit of the rising generation, and
the small boys in the gallery appear grateful
for it. The lesson has some sort of bearing upon
Hingland’s glory, wherefore the objects are
mostly understood to be soldiers engaged in a
desperate assault upon Johannesburg. A noble
drummer-boy gets stabbed by a wealthy Boer
quite early in the campaign, but the army rallies
from this disaster, and after much charging of the
foe ii: single file and many repetitions of the same
old file, the British troops capture Johannesburg
and the drummer’s death is avenged. As a
military drama “ The Roll of the Drum ”
seems unusually preposterous ; also its plot
exceeds the limit of toleration due to shows
at the low - priced Haleck. Three or four
people make creditable attempts to take them-
selves seriously, the best of these devoted
mummers being Walter Vincent and H. Stone-
ham. Manager Dan Barry walks around in a
comic-relief capacity, and the shouts of his patrons
bear witness that he fills a want, but the eternal
Haleckian demand for an irrelevant Irish char-
acter in an unconvincing wig is a rather deplor-
able matter. If Barry were to take the trouble to
be more humorous they wouldn’t like him any the
less.
** * *
Winton and his ancient
M'Ginty are back at the Opera House, and a new
importation is coming along to atone for the loss
of the Hegelmanns. The Rickards company, in
other respects, remains much the same as last
week. Kennedy, at St. George’s Hall, is another
variety programme which prospers without
making any changes at all. The Professor’s
manner of providing an unwholesome entertain-
ment altereth not.
** * *
“ Babes in the Wood ” is to last for an-
other week only at the Princess’s, and the an-
nouncement that its gorgeous end is drawing near
will wake up a lot of slumbering desire to sample
the Easter pantomime before the last curtain falls.
The Firm’s somewhat forgotten dramatic co.—the
“Cross” combination—resumes business at the
Princess’s, on May 7th, with “The Royal
Divorce.”
** * *
“ When London Sleeps ” has arrived at
the last nights period of a long and cheerful
career. Melb. Royal was full again on Saturday,
and Miss Duggan escaped from her burning bed-
room in a frilled nightgown with unabated suc-
cess. Likewise the dear little child escaped after
her. The infant in question is growing more
vociferous than ever, and it wouldn’t be a bad
idea to postpone her next rescue until she had got
her hair singed. Probably the unnatural strength
of her pronunciation lies in the hair.
** * *
Two distinct bursts of harmony will hap-
pen at Melb. Town Hall next Saturday (30th). In
the afternoon Prof. Marshall Hall’s excellent
orchestra makes a first appearance for A.D. 1898,
and the programme will include a specimen of
music composed by the conductor for the forth-
coming production of “ Aloestis.’’ Marshall
Hall’s orchestra numbers 59 souls, who perform on
the profit-shasing system, and for their financial
sakes the management has decided to raise the
price to ss. By comparison with the higher rate
charged for Albani, this seems a reasonable thing.
»** * *
On Saturday evening, Phil Newbury is to
start a series of shilling “ Pops ” at the big Hall.
Madame Spada, organist Wiegand, and Benno
Seherek will figure as principal supporters of the
chesty tenor, and anyone desirous of a reserved
seat can get it by popping in an extra shilling at
Glen’s.
** * *
Adelaide “ Sign of the Cross ” season was
a big success—an illustration of the money to be
made in the pious city with good companies. A
variety show at the Bijou, the pretty little theatre
which is closed six months in the year, has been
doing well.
** * *
At last annual dinner of the London Play-
goers’ Club a protest was raised by Henry Irving
against the modern newspaper tendency to print
“ columns of rubbish ” about actors. “Carados,”
in the Referee, replied with the simple truth
concerning this little matter. “ Actors them-
selves are surely to blame even more than the
newspapers. Every right-minded person will
agree with Henry Irving that there is
too much rubbish written about actors. If
I do not misapprehend his meaning, how-
ever, he would limit the gossip about
theatres to such announcements as the actors
themselves are ready to supply, unasked, to
the press. That, perhaps, is one-half of the rub-
bish. and the worst part of it, too.” “ Carados ”
might very well have stated also that managers
are industrious circulators of self-glorifying
balderdash. Nothing in journalism is more
pathetic than the faith of verdant theatrical para-
graphists in “information received from the
manager,” whose business policy is persistent
exaggeration of facts and bold invention ot
fictions.
At Poverty Point.
Cabled that Australia’s pretty Ethel Ha.vdon is about
to marry one Robey, a music-hall singer. Let us all hope
that Mr. Robey is an exceptional music-hall singer ; taken
in bulk, ’all-howlers are (considered as husbands) unsatis-
factory as dukes’ nephews. Tiie Bulletin was hoping
that the beauteous Ethel would capture a rich wholesale
meat-man or a gilded brewer, grow fat, and be happy
■ever afterwards.
Dear Bulletin, —I know about ten more or less enthu*
siastio Shakespearian worshippers in Sydney. I didn’t
see any of them at “ Hamlet” on Saturday night—nor on
Monday. On the latter evening’ I got sufficiently in-
terested to look for them round the other shows. I found
two at the Lyceum doing the “ White Squadron,” and
discovered another at the “Tree of Knowledge” at the
Criterion. Hadn’t time to go to the Circus, but I after-
wards learned that one of them was there admiring the
baby elephant. Also I heard of a fifth as having been at
the Tivoli on Saturday. Do Shakespearian enthusiasts
go to see Shakespeare, or don't they?—T.S.
A Sydney man and his niece were sitting in the parlor
of a Paris hotel, discoursing on voices which they had
heard since going abroad. “There isn’t one in the same
street as Ada Crossley,” declared the Australian, ener-
getically. An elegant young woman, exquisitely gowned,
glided gracefully up to him with “Thank you so much ;
lam Ada Crossley.” Which was true ; but she has im-
proved so much in dress, manner, and appearance that
the Sydney man didn’t recognise her. After which, she
took the niece into her room, and dazzled her with a
Paris-gown exhibition.
An alleged portrait of the late H. R. Harwood, pub-
lished in Melb. ’Erald, was a ghastly outrage on
the dead. Portraits in evenin’ journals ought to be
forbidden. Not one artist in a thousand can draw for th 6
rotary press. There is a field indeed for the really able
black-and-white man.
“ Sydneyite Abroad ” : George Darrell, disguised as an
over-fed brigand, is walking round London as only a
melodramatic hero can, and starting paving-stones with
the weight of his mighty tread. His first date is August,
at the Surrey Royal blood-and-cordite shop, with George
Conquest, in “ The Sunny South.” Ha-ha !
“ Earl-actor Erskine-Rosslyn has done himself and his
aristocratic friends a ‘ cruel treat,’ ” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent. “To celebrate his 50th day
of mummerhood, he gave forth invitations for a dinner
at a Piccadilly hotel, where the management never asks
its patrons for marriage certificates. Two-and-forty of
the blue-blooded mingled with the ‘ Trelawny of the
Wells’ co., and dined and wined on the very best. In the
prevailing mode the ‘ jests ’—for the sequel proved they
were —were split up into small parties with separate
tables, and Hilda Spong interfered considerably with the
thirst-soothing of a noble vis-a-vis by fascinating his
attention from the Perrier-Joudt, whilst Pat 6 Browne
increased the irrigation of her immediates by spurring
them to imitate her natural sparkle. All signed their
names on the menus, and it was a great success for the
actors, until a daily paper cruelly asked the earl why a
£166,000 bankrupt should give such an expensive banquet
—and not to his creditors. Then this footlight fin of
condensed simplicity explained it was not ‘really his
dinner,’but the hotel people’s, who desired to advertise
their establishment. And now Lady Flo Sturt, Lady
Essex, Lady de Trafford, &c., are suffering from an indi-
gestible insult that only a second fulminating indictment
by Clement Scott of the stage and stageites can hope to
assuage.”
An interview with Edward Terry, : n a London paper,
is headed “An Inimitable Actor.” Australians who had
seen Thornton as Dick Phenyl, before Terry came out
here and played the part, thought the original very in-
imitable indeed.
Phil Stuart, of the steely eye, whose belongings ought
to have been sacred from hotel-barberism, had his coat-
pocket robbed of four £5 notes whilst he was away in the
bath-room at the Black Swan Hotel, Numurkah. The
soulless miscreant was seemingly disturbed in his depre-
dation, for he left 1 55 in another packet. Phil was
running his show at the local Easter Fair —a Waxworks,
Gramophone, General Mite, and a little concert co. If
the notes-“ shaker ’ ’ gets captured he will receive a double
punishment, no doubt. Phil is bound to put him in the
Waxworks.
H. R. Harwood’s funeral was very poorly attended—for
that of one who had done the world so much good. Can
it be that the old man was nearly' forgotten ? Some of
the old school —of which Grattan Riggs may be taken as a
type—were there to pay last respects, but the rest!—Per-
haps it was because so many co’s were away from Melb.
at the time.
Paradis : “ When Montgomery acted Lavater, in ‘ Not
a Bad Judge,’ at Melb. Royal, manager Harwood took
Treval. Not long after, Jim Bartlett’s Lavater came
along- there, but Harwood put Ireland into Treval. Dur-
ing the performance I was lounging with Harwood over
the back of the dress-circle, and asked why he didn’t act
the part, having made a hit in it. “ Oh,” says he, ‘ what
is the use of acting yourself when y'ou can afford to pay
another man for doing it?’ Such was his view of Art.
Recalls a comedian who joined the militia. At the review
he gave a little boy threepence to carry his gun up a hill.
The gig in which Prof. Kennedy drives around Melb.
this journey is a weird and wonderful machine, evidently
constructed for advt. purposes. Kennedy, by the way,
probably needs considerable advt. just now. The Bristol
hors‘-show, wherewith he hoped to paralyse Australia, is
understood to have absorbed a good deal of the capital
The Bulletin’s dear old friend had amassed by pouring
kerosene into his fellow man.
Melb. Roy'al proprietary has added £lO to the rent
(now £7O weekly), to recoup the big outlay in connection
with the underground sewerage system.
A week before a certain operatic society produced
“ Maritana ” there came the usual hitch in the arrange-
ments. The amateur contralto cast for the tights of
Lazarillo wrote to say that her brother wouldn’t let her
wear ’em, but, as a compromise, she was prepared to play
in velvet knickers. A Lazarillo in “ rationals ” sounded
painfully suggestive of a bike, and the management,
being now rather doubtful re the extremities of “ my
brother's” sister, decided to engage a professional for the
part. The latter’s legs, although not impressive, have
learned to take the stage without any scruples.
Miss Stewart, in “The Tree of Knowledge,” is one of
the very best silver-haired mothers presented on the Aus-
tralian stage these many years. Her success in this part
came at the end of the season, and was a surprise to
Melb. people who had seen nearly every member of the
Cartwright co. to disadvantage in the earlier productions.
The Vic. Operatic Society’s deal with “Maritana” will
yield a profit of £l5O or so for the benefit of the Melb.
Children’s Hospital, after meeting the exes, of an or-
chestra, stage-manager (George Leopold) and two profes-
sionals in the co. Tom Kennedy, who undertook the
business management, had predicted a £lOO profit as the
most they could expect.
A genuinely'-charitable and useful body of lady-workers
is that known as the London Ladies Theatrical Guild. On
Friday afternoons from 50 to 100 ladies belonging to the
profession (writes an Australienne in London) meet and
spend three or four hours stitching babies’ clothes, under-
linen and even dresses for their less-fortunate acting
sisters. Many young actresses, through the kindly help
of the guild in providing them with decent clothing, have
been enabled to get engagements, who would otherwise
have been passed over by managers on account of their
poverty-stricken appearance. The members deplore the
temporary loss of the assistance of the beauteous Maud
Jeffries, by far and away the most exquisite worker
amongst them. Her stitches are so delicate and the gar-
ments she makes so daintily fashioned that they are
always bought up eagerly by the various members of the
guild at a fancy price.
The Bulletin doesn’t want to hear any more mention
of girjs who insisted upon warbling to Albani and were
advised by that lady to go 'Ome to pursue their studies.
The same old yarn was told many times and oft when
Belle Cole was out here, and Patey, and Santley, and
others, and it was always the same old sort of self-adver-
tising girl who got exhorted to go ’Ome. And not one of
those girls has ever been of the least consequence as a
vocalist.
Continued on page 15).


THE
Refreshment Department
OF THE
House of Commons
(Unsolicited)
HAVE ORDERED
SIR JOHN
POWER S Whiskey,
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY ”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harriaon & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS
Aus. I
Ebps. j
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustio Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
3d IN V AO
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Mblbournk ;
11 Pitt-st. t Sydney; lk Currie-st Adel.; Queen-st, Brisb.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
It is now reckoned in Westralia that the year
will probably end with a tremendous deiicm w something
like £560,000. For the nine months to 31st March, ex-
penditure was £2,310,820, and revenue only £2,048,004 ;
shortage on three-quarters of the year £262,816, and
heavy items of expenditure still to be met. On present
appearances the receipts will be £90,000 less than last
year, and the cold shades of slump are over almost every
separate item of the revenue.
• * * •
Victoria’s list of unprofitable boom railways
showed a loss of £299,985 for 1897 as compared with
£318,793 loss in 1896. The process of straightening out
tbe tangle left behind by Gillies and Speight is very slow,
but things do improve a little. Last year five lines which
formerly didn’t even pay working expenses, let alone
interest on cost, began to cover ex.’s and contri-
bute something to the interest bill. Also one
line—Eaglehawk to Swan Hill—which never before
managed to pay full expenses and interest, showed a clear
profit of l 2470. But for these small blessings Commis-
sioner Mathieson would probably end his official troubles
by poisoning himself with the new axle-grease.
* * * »
Silverton (N.S.W.) Railway Co. for 1897 made
a profit of over £BB,OO0 —equal to about 45 per cent, on
the paid-up capital of £197,806. And, not being satisfied
even with this magnificent return, it paid 471 per cent,
dividend—equal to £93,957. In 1896, the Silverton rail-
way paid 50 per cent., and 42£ per cent, in 1895. The
dividends are made by the simple process of charging the
miserable public rates that no State-controlled line in
Australia even dreams of. These charges are a heavy tax
on Broken Hill industries, and the Government which
handed over the entire Barrier railway-traffic to this
private syndicate deserves to be remembered as the prize
ass Ministry of N.S.W. But the N.S.W. Government
found it inconvenient to make an isolated scrap of line in
the far West. The S.A. Government would have gladly
extended its line to Broken Hill, and carried goods and
passengers at half the rates charged by the private
monopoly, and even then it would have made 10 per cent,
profit; but the artificial boundary stood in the way, and
there was no Federal Government or Federal railway de-
partment which could do the work, irrespective of pro-
vincial boundaries. About £65,000 a-year is the price
which Broken Hill pays for the want of Federation.
* * • *
The New Zealand Mail points out sadly that
fire-insurance profits are very low just now, and therefore
State fire insurance can’t pay. Which is an utterly illogi-
cal way of jumping at a decision. The profits of private
fire-insurance enterprises are low, because the multiplicity
of small co’s necessitates far too many people living on
the game, and the trouble is not that premiums are too
low, but that expenses are far too high. A State office
could combine a far larger business under one manage-
ment, and thus make a great saving of expense, and a
State office with compulsory insurance would make a
further very large saving, as it would not need to pay the
present heavy commissions to obtain business. Such an
office should be able to take 10 per cent, off the present
premiums, and still make handsome profits. Most of the
small mutual life insurance offices have to charge far
higher premiums than the Maoriland State Life Depart-
ment, and yet pay smaller bonuses, the saving in expenses
under State management accounting for the difference.,
Yet the Maoriland Life Insurance Department pays com-
mission for its business; if life insurance was made com-
pulsory, and this item of expense was saved, it should be
possible to reduce the expenses to 5 per cent., and to pay
the largest bonuses on earth out of the saving thus
effected.
* * * •
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania, for the half-
year to 28th Feb., made a profit of £3463. As the 5 per
cent. div. absorbed £3537 and the dividend tax took
another £177, or £3714 in all, things go backwards to the
extpnt of £251. The Commercial has £141,492 capital and
£19(1,000 reserve, so on the whole of the shareholders’
funds it only makes a profit at the rate of £2 2s per cent,
per annum. Considering that the money would yield 3
per cent, if invested in Vic. State Land Bank securities or
N.S.W. Govt, stock, there is very little joy in running a
bank under these conditions. How things have been
going with the Commercial of Tasmania of late years is
shown below, as nearly as a rather confused system of
accountancy will permit:—
Profit. Dividend, including
div. duty.
June,’92 .. £13,393 .5 per cent. .. £ll,OlO
Dec., ’92 .. 8,352 10 „ .. 7,340
June, ’93 .. 6,589 10 „ .. 7,340
Dec., ’93 .. 5,586 10 „ .. 7,340
June,’94 .. 4,345 6 ~ .. 4,404
Dec., ’94 .. 4,378 6 „ .. 4,445
June, ’95 .. 4,610 6 „ .. 4,684
Dec., ’95 .. 3,700 5 „ .. 3,712
June,’96 .. 4,199 6 „ .. 3,766
Dec., ’96 .. 3,833 5 „ .. 3,714
August,’97.. 4,969 6 „ .. 4,952
(8 months)
Feh. ’9B .. 3,463 5 „ ... 3,714
There have been no additions to the reserve-
fund for a long time, and since the end of ’92 the bank
has paid away some £1387 more than its earnings. The
balance at credit of profit and loss is now reduced to
£637, so unless things improve the dividend may yet
have to drop to a humble 4 per cent. Twelve years' ago,
in the grand old times of 20 per cent, dividends, the earn-
ings of the Commercial of Tasmania were over £35,000 a
year, and the drop from that to less than £BOOO is very
violent—for an institution which didn’t reconstruct or
make any special provision for losses. Still the old bank
(it is now aged 66 years) has certainly a splendid reserve-
fund, a very solid reserve of cash and State securities,
equal to over 33 per cent, of its liabilities to the public,
and on paper, at all events, its position looks remarkably
sound. One notable feature is that, since 1892, its hold-
ing of Government securities has dropped from £203,000
to £89,000. It would be interesting to know how much,
if any, of the profits arose through the sale of these at a
premium.
* • * *
The, report of the National Bank of Australasia
for the half-year ended 31st March, 1898, shows a quite
unlooked-for falling-off in the profits, which only amount
to £15,471. This is a wholly unexpected stoppage of the
upward movement. . During the last nine half-years the
National’s profits have been :
March, ’94 .. £31,312 September, ’96 .. £11,706
September, ’94 .. 25,231 March, ’97 .. 14,712
March, ’95 .. 15,126 September, ’97 .. 18,275
September, ’95 ~ 13,763 March, ’9B .. 15,471
March, ’96 .. 10,523
A dividend of 5 per cent, on preference capital amounts
to £7644, and there is a balance of £7827 to carry forward.
This half-year the National has forfeited 10,531 shares for
unpaid calls, and the £45,456 paid on them, with £4544
added from profits, make a new reserve-fund of £50,000.
There is also a balance of £45,124 accumulated
profit. _ This is a good beginning; still £50,000 re-
serve isn’t much considering the kind of bank the
National used to be, and The Bulletin again urges
the advisability of a cast-iron regulation by which
a certain percentage of the profits will be reserved every
half-year until the fund reaches at least half a million.
Also, the fund should be separately invested in State
securities, and not buried in the general business.
The National’s paid-up capital is now £1,973,078,
so the profit only amounts to the lamentably small figure
of £1 11s. 4d. per cent, per annum, as comp: 1 with
about £1 17s. per cent, last half. This is a very disap-
pointing result. Some good points are that the National
has now released £5,187,044 out of the £6,844,884 of re-
constructed 4J per cent, deposits. Its holding of State
and municipal securities is £645,810 against only £358,437
last half-year. Cash and liquid securities amount to
£2,534,108 (£337,000 increase on last year) which
equals 36 per cent, of the total liabilities to the
public—a figure which is much above the average.
Deposits have increased by over £300,000 in the past
six months. In fact, the only cheerless feature
about the National Bank is that it earns £llls. 4d. per
cent, for its shareholders, when they could get 3 per cent,
for their money in State securities. Considering the
strength of its cash reserve, it is rather surprising that
the institution doesn’t release the remainder of its per
cent, deposits in one act. Such a proceeding ought to
sn.vo eiq t oQO a y ear j n interest, which is a very large con-
sideration.
* * * *
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) shows a further
small improvement, the half-year’s profits up to 31st
March being £3398. Since the reduction of deposit-in-
terest to 2J per cent., the profits have been as follows
September, 1895.. £7BO I March, 1897 .. .. £3043
March, 1896 .. 2564 September, 1897 .. 3312
September, 1896.. 2004 | March, 1898 .. 3398
Even with this improvement, however, the profits equal
less than eighteen shillings per cent, per annum on
the paid-up capital of £794,605. And when the pro-
posed writing-off of £460,682 is effected, and things are
supposed to he put absolutely straight, the profits will
only equal a few coppers over 2 per cent, per annum.
This certainly suggests that even the proposed writing-
down is none too liberal —possibly not liberal enough. A
bank which gets the bulk of its deposits at 2J per cent,
should be able to show much better returns.
The writing-down of lost capital has hitherto
been postponed for the sufficient reason that £558,000 of
losses couldn’t come out of only £507,000 of ordinary
capital. This was how things stood a year ago, but since
then, by vigorously forfeiting shares in arrear, and mak-
ing calls, and applying profits in reduction of the old debit
balance, things have been so far adjusted that
there is now £490,561 of ordinary capital available
to cover the £460,681 of old losses still undisposed
of. Under these circumstances, the cleaning-up pro-
cess should come off shortly. And when it does come
off it will leave the Colonial a very small institution with
£304,000 preference capital and an ordinary capital almost
too small to he worth mentioning. Even with the in-
creased profits, dividends still look very far off ; it will
take £7600 to pay a half-year’s dividend at 5 per cent, per
annum on preference capital alone, and the profits don’t
reach near half that figure. During the last 12 months
the Colonial has reduced its liability to the reconstructed
depositors by £90,000, leaving £1,396,381 still owing.
An instalment of £93,345 is to be paid shortly, which will
further reduce the total. In the Colonial, new deposits
have preference over old ones ; and the reconstructed
person doesn’t even get his 2J per cent, interest until all
other charges have been paid, which is good for the new
depositor anyhow. Apparently even this least fortunate
among the Melbourne banks is on the up-grade now, but
it is too soon to be violently sanguine. The repayment of
old deposits doesn’t strengthen its position, as is the case
with the National and Victoria. They are paying off obli-
gations which cost them 4.1 per cent., and reducing their
interest hill; the Colonial is paying back money which
only costs it 2.) per cent., and even in these times money
is very cheap at 2A per cent.
• • * •
Tooth & Co (Limited), the big Sydney brewers,
made a profit to 31st March of £42,778, which is about the
regular thing for the thirst half of the year. The six
winter months, when Australia isn’t hanging its cracked
tongue out of its mouth and perishing for beer, generally
pan out about £35,000. A 7 per cent, dividend absorbs
£31,500 ; £2500 is written off for depreciation ; £5OOO
added to reserve makes it £80,000; and the remaining
£3778, with previous balance, leaves £8793 to carry for-
ward.
* * * *
At one N.S.W. branch bank—not a large one,
either—the unclaimed balances amount to over £4OO. The
owners are either vanished or dead, and the bank doesn’t
look for the late depositor’s widow. What do these un-
claimed balances amount to for a whole province, and why
doesn’t the Government require them to be paid into the
Treasury, and advertise names and amounts, in order to
give the depositors’ heirs a chance to hear of them ?
• * * *
The last of the B.H. Prop, smelting-furnaces at
Broken Hill have been run down, and for the future all
the Barrier’s smelting will be done on the S.A. sea-
shore —barring the little that may go to the works at
Illawarra. The showers of molten slag, white and red
and dull crimson, pouring down the black, rugged sides
of 100 ft. precipices, scattering into spray and lighting up
the background of the Hill with its towering chimney-
stacks —this was all that Broken Hill had to give in the
way of the spectacular ; so that the visitor with the artis-
tic eye usually spent most of his evening-time look-
ing hard that way. And now that is gone, the great
silver centre has little to offer but smoke and grime and
dust—and, happily, long drinks.
* * » *
The fate of the Broken Hill smelting works
ought to be an awful warning to Australian silver-mine
owners—and to those people who think they own silver-
mines. Shortly after their first winding-engines were
bedded, Block 14, the South, the Central, the British, the
Junction, the Pinnacles, the Terrible Dick, and the Day-
Dream provided themselves with smelters. All but Block
14 abandoned smelting long ago—most of them well
within two years of starting. And even 14 abandoned it
for years. Not only did the plants cost a pot of money,
but in the effort to keep them going the mines were most
unfairly handled, the “eyes” being picked out and only
the poor ore—in some cases insufficiently timbered up—
left. The B.H. Prop., with its big area and phenomenal
variety of ores, was an exception to the rule ; yet, now
that the mine furnaces have been run down, not a single
ore-extracting plant that was first adopted has been con-
tinued in use. It has taken all these years to learn the
lesson that ’Murka taught at the beginning—that, save in
exceptional cases, silver-raising is one business and silver-
smelting quite another.
* * * *
British Broken Hill has in its last year made a
profit of £19,285, of which it carries forward £13,881, and
sets aside the balance to meet the verdict given against
the co. and in favor of the Dry Creek Smelting co. There
should be a div. at the annual meeting.
* * * *
Junction North expects to have its milling plant
going in June ; and to carry things on till returns come
from that a contract has been made for tbe sale of 2000
tons first-grade ore to Block 14. For a couple of months,
therefore, Block 14 production returns will be a little
more misleading than usual, unless it is kept in mind that
this co is an ore-purchaser as well as an ore-raiser.
* * * *
At the distribution of Broken Hill Prop.’s April
div. (£72,000 for the quarter), 597,000 of the total of
960,000 shares were on the London register. And Ade-
laide now holds 190,754, against Melbourne’s 126,998 and
Sydney’s 34,711.
• • » •
B.H. South shares rise steadily. With very
probable quarterly divs., the return is fair. There is
plenty of ore, but all low-grade; and, even at present
metal prices, it will take the co. all its time to maintain
the quarterlies. And it seems to he accumulating a
tremendous quantity of dressed ore, which suggests a
difficulty in quitting satisfactorily.
• * • *
The veteran John Howell has resigned the
general management of the Illawarra smelting works,
N.S.W., but holds a seat on the Australian board. It is
understood that he will now devote most of his time to
his own extensive mining interests.
* • * *
Coramba, N.S.W. : “Dennings are carting stone
to the Beacon battery.” This prompts the query—What
has become of the Beacon mine, for which the mighty
Exploration co. gave an enormous sum in cash and shares
last year? It has paid one or two small divs., represent-
ing a very small part of the amount paid for the mine.
And now one doesn’t hear over-much about the Beacon.
* » * *
General-manager Stewart, of Broken Hill, for-
merly manager of Rio Tinto, the world’s second copper-
mine, is making an examination of the Chillagoe group of
copper-mines ; also the railway and water-power schemes.
Some persons are enthusiastic enough to declare that if
his report is favorable the syndicate shares will go to
£5OOO. Certainly they will go below £5OO if it is con-
demnatory. Queensland looks like being the locale of the
next copper-boom.
a * * *
Twenty-six inches of rain fell at Croydon during
first quarter current year. Bull is going to have a big
innings there. Waratah Co., a British concern, has about
130 acres of mining holdings at Tabletop, besides the old
Waratah leases near town. Federation and Bobby
Dazzler, containing quarries of low-grade ores, are to be
worked systematically. Splendid dam constructed and
battery now going up.
La Reine d’Or, another Bull co., has bought the
Iguana 3 and 4 West Block, and has 2oz. stone in sink.
The local management of the Elmslie Ltd. is going to
work its recent purchase for all it is worth —which,
judging by present appearances, is pretty considerable.
For past three months of year Rogers' No. 1
North mine at Golden Gate, Croydon, returned IOOOoz. a
month from 2400 tons crushed, not including cyanide re-
turns. The No. lis under offer to an English co. with a
prospect of sale at a high figure. Owner Jinnny Rogers
is Mayor, likewise King of Croydon, also prospective
opponent to Labor-member Bill Brown at next Parlia-
mentary election. His platform mostly consists of some-
thing to eat and drink.
Croydon March mill yield 5454 tons for
64430 z. Rain regarded returns. So far, Croydon has
only been hen-scratched. Early-day wild-cats gave the
field a had reputation, from which it is only now suffering
a recovery. Latest strike in deep ground in No. 7. N.
Golden Gate is giving the field a big lift. Expected
Croydon Consols, a Bull concern, will shortly hit the rich
shoot of gold being worked in No. 7. If so, there will be
great joy both for the Britisher and the Croydonite.
• * • *
Mining forges ahead in Clermont district.
Shallow ground on the Wild Cat has recently been turn-
ing out some wonderful gold. In one claim only 12ft.
down claim-holders bottomed on a 4ft. wash which ran
3dwt. to the dish—7ozs. of beautiful little nuggets being
picked out of the face. The recent revival in the copper
industry bids fair to set poor little Copperfield on its legs
again—for the old works are being re-fitted, population is
gathering again, and a small boom is initiating.
* * » V «
How they clutch at straws. Already applica-
tions are coming in for suspension of labor conditions on
Westralian leases on the ground that, owing to the dispute
with regard to the right to the alluvial, heavy expenses
have been incurred and calls have also been poorly
responded to. And, officially, these applications get a
good deal of sympathy, because they show (or can be
twisted into showing) how “ capital has been frightened
out of the country.”
* * * •
Millions only will measure the depreciation
which has taken place within the last three months in
Kalgoorlie mines. Lake Views, at time of writing,
are down to £7 10s. That represents a fall of
over a million in value. Associated some months
ago were about 90s. ; they are now 505., which
means another drop of a million. Great Boulders-
have had a fall of nearly half-a-million. Frightful falls
have also occurred in Ivanhoes, Kalgurlis, and other
mines. Many of the local brokers are in Queer-street;
Adelaide is in a very crippled condition, and as long as
this state of things continues in London large parcels are
bound to be forced into the market, on account of buyers
unable to cover. This is the bears’ great opportunity, "and
they will make the most of it. As stated last week, the
mines never looked better. Probably they never looked
so well. The Boulder has bored into the lode at the 400 ft.,
and so far it maintains an average of over 3oz. That is an
important development, and will help to send othersha ts
down with greater expedition than hitherto displayed.
The Lake View has apparently got over the slimes trouble
by the adoption of the filter-press process. The output is
increasing, and there is enough ore in sight to run the
present plant for years. The Associated production has
fallen off simply because the practice of sending sulphide
ores to Dry Creek has been discontinued ; but 50b tons
lately sent to Illawarra went 4Joz., and writer is well
informed that it was taken as it came from a body some
ISft. thick. Other big producers, notably Kalgurli and
Brown Hill, have come into line. If booms are made
by yields, Kalgoorlie should have one. Why is it the
other way about? The same old game, with the same
result. When these mines reached their full market value,
or more than full value, newspapers and other playthings of
the boomsters exaggerated their richness ; tipsters, Sab-
bath and otherwise, declared that £5 shares were going to
£lO, and hundreds of fools went in because of the boom
that .was coming, never dreaming that it was already pre-
sent. In London, thousands of people with £lOOO are
allowed to do t'lo,ooo worth of stock-buying business.
The bears wade in ; a war-scare helps to break the market;
for the want of cover cart-loads of scrip are forced
on sale ; and we get the back swing of the pendulum.
At this juncture, the writer is almost persuaded to become
a mining tipster. P.S.—The market hasturned upwards.
* • » *
Sons of Gwalia mine, Mt. Leonora, W. A., con-
tinues to turn out a lot of gold with a ten-head mill, the
ore running ljoz. per ton, leaving another ounce in the
tailings. Already calculations are made in London re the
production with the 60-head mill ordered. The annual
yield is put down at 129,3750 z., and the profit £323,000 —
“ in fact the mine ought to produce, if the tailings are
economically treated, £600,000 sterling a year.” Other
great things are anticipated from “ the able engineership
of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and co.” But not a word
about the result of their engineership in many other
directions in W.A.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) has declared a second
div. of 10s. a share - £125,000. Why, in Heaven’s name,
don’t the shareholders protest against such a form of dis-
tribution ? Much more satisfactory if the divs. came in
half-crowns, and four times as often. There is little
trouble or expense in paying divs., and to pay them at
the rate of £125,000 a time places too much power and
temptation in the hands of the directors in London ; and
there have been cases, somewhere in history, where even
London directors have worked things, when they got a
chance, for their own good!
* * * *
Golden Casket, an alleged gold-mine in W.A.,
largely owned by Sydneyites, has belied its name : “The
ten tons forwarded to Northam works yielded 2dwt. per
ton ; ten tons forwarded to Wallaroo works yielded ldwt.
per ton ; and the two tons of ore from the 150 ft. level
yielded nothing.” Many persons swore by this mine—
they are now swearing at it. It was reported that there
were at least 10,000 tons of payable ore above the 50ft.
level. Somebody must have walked off with it. A
searching investigation should be made. The chairman
of the co. declares that he and others based their faith on
reports, and disclaim any wrong-doing. In its inception,
a cheap mine—and poor Sydney loveth the cheap, nasty
mine, and has only repeated its usual luck.
While the bottom has been falling outof the mar-
ket of the big gold-producing mines of Kalgoorlie, those of
the Northern Territories, comparatively non-producing, are
booming far beyond legitimate value. Horatio Bottomley
is manipulating the latter, and some people say he is
breaking down one market to boom the other.-
Horatio Bottomley, the London Ranji, who is
for ever booming the mysterious Northern Territories
goldfields, made a dazzlingly impudent speech at the
annual meeting last month. Horatio calmly prophesied
that ere the year was out N.T.’s would be “ far and away
the leading gold producer of the world.” Further : “If I
had the choice given me to-day to accept the whole of the
properties of the Associated Gold Mines of W.A. or the
properties of this co., I should not hesitate to take the
whole of the properties of this co. or one group alone.
. . . My own advices are to the effect that in one of our
properties alone we have upwards of £3,030,000 in value of
ore in sight and ready to be crushed. . . . My information
is that in the Howley group we have over £2,000,000 of ore
in siqht.” Then Bottomley went on naively to remark that
other information of an equally startling character Tjad
been received ! He further remarked that there was an
amount of £lO,OOO to come from S.A. Govt., for certain
deep sinking. “ Whether we have received that Ido not
know, hut I am certain we shall receive it, if we have not
already done so.” As a matter of fact, the little Cheque
hasn’t been paid over yet. Bottomley prefaced his speech
by relating that a London mining expert had remarked to
him, “ I have read every paper you have given me and
the conclusion I have come to is this : That either you
have the biggest thing yet struck in gold-mining, or the
damndest swindle ever perpetrated on the British public.”
Poor public!
* * * *
At the S.A. Govt.’s Central Australian (Mac-
donnell Ranges) battery and cyanide plant, they have
cleaned up the first-treated parcel —loo tons; yield just
over Joz. But the stuff was scraped together by inexperi-
enced hands, and much mullock was included.
» * » *
Menzies Barossa, South Australia: “ The clean-
up did not come up to expectations. It is alleged that
all the gold has been lost in the tailings ; nearly, all the
men have been discharged.” Adelaide pinned much faith
to this show, the new 40-head mill of which was started
with a big feed only a few weeks back. Much of the
money Menzies made by sheer luck in W.A. he threatens
to lose by exercising his own judgment.
* * * *
Definitely understood that Foster, Yic. Minister
of Mines, will visit the Mt. Deddick “ silver-field ” this
week, accompanied by the Govt. Geologist. Which visit,
The Bulletin presumes, will settle the precious Deddiok
“ mines ” question one way or other, as far as the Govt, is
concerned in it. It badly needs settling.
* • * •
At Mt. Deddick the miners simply laugh at the
litigation for the possession of certain leases. It looks
too much like an advt. for “ the company.”
* * * *
In 47 years Bendigo has produced one-fourth of
the total gold-yield of Victoria, which, to date, amounts
to 70 million ounces.
* * * •
Each chapter of the Crown Lyell story is more
amusing than the previous one. The shareholders’
special meeting in Melbourne last week broke up amidst
a storm of hoots and groans of dissatisfaction with things
in general. Nobody could say for certain whether he was
hooting the directors’ mysterious attempt to “place” the
spec, in London, or the London and Glasgow alleged
“purchasers” who didn’t purchase, or the chairman’s
recommendation that the ownership of the property had
better remain with the “free and unencumbered” co.
which was singingits praises whilst the shares rose from
lOd. to 28s. What* the trouble with the Crown Lyellers,
anyhow? The mine stands where it did, and they are
there as before. If it’s a “ fine property,” let them
rejoice in their full possession of it; and if, on the other
hand, their property is nothing much to rejoice over, let
them gather Kerristian satisfaction from the fact that J.
Bull and Sandy didn’t fall in.
* * * *
Crotty’s death has caused much consternation
amongst the’ Mt. Lyell boomsters, and stocks have slumped
even in the face of the copper outlook. “ Shareholders of the
various co.’s in which he was interested need be under no
misapprehension that his shares would be placed on the
market. The executors had full discretionary powers as
to the disposal of the shares.” But if the mines are as
great as the public have been led to think, a chance to
buy Crotty’s interests should be hailed with delight.
• « * *
Now the Tasmanian West Coast unions send
a warning that that prosperous part is over-stocked
with miners and other laborers. And wages are not high,
either. The hands on the Emu Bay railway works are. not
averaging 85s. per week.
* • * »
The greatest sympathy of a certain trading
community is expressed for the two little shipping agents
who, in the most innocent way possible, guaranteed the
bona-fides of. the draw back claims on which a Govern-
ment has, it is alleged, been defrauded of many thou-
sands. These little men are liable for an absolutely enor-
mous sum should a conviction he obtained against the
shippers now being proceeded against.
» * * *
What are the prospects of a boom in copper dur-
ing the Spanish-American war? The boss copper-mine of
the world, Anaconda, is in America ; the next, Rio Tinto,
is in Spain ; the third, Calumet and Hecla, in America; and
the fourth, Tharsis, in Spain. These four mines produce
more copper than all the others of the world. As the
fighting is not to be in either of the countries, they are
not likely to shut-down, unless the thousands of men
working in the two great Spanish mines are withdrawn
for military purposes. The Crimean war did not shut-
down any great copper-mines, though while it was raging
copper reached £l3O a ton. The Franco-Prussian war did
not materially reduce the copper production, and again
copper went to £126 a ton. Within the last few weeks it
has gone up £3 a ton, and the chances are the next few
weeks will see a bigger advance. Metal-buyers are begin-
ning to bestir themselves, and are now ready to make
twelve months’ contracts at the ruling market price.
With the war on one hand, and the enormous consumption
on the other, writer is prepared to see copper at £6O
before the end of next month, and at £7O before the end
of the year. Should it so happen that the two Spanish
mines close down, and the production of the big mines of
America be in any way limited, this year will see copper
at £lOO a ton, but at the moment the chances are against
it. The two big mines in Spain are owned by English
co’s. Within the last two years, the Exploration co. placed
a large interest in the Anaconda. The Calumet and
Hecla is a French co., so every effort will, no doubt, be
made to keep up the supply, and the advance in value
will be measured by the increased consumption which the
war will largely help to bring about.
* * * •
The strike among the officers of the British India
Steamship Co., extending over the whole Indian and
Burmese littoral, has ended badly for the strikers.
Sir J. Mackay, who specially visited India to inquire into
the officers’ grievances, demanded, as a precedent con-
dition, that the officers’ union should be dissolved. The
officers declined, and the co. thereupon preferred the
chances of a strike to what it was pleased to term “ coer-
cion.” Native certificated officers and others manned the
steamers, with the result that the officers had to cave in,
abolish their union, and apply for employment indi-
vidually.


d.
ORIENT
_
"■ "N
®-s CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s,
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
(TpT)
SYDNEY.
A *
SNAP'
SHOT
The
Victor
Camera
<2l/-
ita
nr
Duplex
Camera
|
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page S 3.
Society
N.S.W. police authorities might as well
straightway and straightforwardly employ a
regular staff of female detectives. At present a
number of Sydney women are earning their living
in that line, but are paid by plain clothes or
uniformed men out of their official wages, appar-
ently without open official sanction. The fame
of a “clever capture,” or the successful run-
ning down of a “clue,” no doubt compensates the
“ copper ” for money out of pocket, but it leaves
the woman practically at his mercy. Most cap-
tures in “ difficult ” cases are made by the agency
of women. An absconder has a wife or sweet-
heart : she is shadowed and her correspondence
overhauled at the Post-office—probably ‘ ‘ steamed, ”
opened, read, and closed again. Or she is
“pumped ” by a woman in the pay of the police
and, woman-like, becomes confidential. That is
the whole secret of the “ clever ” capture.
* * * *
Two lady-doctors from Sydney will join
Adelaide Hospital staff on May 1, and five
charge-nurses from the East enter the institution
on the same day. It was Premier Kingston who
suggested that, as the doctors boycotted the fair
S.A. CHIEF JUSTICE WAY AND HIS BRIDE.
Photos., Hammer A Co., Adelaide.
sex as well as the Hospital, it would be a good idea
to conciliate women graduates.
* * • *
One barrister who wins many victories in
an Adelaide court is married to a niece of the pre-
siding magistrate, and is a partner of that same
magistrate’s brother. The ideal Judge has no
relations and no special friendships. Pie owns no
shares, is not interested in business, and never
poses as a light in society. Above all, he is never
a secret society boss.
* * * *
The “ unconsecrated-ground ” barbarity
turned-up again in the case of the recently-
suicided Sydney constable, Moran. It would be
hard to imagine a more atrocious refinement of
cruelty than the manner in which Christian
charity contrives to add to the grief of the shock-
ingly-bereaved widow the conviction tliatthe unfor-
tunate self-slayer is also booked for everlasting
damnation.
* * * *
Hermes : “ Asked a medical friend :
‘ Why do doctors put folks under chloroform for
trifling dental matters without impressing upon
them that all chloroform-operations are a life and
death lottery ? ’ ‘Look here,’ he said, ‘person
comes to dentist to get a dozen or more teeth out
in one act. Says the dentist: “Must put you
under chloroform for this, sir.” Patient: “All
right ! ” Dentist (to doctor) : “Is this gentleman
fit?” And, as far as we can tell, he is fit. But
if there is a flaw in him the chloroform finds it,
and out he goes ! Of course, if there is any
apparent risk no doctor would think of concealing
it from the patient, but it’s not etiquette to remind
him that there is ahvays a risk, and that the best
plan would be to have only a couple out at a time
without the anaesthetic. That would smash up the
other fellow’s biz, and he’d soon get a more com-
plaisant doctor.”
• * * *
Dear Bulletin. —The fact that Albury
Federal Capital Association’s three prizes fell all
to girls makes it look as if the New Female, even
in her teens, is treading on incipient man. But
incipient man—which is to say, the Boy—has the
profoundest contempt for the Girl and all her
works. It should be consoling to a lot of us to
remember that we were once boys, and had our
revenge on the sex in advance. — Buffer.
* * * *
A fiasco was inevitable when the Melb.
Tram Commission decided to hear evidence in
public. The co’s undertaking that no employes
should suffer by reason of any evidence was worth-
less in the circumstances. Nobody ever is dis-
missed by any co. for any such cause, but he is so
very apt to lose his billet very shortly after for
some other cause, that he gets there just the same.
* - * * *
Melb. Tram-conductor : ‘‘ What we want
is, present wages (385.) for 48 hours work, and
time-and-a-half for overtime; one day off in
seven ; and the chance of confronting the maker
of any accusations against us. At present a charge
is simply recorded, and we only know of it when
it suits the co. to bring it up against us. Our
present hours are over 60 per week ; and, as we
are paid by the trip, a slack-day deprives us of
whatever little extra we may gain by a busy one.
And, to sum up—if we give evidence before this
Commission now sitting, we will be marked men
and lose our livelihood.”
* * * *
At Paddington (Sydney) R.C. Church last
week, Miss Caroline Chisholm, grand-daughter of
Mrs. Caroline Chisholm, “the Emigrants’lViend,”
was married to Dr. H. Langton, of Redfern.
Archpriest Sheehy, an old friend of the Chisholm
family, performed the ceremony.
* * * *
A Melb. shop-girl last week obtained £49
damages for slander against a bogus Don Juan for
having represented her as his “victim” to a couple
of her girl friends. Plaintiff had previously
broken her indignant brolly across the'young man’s
carcase. A rare instance of righteous retribution.
The dirty cads who “ give away”
A damsel when she’s gone astray—
We often meet them, sad to say,
Wherever we meander ;
And yet their number is but small
Beside the dawgs that tell the “ fall”
Of maids who haven’t sinned at all,
And never hear the slander.
» * * »
Extract from one of the defendant’s letters
in a Melb. breach-of-promise case : “ Why doubt
me? If I am the cause of your trouble,"tell me
to go to hell, and not call me your Porkey—a name
I detest. My own Christian name I think a more
endearing one.” His own Christian name was
Bertie, and before the awful crash came it had
been arranged that the plaintiff was to .be
“ Bertie’s good girl ” for ever and ever. The evi-
dence didn’t disclose what she calls him now.
Probably she has reverted to “Porkey.”
* * * *
Ben Tillett, if you please, is not the only
man who says nasty things about the Mayor of
Melbourne. Rev. Prof. Gosman, after deliver-
ing a lecture on the “Ethics of Competition ” at
Rev. Chas. Strong’s church (Melb.), the other
Sunday, remarked that “it was rather shabby for
the Mayor to refuse them the use of the Town
Hall. If the Town Hall was to be for the benefit
of the citizens, he did not know any more worthy
object that it could be put to than for a meeting
advocating the suppression of the sweating sys-
tem.” If Mayor M'Eacharn intends to identify
himself in public with the Employers’ Union, and
Eatinan in general, he will get himself disliked at
a very early date.
* * * *
Queensland is possessed altogether of 450
artesian wells. These yield 193,000,000gal. or
862,220 tons a day. Water has been tapped right
from the Gulf country down to the N.S.W.
border. All this has been done within
some 10 years, for the first supply
was struck at Back Creek (Cen-
tralia) nearly 11 years ago.
Now there are Western
towns reticulated
with artesian water-
pipes, and poor,
little God-forgotten
Thargomindah ac-
tually boasts an elec-
tric-lighting plant
driven by the water-
power of the local
bore.
* *
S.B. : “In con-
versation with an
ex-priest—a gay boy
who lost his billet
in the heavenly de-
spatch department
through lingering
over the wine and
kisses and other
earthly matters —we
got on to the eternal
male topic, women.
He used the term
“black - trackers,”
saying they were his
especial aversion in
petticoats. I press-
ed for an explana-
tion. They were the
elderly women folk
who, having lived
their share of “life,”
were trying to bespeak
a good position in the
next world by always running to the priest.”
* * * *
Melb. City Council has had its usual
wrangle over the supply of men, horses, and drays
by tender. The works-committee recommended
the acceptance of a tender at 7s. per day for man,
horse and dray—this in face of the fact that the
council by-law fixed the minimum-wage for
drivers at ss. 6d. per day. A few of the more
liberal-minded councillors pointed out that this
left the contractor Is. 6d. a day for horse-food,
wear-and-tear, and his little bit of profit; but Fat
Man prevailed, and the tender was accepted, the
inference being that the contractor is a philan-
thropic crank who employs men for natural love
and affection, and keeps horses and drays and
mops the public gutters as an expensive amuse-
ment. Everything considered, this tender is
pretty tough.
The Melb. philanthropist who lately pre-
sented one of the city cab-ranks with a picturesque
shelter-kiosk also presented the men with a
list of regulations, among which was the
prohibition of bad language and card-play-
ing within the sacred precincts. The
ghastly absurdity of saddling a “ gift ”
with such snufflesome conditions will
probably induce cabby to prefer the
accustomed kerb-stone with its
perennial euchre and unlimited
blanky.
* * *
According to Gov. Mac-
gregor, the majority of Pa-
puan offences coining
under his cognizance
are connected with
the native regula-
tions concerning
adultery. Vio-
lation of wo-
men and child-
ren is very fre-
quent. ... A
frequent meth-
od by which a
native relieves
his grief is by the
shooting of arrows.
One of these missiles
passed through a native
house and then through
a man’s body. Not so bad
for a bamboo bow !
A big Melb. bicycle estab-
lishment has been in the habit
of printing tickets for tradesmen
gratis on the understanding that the
tradespeople allow them to conspicu-
ou.sly advertise their wares on said tickets.
One day a man dressed in seedy black
rushed into the cycle-shop and asked that
some few thousands of cards might be printed \
for him. Then he began to write out hisown “ad.,”
but when he handed it over the counter was in-
formed, with picturesque firmness, that they
weren’t taking any of him. He was an under-
taker. It would, they thought, be too suggestive :
“ Ride our tyres.” “Go to Deals for cheap
coffins.” Who says an undertaker has no humor ?
* * * *
S.A. Govt, has decided to close West Ade-
laide cemetery, the big necropolis containing the
deceased citizens of 60 years. The cemetery is in
a very thickly populated part, and for years people
have complained that with the west wind came
strange odors, believed to be pathetic messages
from the versatile remains. .A. large soap-factory
was some time ago eagerly welcomed as an anti-
dote, but the original and horrible perfume from
this only seemed to encourage the “ much re-
gretted,” and with better organisation they be-
came irresistible. As their ranks contain hundreds
of local-preachers who have always been in evil
odor, Govt, gave up the unequal fight and decided
to close the cemetery.
♦ * * *
In one Maoriland town recently, inside of
a fortnight: One married policeman had an order
made against him for the maintenance of his
illegitimate child (this was the second or third
time such a disaster had happened to him) ;
one policeman had to be arrested for being glori-
ously drunk “on jooty ; ” one policeman left
hurriedly to avoid paying for his illegitimate
child —he tried to dodge responsibility by exhibit-
ing a photo, of the unmarried mother taken with
very little on, but it was held to be irrelevant;
also, there was a certain amount of disturbance
about two bobbies tickling a lady of loose char-
acter in the main street one afternoon. The
general reputation of the M.L. police force is that
it is the most drunken and demoralised affair of
its kind outside Hades.
A Melb. paper goes much out of its way
to inform its readers that donkeys will not bray
if a weight is tied to their tails. The value of this
information is minimised by the fact that local
politicians have no tails.
AN ANGLER'S MARTYRDOM.
small boy: “Gettin’ any bites, boss?”
Adelaide Rag, Bone, and Bottle
Gatherers’ Union has decided that
no woman should be eligible as a member
of that frowsy, undeodorised union. Which is
what vulgar persons would call Stinking Pride.
* * * *
Melb. Advt. :—
jV/TAN. steady, with £20, can have permanent situa-
tion in the bush. Argus Office.
Apropos, old friend Butler’s “situations” were
certainly permanent.
• * * *
Melb. : That Sydney girl who told the
yarn of the policeman handcuffing and outraging
her told practically the same story as a Moonee
Ponds (Vic.) damsel gave at Melb. district-court
when suing a local ‘ 4 cop ” for maintenance. The
Bench was with the girl to the extent of 7s. 6d. a
week, but even this was overturned on appeal
F. : “ Be meat. Saw a butcher-
man in Bourke-street (Melb.), t’other
day, drop half a big poloney (it had
been cut) from an armful he was
carrying. It fell with a splash
in the slimy gutter, and then
rolled to dry itself on the dust
close by. Thrown away ? No !
the butcher - boy grabbed
the wandering meat, and
with his apron wiped
that lump of food, gave
it a final polish on his
greasy pants, and
pitched it with the
A GOOD SUGGESTION
“My good may would it not be
better to go home and have your
break fast and They Come
hack and fish?”
“How The dickens Con I?
must cutch it first.
rest into the cart*. Ugh! I’m not taking any
poloney now. 1 '
* * * »
Melb. Argus must have got hold of the
man who started the subscription for “ the
widow’s sick husband.” A recent death-notice
winds-up—“ His widow survives him.”


V,
AVE You
ForGoT t6^
V
A
h
5^
few
■DOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AI'LECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Elies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post., 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, U. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 GeOrge-st.,Sydney. r ~ Open ail Night
—als'- Snndat am.' Holidays Beware of imitations
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOUNTCASTLE k SONS. Brisbane, Q'tand.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Curb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and Millett).
C. 4 TANXA RO LIQUORICE.
Wholesale Only
from
HY. MARKWALD,
11 Pitt-6t.,
SYDNEY.
178 Williani-Bl ,
MELBOURNE
H Currie st.,
ADELAIDE
Al*o ai Wellington (N ?» ), and CJiieen st , Brisbane.
“If it should ever fall to my lot,” said
Judge Rogers, at Sydney Metrop. Quarter Ses-
sions, the other day, to try a dangerous
murderer, I should insist that, if he wished to give
evidence, he should do so from the dock. Why a
dangerous criminal, like Butler, for instance,
could, if he were let out of the dock, kill a few
counsel and the judge and one or two jurymen. It
wouldn’t matter to him ; he could only be hanged,
and he might consider it as well to be hanged for
a sheep as for a lamb.” Which recalls that once
a man was being tried before Judge Windeyer for
killing a fellow-prisoner in Bathurst gaol. R. D.
Meagher, the accused’s counsel, tendered his client
as a witness just before lunch-time, and applied
that the latter should be allowed into the witness-
box to testify. But Windeyer—as timorous at
bottom as are mostly men of his truculently over-
bearing type —promptly refused to let the
man out of the dock. “ Very well, your
Honor,” said Meagher—“ in that case I shall
feel bound to take a certain course ” —presumably
hinting an intention to make capital, on his
client’s behalf, with the jury (or with the Full
Court, upon appeal) of the disadvantage to the
accused of having to give his evidence from behind
the spikes. This aspect of the matter was doubt-
less well-chewed over by Windeyer along with his
mid-day quarter of beef ; for, when proceedings
were resumed, he announced that, upon re-con-
sideration, he had decided to allow accused into
the box And all those who could put 2-and-2
together winked the inside eye, as they observed
that all inkstands, rulers, books everything
which could possibly have been used as a weapon
or a missile —had been removed far from the
prisoner’s reach, and that between him and the
Judge’s precious person was posted fat detective
Hinds, as an “ outer line of defence.”
* * * *
A recent deliverance from the pulpit of
Benalla (Vic.) has inspired the local laureate to
warble thus:—
Vic. authorities wanted 40 mounted-police
recruits the other day ; 640 strapping young men
applied. There was no advt.; the powers com-
municated with 50 or 60 previous applicants by
letter, and the intelligence got about. Police
officials say a well-distributed advt, for half-a-
dozen recruits for the mounted-constabulary would
result in the invasion of the metropolis by two-
thirds of the- hale young men of the province.
1 he height of young Australia’s ambition is about
15 hands.
* * * *
Remarked in legal circles in a certain pro-
vince that a certain barrister almost invariably
holds a brief, for one or other side, in criminal
cases which have been worked up by a cer-
tain detective. Considering that the learned
gentleman’s services are not in all-round demand,
it would seein that the d. recommends him
specially to the prisoner or the prosecutor— when
it isn’t a Crown job. If, perchance, a captive gets
the whisper that his only chance of escape lies in
employing Mr. Blank —wel l , Blank is very likely
to get instructions for the defence. Also a private
prosecutor’s selection of counsel is likely to be
influenced by the active and intelligent officer
who has. executed the warrant. But wherefore
the D.’s interest in the B.’s welfare ?
* * * *
If armies “travel on their bellies,” the
N.B.W. warrior ought to be able to “lose” the
Imperial Atkins on a daily ration totalling 4|lbs.,
as against Tommy’s 2|lbs. T. A. gets no potatoes,
and on an average about one-third less than the
local man of all the other items.
* » * *
The inexplicable aberrations of lovely
woman ! Bundaberg (Q.) boasts a female delin-
quent occasionally hauled up before the P.M. and
fined £5 for “langwidge,” who is the wife (Cau-
casian, of course) of a kanaka. The lady is in
receipt of regular remittances from the old
country ; has iIIOOO to her credit in a local bank,
and pays her fines with charming nonchalance.
The buck Polynesian is almost as attractive to
certain European women as the male Chow.
* * * »
A good many cases of lead poisoning have
occurred in Brisbane in the last 12 months, causing
much perplexity to local doctors. Some attribute
the trouble to the lead-headed nails used in nail-
ing galvanised-iron ; others put it down to the use
°f galvanised-iron tanks for drinking-water ; some
agrin attribute the sickness to the defective sol-
dering of cisterns. Brisbane citizens probably
have the foulest city water supply in Australasia.
According to an English paper, the
lady cabwoman is going to be an institution
in London. One cab co., it is alleged,
has engaged 25 nice girls, who are to
wear a natty uniform and plaintively
urge the haggard horse through the
Strand and down Piccadilly. It is
a good idea to hear about at a long
distance, but anybody in Australia
who tries to start any female cab-
girl aged under 65 should be hanged
for the safety of his species. Man
has enough risks to run as it is. And
when the cab-girl comes along and that hys-
terical maid is feeling lonesome and scared on
her perch at 2 a.m., and a somewhat obfuscated
citizen asks her to drive him to the lonesome
wilds of Five Dock, she will assume at once
that he is planning the usual “assault.” And
halfway there she will collapse, and let her
hair down, and proceed to gallop every way
at once and scream for the police, and the
gentleman who is doubled up inside,
dreaming the peaceful dreams of the
baby-drunk, will either have his neck
broken or get seven years and three lash
New reading (by W.C.T.U.) :
Facilis descensus Taverni. .
* * * *
“ The Prophet Smith ” from Maoriland to
The Bulletin
The bachelor's paradise is undoubtedly Canterbury.
M.lj. In that province there are 4000 spinsters who can
never be married, for they exceed the bachelors by that
number. In Otago 2066 last roses of summer must be
left blooming alone unless they go to Klondyke, for the
simple reason that in Otago if all the bachelors were
yarded and forcibly Kinsman’d, there would be still
2066 waists left over unsqueezed, and 4132 lips un-
kissed. Down Winton and Riverston way the cigarette
johnny with the downy lip, receding chin and straw hat,
is simply made a little tin god of. One girl said plain-
tively that the “ boys ” were spoiled by the way the girls
petted and worshipped even tenth-rate specimens of the
forked radish. Fellows who now are welcome in the
drawing-room would, in less favored places, be glad to
take night-about with the policeman in the kitchen.
With woman-suffrage polygamy looms.
A TERRIBLE THREAT.
INFURIATED PERSON (to local J.P.) : “ An ’ ye call
yerself a yentleman! Ye mean, measly,
jumped-up- **!! ? pve a mind to knock
the stuffin’ out of yer.” (Gets an idea.)
“ By-! I’ll put ye in ‘The Bulletcen!’”
In drawing plans for a projected new
Children’s Hospital the other day, one architect
placed the morgue-room as opening off the operat-
ing-theatre.
“ It needs no mathematician to prove that
24,000 pennies make <£200,” said Rev. M'Laren at
the recent Melb. Presbyterian Assembly, before
proceeding to show how all world’s missions could
be maintained by a levy of a “ deener ” a head on
everybody. Nobody laughed—nobody ever does
laugh in the Presbyterian Assembly—and nobody
ventured to question the arithmetic of this cock-
sure lightning calculator. That is the one weak
point of the usually hard-headed Scotchmen, as it
is with the wily Jew. In pishness, nothing is
accepted until proved ; in the kirk or the syna-
gogue the most ridiculous assertion is swallowed
with childlike simplicity.
* * * *
The Salvation Army has most depressing
ideas on the subject of heaven. It has now taken
to displaying at its meetings a series of lime-
light pictures which profess to represent the
career of the blood-and-fire warrior after
death. In the first picture he is shown,
still in his red wardrobe with his
metal fixings and sacred iron-
mongery on, wandering in the
twilight through a bumpy
country where there is no
vegetation whatsoever.
This place looks like a re-
gion of extinct volcanoes
in the moon. Suddenly he
is struck with a large white
plank—presumably intend-
ed to represent a blaze of
glory. The next picture
shows him in his red clothes
talking with two
partial] y-clothed
figures stand-
ing outside a
large gate,
said gate be-
ing easily sup-
ported by a simple
white cloud. And
the series ends fight
there, so the ultimate
fate of the dead red warrior
is a mystery.
* * *
The New Man has ar-
rived ! He lives in Melbourne,
and when, to keep him from the flowing
bowl, his wife locked up his propria; qua;
uiaribus, he arrayed himself in skirt and shawl,
went forth to the pub., filled himself to the brim,
and finished the night in quod.
• * * *
Tell us— ls it a fact that a constable lately
convicted of stealing a prisoner’s money is still in
the N.S.W. police-force? And, if it is, when is
John Norton’s Police Commission coming along? .
Scribe : I am
sick of writing
about Court
Bibles. The in-
credible humbug
of the thing.
The Bibles used
are generally
those marked
“ Sold at cost-
price ten-
pence.” You
will see twelve
jurymen trying
all at once to
mug three filthy,
20-year-old, ten-
penny Bibles. I
have seen a wit-
ness solemnly
take out a news-
paper - package
and untie his
own brand-new
one.
* *
Latest Lon-
don music - hall
novelty is a
“ singing dog,”
which howls
“Godsave.” Is
this the animal
which an Omeo
man brought in-
to Bairn sdale
(Vic.) about five
years ago, and
which would
howl “exer-
cises” at his
master’s com-
mand? His ow-
ner, a little red-
faced tin-
smith,
asserted
that the
animal
could in
private
render sim-
ple tunes like
“In a Cot-
tage” and
“Nelly Bly,”
though his ner-
vousness would
not yet admit of his
doing so in public.
Mofussil. Anglo-
Indians wonder at the
sending of Australian
missionaries to India.
The English are material-
ists, generally without any
really fixed belief in a
future life, and the intensely
spiritual Indian population,
both Hindu and Mahome-
tans, well knows that not
5 per cent, of the Eng-
lish are of the accepted
religion. Get up in an
English or Australian
street, to talk religion,
and you are sneered at,
but try it in any city of
India, and immediately
there is a reverent crowd.
Railways and bridges make
no impression on these
people, who have an absolute realisation of a
future eternal life, of which the bullocky,
tyrannous, brute-powerful, atheistic English 'only
hold the portico.”
Bishop Goe complains that the Australian
natives are preternaturally solemn, and incapable
of hearty laughter. We sympathise with the old
man of the See, although he is himself the dead
centre of gravity
Good reason to express surprise
Has Dr. Goe that rapturous cries
Don’t shake each rafter;
For when he takes his Sunday stand,
All present have good cause at hand
For hearty laughter!
» * » *
The new Maoriland scenery postage-stamps
are out, and on the 2£d. one, —the one with the
view of Lake Wakatipu—that uncouth name has
been wrongly spelt. Stamp-drunkards from all
parts of the globe are rushing the curio, and the
ill-spelt stamp commands fancy prices. Why
doesn’t some one invent a bi-chloride of gold cure
for the person who has stamps crawling over him
in his dreams, as well as for the one who has
snakes ?
» * * »
Hideous snuffle from Vic. Bible Echo :
Last spring a family devoted the increase of a. flock of
four turkeys to foreign mission-work. The Lord blessed
the turkeys, and something like £9 has been received as
the result of consecrating these fowls to God. . . .
Those turkeys were holy unto the Lord. During the six
months those turkeys walked about every member of the
family was constantly reminded of Christ’s charge, “Go
ye into all the world,” &c.
Those turkeys!
Greece, they say, was rather risky
In the times of pretty Lais,
But it wasn’t half as frisky
As the township of to day is.
And, though scarcely free from scandal
Were the heroes of Walhalla,
Lord ! they couldn’t hold a candle
To the sinners of Benalla !
The parson has been candid,
To the point of rudeness even,
And Benalla isn’t branded
As a city ripe for heaven.
For, of all earth’s naughty places,
From Japan to Guatemala,
There is none, it seems, whose pace is
Quite as rapid as Benalla.
Now, of course, we cannot credit
All the clersryman’s assertions ;
If it were as he has said it,
We’d be running cheap excursions.
But, unless he s quite betrayed us,
I should reckon that “Tra-lala”
Is a word to suit the status
Of the morals of Benalla.
A THEORY
FOR THE BULLETIN
the fields of Heaverv glittered as the
J'Jflight let dowr\ the bars,
MAjnd I asked mu little nephew,Tell ,
a me j child , wha t are the stars?
/ g§uorh the jModerrx CTild ? easily
a craie its imcogc stampslj).
lhe Angels go oat bikirvg^
have to light - their lamps.
rid I Aaw (amomer\t on.lcjj witk a
child's creative eyes , /t ..»
*TTe Celestial Immortals as tkecj coastea
* z down fKe skies 1
Bernard Espinasse
HER LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are days in every week that seem to drag,
While. I watch for telegraphic news of ships,
But the day that brings her letter to my hand,
The nectar of the gods my soul then sips.
And, ere opening it, I press it oft to mine,
For I know that she has sealed it with her lips.
Though many a mile of wave and woodland rolls
Between my girl—God bless her—and my camp;
Her letter ever brings her near to me,
As I read it o’er again by my dim lamp,
And ere I lay me down to dream of her
I take one little kiss from ’neath the stamp.
And in the right top corner of each sheet,
That in answering I send across the sea,
I make a little mark for her to know
The very spot to find a kiss from me;
So, though separated far by space and time,
We still exchange Love’s little courtesy.
W.A.
THE EXILE.


GLOBE TEAS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 26, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
Of course you know the fascination of putting
on a big hat and a long train, and playing you’re
the most magnificently-lovely duchess that ever
lived out of a picture. The charm of this game
attacked most of us in the nursery, when we
dressed up the cat as well as ourselves, and, as
Heine says—
After her health we asked,
Our care and regard to evince.
(We have made the very same speeches
To many an old cat since.)
I notice that men don’t succumb to this charm so
easily. At Major and Mrs. Ferguson’s fancy-dress
ball last Thursday one brave soldier dressed up as
a monk, and kept his face cloaked all the time, and
the only other being present who hadn’t the
courage to reveal his features was a Man. The
gentleman who represented a bobby had borrowed
a suit from the genuine article, but couldn’t get a
correct belt that would meet and fasten, the avoir-
dupois of the Force being limited by the Law.
This particular fancy-dress ball made four hun-
dred society people young and great and happy
again. The same flower-girls, housemaids,
Romeos, and Spanish ladies that made their debut
in the year One were present, but there were
plenty of people who were quite new to me.
Semiramis, for instance —I never met her at a
fancy-dress ball before, and rather imagined that
she was not asked everywhere. A fair-haired
naval lady, just from England, played Will-o’-the-
Wisp effectively with black flounces and an elec-
tric-light in her hair. This electric-lighting is
remarkably pretty while it lasts, but creates a
melancholy impression when fading out, and the
first waltz sees the beginning of its end.
Mrs. C. B. Fairfax put her whole soul into her
Japanese costume, and captured every detail. She
even sacrificed her good looks, and wore a false
forehead, and severe hair, and loaded her head
with a Japanese temple turned upside-down.
Miss Clara Manning pointed a moral lesson to
young men with a champagne-bottle on her head,
race-horses painted round her skirts, cards, dice,
and the inevitable pistol scattered about her, and
an unnecessary placard over her shoulders an-
nouncing that these ways Ruination lies. •
If you are any sort of a Christian you will be
glad to hear that flash-light photographs may
now go out of fashion. The flash that was to light
up these gay fancy-dressers caught some light
draperies on the walls, and smoke and flames
sprang out suddenly. The lancers came to a dead
stop, and a scare began that lasted about half a
minute, but was a genuine scare for that length of
time. And death by burning is now the latest
terror that has attached ’tseif £o all the other
terrors of photography.
By the way, one of the photographer’s most
willing victims has been caught at last in another
snare. I speak of Julius Knight, who is to marry
Miss Elliot Page in Sydney, some time soon.
With Hamlet, Wilson Barrett enters into the
best partnership he has yet contrived. The legs
bring memories of Claudian, and the wig is as
wiggy as ever, but, otherwise, the partnership is a
closer bond than Barrett, Claudian and co., or
Barrett, Denver and co. In fact, the new regime
tempts one to discourse on Hamlet only, just
mentioning Barrett as junior partner. Whether
ladies’ boarding schools will agree is a vexed
question; their essays on Hamlet might also
throw light on the subject of Hamlet’s madness.
I noticed that the seminaries watched the play a
little languidly. But, then, who wouldn’t be
languid when taken out to be improved in batches!
For .the sake of the boarding-schools, let us not be
too riotously glad that Shakespeare is back again.
Maud Jeffries dresses Ophelia sane in pink
brocade, with pearls in her long hair, and brings
out her brightest beauty for the occasion. In the
mad scene, she wears the white that all Ophelias
wear, and plays with a little spark that is danger-
ously near genius once or twice x like her mad
voice much better than her sane. The monoton-
ous American cadences of the latter are boring,
and, as Miss M‘Carthy has taken a loan of Miss
Jeffries’ tones, the double dose of drawl makes
you move in your chair. Ada Ferrar is a third
actress whose voice is modelled on the same lines,
and Maxine Elliot makes a large fourth. Blind-
fold, I defy myself to distinguish the quartette
by their speech.
As the Queen, Lillah M'Carthy was beautiful, but
young —too young. The half-grey hair failed to
tone down the fresh tints of her face, and she was
one of those mothers who would be mistaken for
her son’s sister. This, by the way, is the most
popular mistake in feminine annals, and one that
must never be cleared up, or out. Miss M'Carthy’s
red plush robes were heavily embroidered with
stage-gold, but I couldn’t give them much atten-
tion, so fascinating were the rings on the King’s
first fingers. Only a poisoner could have worn
such enormous glitters. Women are justified now
in avoiding, like plague, men with rings on the
first finger of each hand.
Miss Morley, who is young and pretty, and
Cartwright’s only daughter, is slowly recovering.
Her unpleasant accident recalls a memory of Essie
Jenyns, who would never use a cart if she could
help it, and no one could persuade her to go out
riding. She used to say her face was so important
that she dared not risk its injury, and her legion
of admirers had to lead back to the stables the
fancy horses she refused to mount.
The latest wear among smart London men is the
bottle-green coat, reminiscent of Dickens. One or
two have made their appearance already in these
“benighted kawlinies.” At a smart function
recently, darkly ignorant folk were for a time
staggered at the shabby and faded appearance of
a distinguished visitor’s “ beaufort ” when it sud-
denly dawned on them that the garment was com-
posed of bona-fide bottle-green.
At the Lyceum “ Phantoms ” came and went
last week, as phantoms will, and another white
thing took the boards on Saturday. This time it
was a “Squadron,” with Walner Gregory in
brass buttons as Commander. One grand tableau
revealed the Congress of Navies, and the audience
showed which side they were going to die for
when the American admiral’s goatee-beard came
into view. In fact, the gods smelt powder all
along the play, and were as happy as if they were
falling in the front ranks of the war—or happier.
Other happy things in this play were Miss Ben-
susan’s French frocks. A pale yellow silk dinner-
dress was made with long sleeves of tucked
ohiffon, and little tucked revers, and you don’t
know how to wear a Spanish hat until you have
seen Inez balancing a jaunty Toreador over her
left ear. Maud Williamson dresses the heroine
in black velvet, sacred to heroines, and a yellow
satin with a scarcity of shoulder.
Have you ever been to a party where the guests
got up to go in the middle of a fantasia the host
was executing on the piano ? These things seldom
happen now outside comic papers. But I went to
a concert last week where everyone was present
by invitation only, and half-way through the pro-
gramme the invited guests turned round for their
wraps and prepared to go out. It was quite
rousing to see Laurence Phillip, who was the host
of the evening, rush out on the platform and pour
his musicianly soul, mingled with a lot of fire and
brimstone, on the back hair of the departing ones.
A volley of hand-claps replied to his fusillade.
Then the guests went on towards the door, and I
couldn’t see where courtesy got to. Before the
last two items on the programme, the hall was
empty. So you won’t wonder if you are asked to
pay next time Laurence Phillip gives a concert.
Courtesy is a decoration that is never out of
place, but do you know that the floral decorations
were very much over-done at a recent dinner-
party ? Every dish had flowers in it, or round it,
and the tiniest patch of white tablecloth was
promptly squelched by a rose or a chrysanthemum.
When the guests were saying good-night, an old
gentleman gave the hostess an electric shock by
shouting into her ear, “ The only thing I thank
God for to-night is that there were no flowers in
your soup, madam.”
Florence Schmidt has come brilliantly through
three of her 15 concerts. The other 12 are
still before her. Enthusiasm was hot enough to
roast an ox when she appeared in Brisbane, and
£lOO of the <£Boo she hoped to bring back from
Queensland is already in her pocket. The end of
the year will probably see her launching herself on
a London public.
And yet another Voice is about to add itself to
the long roll of voices that are going to raise the
world’s hair some day. This time the singer is a
young man, with an Israelite mamma, and much
cash in the background, as well as the foreground.
At an at-home the other night someone invited
him to favour the company with a song. There-
upon began one of the longest, most florid arias
Donizetti ever perpetrated for a soprano voice.
Bravely the young man attacked it, and when the
note was out of his reach, he lifted it down an
octave, and shook and played with it there. I
hear that the other people present are still more
dead than alive, and one old vocalist, who hasn’t
smiled since his own voice failed him 15 years ago,
broke into a joke. “Look here, young man, what
is your voice ? ” “Tenor.’’ “Well, I’d have given
you a fiver on Donizetti’s account, if you had
stopped half-an-hour ago.”
It seems that there are a great many things you
shouldn’t do if the stage claims you. A little
party of theatrical people took a trip up the
Hawkesbury lately, journeying by the cheap ex-
cursion train, that meets the General Gordon at
the river. By the way, this trip costs ss. fid., all
told, and takes you miles and miles up the waters
of the Australian Rhine, as Trollope calls it. On
a clear day, the loveliness of the river is indis-
cribable, and an overworked woman couldn’t do
better than sit on the top-deck of that steamer,
and have her lunch brought to her, and drift for
an hour or two among the beauty. Ten miles up
the river the boat makes half-an-hour’s halt, then
you can get out and walk under the trees, and look
over orchard fences, and forget that there is such
a place as town.
Well, that is what this party did. And when
the half-hour was up they strolled back to the
boat, went down the river again to the train, and
so to town, all but one. He lay down under a
gum-tree for a minute, and went to sleep, and the
rest of his co. were in the train when he woke up.
That night the piece had to go on without him, no
understudy being available. And it went so much
more quickly with the whole of his scene cut out,
that next day he was politely requested to remain
out as long as that piece was being played.
Albani’s allegedly five-thousand-guinea diamond
belt is by no means the most valuable gaud that
has been exhibited in public here. Maud Hob-
son’s necklace cost more than double the figure of
the singer’s ceinture. Rumor says that Maud’s
splendid necklace was laid at her feet by an
adoring English youngster who worshipped the
statuesque Gaiety girl and who turned a stone-
deaf ear to the entreaties of his parents when they
besought him to marry some fair damsel in his own
rank and settle down ; the infatuated youth
insisted that his life was devoted wholly to Maud
and he would look at no other woman. The un-
happy mother at length had an interview with her
son’s enslaver and stated the case plainly to her.
Maud was most reasonable, and said that if it
would facilitate matters she would take a travel-
ling engagement and leave England and her
adorer for a year. The delighted mother’s thanks
were profuse and made substantial (so goes the
story) by a handsome cheque and the promise of
£lO a week as long as Maud remained out of Eng-
land. This led to the acceptance of the American-
cum-Australian engagement which gave Austra-
lians the chance of gazing nightly for some months
on their fascinating fellow-country worn an.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The most unconsciously funny speech that our
late 4 uncle Tom ’ ever perpetrated within the Mel-
bourne radius was given to the Mayor, councillors
and other nobility of Essendon —a suburb famous
for its footballers and boiling-down establishments.
Shortly before leaving for England, the solemn old
gentleman paid a state visit to Essendon, and,
having duly partaken of fatted calf and wine from
the gold-topped bottle, expressed his complete
satisfaction with all things thereabouts. He drank
prosperity to the city (laughter) of Essendon, re-
marking that he had often admired the suburb
whilst driving through it, and, in conclusion, he
said : ‘ If the visit of myself and Lady Brassey can
gi ve a certain lustre and fashion to the district, we
will not regret the time so pleasantly spent among
you. ’ As an instance of vice-regal faith in its own
radiance and ‘ tone ’-giving properties, this will
bear a lot of thinking over. It reminds one of the
first chapter of Genesis— 4 and the Lord said, Let
there be light, and there was Light. ’
“The dancing season was opened with aloud
flourish by the Newbigin ball given at South
Yarra in honor of the coming of age of the eldest
son last week. It promises to be a lively winter,
and a high-toned drapery firm is playing to the
gallery by having an electric-lighted window
display after dark, wherein several waxen beauties
slowly revolve and exhibit the latest styles of war-
paint to the gazing Amelia and Polly who
enviously sigh, 4 Oh my, ain’t that green just
lovely ? ” The arsenic-tinted robe is garnished
with edgings like curled parsley, and a pink poem
has the same idea in a blushing rose hue. Long
sleeves of spotty gauze and many jangling chains
of colored beads or sham pearls are the latest
vanities, while balloon sleeves have received a fatal
puncture and collapsed altogether. You can go
without sleeves entirely now if you like, and
hitch your bodice up with two narrow shoulder-
straps.
“ Among the best-written screeds appearing in
Melbourne papers just now are a series of articles
by Dr. Neild on ‘Notable Women,’ in a little
semi-amateur journal, The Court, run in the
interests of an anti-seandal-among-women society.
He does the articles for love, so they’re worth a free
advt. It’s amusing to note how gracefully the
astute doc. glides over thin ice in treating some of
his subjects for young persons. A recent article
on Helen Faucit, giving personal impressions of
the great tragedienne’s acting, is especially in-
teresting.
“ Rumors come and go of a big law-suit re the
money-matters of a famous churchy old Victorian
clan. Two moneyed dames and a well-gilt spinster
sister are expected to call upon their trustees, one
of them a relative, for the why and wherefore of
one thing and another. The spinster in question,
by the way, is locally cited as one of the few exist-
ing exemplars of that almost extinct quality—
constancy. In times agone, she plighted her
troth to a short-lived somebody, and no subsequent
suitor can boast of as much encouragement as
would lie on a thrippenybit. It’s not even as if
there had been lack of wooers.
“ Estelle Gowan, a Melb. girl, went ’Ome not
long ago for a trip, met a cousin of the same sur-
name, became engaged to him, went across to
Paris and bought a wedding outfit, brought it out
in several trunks as big as Noah’s Ark, made all
her friends here sit up in admiring envy — such
lingerie, such blouses ! —took her luggage back per
China, was wrecked on Perim Island, went on to
fiance per Carthage, had to leave her trunks
behind—and was married without her trousseau
after all. Selah !
“The Shakespearian Society met and kept up
William’s natal day on Saturday in the Town Hall
supper-room. Waxellency Madden presented
prizes tied in blue ribbon to successful exam.-
passers, also kindly patted the Swan of Avon on
the back in a neat speech and referred to the
efforts of the president (Dr. Neild) in spreading
abroad a knowledge of Shakesbacon. From the tone
of his speech, I should say the Society for Being
Rather Tired of Shakespeare won’t get Vie. ’s deputy
Governor for a life-member. A scene from the
Merchant of Venice was given, and the Portia
was Ethel Clarke, second daughter of Marcus,
robed, in white with a purple-velvet jacket and
hanging tresses. She spoke her lines with fervor
and hugged her Bassanio with the same. But
Bassanio Deegan has been there before at Shake-
speare meetings, and is quite used to it by now.
Her sister Rosa is more practical in business, and
teaches cooking at the gas co. as a profesh. Sophie
Osmond, one of the few women who know how
to .speak in public, used her voice effectually in
reading a clever paper. Everybody was dolled up
and had a festive air. On the whole, W.S. must
have been pleased with the way his friends kept
up his 334th birthday, though, unfortunately, he
wasn’t able to be present at his party himself.
“The new Westralian Agent-General is a grand-
son of parson Wittenoom, first ‘colonial chap-
lain ’ for W.A., while his maternal grand-dad was
one of the pristine harbor-masters at Fremantle.
The mother of the Agent-General of to-day kept
house for her widowed father in her maiden days,
and when she married it was arranged that her
ten-year-old motherless sister was to share her
new home. The bridal pair started to their up-
country place first, followed in a day or two by
the small bridesmaid and an old aunt in a spring-
cart. On the way to York the restless little
traveller fell out of the vehicle and was killed.
“The old W.A. settlers, you know, prided them-
selves on their ‘roughing’ capacities, and spring-
carts and bullock-drays were favorite conveyances.
In those times, too, more than one pioneer who
bad sunk his patrimony in that land of sand, lived
contentedly enough with his delicately-reared wife
on kangaroo and turnip-tops. Nowadays very,
very old W.A. residents shake their heads dis-
approvingly at the mention of young housekeepers
unprovided with tried and trusted recipes for
marsupial cookery. The tail, of course, was the
tit-bit. The forelegs went to the dogs, while
hind-quarter meat, camp-ovened in slices, with
alternate layers of salt pork and no water, was
staple fare. The same straight-backed ancients
love to tell how their elder children, many of
them the magnates of these times, were born in
tents or out-back humpies, while grand pianos,
farm machinery, and the rest of the parental
outfit lay half buried in the sand on the shore at
Fremantle.
“ ’Tis now said that the heroine of a lately-
postponed wedding was only to have been brides-
maid when the invitations were issued that other
time. Her sister, whose death put off the original
nuptials, was booked, one hears, for principal
performer. There is Royal precedent for this.
“ Not bad reading, those recent breach-of-
promise chronicles ! The combatants were State
school teachers, you know, who for years had
found excitement in alternately cooing and snarl-
ing, kissing and biting. The end came when the
gentleman forwarded to his charmer, first thing
one morning, .£lO and a presentation umbrella,
requesting the recipient in return to send back the
heart that he gave her. Male cousins were called
in, both mothers had their say, and last of all each
lovey-dove tearfully twittered its troubles in the
ear of a sympathetic attorney.
“ One of Romeo’s letters, as heard in court, re-
quested Juliet to seek the summer sales, pick up
bargain blankets and ‘ sheetings’ and hem them in
readiness for ‘the home.’ Don’t you know the
sort of young man given to maundering of ‘the
home ? ’ This lady-love, when out of temper, was
wont to write to her 4 Bert,’ much to his anguish,
as ‘Porkie.’ Taking those ‘sheetings’ and the
farewell umbrella —or was it goloshes ?—into con-
sideration, perhaps she meant to put 4 pawkie.’
“All the same, I’m not sorry the whining maiden
all forlorn lost her case. By her own showing, she
used to pester her young man to have his will
drawn in her favor and make settlements on her,
&c., as if two sprats, neither of them goldfish,
couldn’t join in the bonds with less preliminary
pomp than a Duchess.
“ Many home - staying Australians suppose
vaguely—thanks to shilling-shockers probably—
that it’s harder for cockneys to keep themselves
4 unspotted from the world ’ than 4 for a camel to
go through,’ &c. But, prepared for the worst or
not, you’d never guess half the horrid things that
happen at the Royal when London sleeps. And
it’s surprising how cooly Big-smoke residents take
things. Wicked guardsman Holloway, for in-
stance, simply cant get into ‘quod,’ through his
malefactions run into double figures.
“To start with, he decoys his innocent cousin
(Eugenie Duggan) into haunts of gilded vice after
dark, drugs her, and only pauses in his uncousinly
course When chloroformed himself, in the nick of
time, by a resouer.
“The abductee returns to the bosom of her
family in the small hours, and might have in-
dulged in 40 winks next day only for the advent
G f proprietress Ida Gresham, of the gilded haunts
aforesaid, a person with a Past and also a Present,
who, with unparalleled front (considering her over-
night atrocities), calls to ask for a missing address,
Then she pockets the family jewels, and is just
being hauled off with gyves upon her wrist when
her long-lost child of shame arrives from a baby-
farm; every one boo-hoos, and lady-killer Mont-
gomery politely requests the forgiven penitent to
‘ Go and sin no more !
“ That evening, as Eugenie Duggan, with a blue
ribbon tied under the collar of her ‘ nighty ’ and
stumpy curls trying to hang down her back, is
just going to vault off the cold oil-cloth into bed,
Fly-by-night Gourlay drops in with the above-
mentioned child of shame and deposits it * to be
kept till called for,’ with the tender-hearted
heiress.
“N.B.—When my ship comes in, you don’t
catc h my bower with linoleum on the floor and
three black kitchen chairs.
« Anyway, the big girl puts the little one to bed
with it ’ bo( f ts ai fd kneels down to say its own
prayerS) but all the rew ard she gets for’her piety
ig an untimely visit from Guardsman Holloway,
who> w h en she rises from her benumbed knees, is
discovered lolloping on one of the kitchen chairs,
w jth folded arms and a cynical smile on his brazen
Hp More uncousinly conduct! The intruder
says he ‘ won’t go home till morning,’but, in the
end, changes his mind, and leaves with a revolver-
wound in his arm, locking the door on the outside
an( j fi r j n g the building en route .
<, F this fortb the perae eutpd heroine never
getg a moment tQ he ’ rself P wb at with roo f bating,
w i re _ wa ]ki n g, assault and battery on her lover,
an( j attempted suttee of herself at the shrine of a
heathen idol, with a fiery beam in its one eye and
a mote in the other—all which trouble is due to
unnatural kinsman Holloway and burglar-pal
Chalmers.
«« T j, e Acting-Governoress tells her particular
friends of how she once called "P on mana * er Dan
Ba at tbe Alexandra, with a view to engaging
the tbeatre for a c h ar ity show. Mr. Daniel was
busy i n his office, which happened to be besieged
by juvenile applicants for a billet in his forthcom-
■ trammer. So without taking- particular
n( J ioe of the distinguished visitor (who hasn’t in
verv o- or cr e ous arravl he motioned her to a rickety
able adjec . tive , £ nd ‘ticked off’ sundry small
children before enquiring ‘Now, madam, what
can Ido for you ? ’ His confusion when the long-
sufferin £ lady disclosed her identity was so great
that he nearly blushed, it seems. But next day,
*• tilled in’ her chariot, the IriS
roae to the oocaeion. In tone,
°f tbe deepest respect he expressed his inability
to credit the statement that Lady Madden’s
daughter was the most beautiful woman in
Melbourne. He had thought it miaht be true, but
after enjoying the privil « ge of gazin? afc kiss
Madden’s mother—well, he felt certain that the
palm for loveliness ought to be divided into two
equal portions, anyhow. An airy fabric of flat-
tery, erected upon a solid groundwork of fact for
the accommodation of a very comely middle-aged
mamma, is a pleasant residence for the tenant,
Mamma laughs at the incident—and likes it, no
doubt. She wouldn’t be «*• pillar of sassiety she
A certain very large Australian potenrate is
said to owe a £l6O bill for music supplied at his
; h ep»’ »»d o‘her entertainment., hi, to earn
asked he feels much too insulted to draw a cheque,
y want your mo ney, and you take your choice
of * wo reasons why you don’t get it.
“ Judged by results, old-world hairdressers and
scalp-specialists are miles ahead of their Australian
bre , thr( '"- , , Pass ing over done-to-death gamboge
and P al P able peroxide as beneath contempt, she-
wanderers return to this country with their tresses
dell hffitfuHy rejuvenated in tint and gloss. This
pleasing phenomenon was particularly noticeable
in the case of a much-travelled bride, whose satin-
yellow ,ooks were the envy of all the women m-
vited to ber nu P tial feast, recently celebrated at
the toniest of local caravanserais. During their
owner’s European wanderings, her flaxen tresses
bad acquired a lustre and warmth of tint
vastly more attractive than the dank, ashy-
blonde luxuriance of her pristine coiffure. Yar-
mouth, the light-heeled earl, was quick to lay
bis finger on the weak spot in local tress-tactics.
sisiriStr ,o the origin *‘
~
' Some keymd ladies meet together in a richly
furnished suburban mansion to sew for the poor
Chinese. They dub themselves Gleaners, and
aH the little weskits and miniature pants of their
building are sent to the Flowery Land destined
for diminutive heathen backs and legs. Consider-
lng that the Chows were clad in silk and satin
stiff with old and silver embroidery when our re-
mote grandparents painted themselves blue with
woad, this charity must make the recipients smile,
Chineto do know bow to dross if they know
anything. Itsonlylatelywe haveborrowed pat-
terns in pyjamas from them. Interpreter Hodges,
who holds mandarin rank, wears the clothes apper-
taming thereto on state occasions and looks ideally
clad. Everything is soft and easy and the cut
[ oU f vs the form. No rasping stiff collars no
hard, ugly hat-and, above all, no dress weskit,
that grotesque garment which consists of a watch-
po(.ket an d two arm-holes trimmed with black
ca ii ca »>_Yours affectionately, Gouli-Gouli.


By far the Best Victorian Coal.
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CHEEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Plinder. Buildings, 313 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Alphonso XIII. is the present Spanish
Thirteen—“ the Devil's number.” The
e oek of the Spanish dynasty has struck 12, any-
i .very black-and-white artist in England
v ..;.f,s to see his pictures in London Punch. Aus-
tralian P>. E. Minna’s first Punch drawing ap-
peared March 19—and a very nice drawing it was.
“Samson” Haynes tells a queer story
about the late Charles Collins, M.L. .A., who died
so suddenly the other day, having engaged him to
write a farewell address to the electors of Narraliri.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) went for his
honeymoon to the property upon which he spent
portion of his boyhood’s days as a faun appren-
tice. it is now his own, and brings him in a large
revenue as a sheep station.
Tlie lirst captain gazetted under the first
N.S.W. Volunteer Act was MT.erie, Police-
lns|)ector-General Eosbery’s predecessor ; and the
first lieutenant was Australia’s old loyalist, the
garrulous poet Henry Halloran.
If it is inadvisable to appoint publicans as
officers in the N.S. W. volunteer or p irtially-pajd
forces, it is still less desirable to have usurers in
command Constant applicants for ca. sta. orders
are more lively to be at home in court than in
camp.
N.S.W. rx-Attorney-General Want is pre-
paring himself for battle. He has applied for a
lease of 2Joyds. frontage at Turriell Bay, Port
Hacking, for oyster-culture. Two hundred yards
of oysters ! King Cabbage-tree evidently means
to Jay in a big stock of viin.
Of Frank Stanley Dobson, once a mem-
ber of Vie. Leg. Council, Mortimer Franklvn
once sa>d : “ If Dobson knew as much as he
pretends there d be nothing left for anybody else
to Know.’ Which wasn’t bad—for a man tarred
with exactly the same brush !
l hat ( since officially-contradicted) story as
to Sydney D.T. directorate having, after long
discussion, decided by a majority of one to “ rat ”
on federation, is now averred to have rested on
statements made by a D.T. director in the pre-
sence of witnesses at the bar of a pub.
A well-known Murrumbidgee squatter
takes the “saxpence” whenever he is asked to
drink. He also takes it when he himself
shouts. At local pubs, his little fad is
numored, and the waitress brings in a glass con-
taining a sixpence, which the old fellow solemnly
takes and pays for with the drinks ordered. The
coins eventually reach the charities.
A recent-date B:isb. Courier prints half-
a-dozen probate advts. with ordinary formal head-
ings— In the will of John Germain, tanner, de-
ceased ; “In the will of John Joseph Johnson,
farm -r, deceased ’ ; and so on. Then follows an-
other advt. headed “ In the «■ ill of Edward Robert
Druiy C.M.G., late of Brisbane, Gen. Mgr. of
the Bank, Ltd.”—and no “deceased.”
During the last Maori war a petty-officcr
of the Brisk was wounded while serving at the
front, arid sent into Ancle aiid hospital. One day
the captained the Brisk, with a party of visitors
including several.ladies, visited the hospital, and’
when they came to the petty-officer, the captain
paused at his bedside and asked him how he was
getting cm. “Pulling out of it, eh?” “No,
your honor ; I'll never pull out of it.” “Oh non-
sense, man. Why shouldn't yon ? ” “ Well, your
honor, how could I—with a bullet slap through
“ •'♦’ad basket and lodged in my bloomin’water-
tank ? ”
IN BUSH SHANTY—AFTER SHEARING.
THE OLD WHALRR: “ By- , yer bee great men; but where is one of ye that
can BKAT ME for pure blanky villainy?”
Supreme Court etiquette. Salomons,
Q.C., to the N.S. W. Chief Judge in Equity I
nave always understood it to be the duty of the
bar to laugh whenever your Honor was pleased to
make a joke ; but Mr. Gordon goes a step further
—he sneezes whenever your Honor coughs.”
~ , i • .
Courtesy is always chartmng. At the
judicial choking of Murderer Phjlpot at Welling-
ton (M.L.) tho clergyman, having finished the
ueath service, asked: “Is there anything you
would like to say now, Mv. Jrhilpot?’ And Mis-
ter Phil pot made his few remarks and was grace-
tly jerked to glory.
“ I do not desire to call up any wrathful
sentiments, but to follow the example of the Great
Founder of the Christian faith, and forgive my
assailants.”—Premier Forrest, rc the lvalgoorlio
miners. Premier Forrest, when asked to say a few
words to said miners : “ No ;
I’m d cl if I do ! ”
Forrest plain and Forrest
colored ?
BETWEEN POSES.
“Arc you malin: a fortune at the ‘Altogether’?”
“Oh, no; only a bare living!”
Ausfralian-mterest birthdays for May are :
9 apt ’ Ramiell doyenni S. A. Assembly, 74 on Sun-
day, Die ist; Lord Hampden, 57 on Monday, the
2ncl; 1 re:ls - Holder (S. A.), 48 on the 12th ; and dele-
*at* V ; L ’ Solomon (S. A.) 40 on the 13th ; Lord
Oarington, 5.j, and Chief Justice Madden, 54, on
the Ifif-b ! Henniker Heaton, 50, on the 18th ; mis-
sionary J. G. Paton, 74, on the 24th; Adye
Douglas, 83, F. T. Sarguod (Vic.), 04, and Lo'rd
Glasgow, 05, on the 30th.
oi, w , t> ■ x
element YY ragge writes to Brisbane papers
« rumor that he met the Man who is Dead in
Europe. Clement asseverates in three-fold form :
Firstly, that he never met Drury abroad;
secondly, that he never set eyes upon him even in
Queensland; thirdly, that lie consequently
wouldn't know him if he did meet him. This
disposes of one canard. But it leaves one wonder-
YVragge knows that he didn’t meet Drury
seeing that he didn't know Drury,
1 lie late John Roseby, of. Sydney, was an
enthusiastic “ temperance ” orator. His chief
weapon was anecdote. Once at Kiama he was
dilating upon the evils of the accursed drink, and
cited the fact that on that very morning he had
met a man who, a few months previously, had
started drinking and had never stopped until he
lnd swallowed liis bullock-team, dray and fixings.
“ That's a fact, Mr. Roseby,” chipped'in a red-
nos<d anf,itor > ‘‘ for 1 saw pole sticking out of
llls throat.”
The new editor of Melb. Argus is equally
celebrated for his literary versatility and his
al sent-mindedness in mundane trifles. He seldom
leaves the house without first putting the query to
some member of his family, “ Have I got a collar
on?” Once, in Coll ins-street, he was surprised by
a friend accosting him with, “ Really, Willoughby
one-and-nine is too much to give for a made-up tie
of that sort.” “Timotheus” had placed the tie
with the pattern inwards and the price-marked
Lack uppermost!
Dr. Lalor, son of
doughty olrl Peter, of
Eu reka Stockade, lias
settled in practice in
Orange, N.S.W.
H. : “ The re-
cently - deceased
Edmund Finn, ‘Gar-
rvawen,’ who lately
died at the age of
7!), was a very little,
stoutish, boyish,
clean-shaven, chub-
by, spectacled man,
much the cut of
Thiprs. He was a
Me,lb. reporter, al-
most the first one,
not long after the
first printed news-
paper began, and slid
from newspaperdom
to a rosy Parliament
House billet whence
he was snugly pen-
sioned. Duffy ad-
vised him to pen his
re mi n iscences. Ho
slithered off an im-
mense quantity of
stuff gathered in two
bulky volumes with
little judgment as to
the relative import-
ance of things a
most garrulous Gar-
rvowen. Neverthe-
less, his work is not
only invaluable but
indispensable. Even
the twaddle shows
how happy Mel-
bourne was beforo
the accursed hungpr
of gold. His son
Edmund is the jour-
nalist, and his son
Pat the theatri-
cal ist.”
Moriarty, Crown Prosecutor, examining
witness at Armidale, N.S.W., circuit court:
“ Your name is ?” “ Yes, sir.” “You
are a widow lady, residing wid your husband?”
“ It’s tho fun of the world,” &c.
„ it m
H. 11. Champion, The Bulletin regrets
to hear, doesn’t get a fortune after all. But he
has had a glorious week’s enjoyment, which to his
cynical nature should have been as balm and oint-
ment. He suddenly discovered that he was one
of the most beloved of men in the eyes of persons
whom he had not previously suspected of any par-
ticular affection for him.
Hans Irvine, the wealthy proprietor of the
enoririoiisly-successful Great Western Vineyards
(Vic.), bought into the business «itliout any pre-
vious experience, and by dint of intelligence and
bard work rushed it to the front rank.
Irvine was previously litho-
graphic foreman at Ni-
ven’s printing-office, Balia
rat.
Artist Harry Furniss lias been telling his
friends in London a story of how, when he was in
Australia, he came across, near Melbourne, a
little hotel, kept by a Frenchman. The French-
man showed him, with great pride, the name
“John Millais” in his visitors’ book. “Ze
president of your Royal Academy, monsieur ! ”
Furness smiled. But the Gallic publican was
quite serious. Afterwards, F. discovered that Sir
John had a half-brother, also named John Millais,
in Australia. Has anyone else heard of this half-
brother ?
An ancient deadbeat was once brought
before old Johnny Fawkner in Collingwood court
(Vic.). After the police' had testified to the de-
graded character of the ruffian at the bar, the
Father of Victoria began as usual : “It is dis-
graceful to see a man, on the verge of the grave ”
“Garo!” interrupted the delinquent, “wotare
yer givin’ us, Johnny Fawkner ? Why, I was in
the same regiment with yer ole dad, I was. An’l
remember helpin’ to flog ” “ Take him away !”
screamed Fawkner,clutching his skull-cap, “Three
months—take him away.” And they rushed the
bad man out with his undesirable reminiscence
unfinished.
THEY COULD CONVINCE HIM.
POINTER : “Did pe see what a covie sez in the paper this mornin'?
Sez the younss A ustralian has no PUSH.”
PIFFER: “ Dicken ! Wish he was here.”
Reseigh Martin, the journalist who came
into prominence some years ago through his
libel on the late N.B. \V. Railway Commissioner
Eddy, died on April 8, at Little'Bay Hospital,
Sydney, after a painful illness. He had but lately
returned from Westralia, whither bad luck fol-
lowed him. Reseigh Martin was a man of con-
siderable capacity, but seemed ever pursued by the
demon of misfortune.
After the other subscriptions to the charity
had been acknowledged in a lump, this notifica-
tion appeared in Melb. Auk, in lonely glory :
Sr. Vincent's Hospital Building Extension Fund.
David S.ynie ... ... £lO 10 0
Autocrat David may be a not uncheerful giver,
but doesn’t ho understand the science of adver-
tising ?
One effect of the Spanish-American trouble
should be to differentiate real American sentiment
from the Irish-Amerioan opinion which, though
rabidly antagonistic to England, will look side-
ways at an attack upon the Catholic nation, par
excellence. Not a few Hibernian families, by the
way, claim Spanish descent, the classic appellation
of Moran, amongst others, being said to be of
Peninsular origin.
Strange how often bigotry gets the upper
hand of com in on sense. The two daughters of a
N.S. W. M. P. not long deceased (who was converted
to the R.C. faith shortly before his marriage), fell
in love with two Protestants, hut were forbidden
by him to marry. These four fond lovers pined in
solitude for about 30 years. Now that the paternal
obstacle is at last removed, two of them have
recently been united and the other pair are about
to unite.
Joaquin Miller, tho poet of the Sierras,
went to Klondyke to get material for a volume of
Arctic verse. But the muse does not dwell in
those frozen lands. Joaquin—who is an old mail
now, and should know enough to write his winter
poetry in front of a good coal fire in his own
house—forced his way to Dawson City in the
teeth of a blizzard, and lost his ears, several toes
and a finger by frost-bite. A poet without ears !
But, as Joaquin still wears his hair long, his lack
of ears will probably not be noticed.
“ It may interest many of my readers to
know that at a drawing-room the Queen frequently
displays jewellery to the value of <£lso,OuO on her
person” (London Figaro). That's where the
“augustness” of the Royal person chiefly cornea
in.
The document under the hand and seal <>f
George 111., appointing Rev. Sam. Marsden to
the chaplaincy of N.S. Wales, which Rev. J. 8.
Hassall, Marsden’s grandson, is reported to lie
exhibiting as a curiosity in Brisbane, is not the
only extant Australian souvenir of the grotesque! y-
pious George. The communion plate now stored
in St. Phillip’s, Church Hill, Sydney, was speci-
ally presented by the monarch to the budding
settlement, in the hope, as he fervently expressed
it, that his Australian subjects would “ ever
remember God.” There is a similar memento of
the same king in a Hobart church. George 111.
ordered his name to be carved on the plate, so
that he and God should be indissolubly united in
the minds of the worshippers.
M.B.S. : “Surely The Bulletin is ‘a
bitout’ in saying that H. 11. Champion ‘was a
respectable failure in London, where well-dressed
and polished professors of Socialism excite sus-
picions by their uncommonness.’ It is rather the
other way about. The London Socialist leaders
are nearly all ‘ toffs.’ IT. M. Hyndman, leader of
the Social Democratic Federation, is a Cambridge
M. A., a West End society man, and nobody in
London wears a shinier hat or a more fashion-
ably-cut frock-coat. Sidney Webb, G. Bernard
Shaw, and the Fabian group, are well-to-do
middle-class men ; and nearly all the well-known
men in the movement are of the professional
class. Champion’s unpopularity lay rather in his
utter indifference as to whether he pleased his
friends by what he said and did. or otherwise.
He is too diabolically candid for ordinary humans’
endurance.”
What do Austra’i m statesmen read ? A
colleague of Premier Kingston’s, during the Con-
vention-time in Melbmrne, told a friend that
Kingston never reads a book. He reads Thb
Bulletin and the Australasian and the daily
palters, but has no fondness for literature. Pre-
mier Turner is said, by those who know him well,
to have never read a book through in his life.
He is what actors call a “quick study ” in getting
up a subject, but then the authorities are brought
to him. He has never made a quotation or liter-
ary allusion in his life. Premier Reid is said to
read the trashiest of light novels—Parkes used to
charge him with never having read a book at all.
The two greatest readers in Australian politics
are Alfred Deakin and Dr. Coekburn. Deakin
simply reads everything. His acquaintance with
French literature is really remarkable. Cock-
burn's speciallity is Aim rican literature, and
philosophy of the t"an cendental order. Braddon
has written excellent books of travel, and is an
ardent lover of letters. Attorney-General Isaacs
is an omnivorous reader—history and poetry for
choice.
Australasian bards who
have found their \v;iy into local
Parliaments : Adam Lindsay
Gordon (S. A.),Thomas Bracken
(M L.), Kenni tli Maekay (N.S.
Wales); Domett, William For-
ster, and Henrv Parkes reached
the Premiership—two of these
were more than poetasters. J.
C. Fitzpatrick and Alfred Allen
have carried a slender reed into
the N.S. W. House of Talk, and
have war I tied to a volume or two
esc') : and m; rt al Jawbone
N'i!d has sung with dire effect.
Others have t" an ted, but so
little and so modestly as to merit
\espeetful silence.
Maori land Colonial Secre-
tary Carroll describes Duthie,
the new Tory member for Wel-
lington, as “a hard headed, ob-
stinate man with a bull-dog look
in his eye and a face t hat would
stop a battle-axe.” This sort
of thin"' will fjet Dtithie, who
is tolerably {pin, a t all times,
into a fine, mellow temper for
the meet inprof Parliament. But
the M.L. Government doesn’t
feel “ good ” towards Duthie.
On election-day some fiend surreptitiously fastened
one of his placards on Premier Seddon's back, and
the insult sticks.
Auckland Weekly News tells a story of
the lately deceas'd Maori chief, Haki Whanga-
whanga, of Ngunguru. One day when riding out
with a pakelia friend they came to a steep hill.
The pakeha got off and led his prad to the top,
but Ilaki took it with a rush and rode all the way.
“ A hy didn t you walk up ami save your horse?”
asked the pakeha. Replied Haki : “No fear,
Plenty more horse, only one Haki Whanga-
whanga.”
A recent English mail brings news of the
death of Aubrey Beardsley, t lie clever eecentrio
artist—noted for the beauty of his “line” and
the “decadence ” of his treatment.
The story of the three Vic. boys drowned
whilst trying to drown a cat—which, after all, duly
escaped—recalls that the first recorded victim in the
Yarra was the son of John Batman, a youngster
who fell from the bank while in the act of dis-
posingof a litter of superfluous kittens.
The British Treasury prosecuted Lord
William Nevill ; but in N.S. Wales, when even
a public institution—a municipality, for instance
wants to prosecute a person for, say, embezzle-
ment, it has first, if the person has gone to
another province, to either pay or guarantee pay-
ment of the cost of bringing accused back. More
than one man is blossoming in Westrilia against
whom warrants have been issued, which warrants,
through the poverty of the person directly
aggrieved, have not heen served.
Although since bis election to Sydney City
Council Alderman John Norton has taken reason-
ably good care that his colleagues shouldn’t fall
asleep over their deliberations, it wasn’t till the
other day that he fairly started-in to make !em
sit up with language which one of them charac-
terised, Dr. Watts fashion, as “calculated to
arouse the angry passions of aldermen,” but which
John maintained was in order, as being both
Scriptural and grammatical. And, as usual, John’s
end of the controversy was up at the finish. John,
it appears, holds a special retainer for the adjective
** blasted.


** three good THIKTGS ”
. . Madk in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
H 0.l brook’ Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s i, "“ V r iiie°*ai
"68 PRIZE MEDALS.” *
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
JS BREWED FROg THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ BURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRANZ JOSEF
ILSERTER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin.— Re that Q. Divisional
Board clerk’s salary of .£l3O a year. On the lower
Diamantina, where nips are Is. apiece and flour
and sugar 7d. per lb., tho clerk’s salary , for years
had been only £lOO a year. At tho end of ’5)7
the Board had an economical fit, and, after
removing the headquarters to an obscure cattle-
station, offered the clerk £5O a year and find him-
self. Of course, he threw up the billet, \Vhich was
thankfully accepted by the storekeeper of said
station. The latter is now clerk of the Rabbit
Board, ditto Marsupial, ditto Divisional, and a
station storekeeper at tho munificent salary of
<£l7s a year. But note—the fat men members of
these Boards get paid Is. per mile for attending,
and, as some of them travel over 100 miles, the
amount received much augments their member’s
screw.— Ytmpah.
* * • ,
Damper: “Re kangaroo springing off his
tail. I did not think that any bushman was mad
enough to think so. T’other day saw a ’roo bound-
ing along over some fine silt as level as a billiard-
table, only deposited the night before, and I could
have sworn that I saw his tail strike the ground
with each spring, and heard the ‘whop.’ But on
examining the silt I could not find any impression
of the tail.”
* * » *
A surveyor was camped in a creek opposite
a station slaughter-yard, and, while the ehainmen
were at dinner, tho station-hands rounded up
some eattlo and cut out a beast for killing. Ping 1
went a bullet fair into the tin plate of a long
Castlereagh man. “ Strewth !” ho quietly re-
marked, as ho reached for another hunk of
damper, “that bullick muster ducked 1 ”
* * * *
S. le W. :—“lf ‘Popgun’ wishes long
tallies, let him go to Coonong after tho general
shearing, when the studs are being shorn. They
are tho Vermont, leather-necked, concertina-
skinned, wrinkly brutes that are worth more than
racehorses, more carefully bred than princes (of
course) and tended better than lordlings. [ believe
that five per diem satisfies King M'Caughey.
But the sheep must be shorn—no cuts and every
ounce taken off true and level. Each fleece is
picked up, put in a bag, weighed and entered; and
each sheep is known by a clip or something of
metal on the ear. The pay is good and the tucker
and cook are good, because Sam is a good em-
ployer, although a Ballymena man.
♦ * • *
Adolphus ana Frederick wero working to
clear adjoining sections of bush, and, as their con-
tracts drew to a close, their work brought them
within hailing distance. ’Dolph’us, a tremendous
worker, had a funny little habit of knocking off at
any time after 4.30, if he heard a “ mo-poke ” cry.
He would call out to Fred, “ Thero is tho mo-poke ;
it is time to knock off," and not another chop
would he give. Fred, not so enthusiastic a
toiler, used sometimes to take advantage of this
peculiarity, and get his neighbor to stop work a
bit early by giving an imitation of tho bird’s cry.
One evening, feeling a little languid, he gave a
call : but, tho humor of the thing striking him
suddenly, his “mo-poke” broke in the middle into
a gurgle of laughter. Of course, that gave away
the show. Next evening, however, a real mo poko
went and perched in a tree not a chain from where
Adolphus was chopping. “ Mo-poke ! ” “ No, you
don’t, Fred ; you had me last night! ” (Whack,
whack, whack !) “ Mo-poke / ” (Whack, whack !)
“ Mo-poke t” (Whack, whack, whack!) “Mo-
poke! “No, I’m d dif you do.” (Whack,
whack!) Moral: Australia can create her own
/Esop’s fables when she wants them.
* » * *
There is a one-horse Q. town where a solid
Jaypee runs the whole show—pub., store, and post-
office. Nearly every soul in the place owes him
money. Some years ago ho gave the land and
found the needful to build the church near his
pub. He owns the church now, and, as he can’t
get a teacher to suit, holds forth himself, and every-
one is expected to attend, for the pub. is strictly
closed during church hours. “Now, boys,” he
HOW'S THAT , UMPIRE?
(Mr. Stiekemup who has just incautiously asked
the burning question of the hour—from a
group of his pals—is answered unexpectedly
by the landlord.)
“ Wot's the score , eh?” (taking down slate) “ YOUR'S
is 17/6 —and I think it’s time yer closed
yer innin’s an’paid-up, fur Hi’m not going
ter bowl ter yer any longer! ”
will say, “ drink up quick and lively ; there’s the
bell ringing.'’ Whereupon he dons his long coat
and tall hat, mounts tho pulpit, and pounds away,
finally closing the big Bible with a bang. Then
the crowd awake quite refreshed, and ready to
fill Yin up again.
The Bulletin receives this comforting
epistle from Out Back: —
Dear Bulletin.— Seeing nothing in the poetry line up
to dick Lately in the Bulletin some of the Blokes that
heard me recite the enclosd poem advisd me to send it to
you, fearing that if you did not receive anything good
soon that you would shut up your poetry column to the
rest of the poets who are only having a sleep Just now.
this poem is about a parsons family that lived near a
station that i was shepherd on. the Bloke that was Clerk
at the Shed this Summer told me that you would give a
quid for a poem Like this if you send over the quid for
this i will send you over another Poem i have 3 spicy
ones i will send you over if you promise not to publish
my name to them as I want to marry the gardener’s
daughter and they are a pretty Sanky push, i also send
you a sketch which i took at the military sports, the
man who is sitting on the fence is a publican and the one
underneath is a volunteer, he has a spiked helmet,
another publican oome along and lifts the volunteer up
suddenly and the spike stuck in the publican on the
fence, the Clerk said you would give a quid for this so
hoping that you send the quids along next mail, I am
yours Truly, .
Dear B. —In answer
to “ Nardoo ’’ (9/4/98),
Q. black cockatoo
nests in Feb., March,
or April, according to
whether winter will bo
early, regular or late ;
cocky knows ! Nest in
hollow tree—generally
trunk of a dead gum.
We used to try and
find nest before “ sit-
ting - time,” as ib is
ready-made, and only
one egg is laid. To
find nest —watch cock
bird when seen, shortly
b e fo r o sun-
down in months
named. He goes
“ home ” either
to feed his mate
or to relieve her
from sitting
duty. Except
ab sundown and daybreak, the “ off-duty ”
bird keeps away miles from nest. Have
looked into their habits after I have found a
nest. Probable reason for nesting before
winter: Oak-nuts are “ripest” in win-
ter, and young cocky loves his oak-nut
juice, prepared by mother.— Leslie Oakes,
Parramatta. P.S. —How would a Bulletin col-
lection of Australian birds’ eggs succeed ? Make
it “national”—vested in trustees supported
Boom and curator) by ? That’s where l fail !
The eggs would roll in, anyhow. I’d give 200 sorts
—for a start.—L.O.
• * * *
Short-Stager: “Re swaggies’ day jour-
neys. It’s only when a man has an object in view
that he walks a long distance in a. day. There is
generally nothing gained, when looking for work,
by rushing things. A man I know walked 154
miles in four days carrying a’good-sized swag,
tucker, water, and two parrots which he was
taking home for pets. I myself once walked
47 miles in seven daps, and came to the conclusion,
during that mad rush across country, that horses
aro a better mode of locomotion than shanks’
ponies.”
THE DANIELS FAMILY, OF QUEENSLAND.
“There has been no death in the family for over 42 years. There is not a cripple in the family. Not one member of the family ia tongue-tied. Not one
has ever beem insolvent. Not one has ever been summoned for anything-exeept to act as juryman.” This is the member for Cambooya's proud boast as he points
to the above group. Inqu iry discove rs that “Old” Mr. Danie ls is the son of an English man-o'-warsman, and was born in London in 1821. “Old” Mrs.
Daniels was bor n in London in the year 1819. They were married in 1844. The issue of the marriage was eight sons, the oldest and the fourt of
whom died in london at the age of two. Daniels, senr., and family arrived in Brisbane in 1861, and his youngest son was born in Toowoomba in 1863. The
last return of the Daniels family showed that the re were 52 of them, and that there was a markes tendency to increasc. Until recently, as Mr. H. Daniels,
M.L.A., points out, no member of the family was over 5ft. 7in. in height, but now the younger ones seem to look down on their elders. Mr. Daniels,
senr., and his six sons all had forma adjoing each other on the Darling Downs, but they found it neeessary to seek fresh ficlds and pastures new, and settled on
the resumed portion of Feralees run between Emerald and Springsure, where they śelectes 22,000 acres. It was on this selection the above picture (all Daniels)
was taken on December 20tb, 1897.-WORKER. After this, who woudn't dare to be a Daniels?
An Out-Back tragedy as related by “ Splod-
ger ” : “ O’Toole, returning home from shooting,
had occasion to crawl through a wire fence, and,
carefully dragging his double-gun after him, one
barrel went off, just grazing his head. ‘Begorra,
Kate,’ he said when he got home, ‘ it’s meself
that nearly shot meself getting through the fince
beyant. Come here to this fince, and I’ll show
you how it happened.’ He proceeded to crawl
through, when —bang went the other barrel ! and
O’Toole was straightway with the saints.”
• * * *
A Maoriland widow’s application for assist-
ance from bush-fire-sufferers’ fund :
“ I have in family four dairy cows, two pi(rs, a horse,
and three little childien, all these by ray first husband,
and two goats in full milk, and a baby by my second hus-
band. All of the animals was lost in the fire.”
“ Compton ” on pollard as a food :
Re the alleged appearance ot pollard on the table
among German settlers. I lived for days on an almost
identical preparation myself, while travelling, some years
back. I was under the impression, until reading a recent
Bulletin par., that my experience was unique, as I have
never met an Australian yet who could be got to regard
pollard as anything more than fowl-feed. Being reduced
to some pollard and treacle through an accident at
an inland river, and being unable to replace lost flourand
meat and sugar without serious loss of time, I decided to
pull through on mash and molasses. Found it go down
extremely well. It wanted making scientifically by boil-
lngup the billy first, dropping in the meal a little at a
time and stirring much. The resulting mixture, fixed up
with syrup, was most palatable. I can say, too, truth-
fully, that I was never in better health either of brain or
body than during those few days. Pollard is a mild, natural
cathartic, and, judging from my own experience of it, a
particularly wholesome food. One week’s bush travelling
on white-flour damper and salt-horse has always been
enough to lay me out stiff and dead, with every derange-
ment of the digestive apparatus known to medical
science. The lack of fruit, vegetables, and light food
generally is usually quoted in the bush as the cause of
this. But all these things can, apparently, be made up
for by simply making damper of flour mixed with
pollard —about half-and-half. Whilst living on this,
in the bush, I have always had perfect health, despite
traditional influence of baking-powder. In civil-
isation, too, I have found that bread made in the
same way comes out with a peculiarly granular
structure, most conducive to digestibility. You
can’t make professional bakers believe this. They
yearn inexpressibly, when they do make brown bread, to
build it up on a bran-and-flour basis—a mixture pre-
eminently' calculated to stick in a dyspeptic’s gizzard.
An irritating series of experiences in this connection
have forced the perverseness of the tribe upon me.
Shearers’cooks, it is true, will, as a rule, profit by new
ideas. But the town-baker is the slave of inherited tra-
dition. And as the tradition says bran, it is bran, and
the insides of the race must stand it. They have no
bowels themselves, and no regard for those of others. I
have even gone and bought the stuff and taken it to
them so that there should be no question about it, and
been received, when calling for the bread, with the
pitying smile due to a man saved from destruc-
tion only by the superior penetration of his baker-
friend. “Oh ! you made a mistake. You brought us
pollard. But ice fixed it up all right. We got some
BRAN, and here is the result!”—a chaffy and indigestible
mass outraging dietetic principles much more violently
than the plain flour-and-water “sinker” of swagdom.
The “ brown bread ’’ of commerce is indeed a ghastly
fraud, but the virtues of the pollard mixture demand
universal proclamation in these days of the Almignty
Liver.
• • * •
Essay by a Poverty Bay Maori boy on
Sheep:—
Dear Sir lam going to write you about the sheep. The
sheep is a very useful animal to us and in the time before
there was a flocks of sheeep they like it very much and it
say in the Holy Bible there was the only animal in the
worjd because it got nothing to do whit anybody and I
see in the Holy Bible it says this. The sheep is the same
as Jesus Christ because when Christ was kill and taken to
the cross he dosent cry, well when we kill a sheep he
dont’t cry nothing at all. The wool of the sheep is sent
to England to made cloth and blancket and many other
cloth we use, and his mutton we use them to eat this all
I can tell you about God blessed you.
* * ♦ •
Apropos Q. plague of ‘mosquitoes, one
farmer tells how ho lost nine pigs in two days
from the pest, and how ho saved the lives of the
others only by using mosquito - curtain. Just
fancy a pig enveloped in mosquito-curtain ! Just
fancy also the venomous vigor of mosquitoes that
could actually kill a pig. Why, he’s proof against
snake-bite !
Yon K. : “In the backyard
next door to me a playful kid
contracted an admiration that
amounted to hero-worship for the
pet kangaroo. For hours the kid
would stand and gaze rapturously
upon the marsupial, or beguile
that calmly - superior animal's
leisure with wondronsly-exeeuted
gambados. At last, after much
consideration of its august patron’s
mode of progression, it one day
butted the kangaroo into hurried
locomotion, and proudly followed,
balancing itself more or less suc-
cessfully on its hind legs in the
approved marsupial fashion, till
the kangaroo turned and regarded
its base imitator with disgust.
How far this strong sense of elec-
tive affinity might have influenced
the kid’s future walk in life can’t
be known, because the want of a
caudal balancing-] ole ended in a
broken leg and the experimenters
destruction.”
A. : I struck a curious team
once on a Tas. potato-farm. It
consisted of a tired old frame of
a horse, a worn-out cow, and a
woman. The team was unicorn,
with the human female in the
lead. They were hauling logs on
to the boundary-line, and the
front moke did most of the pulling.
The owner of the combination
was a fine, strong-looking fellow,
with a long iron-grey beard
colored a beautiful tawny by
tobacco-juice and bad language.
The last I saw of the woman she
was resting in the yoke with her
tongue out, her hair down, and
her stockings hanging over her
boots. The on a stump
smoking and damning the Govern-
ment surveyors.
* * *
Up iu N.Q. “ Charge—
drunk.” “Guilty, yer Worship.”
“ Fined one shilling.” “ I’ve just
got the bob and no more, yer Worship. Not
a bean for a drink. Surely yer Worship won’t
take away my last bob ? ” “ Fined one shilling ;
example must be made.” Fine paid. After the
court. Beak: “ Here, boozer, oumnavadrink ! ”
Good old Christian country, N.Q.
* * * *
Concerning a certain bush post-office. It
was past five o’clock when I arrived at the Yow-
bahbudgeree post offiee-cum-school, and the young-
sters were all outside. The postmaster-cum-
schoolmaster asked me in to wait. Presently
there was a cry of “ Mail’s coming ! ” and the
schoolmaster ran out to meet the mail-boy. “If
the youngsters get hold of the bags,” he said,
“we mightn’t see e’m again.” Wo were just out
in time to take the bags from the mail-boy as the
youngsters made a rush for them. “Get back,
Charlie,” shouts the schoolmaster to the ring-


Liverpool apd Lopdop
(Jlobe IpsOraocc Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES,
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nina Millions Three Hundred, and
Twenty-eight Thousand Hounds,
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.S.W. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO
PKP.TY, KENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus ami
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter CYmmino Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moist, Esq. ; lion. 11. K. KaTKIiJ Esq.; and
Kitio 11. Mack ay, Ksq. ’ ..
M. W. s. Clarke, ltosident secretary.
Head, Offiea A ustrnlfisiu
62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
TREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 eaqli. ,
Recommended by the leading Physioians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
4 sz&r'.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SoftCa O'/as Sbirts
Made to Mkasurk.
Post free 30/- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sau>u)‘‘ shirt, on
receipt.' of P.0.0.' or Sfsmps, 5/0.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE HHOTII PUS
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnporc Khaki and Assam Silk.
Recent events roundaboutly recall the rude check
placed upon Viscount Canterbury’s deadheadtsm when
Melb Theatre Roval management stopped bun at the
door for tickets. But Canterbury, however, only shared
with many others the erroueous notion that the vice:
regal box is at the Governor’s disposal free of charge.
• Bill Dind, old-time lessee of Sydney Theatre Royal, was
also landlord of a North Shore pub., at which put up a
Tasmanian crew, about to take part in an interprovinc'al
boat-race. They were a superiah lot, and as particular as
befitted aristocrats from the Derwent. And one day,
when one of ’em discovered a caterpillar in the cabbage
at dinner, Bill Dind was summoned, and the insect shown
him. “Caterpillar in the cabbage? I’ooh! thats
nothing. It isn’t a Tasmanian caterpillar. It’s a special
New South Wales variety, and very choice eating ! ’’
Dear Bulletin.— Florence St. John wasn’t “a hum-
drum lawyer's wife” when the late Marins wooed and
won her She was the wife of a third-rate singer, one St.
James who came out to Australia some dozen, or so,
vears ago to “ trv his luck.’’ His luck being “out " as
usual, poor St. James went back ’Ome and, 1 believe, duly
died. —F.
Melba’s father built the Melb. Exhibition. For Melba
to sing in ?
Haresfoot; “Instructive to hear that the draper has
the same employe! rule as the manager: ‘Husband or
w ife, hut not both.’ The stalwart moustachioed gent
who’ serves at the ladies’ undergarbage would find
Othello’s occupation gone if the word went round that lie
was married. Suppose he was to say, ‘Well, my wife
says ’ Why, the doves would give a little shriek.”
B E. • “ Let one molecule, at least, uplift itself in pro-
test that Wilson Barrett has been let down very lightly.
‘ Claudian’ confirmed (for this writer, at any rate) an
opinion w'hich ‘The Manxman initiated. Barrett is
essentially a licnd-actor. He acts with his brains, scarcely
ever with his heart and blood. His art is cold and
mathematical. On the stage he gives abundant impres-
sion that every ‘ position,’ almost every gesture, has been
‘ studied ; ’ maybe looking-glassed. The last ounce of
‘effect’ is extracted from each situation in which the
central character figures, hut it is as though a column of
insensate eights and nines had been rigidly added up;
the total is correct, hut. figures don’t thrill outside a
treasurer’s surplus.. One spectator may sadly record that
his heart has never jumped for anything Barrett has said
or done. He is too commercial. And his voice ! Pathos
consists in a semi-raucous rumbling ; a ventriloquial pro-
jection of the vocal organ into the recesses of the dia-
phragm ! The trick of the preacher ! Naturally, Wilson
B. appears to elocute with a sort of hybrid brogue which
might pass for Manx with Bete, but, ye gods ' when did a
Roman prefect sav ‘ Ye ca-an’t do it ? ’ Physically, H .B.
is what the late Charles Keen called ‘ stodgy,’ and, con-
sequentlv, dignity is principally obtained by taking the
longest t ime to cross a stage that has, probably, ever been
exploited in the history of acting.”
Holdar M. : “ Bassed the entrance to a metropolitan
theatre on a recent pav-morning, with edifying effects.
The pavement buzzed with artistic talent wearing a look
of pleasurable patience, as they exchanged ‘ financial
statements’ re the past and foretold a future ‘ sui plus.
The ‘stars’ mostly monopolised the gaudy portico, while
the rank-and-file stood slightly apart, as was only right
and proper. 1 detected an uneasiness, however, in then-
close converse as a glance w-as furtively taken across the
street. On the opposite kerb was edged a further
hatch of muddvrchioned mummers, these latter evidently
‘ resting ’; the while they kept strict watch on the
Thespian temple. The 8.0. clock presently heralded
developments, and both bodies of the ‘ perfesh girded
up their loins for the fray. The one party duly invaded
the treasurer’s sanctum, and, jingling the cash, turned
to find their retreat cut off by an advance movement of
their ‘resting’ pals. Some valiant efforts were made
to escape unscathed, but the enemy was not to be
lightly denied, and the salaried ones mostly succumbed
to the extent of a few shillings or a drink at the corner.
Which remarks may shed some light on the mystery con-
nected with the fitful appearance of that handbill with
its galaxy of talent w-ho contrive to survive pending the
next holiday.”
Wilson Barrett was ItQrn in Essex, Eng., in ’46. Kyrle
Bellow is 53 years old; Albani, 46; Melba, 31. Irving,
born in '3B; Toole, in ’33. Beerbohm Tree, about same
age as Barrett. Bernhardt, born in ’44. Langtry is 48.
At a concert in aid of a Vic. border-town’s brass-band,
the “gent.” upon whom the chair unexpectedly devolved
delivered himself thusly “ Ladies and gents.,—l am
very pleased to see so many of you ’ore this evening ; but
I am sorry that we ’ave not bin able to give you a better
concert. In the fust place, our chairman wot promised
to be ’ere this evenin’ ’as not bin able to attend this
evenin’ owing to a ’eavy cold. We also ’ad got some good
singers for the entertainment this evenin’, but all the
best sent,in apologies, and we ’ad to take wot we could
get. I must apologise for the poor entertainment this
evenin’, but, as we will be givin’ another concert soon, T
’ope we will be able to give you a better one than this
evenin’ Thankin' you for your kind patronage, ladies
and gentlemen ; it wasn’t our ‘auH, todies and gentlemen.
Our best singers did not come, and we ad to take wot
we could git.” . . .
Haresfoot: “ Mary Anderson is genuine enough in talk-
ing of the hollowness of the stage. It * hoHow to the
girl of 38, but nothing can make it so to the of 18 ‘
The professional life of the pren.ifere hke that of a
Ta<dioni, or a Carbine, or a Ranjitsinhji, is_ brief.
When Ada Reeve reaches Mary Anderson s ;
will find the stage hollow, and who can imagine our chic y
Ada fearful of a descent into the Old-Woman line, which
now menaces actresses at Balzac s charming ag
Contempt of the stage is a Thespic affectation from
Macready downwards. Nobody ought to ezpect to find
the drudgery of bread-and-butter business jolly.
Mary Anderson as Juliet, Parthenia, or Hermione, ful-
filled her function as a thing of beauty and joy for eier
in the statued temple of the mind.”
“ I was in the stalls of the Tht&tre Gymnase ; Paris,
with Dumas the elder, looking at the play of the Denn-
Monde,’ bv Dumas the younger. The incomparable Rose
Cheri acted the evil heroine. I whispered to my com-
panion, < How indescribably fascinating. That woman
must be acting herself. She seems to beckon a man to
come on.’ My companion, not the nicest of men, was
quite shocked. ‘Chut, chut,’ said he, ‘that is Rose
Cheri, wife of Montigny, the manager. There is not a
nobler or purer woman in Paris.’ I apologised for a
hasty observation I was ashamed of making, but. it was a
tribute to the enchantment of our art. Rossi, the
Italian Tragedian. (And what a simple reminder that
Woman is at heart a rake !)
All the world s a stage, and we play to the Pit.
Puff praise is no recommendation.
The actors earn their daily bread—
We pay to hear them utter
Their speeches fine —and yet, ’tis said,
They always beg the butter.
S.S. : “ Why does a man in a theatre laugh uproari-
ously at a remark from the party on the stage, which
same remark, if originated at his dinner-table or in his
office, would either be ignored or treated with contempt.
Why is ‘damn ’ irresistibly comic on the stage, and only
a blankv commonplace in the street? It would seem to
be the open defiance of convention, the convention which
bids us not to swear publicly -in the presence of our
womankind, that tickles in the latter case. But why
laugh at stage puerilities that would not evoke the
faintest snigger in the parlor or the bar? Tnere
is no slush in literature, not even in the dread-
fullest of the penny dreadfuls or the cheap senti-
mentals, like the slush of the theatres, and yet
people with a decent, mediocre taste, in literature
swallow the stage slush, and are delighted with it.
I have seen a critic of liooks, who sets quite an Alpine
standard, roaring like a vahoo at the poor humor of an
illiterate comedian. But there, how many men revere
their ideals in a crowd? I believe the desire Of the
philosopher to seek seclusion in which to do his thinking
arises not, as we imagine, from the need of quiet so much
as from the instinctive knowledge that human association
corrupts good thought. There is an intellectual up-and-
down levelling process goes on in a large audience which,
if an un-aver **re man be not repelled altogether, or if he
do not hold himself aloft by constant effort, will surely
-impair his judgment by, in a measure, absorbing his mind
into the mass, till the latter has found its level. So the
superior man laughs with the foolsin the crowded theatre
because, for the time being, they have split their mental
difference. True individuality is only possible in a desert.
Mankind consists of two classes—inspec-
tors and inspected.
The first “tost” crop of tobacco from Vic.
Government plantation, at Wangaratta, is a blue-
mouldy failure, but “excellent crops of maize,
pumpkins, melons, Ac.,” have been raised on the
plantation. This doesn’t sound very promising.
The Turner Govt, didn’t import a tobacco-expert,
at a large salary, to grow vegetablei. He was to
settle the question as to whether the tobacco-plant
can possibly arrive at perfection in A ic., and now,
after two years of learned enquiry, he has ap-
parently only succeeded in proving that Wangs-
ratta is a fine pumpkin district.
GOT A REAL GOOD THING ON!
leader; “I’ll knock your head m if you lay a
filler on them.” But Charlie snatches one of the
three bags and proceeds to deliver to the young-
sters such letters as may—or may not -be addressed
to their parents. As soon as the schoolmaster
comes across a letter for himself he drops his share
of the mail on the floor, and tells me to have a look
myself for a letter I was expecting. I stayed the
night at the place, and saw the bags further ran-
sacked by the postmaster’s two daughters. Oh,
I say Kate ! here’s a letter for Jack Brown from
Ballarat. Must be from Polly Smith —that is
where she lives, and she was up at Brown’s a
month or so ago.” Meanwhile, the other girl
espies a long roll of paper. “ Music 1 ” she cries
addressed to Miss Robinson. Oh ! ’’—slipping
off the cover—“ ‘ Voices from the Fell! ’ Come to
the piano and we!U see what its like.’ lo the
strains of “ Voices from the Fell,” accordingly, 1
went off to sleep, wondering much if there were
many bush P.O’s like this one.—L.A.M.
• » • *
J.D. : Could fill a book with yarns
(mostly true) re the mean little tricks of the strug-
gling Australian “cocky ” to get the value of the
paltry wages out of his employes. During the
ploughing season on some alleged farms fires are
lit on the headlands to enable the ploughman to
“ strike out ” without waiting for daylight. The
average pouud-a-week man in the winter seldom
sees the homestead in the light of day. Apropos:
One night, at the usual 9 p.m. supper, the plough-
man casually asked the boss what breed of fowls
he kept. “I dunno,” grunted the “farmer” ;
“p’r’aps the missus does. What sort are they,
Mary Jane?” he called out. “ Oh, just the ordinary
sort," replied the missus from the next room.
“What for!” “ Oh, nothin’,” said the plough
man; “only, as I’ve never seen ’em off the roost,^
I thought they must bo some new-fangled breed !
Harvesting on the Terricks (V.) a while
ago ; long days and hot; and the “ min ” used to
sleep in the cart-shed —the cart-shed and stable
were both under the same roof —said roof a last
year’s Btraw-stack. The stars were always shining
long before we had supper. Then a brief smoke
and turn in. We never seemed to have properly
got to sleep before we were awakened by the boss
hustling about the horses alongside us. If, after
a moderate amount of bumping of feed-boxes, we.
still gave no signs of uprising, the boss would in-
dulge in some gruff admonitions to Punch to
“ Woa, lad !” Then he would pick a quarrel with
some of the horses and vociferously yell at Kate
tj “Stand over there, you brute ! ’’ These objur-
gations were often accompanied by a sounding
thwack along the poor brute’s ribs with a broad
paling. Sleepily some of us would curse, and the
boss would apologise with—“Liestill, boys ; don’t
let me disturb yez ; breakfast won’t be ready for
ten minutes yet.” Ten minutes ! Lord, we’ve
only just had supper ! But we try to sleep for at
least five minutes of the precious ten. No good.
No sooner does the boss leave the stable
than one of the female cockies from the house
beyant comes out into the yard and rattles a
bucket. The rattle is accompanied by shrill
shrieks of "Pig, pig, pig, pig- P*/7, P>K, P'fL
pig!” We mentally anathematise the pigs, and
every live animal on the place. Hands sore and
swollen with cock spur-thorns, eyes bunged with
sleep and from the attacks of yesterday's flios ; to
get up and start work would be torture ! O! fora
few minutes sleep ! If the “pig, pig 1 invitation
doesn’t rouse us out at once, there will be a yell
from one of the cooky’s sons of “Father ! father !
let loose the dog; there’s a cow in the crop!
Tiny ! Tiny ! 1100 l ’em, Tiny ! Hoorool ’em ! ”
It’s fearful. Through a gap in the slab wall we
catch the first faint glimpse of the coming dawn.
We must get up now. Our morning prayer is :
“May all the ” ; but it is distinctly unprint-
able. Besides, the boss is now throwing the
harness on the horse within hearing, and there are
plenty more “min” on the track looking for
binding.
In threshiup-time the men are paid by the hour
—generally sixpence an hour “ an’ Biddy'll ate
yez.” Wlien an accident has happened to the
threshing-machine the cocky hits been known to
rush off to the house with—“ Arrah Biddy, take
off the mate, the Machine's broke ! ” No thresh-
ing, no tucker ! Once a crowd of us were paid off
on Saturday night and re-engaged on the Monday
morning. Sunday’s tucker we had to pay for at
the pub. four miles away. And so on, and so
forth. Goon the land? Goto ! Same thing.
‘ THE BULLETIN'S" PORK SUPPER.—A
PLEASANT DREAM .
The Westralian inspector who is out
determining the limit of the rabbits’ encroach-
ments across the South Australian border, was
paralysed, the other day, by an inquiry from
I lead-quarters whether a couple of fox-terriers
should be sent out to him to keep the pest back !
Considering that thereabouts a million acres is a
small patch, this is quite as delightful as any plan
imported from Europe, and published
(mis-spelling and all) m the “ great papers. Ihe
inspector, by the way, reports that if the natives
would only leave the iguanas alone the latter would
effectively deal with the rabbits.
“THOU ART SO NEAR , AND YET SO
FAR!”
Sketch in Sydney Domain.
A Dark River correspondent writes to a
Vic. country paper that a packer named Davis,
whose dead body was recently found in an out-of-
the-way gully in the Omeo district, had the
peculiar distinction of occupying a second-hand
coffin made by himself. He also helped to dig
his own grave. Three months previously the
coffin was made by Davis, and occupied for a
time by the body of another man, found dead in
the same locality. A bowelFss Govt, refused to
pay more than 6/6 for making it, but with ghastly
generosity informed Davis that he could retain
the coffin, as the department was of opinion that
he had the best right to it. Copy of memo, re-
ceived by Davis, from ‘Constable Strain :-r-‘‘ Mr.
Davis,—As you appear dissatisfied with amount
allowed you for making a coffin for Alex. Beal,
the department has no objection to your retaining
the coffin, as they are of opinion you have the best
right to it.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions cotUn-
tarily submitted, whither sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
'of any province) accompany.
S: Don’t like those verses H.B. (K.): Good.
F.B. ; Suggestions handed to artist to see if he’ll
“bite” W.T.W. : Don’t remember your name. But
you can ! wonder at that. Tim Buli.ktin editorial office
alone gets about 1000 letters a week A.D.B. : Will
print story. Note posted . D. Leslie: None available.
Nodrog : “The darkness was a happy proceeding,"
was it? That settles you ! Leah : Not ill done; but
therc’d probably be libel in so close a transcription of a
recent occurrence J. Walker: Sorry neither anywhere
near the in vrk A.D.B. : “ Wives” strong, butunskilful.
Will print Meeting G.H.C. : Some poetic faculty, but
inclined to mere sound at expense of sense Half-and-
Half: .Very much so ! but, out of the “ fellow-feeling
which makes,” &c., we give the kernel of your “ Editor’s
Lament.”
Pause, subscriber, just a moment, ere another day fleets
by;
Ask yourself the solemn question ; ask yourself the
reason why
Paper men are so degraded—paper men can get no “ tick,”
Paper men, like folk around them, cannot turn out “ up
to Dick.”
Think of your unpaid subscription which has long been
overdue,
Picture to yourself the marvels those few paltry “bob”
might do ;
Send it now, delinquent—send it; wayward one, do not
delay—
Ere existence, like our oredit, shall have glided quite
away.
Machete: Triolet hardly force enough W.M.F.: Pos-
sibly “ Mates ”... Rata: Points good, but you haven't
much telling-skill .. S.C.R. : Considering. A..1.(1. :
Eat more pumpkin C.ll. : Poem would kill Ranji
quicker than boiled-flypaper juice if it got ( lie chance.
J. Fraser: Cannot print information; note posted to
Paddington. O.A.J. : It is true that Taweil, the poisoner,
was in business as a chemist at Sydney. It is also-true,
though little known, that in the very early thirties he
kept a hatter’s shop in George-street Lotus: Will
print your story ... Barkis: Kindly send address, as some-
body wants to set those verses to music Cyril O. (S.):
Better say nothing. The gentleman was not a deliberate
philanthropist, but only a reckless Bohemian ltapho :
All right; in type P.T. : Somewhat above average,
but. finishes conventionally Argosy : Gone down with
all hands ILF. : Don’t, like “ Wife " : others, may use.
Widgee: Beaten track of incident Dash : Just
what you’re deficient in G.H.C. : “ Biilloek-D iver”
sloppy. Other, pretty sentiment., hut inferior teonnique.
G.W.B. ;.Well-written, but trifling 11. Symnnds :
Nothing in it Rollo : Long, weird shriek about, nothing-
in particular Gill).: It would look spiteful
G.B. : Nothing proved h.v the fact that British cookery is
the better—from the British point of view as French is
from the French point. The national palate makes the
national cookery, and there is no final criterion of excel-
lence Corin ': Hardly a new turn. The girls were with
Rickards before they went to the Princess’s D. : Your
Hopes of Life made us long for death, but as your poem
puts it—“ How many stand waiting the same!”
C. VV.B. : Probably no faster ship, ever sailed the seas
since the world began than the Tliermopyhc E. Mae :
One or two may serve as subjects for illustration .....
D. : Glad to have really interesting matter from
any quarter C.A.S.A. : Weil put .E.II. : Mere puns
don’t, illust rate well E. Mac K. : Sorry no .opening for
the sort of matter mentioned . W.P.C. : Nothing for
comment. Lad s weak heart apparently killed him
Buzz (Q.) : All too long and loose. Even Heaven can only
be entered by the straight-and-narrow gate of compressed-
essentials Arthur l>. (Syd.): Point blunt J.C.
(Wellington): Dull, daily-paper kind of thing David
(Melb.): “ I dreamt a dream iast night My love and I sat
: on a garden seat," says you. Didn’t you find the dream
thin? Why not realise your imaginative stock, and warm
a practicable garden-seat with a nice live girl? ..Old Jack :
Slang par is solid enough, but not bright enough. Always
gild your brick and sugar your pill Jingle : Sorry ; but
it reads too like an echo of Kipling’s “Legion that Never
was Listed.” .. J.M. (Petersham): Some gleam; not
enough N. : Can’t reiterate Eureka Stockade, unless
you make account a piece of literature. Baidas put.....
Zad : That lady doesn’t sleep with enough force or
novelty Alice M. :No chop .. . Ban. : Don t bother us
with lengthy invocations of “Evening’ in theantique man-
ner. Every fresh night demands a fresh kind of poem—..
K.A.: A majority of the defenders of the Eureka Stockade,
Ballarat, had no guns, only pikes • • Y okolmma OV.**-)'
Can’t afford to dwell over-much on that b^ol ect ., a ,
WA. P. (N.Q.): Held for illustration. Note posted. Clad
(o hear from you again -and often ... B. ( R o ckh ampton)
Neither sentiment nor expression rises aboie common-
place Netta :No novelty Hawkesbury N. . Fun
rather ponderous Constance :\ ou love him for the
southern look of his jet-black curls ? But "hat do his
curls see when they look south ’cept whales
Are you warm on icebergs? S.O B.: Name and address
of alleged man who left that foundered vessel under
circumstances stated? .Observer : Noted; also .
you “ want it back again,” and “ enclose my card. Don t
you know that the Curse of Care ess Correspondents is
bn people who “ enclose my card. Write your name
and addiess. on the material document, not on a Bora-
knows-where-it-is detached occasion for profanity.... Jon
Brown: An inartistic perjury E.A.M. : Yes, but only
two or three—certainly not more than five /
Vide notice over leading article Jeudo .Vi hittj was a
brilliant journalist (of London Morn ing BbaderL who
came to Melb. in 1848 in broken health, and J>‘oken-
hearted over the death of his wife and three children.
Duffy and Aspinall were his old friends, and they a PP“ e “
to Higinbotham, as Argus editor, to give him employ,
but Wliittv was too far gone to do much. He soon died
at the house of a relative, the wife of Mr. P. Whyte,
Premier Turner’s schoolmaster W.A.H. • on ® „®®F e s n
ately tangled up; other, no point *6 x 8: Bound to
happen sometimes amongst a multitude of sirmlai items...
Scot tv W. : Nonsense ! “To whom the benefit?
known as the correct and curtest translation yuoa .
On the contrary, Copeland was the first N.S.W. Bands
Minister to extend Govt, lind-sale advts from Gow.
Gazrttr to the ordinary press F.D. . Pooh .. W innie .
Mildly pretty RF.G. : Too pyrotechnic Andy W. -
Will iook it up Carao :On the contrary, the number
of provenlv-bogus charges of assault, &c., lately ptefeueti
by women against men in Australia is simply stupendous.
J. : Miss Darragh says she isn’t, .married. W hich
set tles the matter-so far as these columns are concerned.
P • Didn't Pinero represent Mrs. Tanqueray as a
virtuous wife? .. ..Melborno: Though the prosecution
did not get. on, the gentleman will probably be dealt wltn
bv the Law Institute, or otherwise jumped upon ...
A T. D. (London) : “ Australia, mark what here I state ;
the future yet shall know my fate.’’ So will the basket.
J.E.R. (M.L.): Sorry none any good, les ; eithei
your friends ore stuffing you, or they don’t know poetry
fronu caterpillars. J.G.D. : Well meant- but no per-
formance Wanderer : Fear y oil’ll have to wander some
more F.N. : Your “poem’ about a corpse is the corpse
of a poem. Duly interred ...Five-All : “ Brand-new
idea ” is of moss-grown antiquity.


DIOGENES REID LOOKING FOR AN “INDEPENDENT” BOARD.
"The on- Attorney-Genera) yesterday suggested to Mr. Reid that an independent board should be appointed to report on the accuracy of Oovt. Statistician
Coghlan's figures [?] Federal Finance.” -Daily Paper.


A MACOTICEKT BEHEEST-
, . .„r ™iiaine £lOO,OOO, as was ori-
JSilovCo»T. -*§l near,y £MO,
The Acting Governor, after er.nsul.'.ati..n
) with the Premier, has despatched n cable-- V
gram to the Secretary of State for the Colo-
nies, asking him to convey to the \\ ar Office
authorities the wannest congratulations »f'
Victoria upon the signal victory of British <
arms in the engagement whioli took place
in the Soudan on Bth iiwt.. between the
forces under General Sn Herbert Kitchener
and the dervishes
I 3 •—'Well J|
.*•!!*??-«
Hes Su/e to
"be *
OrditjKt r)ow\
l^ej»p4
%.,■ rp
''■Ml Xo«(n\C
ir> ifca,,!
U 004 ., luridly b/icK.
. *>%*,. *'4ts
f&OySolzJlor?
Jd liKe to" die ir? d clcaw
sty r K if y Oll - C3^7
IT."
I c
\"joxj. Sure K
A be Wried iy
d\ nev/ A
v V
% <»jA V*?& f'yo/Ay*^
%i xm&w
■ ' : %o i
, i> £
'y^’l^k^e':e > inJtl i
tk v""'
t® 00 **%
s*<<s■■*?*
V*>
: , 1 ?
? fro blapKy fe<\Y.'
'tcTpJjVu.rjce youlVc.
ii?e av «S sl > > \
—
jW
is,
eaCT l^i vp Viljf: 3 "
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


Gotcli : “Everything isn’t ‘made in Ger-
many.’ To a German-Australian shopkeeper
lately said I: “Most of the toys come from Ger-
many?” “ Mozt ov ’em; but ze metal soldiers
are now made in England. Once, all ze toy-
soldiers were made in Germany, and were lead,
but ze English now make better toy-soldiers of
iron.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of o >al in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
“ Ron ” to The Bulletin :
I suggest a press-cutting agency to people looking out
for a business. No Australian opposition and not much
brainwork necessary. London and New York agencies find
their customers in publishers, authors, actors, M.’sP.,
scientists, lawyers, doctors, society entertainers, inven-
tors, traders, and the manufacturing, literary and pro-
fessional classes generally. The rates charged average
about £1 per 100 clippings, postages included. In Aus-
tralia the mainstay should be checking of advts. for large
advertisers, local and foreign. To commence satis-
factorily it would be necessary that at least six copies of
every Australasian newspaper, journal and magazine
should be forwarded regularly and free to the Press-
Cuttings office. Once convince their proprietors that it
is to their advantage to supply such free copies and all
would be plain sailing. Their returns would be derived
from orders for duplicate back numbers and the adver-
tising their publications would obtain among the P.O,
office’s clients.
“ N.” ; Herbert Booth gives himself away.
He says, “I am the Salvation Barnum.” Plain
English, it is, “ I’m a complaisant cuss, giving the
public what it wants in wooden nutmegs. My
sacred mermaid is made of a monkey stuck on to a
fish’s tail.” Booth’s theological giraffe is dead;
but he gammons it is alive, with wires to move
the head and open and shut its eyes. Even the
terrific pale horse is only Barnum’s manufactured
hairless horse. For surely Booth admits it, with
“Don’t be afraid of Hell. I’m only Barnum.”
“ASK AND YE SHALL RECEIVE.”
The best is worth asking for. “D.C.L.” Whisky
is the best that Scotland produces and you are not
likely to get it unless you specialy ask for it.
“ D.C.L.” Whisky, please !*
A letter (genuine) :
Ed. Bulletin.— Dear Sir, —I have submitted for your
examination a sketch, on which I hope to receive your
impartial opinion, and ask you to please bear in mind the
fact that I am only 19 years of age and have yet to burst
the hard, petrified crust of indigent circumstances, being
only a butcher boy ; but my position only increases my
determination. I fear not when I reflect upon the terrible
odds I am compelled to face, and that I must fight the
battle alone and unaided, without even the sad, doubtful
smile of a loving mother or the gross fallacies of an
ambitious father. I will not give up cowardly; shamefully
sacrifice and relinquish all hope and crucify ambition and
self-confidence. But each breath will be spent in en-
deavoring to reach the goal, and if my attempts are
ineffectual and my successive efforts repelled, .hen I will
have the private knowledge that I have died game.
Literature among the sausages ! Stanzas echoing
the plunkety-plunk of the basket-horse ! And in
such a spirit conceived and achieved. Hooray,
kangaroo 1
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Alcohol, the king of medicines—some-
times :
Capt. W , a skipper of old-time sort, was staying at
Barrett’s Hotel, Wellington (M.L.), when the writer first
met him—in the ’so’s. He had been there for six months,
and living chiefly on “stone-fence” —brandy and ginger-
beer. This so worked on the old man’s nervous system
that, as he developed an overpowering desire to stick his
fork into his neighbor’s eye at the dinner-table, or fling a
tumbler at the waiter, Brown, the landlord, had him
carted up to the hospital—a very small affair, under sole
control of a rigid teetotal medico. Poor W was at
once placed under temperance treatment, and the writer,
hearing that he was sinking rapidly, put a small bottle
of brandy in his pocket, and went up to see the old
sinner. The fatal screen had been drawn around his bed.
He lay almost pulseless, and with closed eyes. But when
the mouth of the bottle touched his lips, he sucked away
like a babe at the breast. Then he opened his wicked old
eyes and winked. “ Good 1” he gasped, “ we’ll cheat the
d—-d quac-k yet.” And, two days afterwards, he re-
turned to his old quarters a cured man. The doctor
declared he had never known of such a wonderful rally of
vital force. But, when he knew how the miracle had been
wrought, he wanted to prosecute the exhibitor of the
brandy.
Cripps-Clark to The Bulletin :
Bishop Stone-Wigg seems to doubt the existence of his
reverend black-brudder in Samoa who wears his white-
choker amidships, as it were. I can assure him, by the
long arm of coincidence, that your picture was taken
from an original photo. As 1 write, the splay-footed
gentleman gazes at me with the eye of faith (cabinet size),
and this is how I became possessed of him : On 15th Dec.,
’95, I was turning over my Bulletin on the deck of the
s.s. Oonah when I came upon that missionary picture
with an explanatory foot-note. It delighted me so much
that my companion asked, “ What's the joke ? I passed
it to him and, although I knew he had been down to the
islands recently, I was rather surprised when he replied,
“Yes, it’s very funny; but you should have seen the
original 1 ” “Did you?" I asked. “ Yes—l took the
photo, myself and sent, a copy to The Bulletin, knowing
it is interested in missionary work.” I could scarcely
believe him, but later he gave me a print from the
original negative—and seeing is believing.
A CURIOUS SIGHT.
A lover of the weed minus Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes to while away his leisure moments.*
RINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL.-A BALL
in aid of the funds of the above Institution
will bo held in the TOWN HALL, Sydney, on
WEDNESDAY, May 4th. Dancing, 9 p.m.
Ball Tickets, 10s. 6d. Gallery, 2s.
ONSCIENCE.—Draft received.
CARLTON BREWERY.
Publications.
FORTUNE
MtEary Cards (Mdmc-
Lcnormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
letters,
I*2 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please la.
62 TRANSPARENT CARDS. Bk.——"
SECRET
LOVERS
I’nokaße
Ib.
■ Continental Supply Agency,
i Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
655 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited
Tli© TENTH REPORT of tli© Directors
OF
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited-
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Tenth ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held at the Bank,
126 Elizabeth-street, at noon on FRIDAY, 29th APRIL, 1898.
REPORT.
The directors beg to submit to the shareholders their Tenth Report, with a Balance-sheet and Statement of Profit
and Loss for the half-year ended 31st March, duly audited. After providing for expenses of management, interest
accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, and tax on note circulation, the net profit amounted to £3,397 19s. 3d., as
shown in the balance-sheet. It will be observed from the figures in the balance-sheet that, notwithstanding the severe
drought that has been experienced in most parts of the colony, the business of the bank continues to be well main-
tained. In consequence of the low rates ruling for money, there has not been a large increase in the profits of the
bank ; but the directors are hopeful of an improvement in this respect during the current half-year. The adjustment
of the amount paid-up on ordinary shares referred to in previous reports, which has to be completed before an applica-
tion can be made to the Court for a reduction of the bank’s capital, has not yet been finally concluded, but the appli-
cation will be made at the earliest possible moment. The first instalment of the deferred deposit receipts, amounting
to £93,345 9s. 7d., will begin to mature on the 30th inst., and due provision has been made for payment of same as
they fall due. During the half-year a branch of the bank has been opened at Sunbury. The Tenth Ordinary General
Meeting of shareholders will be held at the head office of the company, 126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Friday, the
29th day of April, 1898, at noon. By order of the board.
Melbourne, 19th April, 1898. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
Statement of Assets and Liabilities of the above-mentioned Bank.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank on the 31st March, 1898, were as follow :
BALANCE SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
For the Half-Year ending 31st March, 1898.
Dr.
To Proprietors’ capital, viz.:—
31,184 preference shares paid in cash
to £9 15s £304,<H4 0 0
125,000 ordinary shares
paid-up to £3 ss. a
share, representing
the paid-up capital of
the old Colonial Bank
of Australasia.. ..£406,250 0 C
Calls on 125,000 shares
at £2 per share,.
£250,000. Calls on
105,522 shares at £2
per share, £211,044 ;
total, £461,044. In-
stalments not yet due,
£151,213 10s. Calls in
arrear, £14,126 10s.
Amount owing in re-
spect of forfeited
shares, £86,710 19s.
7d. = £100,837 9s. 7d.
= £252,110 19s. 7d.
Calls paid in advance,
£29,256 15s = £222,854
4s. 7d. Amount of
calls actually paid in
cash : £238,189 15 . 5
£644,439 15 6
Less 38,558 shares for-
feited as above .. 153,878 10 6
490,561 5 6
To notes in circulation
To bills in circulation
To balances due to other banks ..
To Government deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
To other deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest —
New deposits.. £94,964 6 0
Deferred deposits .. 1,396,380 19 9
To interest accrued thereon and rebate
on bills current.
To contingent liabilities, as per contra ..
£794,605 5 0
97,304 0 0
104,815 1 2
26 12 6
41,467 8 0
222,937 1 8
532,300 3 4
1,491,346 4 9
18,735 8 6
25,000 17 1
£3,328,537 2 0
Cr.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal £320,171 17
By coin in transitu .. 50,000 0
By gold and silver in bul-
lion or bars .. .. 37,608 17
By cash at bankers .. 13,042 5
By balances due from
other banks .. .. 36,548 17
By notes of other banks 1,607 0
By bills and remittances
in transitu .. .. 90,876 9
By stamps 703 4
10
0
2
7
0
0
4
6
—— £550,558 11 5
By Government debentures at face value 1,000 0 0
By other debentures at face value .. 124,188 3 1
By real estate, consisting of —
By bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above, ex-
clusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts 290,483 1 6
By chattel property at value .. ~ 3,661 3 10
By advances, bills of ex-
change, and promissory
notes, treated as bad,
and intended to be
written off capital .. 464,079 15 9
By less profit and loss .. 3,397 19 3
: 460,681 16 6-
By liabilities, of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra ... .. 25,000 17 1
£3,328,537 2 0
PROFIT AND
LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, etc.) .. .. £19,748 7 6
To bank-note tax 889 6 2
To balance ~ .. 3,397 19 3
£24,035 12 10
By gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on deposits,
and rebate on bills current .. .. £24,036 12 10
£24,035 12 10
W. BOULLY
FRED. H. WILSON, F.I.A.V.
j- Auditors.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
(Mnridge’s
UjWgMic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottlts. at Is. ljd., 2s. 9 d , 4s Hd.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corrmaHT.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Business Announcements.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Caf6s, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1864—44 Fears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HOYIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312
Head Office:
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Public Notice :.
Public Service Board,
50, Young-street,
Sydney, 2lst April, 1898.
A COMPETITIVE Examination of Candidates for
Junior Clerkships in the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney, and at various Country
centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to suit
the .convenience of candidates, on the 27th June, and
four following days. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made is 50. Candidates must not be less than
16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day of exam-
ination, of good moral character, and in sound health.
Persons already employed in the General Divisions of the
Public Service will be admitted to the examination, pro-
vided their age does not exceed thirty years. The sub-
jects in which Candidates will be examined are
writing, English (Dictation, Composition, Prbcis writing,
Parsing, Analysis, and derivation of words), Arithmetic
(full course), Geometry (Euclid, first Book), Geography
(outlines of physical and political geography, and the
geography of the Australasian Colonies in moderate
detail), English History from the Middle of the Eighteen
Century to the present time, especially with reference to
the Colonies and Dependencies. Candidates will also be
allowed to take any two, but not more than two, of the
following subjects :—Mathematics, English, a prescribed
Author, viz.:—Tennyson’s “Gareth and Lynette” (Mac-
Millan), Latin, French, German, Elementary Chemisty,
and Elementary Geology. Application to attend the
examination must be made on a form for the purpose,
which can be obtained at the office of the Board, and
must reach the undersigned not later than the Ist June.
Candidates will be required to pay an examination fee of
10s., which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions
or the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to
the Secretary of the Board with the form of application.
A list of registered candidates with centres of examination
will be published in the Government Gazette, after the
time for the receipt of applications has expired, and can-
didates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined.
The Regulations and copies of the papers set at the
last examination can be obtained-at the Government
Printing Office, and the principal booksellers.
Bv order of the Board,
J. W. HOLLIMAN. Secretary.
9 a 70.
In the Supreme Court
of Queensland
Mr. Justice Cooper.
In the m xtter of the estate of Christina
. McCabe late of South Brisbane in the
Colony of Queensland widow deceased in-
testate between
EWAN McLACHLAN Plaintiff
and
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES
LIMITED Defendants
Pursuant to an order of His Honor The Chief
Justice made in this cause dated the twenty
eight day of February 1898 the persons claiming
to be the next of kin according to the statutes for
the distribution of intestates’ estates of the above-
named Christina McCabe deceased living at the
time of her death on the eleventh day of July 1897
or to be the legal personal representatives of such
of the said next of kin as are now dead are by
their solicitors on or before the first day of October
1898 to come in and prove their claims at the office
of the Registrar Supreme Court House William
street Brisbane or in default they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said order
MONDAY the third day of October 1898 at
eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the said office of
the Registrar is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this fifth day of April 1898.
(l.s. ) W. A. DOUGLAS, Deputy Registrar.
Atthovv and McGregor
Solicitors for the plaintiff
81 Queen street Brisbane.
Tbc Eropirc’s Leading
Authority.
DR. STEVENSON MACADAM, Consulting
Chemist to the British Government, writes:
“ Analytical Laboratory,
“ Surgeon’s Hall,
“ Edinburgh, 10th February, 1898.
“ I have examined by Chemical Tests a
sample of “ Peptonised Emulsion ” sent me
by the Minerva Company. Manufacturing
Chemists and Food Specialists, with the re-
sult that I find the Emulsion to be a first-class
preparation of Cod Liver Oil presented in a
very palatable and agreeable condition, and
rendered doubly beneficial from admixture
with Alkaline Hypophosphites, and more
easily digestible by the addition of Pepsin.
“STEVENSON MACADAM, Ph.D., &c.,
“ Lecturer on Chemistry and
“ Consulting Analytical Chemist.
MINERVA EMULSION is on Sale by ALL
CHEMISTS throughout these Colonies.
graphology.
WHAT IS IT ?—lt is a Science which truth-
fully points out to vis the various traits
(whether tiiey be good or bad) in our characters.
It is also useful in indicating to us the true char-
acter ot our friends or employes, which in many
cases -hmvs- well to know.
MADAME VERA GEISHA will tell you
this. Semi a full page of your Caligraphy written
in ink on white unruled paper, and attach your
usual signature. Not dictated or copied matter.
Address, enclosing Stamps or Postal Note for 25.,
BOX 8, G.1’.0.,
MELBOURNE.


THE
‘ Plum ’
THB
‘ Plum
G< ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail bo give our celebrated Phi"
r Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior bo any others offered to the puom-
Tb is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding,
can highly recommend ib to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves,
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use rm
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarcintee each Razor for Two Years.
p • ~ I Single Razor, in strong leatln r case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, -is.
rrice |Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, dOs.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland awl lasmama, s. extra
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Central, the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best. A Broad. V 1
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable tle si g
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants
THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA.
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE.
12 Cabinets, witli a 12 x 10 Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
-{ 10/6
To celebrate the opening, we give an Extra Position FREE to each Sitter, and, as there is no charge for 1 e-sit tinir,
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of our Work.
No Disappointment. No Delays. Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios. tbetween Pitt & George Sts). The Swiss Studios.
jm
CORNETS.
F. BESSON &. CO.’S
Celebrated " Prototype ” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per lllustr’n.» £l4 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
327 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne—
AGENT FOR F. BESSON & CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN COLONICS.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Oidy of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sco.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
\r,\i£
V 1
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT ' he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.—“ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT ’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT* on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle, and'see CAPSULE'.Is marked ENOS 'BRUIT SALI.'
Without it, you have been imposed on by a IVOR THLESS imitation, , Prepared only by , .
J. C. ENO, Ltd/, at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
“ The prettiest Easter Shoui in Sydney.
New Gold Bird Broocb, Bs. 6d.
18c.
Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds,
\
Q
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s.
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 2Es.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
STREET
KING
Watches a Specialty.
Gent’s (fnlLsizie) Silver Hunters
Our Special Levers, 455, 60s, 80s,
WALTHAM, 47s 6d, 655, 90s.
ROTIIEEHAMS, 70s, 80s, 100 s.
Gent’s Solid Gold Hunters.
JLb, £3 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Hunters.
et 10s, £3, £4, £5, £7 10s, £lO.
Ladles' Silver Hunters.
3os, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
JE7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lo\ ely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
9c., 13 6 pair;
15c., 27/6 pair,
20 other Pat-
terns from. 10,6
pair.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamond*, £2 59,
*3, £4.
-
! Dot., 23 6 pair; 150., 37 6pair
Silver, 6/-pair.
l*4C/==
eEMs
Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
15c., 18s 6d; 9c.,13g6d.
New Gold Scroll Brooch, 9s.
/to
&
English Hall-marked Alberts.
9c. GOLD SINGLE, 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. „ „ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
SILVER „ 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
9c. GOLD DOUBLE, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. „ „ 110 s, 130 s, 1608.
SILVER „ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Post Fi ee,
18c, Marquise.
Set xe'it.b 14 Diamonds
and 1 Rrtatyor Sapphire,
EinersJVJ'w ’Terooolse
centre, £4* 4s.
Plain
Gold.
7s 6d
pair.
Our New
Twin
with
Amethyst
Hearts,
18s 6d.
Bird
Brooches.
Post Free.
150.
Little (Jem.
Ruby, Opal, or
Sapphire, 21s.
Diamond, 86a.
NOTE Our Onlt Australian Addriss-
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
PIPING THE PKAISES
PATTISONS’ LIMITED
LEITH and LONDON.
£
f <
m
v-
Branch Office :
16 O’Connell-street, Sydney
S }
PATTISONS
Morning Dew Whisky."


CbipS of Wisdoip .
Eat Granuma and dffy tho physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bask.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS ft CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture Jb Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Qeorge Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianoforte, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Aaetlon Sales, in the City or ;Countrv, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent, staff.
#SW’" fiales Ifehl. at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prej>ared.
Waltkr Bhadlky & Co,, 324 George-st.
m'
SBS
T OBACC- 0
Smoke
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BUSH STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ In what t jj
capacity.' n ° S L T
rpl T v • . ,
me Liabonsts who refuse Federation
because the direct Referendum isn’t there, are like
a starving man who would scorn turkey because
it wasn t served with aspic jelly.
The present American-Spanish imbroglio
emphasises the repeatedly-pointed-out inadequacy
ot. the war intelligence Australia must put up
with owing to the syndicate monopoly of news-
paper cables.
. It is beginning to bo suspected by the
simple-minded inhabitants of Mongrelia that the
alleged prosecution of the Q.N.B. ex-directors is
merely a political dodge to catch votes at the
approaching elections.
vJne Australian Crown Solicitor is being
subjected to so many irritating indignities that
he will shortly resign. His billet will be promptly
offerer! to a brother-in-law of a very prominent
politician. App’int Maloney !
A-lookm' behind nnd before given the
transmigrations of N.S.W. Labor-party’s soul as
from the Peojile into Parkes. out of Parkes into
Dibbs, out of Dibbs into Reid, and (now im-
minent) out of the skulking Reid into Lyne.
The bnnrQ nrlimnotorl *i . , ,
lished N S W Fln ted JBst-estab-
W - Darly Clos'nff Associa ions Union
n m ZJ Ta "*m k , t,U 6 w " e 111 10
p.m., and one day till 1 j>.m. A bit, crusade is to
be started with the object of havincr
made legally compulsory. '
lie the demiMiinn fb..r tvt o
Wales mL fa • d Wa ‘. t l ed T S ’
Wales Minister of Agriculture, the other day,
fro.n r np t 0 the Stn u t ,nB P9ction of fruit imported
i^p ma i n | ia ’ tbeMmister w not aware
Tasmanian orchard is
owned by Sydney fruit-merchants.
it was recently decided in Bananaland that
a returning officer, by virtue of the ten guineas he
Suo'r 'T r an «l mi f ?, r his , • spr^ices ’ is a b<, . ,dpr of a
pace ,of profit under the Crown, and is come-
quen tly debarred from sitting as a member of a
local board. And this in a country where a Judge
can sit on the bench and adjudicate cases con-
cerning financial institutions in which aforesaid
ii ge is tangled up to the very eves and the
roots ol his hair. Queensland in a virtuous i,mm
is a fearsome sight.
AH-IF !
VISITOR: “Is this hor[?] safe to ride?”
FRIEND'S GROOM : “[?] sir; if you CAN ride! ”
The Apotheosis of the Referendum : The
Kondoparinga (S.A.) district council has resolved
to rider to the ratepayers the question of the
appointment of a ranger—a partially-paid road-
bailiff whose duty it is to see that too many cows
don’t wander round.
On his obtaining -the coveted place, a
certain politician potentate got a pile of congratu-
latory telegrams, mostly from people with a little
axe to grind. Next day lie answered something
like 200 of them. But the State got no div. from
those felicitations. “ Free ” was marked on each
wire.
N.S.W. Land-Minister Carruthers has been
spreading himself about the danger to Australia
from possible future foreign occupation of “those
islands in the Pacific which are now no man’s
land.” Unoccupied Pacific islands are about as
scarce as unoccupied fat political billets in Aus-
tralia.
Dr. Quick’s enthusiasm and patient plod-
ding have leavened Bendigo with Federation, and
the old goldfields city .s * stronghold of the Bill.
Local Labor-member Hamilton sides determinedly
with Trenwith, and carried the quarrel so far as
to publicly tell Tillett that he was talking flap-
doodle.
As the drainngo system slowly extends,
Melbourne stinks with a less deafening bouquet,
and grows reasonably healthy. In 1889 there
were 10,412 deaths in the Yarra-bank city ; in
1807, with a larger population, there were only
6838. The 1897 death-list was the smallest in the
last 14 years.
Federation nas temporarily caused a
curious re-shuffle of the political cards. One
wildly humorous element is the spectacle of the
wealthy National Ass. magnate, Chaffey Baker,
as an advocate of the Federal one-rtian-one-vote
franchise. Baker’s enthusiastic recommendation
of the Senate, in view of the fact that there is no
restricting property qualification, has also caused
acute indigestion in the Fat-man ranks.
Premier Reid, who says that he approves
of and will vote for the Federal Bil', still skulks
silently in the background and refuses to lend any
assistance; and Young, Jake Garrard (lately
blown up by “atmospheric gas”), Gould, S.
binith, Joseph Cook, and Sunday Brunker say
nothing. The Ministry of Seven Silent Shufflers 1
What has N.S.W. Public Service Board
to say to the printed allegation that, besides
promptly dismissing an officer, after 18 years’
unimpeachable conduct, for one solitary “squiff,”
it practically fined him, in addition, AT5O—
of his contributions to a superannuation
fund by which he will not now be allowed to
benefit ?
One of the most touching features of recent
politics in Bananaland was the public declaration
made by Nelson, and re-echoed by To/.er, that
each of the aforesaid statesmen would stand by
his country, at the political h**lni, as long as his
services were required— to the bitter end, if need
be. . . And the very moment a decent billet was
open, they both promptly rushed it.
N.S. W. Colonial Sec. Brunker is a long
making up his mind about the Convention
Bin. Probably his trouble is absent-mindedness
hasn t got t mind. When interrogated on
the subject late./, St. Brunker replied in a copy-
book-heading voice: “Depend upon it, I shall
do 'vhat is right. Since childhood it has been my
constant endeavor to do what was right.”
Query : Is the Coghlan whose federal
financial figures Sydney D.T. is now booming as
so indisputable the same Coghlan whose published
figures keep on showing that Premier Reid has
had a continual deficit ever since he assumed
office? If lie is the same, why does the D.T. talk
so persistently about the alleged Reid surplus? If
he isn't—well, where is the other Coghlan ?
Even slow-going Westralia has a Closer
Settlement system, and Govt, is steadily buying
back (at large prices) the lands which it joyfully
chucked away in the early days, and cutting them
up into small farms.. A lot of the Government’s
friends are making a good thing out of the trans-
action—still it facilitates settlement, and the pro-
cess is reasonably honest as honesty goes in the
Red Dust Land.
Maoriland Governor Ranfurly, in his
famous address to the local Orangemen, told them
that he was ijlqd to know they had humped
their old traditions all the way from Ireland to
these parts. r l hink of any sane man being glad
that tile ancient row which h.as filled another
country with assault and battery for 200 years has
been brought out to a new country to make more
assault and battery there !
Vic. Trades’ Hall is filled with the moan-
ing of the Labor-party against Federation. Bar-
ratt, Hancock, and Barker, J.P., represent the
leaders of the protest. “The Referendum ! Give
us the Referendum ! " is the wail, every time.
Nor will the mourners be comforted by the
obvious conclusion that, as Federation is the
people’s horse necessarily begotten by a Demo-
cratic sire, it can be trained to its owners’liking.
Treuwith doesn’t go near the all now.
In Sydney last Friday Ashton and Want
appeared on the anti-Fi-dural platform together.
Hant shrieked to his hearers that “one of the
first amendments in the Hill would he to elmn off
from N.S.W. Broken Hill and Riverina. The
former would go to S.A., and the latter to Vic-
toria. And - Ashton, just returned from the
Riverina, where ho had been scaring the people
with the tale that Federation would sever their
connection with Victoria and chain them per-
manently to N.S.W., raised no objection and
smiled approval.
One of the remarkable misinterpretations
"f Constitution Bill current outback in
rs.b.tv. is that, under part of clause 44, Ferguson,
and Sleath, and Rae, and the other considerable
number of people who have at one time and
another been gaoled for alleged strike offences,
will be debarred from sitting in the Federal Par-
liament. 1 here is, of course, no such provision*
the disqualification extends merely to those who’
having been found guilty of an offence punishable
with 12 months or more, have not served their
time or been legally released.
IT AGREED WITH HIM.
SHE : “ Well, you don't look much the worse for being married.”
he : “ Ah, but you must remember how much I'm away from home! ”
Premier Kingston’s opponents have al-
ways complained that lie runs a one-man Ministry,
and there seems to he something- in it, for though
of the original crowd of 1894 only the Premier and
Holder remain, Kingston looks like pulling
through the coming session easily. Kingston,
however, credits Treas. Holder with being the
best administrator he has ever had for a colleague,
and affirms that he was head and shoulders above
the other Convention financiers.
There is a widespread feeling that his
atmospheric gas misfortune— coupled with his re-
fusal to return the comm. —has ended Jawbone
Neild’s chances at Paddington, and that the
gasser will go out at next election. Wherefore
about eight clumsy mediocrities are intriguing for
the seat with all the grace and tact of an elephant
struggling up a greasy rope. It is a very small
bit of meat, and you really can’t see it for the vul-
tures on top of it.
Melb. : “I did not think Tillett could
have been so weak, as in bis three-hours’ grappling
with the I 1 ederation-Hill at the Temperance Hall,
where I spent a weary two hours and then was
‘ full.’ Otdy a re-hash of Reid, and then he failed
to come to a sensible conclusion. Suc h a hnm-ing
and haw-ing—so very uncharacteristic of Ben—
as lie drearily went over clause by clause, with a
surplusage of special pleading. It is a simple
matter of fact that he turned me from a waverer
into a supporter. There was suc h an air of un-
reality about him, such a barristerial unreality—
well, I am sure that Hancock, who was sitting un-
easily behind and amusing himself with little
notes to others on the platform, doubtless dis-
paraging, could have bluffed it twice as effec-
tively.”
The formal manifesto of the N.S.W. Pro-
vinci dist party, published last Monday, is a loud
wail about the disproportionate representation of
the small provinces in the Federal Senate, and a
t •emendous appeal to the public to vote against the
Bill and thus preserve the sacred principle of
majority rule. If the Provincial crowd had any
sense of decency it would crawl away and hide
behind a heap of bonedust whenever majority rule
is mentioned. According to the famous amending
bill which it jolted through the N.S.W. Legisla-
ture, if 79,009 Cornstalk electors vote for Federa-
tion and only one is against it, the 70,000 lose and
the one man wins. And the crowd which stacked
the cards like that has the brutal insolence to issue
a manifesto with a heading in big capital letters—
“ Majority rule must be maintained.”
Lynes dismal provincialisfc fiction about
the «£2,2.>0,000 or ,£2,;>00,000 a year which is to be
the annual cost of the federal (xovernment camo
in collision with N.S.W. Statistician Cogldan last
]• rid ay, and was ruined like an egg struck by the
crack of doom. Statistician Coghlan in a 1.M11.Y
Tei.bg raph interview says :
Now that the estimates of revenue nnd expenditure nnd
cost, of transferred services ore to hand from all the
provinces, T should say that, the total expenditure of the
Commonwealth will he £3,742,000, and of this sum
4 1,092,000 will he recouped from services—that, is, from
posts and telegraphs, mints, light dues, fees, and such
like-leaving a balance of £1,750,000 to he covered hv
Customs and excise. This is the net sum, no mnririn
beingallowed for contingencies. With economicGovern-
nient, £1,750,000 will suffice. It will be understood that
the States will lie relieved of £083,000 at present expended
by them, as well ns £451,000 representing interest on cost
of construction and maintenance of buildings handed
over. This makes the actual additional expenditure
£015.000. of which about £322.000 mav lie set down to
extra expenditure to secure military efficiency.
Where’s that .£2,250,000 a year ?
When in a
tight place appoint
a Board.
Bendigo (Vic.)
Ministers’ Ass. is-
sues ji joint moan
about the increase
of divorce under
Shiels’ Act. Said
Act, as it happens,
was intended to in-
crease divorce. It
was passed because,
under the old sys-
tem, tli ere were
hundreds of people
who badly needed
divorce and could-
n’t get it. There-
fore, the Bendigo
Ministers’ Ass.
simply draws atten-
tion to the fact
that Shiels’ Act is
a great success,
and gi ves its enemy
a handsome adver-
tisement.
Even inQueens-
land, one of the
youngest of the
Australia?, the na-
tive - born element
preponderates.
According to the
Registrar - General,
45 per cent, of the
people are natives
of the province ; 7
per cent, come from
other parts of Aus-
tralasia ; 36 per
cent, were born in
Great Britain ; and
the remaining 12
per cent, are people
of other races. Fur-
ther, more than
half the Banana-
landers live in
towns. And since
the separation from
N.S. W. the inhabi-
tants have multi-
plied more than 20
fold.
Dear Bulletin. --The Vic. railway rule
that no person in the service shall enforce a patent
against the Commissioner, is probably based on
the result of an action fought years ago between
M.L. Railway Dept, and one of its foremen, who
had invented an improved ballast-waggon. The
Inventor patented his waggon and resigned to
push biz, whereupon the Dept, ordered one truck,
and, having tested it, proceeded to build similar
ones wholesale. The inventor then went to law,
with the result that the Department established its
right to use the patent, without royalty, on lines
in existence at the date of said patent, but not
otherwise. Toe invention, it was argued, was
the result of observations made during the
patentee’s rail way service, the inference apparently
being that a Govt, servant has no right to call his
very soul his own.—H.
Consider Lassetter’s monthly advertising
budget, the Australian Field (registered at N.S.
Wales G. P.O. for free transmission as a news-
paper), of April Ist, All Fools’ Day
The Federal Mania : When . . . everyone was Federa-
tinn-mad, . . . the Fikld was the only N.S. W. paper of
vote to attempt to make headway against the popular
delusion. Assisted by . . . the' Mon. L. F. He\don,
M.L.C., this paper . . . in a short time very materially
allayed the Federal fever.
r l hen follows “The Funeral of Federation.”
Paper of note, ye gods ! Anything that destroys
Lassetter s tin-kettle trade to the uttermost parts
of N.S. W. is a thing utterly accursed. After all,
it is only the faint small squeak of the insect
between the rails before the great armored train
of Australian nationality thunders over it, leaving
it dazed and wondering.
Item from the N.S. W. Provincialist mani-
festo—the document that is signed by Want,
M'Court, and Millen :
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL.
In view of the fact that, the Convention definitely re-
fused to provide that, the Federal capital should he in
New South Wales territory, it can now he hardlv doubted
that the Federal city would, under the Bill, he in the
extreme south of the continent. This, therefore, must
be added to the long list of sacrifices that we are’called
upon to make.
Let’s see. The Convention refused to fix the
capital anywhere. Then a definite proposal that
the Federal city he fixed in N.S. W. was defeated
by 33 votes against 5. A proposal that it should
he in Victoria was defeated by 3(5 votes against 3.
Anri the fact that the proposal to fix the capital
in Victoria was thrown out by the larger majority
proves that the capital is to lie in Victoria. Surely
somebody has been drinking.


THE SCALES OF JUSTICE
/
/
/I
pn;
\ VJO
IM Rot Bug
Of the Originators,
AND NOT OF THE IMITATORS ?
We Originated tlie Celebrated
HALF-GUINEA BOOT.
They are not of mushroom growth. They have
been before the public for years past, and have
MADE A NA*rc FOR THEMSELVES.
They represent Good Weight, Good Measure,
Good Shape, Good Leather.
No Better Value in the World.
JOHN HUNTER & SON, LTD.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
Corner of George and Market Streets, Sydney;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS IN
NEW SOUTH WALES.
HAHPFULS’fMoMEY
ft*
*>rr*o
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
- CASH -
R€<SIST€R.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Abs lutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’ machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, am 1
amounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
W. A, LINGHAM, General Manager,
A. . .
SUCCESSFUL
CAREER
■
a
I!
on the racing track is only possible when the fastest of tyres
and rims aie used. Results have proven that the
. . fastest combination is . .
DuNifip Tyres
AND
DUNLOP-
WELCH RIMS.
They WIN all CHAMPIONSHIPS!
And HOLD all RECORDS!
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC
and at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
TYRE CO. LTD.,
481 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Loss of the Ship Atacama and
Thirteen Lives.
N.S.W. Marine Board on the 25th inst. de-
livered its decision in the matter of the loss of the
Atacama (in connection with which The Bulletin
has been served by the owner, Mr. M. G. Cowli-
shaw, with a libel-writ claiming £2OOO damages).
» • • •
The President read the finding, as follows :
“ Whereas the Marine Board have instituted an
inquiry respecting this catastrophe, whereby 13 lives were
lost, the board now report that the abandonment was
justifiable, and that the master, Henry Charles Spruitt,
is exonerated from blame.
« * » *
“In connection with this report, the following
remarks are appended :
“ The abandonment of the Atacama and lament-
able loss of life in connection therewith was a peril of the
sea, which might have been averted if the vessel had been
stripped, thereby affording the opportunity of thoroughly
overhauling her bottom when she was docked for
examination, prior to leaving Sydney on the 21st
January, 1898.
• • • •
“The evidence taken in the case is most
voluriiinous and contradictory, rendering it difficult to
decide many of the points in dispute. This is especially
manifest in regard to the actual condition of the
timber in the ship. The preponderance of the evidence
is, - however, in favor of her being sound and fit for
repairing. The following brief statement may be
accepted as actual facts in connection with this unfor-
tunate case. The ship put into Sydney in distress, flying
the Chilian flag, under the command of Captain Henry
Charles Spruitt., on October 14, 1897. She was surveyed
by Captains Vine Hall and Grainger, marine surveyors ;
also, by Mr. Pollock, Lloyd’s surveyor for the port of
Sydney. These gentlemen reported that the vessel was
in a very bad condition, and chat the cost of repairs would
probably be more than she was w*orth. They, however,
drew up a specification, which included the stripping of
the copper, and tenders were sent in by Mort’s Dock
Company to perform the work for £350(1. This offer was
not accepted, and the vessel was sold by auction, on the
order of the Chilian Consul, for £7OO. She was purchased
bv Messrs. Cowlishaw Brothers, and put into the hands
of Mr. J. Young, master shipwright, and Captain Spruitt,
who was retained in command of the vessel, to be
thoroughly' repaired, without regard to cost, under the
superintendence of Mr. J. C. Ellis, who was interested in
a venture upon which the ship was to be sent.
* » • •
V It is admitted on all sides that the repairs
abo.vejdie waterline were thoroughly effective, but when
the vessel was in dock, after stopping a leak, and examin-
ing her bottom, it was not considered necessary by the
owners’ representatives, and the carpenters entrusted
with th.e repairs, to strip all the copper off. Whilst the
abovement.foned repairs were going on, the vessel was
frequently visited by Mr. Ellis, also by Captain Laidman,
marine surveyor to the Underwriters’ Association ; also
by Mr. Bentley, shipwright-surveyor to the same institu-
tion, and there were about 2000 new bolts driven into her,
and other extensive repairs effected. Messrs. Laidman
and Bentley made the abovementioned visits because it
was understood that the vessel’s cargo was to be insured,
although, in accordance with the rule in Messrs. Cowli-
shaw's office, it was not intended to cover the hull of the
vessel.
* » * »
“ On the application made to Mr. Gibb, chair-
man of the National Insurance Company, for insuring the
cargo of the Atacama, he says he gave instructions to
Messrs. Laidman and Bentley to put down in black and
white, and supply Mr. Ellis with a list of everything they
required in the shape of further repairs to make the vessel
acceptable to the insurance office, and it was understood
that a meeting had been arranged between Messrs. Laid-
man and Bentley with Mr. Ellis, on board the vessel whilst
she was in dock, to discuss the matter. Mr. Ellis did not
attend this meeting, not having been notified, he states,
nor did he receive the list of the surveyors’ require-
ments. The surveyors, however, sent in a confidential
report to the underwriters’ office, stating that the vessel’s
copper must be stripped before an insurance should be
effected in connection with her, but they don’t appear to
have done anything further in the matter at the time.
When Mr. Ellis applied to have his policy completed, he
was confronted with the statement that the Atacama was
not a safe risk, but at an interview with Mr. Gibb, when
he pointed out the circumstances in connection with this
particular affair, the insurance risk was accepted for
£6OO on the cargo. By this time the vessel had proceeded
on her voyage from Sydney via Newcastle to San Diego,
and, after encountering very bad weather for 24 hours,
commenced to leak, and had finally to be abandoned on
the seventh day from Newcastle, in a position about 300
miles from Sydney.
* • * *
“ The crew left the ship in three boats, but only
one of these, which contained Captain Spruitt and four
seamen (the fifth man having been drowned), after won-
derful adventures and undergoing very severe privations,
reached Sydney in the tug Leveret. The two remaining
boats and 12 men are still missing. Very bad weather
was experienced in the captain’s boat after she left the
Atacama, and he feels certain that the vessel soon foun-
dered, and that the remainder of the crew perished.
• * * *
“ Appendix.—The Navigation Law Amend-
ment Act of 1881 renders both the owner and master
guilty of a misdemeanor if they should knowingly send
or take an unseaworthy ship to sea from any port or
place in New South Wales. The question, therefore, arises
(but this is outside the immediate scope of the inquiry
instituted under the provisions of the 87th clause of the
Navigation Act of 1871) as to whether there is a case
against Messrs. Cowlishaw or Captain Spruitt in this
respect, or whether all reasonable precaution for the
safety of the lives of those who sailed away in the ship
was taken. Mr. Mahlon Cowlishaw, the member of the
firm who managed the business in connection with the
Atacama, was absent from Sydney most of the time that
the vessel was being equipped, and he, therefore, saw
very little of her. He, however, gave directions to
Messrs. Ellis and Young, the master-shipwright, also to
Captain Spruitt, that she was to be put thoroughly to
rights, without reference to cost, and over £lBOO was
spent on her. The interest of the firm was most certainly
in the direction of the vessel performing her voyage suc-
cessfully, when it is considered that she was valued at
£5OOO with the venture she was on, and was not insured.
Captain Spruitt, who is an intelligent and experienced
master-mariner, had been in command of the Atacama a
considerable time. He was, therefore, as well, if not
better, able to judge of her seaworthiness before she
sailed than many of those who have given evidence
against her, but the captain distinctly pronounced the
vessel to have been in thorough good order when she
was floated out of dock, and he had no hesitation in going
to sea in her. Having these circumstances in view, the
Marine Board is of opinion that a charge of knowingly
sending or taking an unsea worthy ship to sea under the
penalties contained in the second and third sections of
the Navigation Law Amendment Act of 1881, could not
be sustained against either the Messrs. Cowlishaw or
Captain Spruitt in connection with this melancholy
disaster."
Whooping to scorn the press tootling
t, ~ . , , lr . , .
over Britain 8 progress during the Victorian 60
years, ’Frisco ARGONAUT fires off some astounding
a™a t..... j
American figures. A few of the increases during
the period :—Population of New York, 312,700 to
3,195,059; Chicago, 4470 to 1,500,000 ; ’Frisco, nil
300,000. No. of post-offices, 11,767 to .0,164.
Grain production, 14,000,000 to 90,000,000 tons.
C ‘ Pita ' “ £100.000,000 to £1,300,-
000,000; value of manufactures, <£100,000,000 to
£1,800,000,000. Railway mileage, 1497 to 179,821
—more than all Europe. To-day, the U. States
print 20.000 newspapers and periodicals, as against
oi aa ( ,( ' ,l„ „ j ion non nun
21 > 000 for th ® rp , st of th f ckTmn 30 - 000 - 000
& _ schools ; and send (>0,000,0 0 messages
annually over 1,000,000 miles of wire.
A correspondent of Sydney D.T.—after
girding good-humoredly at the failure of the tem-
perance-tipple people to make their repositories
and resorts as attractive as the Shrines of Aloohol,
starts out to preach the gospel of Fruit and
Cream —served out, at moderate charge and in
perfect condition, by pretty waitresses, in cool,
palatial halls of marble, wherein should also be
obtainable “ fruits of all sorts, in convenient,
steamed-wood-shaving boxes. A sixpenny box, a
shilling box, equal to sample guaranteed, and the
days of squashed and damaged ones, exuding
their juices from the bottom of brown paper bags,
would be absolutely numbered.” So mote it be !
W.A.H. on the eternal subject of
“ Ranji ” :
Personally as sick of the Ranji worshippers and the
press thatsooled them on as anyone, let me protest
against “ Mummer’s ” recent steam-roller display. Under
the pressure of constant newspaper stimulation and a
run of disaster Ranji developed a tendency to chatter
which was trying in the extreme. But please let him
have a show. It’s not his fault. He’s responsible
neither for being dark and a “ prince ” nor for the
cackling adoration of the young women of
Sassietv and the old women of the Australian press.
Ranji, “Mummer” says, was ungrateful to the press —
the press which started the whole thing. Well, why
should he have been otherwise ? There is no evidence to
show that Ranji wanted any press deification at all. The
kicks it got when his Illustriousness responded to its in-
vitation to wipe his feet on it were high poetic justice.
What Ranji’s uncle is doing in India doesn’t seem to
affect the point. Nor is the fact —or the alleged fact —
that Ranji is proud of him surprisingly relevant. To
have uncles engaged in something or other is not the sole
prerogative of the cheerful youth in th& “ Private Secre-
tary,” and most people, when their uncles are not
purely professional and monetary, hesitate at enthu-
siastic repudiation of them in public. That Ranji
has something which serves him quite as satisfactorily
as most men’s brains can hardly be denied after
his book, and even after his Stead contributions. They
are not brilliant, but they are written with fairness and
modesty. It is easy for the pressman to poke borac at
Ranji’s references to his own doings. But the pressman
has never been there. He doesn’t know what it is to
write on things afte. taking a leading part in them with-
out dropping into unconscious self-glorification or exag-
gerated self-suppression. “ Mummer’s ” grip of the historic
past is paralytic. Has ever, he asks, a sporting combina-
tion been raised to such importance? He cannot imagine
greater importance than press-notices can bestow. To
him, apparently, to be discussed in “ whole columns” is
to have the sun and moon stand still, witnessing con-
quest, and the universe pausing to worship. The news-
paper is the universe—space the only measure
of earthly glory. Otherwise he might have stopped
to think of lively governments that have been
upset and of boss monarchs that have been obliged
to make themselves uncommon scarce over chariot races
—which turned on quite as “insignificant” a combina-
tion as a latter-day cricket match. And “ Mummer’s ”
modern instances are quite as unreliable as his history.
His large, off-handed statement that one man on his own
side and “ two or three on ours ” outshone “ the nigger
with the stick” calls for exposition. Who are they? Hill
alone outclassed him. Who else? Such bludgeoning of
the black man is a fine sample of typical bull-headed in-
capacity for discrimination. The frenzy of goat-acting
that the Australian public chose to plunge itself into, re-
acted unquestionably to some extent upon its to-be-
coinmiserated victim. But surely it is not to be justly
visited upon him now. The fact that the press and the
women of the continent combined to make a little copper-
plated idol of the prince is no intelligible reason for flat-
tening him out under the weight of a violently prejudiced
dislike. The spirit which prompts the N.S.W. police to
make a rule of arresting the objects of assaults for
riotous behaviour, and which in the last century stirred
up critics of ecclesiasticism into making indecent attacks
upon the Virgin, inspires “ Mummer ” now. He cannot
distinguish between the object of a cult and its professors.
Bismarck is of Jewish descent on the
female side. His mother was a daughter of Anas-
tasius Menken, a Hebrew bureaucrat of Frederick
the Great.
Melbourne has discovered something new
in lepers. He is a Russian, and when run down
was boarding at a local hotel. He was given the op-
tion of life at the lazarette or being shipped abroad,
and is now bound for Germany. Melbourne
medicos say the man has been 20 years a leper,
but there is no ulceration, and the disease would
only be detected by an expert. The leper’s name
is kept dark, ditto all particulars about the ship he
sailed in.
Two cases were tried at last Goulburn
(N.S.W.) Assizes, before Chief Justice Harley—
one, of alleged rape, the other an even-less-men-
tionable matter ; and they both shewed on what
a slender thread an accused’s life hangs. Had it
not been for the astuteness of the policeman, in
the former case, in taking the prosecutrix, an ap-
parently half-witted girl of 16, to the doctor on
the day the alleged offence was committed, the
case would have borne a different hue, but the
doctor could find no trace of any assault. He
found, however, the traces of several previous
“ assaults.” The Chief Justice took a level-headed
view of the case and the jury acquitted the man.
In the second case, prosecutor, a State youth of
14, calmly swore that his statement in the lower
court was a tissue of lies—and this, mind you,
after the Chief Justice had threatened him with
prosecution for perjury.
“Collins Streeter”
The rise and fall of David Munro—the died the other
day—principal engineering contractor of Smellbourne’s
boom-time, was to me an always interesting illustration
of the blatant folly which passed for bold enterprise dur-
ing that period of Bank-rule. I remember strolling
across the old Falls Bridge with a casual acquaintance
who spoke of the new bridge about to be constructed by
D. Munro and Co. I knew of Munro only in his character
of a noisy twaddler at public gatherings, and I referied to
his recent run of big contracts as a surprising sue vest
Whereupon my companion—a practical engineer—told
me that Munro was, in truth, a hollow, assertive
delusion, that he knew very little about his business, and
was taking the contracts at ruinously low prices. Then
we began a-wondering how such things could be. and
how long the greatness of David Munro would last.
It lasted for some years. The old Falls Bridge must have
been gone for ever when The Bulletin* poked borak at
the mutual admiration society of Tom Bent and David
Munro. Speechifying down at Brighton (Melb.), the
bridge-builder pointed to Bent as the George Washington
of Victoria, and Bent paid his tribute to the Napoleonic
intellect of friend David. The two burly blatherskites
were giants in those days. But Melbourne's money-
supuly started to shrink, and shrink ; the business of
David Munro and Co., Ltd.—it had been turned into a
joint stock company—became a matter for indigna-
tion-meetings of shareholders, and the enterprising
bridge-builder was hardly recognisable, of late years,
in poor, friendless, shabby, broken-down David.
The explanation of his bygone bogus success duly ap-
peared among the liabilities of a busted bank. Munro,
as my engineering acquaintance had stated, undertook
his big contracts at a loss, and the bank supported him in
his follies. He was a notable instance of boom-time
enterprise, though not at all an uncommon one. Very
few of the Melbourne speculators and traders who sprang
to the fore and loomed large on overdrafts were clever
business men. They seemed to have commended them-
selves to the bank managers by their impudent capacity
for losing money on a large scale. They wore an air of
importance and talked a financial jargon that deceived
outsiders, but, for the life of me, I can’t think how they
came to get thousands of pounds from banks where their
brainlessness was being recorded all the time in the
ledgers.


Banking, Public Companies, See.
Money to Lend.
FIKTIIEIt KII»I<EI> KATES.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
At rate of 4d. in the £ per month.
Large amounts as per arrangement.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(next Metropolitan Hotel, between King & Market streets),
Southern Branch 262 Castlereagh-st.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total
_. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milsox, Esq. F. W. Uttier, Esq.
London Office - Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, ami interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Cable Address— Kikmseil. Telephonic No. uo-y.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, eta Box No. £l7, (i.1’.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Memlvr Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
AI) EL A IDE,
KALGOOIILIE.
A gents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
A LDERSH OT, M ARY BOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors, Habit & Breeches Mahers.
NEW SEASON’S
IMBOUTKItS OF
GOODS
JUST OPENED.
Vickerman’s Serges.
LADIES At Reform Prices!
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing:
David Braham and Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George & York Streets).
USE
Spooler's
ROYAL NAVY DRESSIHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
DF ALL DESCRIP 1 lONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
Mfflttii'li'UCuig
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d.'and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOUKKRUBERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60.000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Plients, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esp, C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E«q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street. Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornier,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker. ♦
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: - John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Biahopsfjnte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 2774 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Corgpagy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
— e United Australian
Mutual Fire insurance Co. Ltd.
(Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital £-600,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,200 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 7!) Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
sr., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WO OPS
( FRANK WALDEN, \
VMember Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
MglboCiriyg-
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
:tl QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD and
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 C, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 6/-, 6/-, 7 6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5 66,8 6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, 4, J, f, 10/-, 12 6.
AU Razors Set avd Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2 6, 3 6, 5/-, 7,6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
(Registered).
Typl>oii)
(registered)
FOR
Typhoid Fever.
Fishier & Co’s
TYPHOIN.
This is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS OF YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure
Preventive against this deadly disease. Five
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure, and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured Oulu ly
Fisher & Company, "“JSS" 1
337 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3ct.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, April 30, 2 p.m.
-Gabo, Tuesday, May 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, May 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, May 3, 5 p.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
I Peregrine, Saturday, April 30, 2 p.m.
eßurwah, Tuesday, May 3, 5 p.m.
\ Tyrian, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 30, 2 p.m.
'Tyrian, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST tint KENT FAKES TO ALL POKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide honks showing
all other informal,ion, apply Union Strain Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street: Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.1’.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. VV. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
qYV -via- Afy
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TNESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
A J STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports ;
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unriddled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE Win. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists, oJ>
Melbourne & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of' Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
ffp E.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney;
TO FAT PEOPLE.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to tret permanent relief,
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ’S OBESITY
POWDERS. A Reduction of 01b. a week is guaranteed to
anyone, young or old, by their use.
PRICE, Bs. and 7s. Cd. per Box, from Prof. H. Read,
146 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, May 14.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, May 14.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Wollowra (from Sj'dney)
Saturday, May 14.
S.S. Innamincka (fromMelb.)
Saturday, May 14.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra (from Syd.) Saturday,
May 14 (transhipping at Albany).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Tuesday,
May 3.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., I /PD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
May 12
May 26
June 9
June 23
July 7
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
11l ■■Uliai l«l I | III! 11l —L—
Huddart, parker § Do’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST A I STRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES*
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
nniuiraith, UTEacharn & Qo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
FARES From £l6 to £47 ss.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERI A L MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
Passage Money from fit to 1.07 10s. Return i i -k, ls at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Go's Own l.inw
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MEROELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


The efficiency of thirst as a promoter of
ingenuity was regretfully acknowledged by the
particularly close-fisted captain of a passenger
steamer which, a couple of years ago, reached
Maoriland. Four days before arrival a saloon
passenger, whose drouth was out of all proportion
to his means, secretly exhibited to the skipper the
rough copy of a testimonial which he alleged was
to be presented to him (“ the old man ”) the day
before arrival, and which ended with “ kindly
accept the accompanying £lOO as a slight testi-
mony of our appreciation of the skilful way in
which -the ship has been navigated, and of our
appreciation of your generosity to everyone on
board.” The thirsty one not only got a heavy
wet on the spot, but the captain astounded his pas-
sengers that night by opening two cases of fizz for
them “on his own.” But the only testimonial —in
due time forthcoming—finished up: “We thank
God that we are near enough land to swim
ashore. You have been out of your course three
times during the voyage (on one occasion 480
miles), and we suspected that it was then your
intention to invite our capture by pirates, with
whom we believed you were in partnership.”
Alleged head of household, having care-
fully absorbed the hydatid items in gazetted
N.S.W. Board of Health ukase, button-holes his
friends to enquire what they think of that for a
colored alien in our midst, and emphatically main-
tains that no right-thinking person should hence-
forth tolerate a dog on his premises. But, des-
pite laws, taxes, boards of health, war-scares, and
Federation-fights, Dog, having once been allowed
to leave the Ark, refuses to be abolished. The
crusade against him has as much chance of success
as the war against wine and women, which has
been waged since the days of Noah. Up-to-date,
mundane affairs consist largely of tfyese two big
W's and a Dawg.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i the most deuciovs sauce in the world.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., iand 2/- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIUOCK & CO., KENT and MVEKPOOI. STREETS, SYDNEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low llates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoi) H.SoOI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
CHurcla-street, Parramatta.
AND AT
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
or PIANOS ™
Tl)€ Fii>?St ai)d Largest WareljoGS*
IIVT AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYD M EY.
TRY
jfjpCO
RuteTobaccoC 9
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all,
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2| x 1J ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215, ; parcel post, 6d.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter ; takes
plates 4}in. x 3jin. (dp.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.VV.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWJKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates Sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to fun. x 4in. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d.
DRY PL ATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. ; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out
A
Snap-
Shot.
8a -i-
ST
t*
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
60 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See Our Advertisement on Society Page.
ADAMS'S MARBLE BAR, SYDNEY.
■
wm
SC
XSs
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Siijhts
to be seen in Australia.
The
Finest Paintings!
The Most
Handsome Decorations!
The Most
Superb Carvings!
Massive and Elegant tfarbh
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manager.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED). h
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF . *
Gold, Silver, [ead m Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING,
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.,
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakkmore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the ftiidst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
12-
IiOOK OF NATURE
"* * —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORE FOR, HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s Cd ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; Tiie Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
Heftameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maitpin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals :
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dord. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk,*ls 6d ; post Is fid.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is fid post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap hook Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Mach i nery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c.,
&o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENOINE.


ALL GENUINE . . .
RED BIRDS
BEAR THIS NAME-PLATE:
THE NEW MODELS :
RED BIRDS,
RUBY RIMS,
BLACK BIRDS Are
MANUFACTURED, SOLD, AND GUARANTEED BY
Ur
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.,
“RED BIRD” CYCLING SCHOOL-
Waverley Road, Woollahra.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH—
-61 King Street. SYDNEY.
f actories—Brantford, Canada.
HUMBER CYCLES (AMERICA)
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works |
the workmanship an d materials are of the highest quality ”
Reduced
LADY’S X>26
GENT’S CW2S
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-atreet, SYDNEY ; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sport : At Auckland (M.L.) Easter races.
" Books ” v. Tote :
Tote. Books.
£9 18 0 4 to 1
45 9 0 8 to 1
5 17 0 3 to 1
8 16 0 4 to 1
080 2 to 1
4 18 0 1 to 1
7 10 0 2 to 1
• * • *
At a recent Southern Coast race-meeting one of
the heaviest layers against the winner of the second raoe
was missing at the “ weighing-in ” ceremony. Although
several other events were on the card, the bucolic backers
transferred all their attention to the capture of the
absent one. About a dozen punters formed a cordon
around the steamer lying at the wharf, in anticipation of
the welsher shipping for the metropolis. The welsher,
having lain “ perdu ” for half-an-hour to “ cool-off,” as
he expressed it, reached the shore end of the pier, and
noticing the crowd at the far end of it, skilfully worked
his way under the pier to the ship’s side and slipped into
the coal-bunker through the open port. After the races a
thorough search of the vessel was made by the backers,
without result, hut as the welsher could not get to the
city otherwise, the crowd deoided to go on with the boat.
Just before the steamer touched the city wharf a ory of
“ man-overboard ’’ was raised. A rope was thrown from
the wharf, the welsher grabbed it, swarmed up the side
of the wharf, and before any of the backers could land he
blew them a kiss, wished them a “ pleasant return-
journey,” and vanished.
* * * •
The Gunbearer case was finally closed on Mon-
day, when, after taking evidence, the A. J.O. committee
decided that “ Messrs. Hordern and Earnshaw be ex-
onerated from any complicity in' the suspicious running
of Gunbearer in the First Nursery Handicap.”
When the horses were coming up the straight in
the First Nursery, a well-known punter shouted continu-
ously, “ Look at Gunbearer, gentlemen ! Keep your
eyes on Gunbearer, gentlemen!” And the gentlemen
did keep their eyes on Gunbearer, with the result of a
“sixer’’for jockey Cleal. It would be interesting to
know exactly the motive which actuated deal in this
business.
* • • •
A landmark of Australian racing disappeared on
Wednesday last, when the Messrs. Eiles dispersed the
Duckenfield Park stu 1. The patriarch, imported Grand-
master, as might have been supposed, was not parted
with, an ' the other stallions went for a song. New Hol-
land bro i cht only 15 guineas whilst. Russley was secured
for 165 guineas bv a west coast breeder, who also went in
for Ja number of the blood mare 9. The Australian Peer
went to Mr. John F.ales at 120 guineas. The highest-
priced mare was Wildfire, with colt-foal by Medallion, to
Mr. J. M‘Donald for 350 guineas. Some rare bargains
were picked up in the thoroughbred mares with foals at
foot by Commercial, which went at prices ranging from
7 to li guineas, as the youngsters, failing trotting-track
form, are bound to turn out good harness horses.
* • • •
The cabled report of Newhaven’s performance
in the Citv and Suburban Handicap leaves a lot of space
for idle conjecture. The Australian horse carried a fairly
heavy weight and finished second, thanks to a final rush.
But, seeing that the winner was two lengths ahead, it is
possible that some of the others were easing off when
Newha en passed them. On the other hand, it seems
not unl'kelv that he was ridden in the wav which doesn't
suit him. Or, maybe, he wasn’t sufficiently forward in
condition to justify an attempt at running away with the
race. This looks probable. Anvhow London Sportsman
speaks of Newhaven as “ sure to improve.”
* • • •
With the accidental defeat of Aurum still fresh
in their minds, a few Sydney backers have been so fool-
hardy as to take 6 to 4 about his stable-companion,
Bobadil, for next V.R.C. Derby. Manv people would like
to lav 6 to 4 that the colt doesn’t start first favorite for
the Derby. He may go wrong meanwhile. If everything
should go right with him up to the day, Bobadil will pro-
bably be backable at even money.
• • • •
“ Ebor, in Kempton Stand Steeplechase, showed
a remarkable horse-sense that, alas ! proved his downfall,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ He was
giving Maroh Hare—his only opponent—a stone over two
miles (which no horse in England can do), for 200 sovs.
Betting 11 to 10 on the mad ’un. Hickey led all the way
with the public money on until the second-last nhstacle
obtruded, whan his mount’s intelligent adaptability let
list. 111 b. finish alone. For Ehor, recognising that
English steepletops have no ‘ guts’ like unto Flemington’s
rails and logs, now rushes through the furzewood in a
stride as a hound bounds through growing grain. Un-
fortunately the top rail, hidden from sight, was higher
up than he thought, and Ebor was knocked down for the
second t ime that day. The first was to Capt. Lambton,
for £l2OO guineas, after being passed in at £llBo—and I
think Gollan did wisely and well.”
• « • •
Compton : “ Recent Bulletin paragraphs on
all-round men in cricket seem right insofar as they urge
that all the bowlers in a team should be hats. Every man
in an eleven has to take his strike in turn ; the team in
which each si rike adds to the total is in a better way than
the team with an ineffective fraction. But there is no
earthly reason why the bats should be all bowlers. Nine
change men are rarely wanted to line up at the crease,
and when a fair number are provided for a balance of
• crack ’ bats is the best that can be got. The all-round-
ness essential to this part of the team is ability to field
as well as to score—a phase of the matter not
dealt with in vour pars. From this point of
view the English bats, taken on their ’Ome
form, were more all-round in their qualifications than
ours. Ranji and Mae.Laren, their two exceptional
bats, were exceptional in the field as well. Hill and
Darling, the two corresponding Australian batting
wonders, are respectable as fields—nothing more. Gregory
and Iredale are bats and fielders both, but so were (in
England) Mason and Druce. Druce was included as a
hat and as a phenomenal man in the long field. Mason
ditto ditto in the slips. Stoddart’s old reputation was
built up by good work in both departments. All amateurs,
in fact, were supposed to be double headers. The real
weakness of the English team on this head lay with
Hearne and Richardson, who can both do nothing but
bowl—neither field nor bat. They are truly specialists—
men of one department—not to eftmpare with the Aus-
tra’ian howlers in the last test match, all of whom were
brilliant fields, and four out of six of them good bats as
well.”
* * * »
Record-making bicycle firms and riders have
apparently a deep love for one another. Virgin started
off lately to knock-out the time for the ride from Broken
Hill to Adelaide ; and, later on, it was found that the
track had been carefully strewn with wire nails and
other favors. But he negotiated these, only to break
down further on, and do a few bush-miles on his rim.
• * * •
From the detailed account of the Jackson-Jef-
fries fight, it looks as if Peter badly wanted a sound ad-
viser In hisjiorner. From the outset, Jackson, instead of
keeping sledgehammer left playing upon Jeffries’
frontispiece until an opening appeared for the right,
began to land his right under Jeffries’ heart, a blow
which left him open to the white’s most dangerous re-
turn —a round-and-upward swing with the left. Jackson
ducked under several of them with old-time agility, but a
couple whizzed dangerously close. The end came in the
second round, when Jackson landed a right under the
heart, and, ere he could disengage, Jeffries had placed
his fateful left hook" on Jackson’s chin.
* * • *
“ Scribo ” : Re Gerald Quealey — the smug props,
of Bendigo Independent should have been the last, to
cavil at their minion’s amateur pugilism, as it more than
once stood that paper in good stead. Once Quealey was
at a public meeting of miners, and when a motion for the
exclusion of the press was carried, the Independent man
told the meeting it would have to exclude him by force.
No one accepted the long man’s defl., and next day the
Independent had a full account.
* • * •
Dear Bulletin.—Your serious acceptance of
M. Henri Gilbert, the French pedestrian whose portrait
didn’t adorn a recent issue of The Bulletin, has almost
moved me to tears. Said Gilbert professes to be engaged
upon a five years’ walk round the world for a wager of
£lO,OOO. Who checks his walk to see that he doesn’t get
“lifts” by the way? Who laid the wager against this
idiotic achievement, and, if anybody did lay it, was the
money posted ? Also, who is holding the stakes—£2o,ooo
—and drawing a comfortable income for five years as
interest on the money? Moreover, if the wager was laid,
without any posting of the money, is it likely that the
layer will cash up a fortune when the absurd Gilbert
comes to claim it ? Will he not slap the pedestrian on the
back and congratulate him on having duly carried out -a
good joke? Gilbert's wager isn’t worth much, I fancy.
As for his expectation of making “ another £lO,OOO by a
book about his journey”—well, what sort of a book
would the brain of a five-years’ walker be likely to
produce ?—St. Thomas.
* * • •
Hajek and Lucifer, the fcw* strong men, are to
meet in Sydney in wrestling and weight-lifting. The
game has been dead in Australia since Yankee Clarence
Whistler proved that a diet of broken glass is not oon-
duoive to longevity.
* • * *
_ V. Trumper’s record of 1027 in Sydney competi-
tion matches is a record likely to long hold good.
* • * *
In Sydney senior football, the Wentworth Club
has disbanded, and the Sydney and Burwood are two new
clubs, ambitious for senior honors. On Saturday last the
Sydneys showed themselves a strong lot by running over
Pirates by 26 points to nil. Wallaroo beat Burwood in
their maiden game by 11 points to 3.
» * * *
Australian Steve O’Donnell had still another go
recently with Peter Maher, when he received the usual
drubbing. Strange that O’D. cannot drop on to some-
thing softer than the clever, hard-hitting Irishman. This
is the third time Maher has knocked him out.
• * « •
Dear B. — A friend of mine at Albert Nyanza
writes re a big Congo man-ape that plays cricket
amongst the iocal nigs. His bowling pace is so
terrific that batsman and wicket-keeper sometimes
funk and hide themselves behind a neighboring
gu n-tree. He fields with his tail and feet, and the way
he gathers in the ball is one more proof of the ape’s
supremacy in games like cricket. . . . Will try and get
him over here for next season. He is a most gentlemanly
monkey, and never chyaks the umpire. He is also im-
pervious to flies and newspaper-talk, and his throat never
gets out of order. His intelligence is slightly above the
average chimpanzee's, and his articles and cricket chatter
should bring crusts for himself and me.-
ALBA D.
Cure for Sea-siokness. Mr.. C. F. Doggett,
of “Thomasville ” Church, S. Brisbane, writes endorsing
Mr. E. C. Barker’s testimony to the wonderful properties
of the new remedy, “ Seajoi,” he having used it on the
voyage from Sydney to Melbourne and back in very bad
weather, without any symptoms of sickness. He says
emphatically “ I have never been to sea before without
being sick.” “ I also cured three passengers who were
very ill. and brought them on deck ” “ Seajoi ” is sold
only by Albert Sharp, 257 Oeorge-street, nearly opposite
Bridge-street, Sydney, at 2/0 and 4/0 ; post 4d. and Bd.
extra (country and intercolonial).’
THIS IS SPAIN:
Europe’s last land,
’Twill e’er remain;
Last in the progress of the earth ;
The laSt in liberty ;
The last in wealth and worth ;
The last in bigotry.
—Bailey’s Festus.
It has often been remarked in Bananaland
that the Chow is very generous to hospitals and
charities. T’other day, in a Bakblox (Q.) town,
a Chinese shopkeeper was solicited for a subscrip-
tion to some benevolent object. John pleaded
poverty, but opened his money-box all the same
and donated the contents—haif-a-crown in small
coins. ... It turned out afterwards to be the
whole of the Celestial’s takings for the day.
“ At the conclusion of Mr. Lyne’s (anti-
Convention Bill) address, Miss Golding, on behalf
of the lady members of the Anti-Convention Bill
League, presented him with a teautiful bouquet,
as a slight token of esteem for the noble efforts he
made in the Federal Convention to uphold the
rights of the citizens of New South Wales.
(Cheers.) Mr. Lyne, in returning thanks, said
that he appreciated the compliment very highly.”
Alas ! The average man never gets any flowers
given him by any woman until he is dead. Some
people think Lyne alive, but The Bulletin is
quite sure he’s dead as mutton. R.I.P.
Interesting correspondence :
To the Editor op the “Cathodic Press.”
Sir,—Kindly let me know the amount of my subscrip-
tion to date, as I wish to pay it, and discontinue the
paper.
A journal which gives Mr. B. R. Wise a free hand in its
leading columns is not one for which I am prepared to
pay much.—Yours, &c. t L. F. HEYDON.
[Mr. Wise has never written, or inspired, a line in the
leading columns of the Catholic Press. Comment on
Mr. Heydon’s impudence and on his insult to Mr. Wise is
unnecessary. It is fortunate that men of this stamp are
no longer regarded by anyone as representative Catholics.
Mr. Heydon’s support of this paper has been worth less
than a penny a week. Had he withdrawn twelve months
ago, a collapse might have been inevitable, hut we are so
firmly established now that we may be able to survive the
shock.—Ed. C.P.I
“ Cosmos” sends to The Bulletin a fore-
cast on the Yanko-Spanish war :
If discipline 'and experience mean anything at all, a
pitched battle between equal forces on Cuban soil should
result in an American defeat. What sort of officers are
turned out of West Point we don't really know, but the
arm) is largely recruited from emigrants, and is cer-
tainly not noted for uniformity, physique, or discipline.
Ex-Civil and Mexican war men are rare in the modern
army, and, barring a few Indian skirmishes, there is a
painful lack of practical field-work. So that the bel-
ligerents will practically consist of veterans against a semi-
disciplined mob. The Cubans have been systematically
aided by the big Am nican rings, which are now going to
grab the island for themselves. The “ humanity ” yarn is
obviously mere cant. lie the talk of “privateering”:
Spain would have the advantage, owing to her different
bases for such operations and the great number of Ameri-
can sailing vessels. Further, there is no real patriotism
in the States, and the commissariat and other work will
have to be carefully guarded against the desire to sacrifice
everything to profit. Also, it is alleged that certain
eastern regiments and arsenals are really in the hands
of monopolists who fitted and maintain them
as a guard against internal troubles. Spain is
a decayed nati" and will probably lose through
want of cash, but the struggle may hurst
the bubble of American power and show Russia and co.
that Britain's prospective ally is not greatly to be
feared. As for the navies, America possesses the heavier
tonnage and gunnage, but torpedoes are nasty things,
and modern battleships are as weak as they are powerful.
Anyhow, America’s action is merely a repetition of Bri-
tain's Egyptian affair—the international power being used
on behalf of private rings and trusts.
“ Never mind everybody cutting you when
down. When you’re up, you won’t want to know
anybody.”
Baked-banana is found in South America,
says the Journal of Horticulture, an excellent
substitute for meat for the weak-stomached and
dyspeptic. The two ends are cut off, and the
bananas.baked in their jackets and so served. The
banana is, by the guest, split lengthwise, and but-
tered so as to supply the food-fat necessary.
Alleged Japanese essay in English :
Dear Teacher, —I will now write you on the horse. The
horse is a very better one than onother animals, because
its body gives using to persons, and then I will talk about
its first act now as people know it. somebody will go
many miles between few hour on horseback which man-
kind cannot walk in few hours. Therefore I think this
act ferstrate.
“ Assume a truculency if you have it not.
Cultivate a fire-eating manner and a selfish,
haughty disregard for the comfort of others, and
you will command respect. In a railway compart-
ment the strong man, especially if he wear a silk
hat, always gets the choice corner, while the apolo-
getic person is shoved in the draughty seat, and is
cursed if he tries to put the window up.”—London
Clarion.
The Chinaman’s method of “ fossick-
ing ” on Australian goldfields is crude enough, but
it is mechanical perfection compared with the
aboriginal practices of his own country. At
Tjeshui goldfield, the miners dig narrow,
winding burrows from the surface to the veins,
the quartz being slowly loosened with a sort of
maul and wedge. The stone is carried in baskets
to local hot springs, where it is broken by hand,
and crushed in an ordinary (i.e., extraordinary)
Chinese mill, consisting of a flat millstone, with a
wooden rod sunk in its centre, around which turns
a heavy stone roller see in a frame, and drawn by
a blindfolded donkey. The result is washed on
inclined tables, and finally panned off in wooden
bowls, certain contents of magnetic ironsand being
extracted per loadstone.
Brisbane (Q.) whisky, on the average, is
the vilest liquor drunk by human beings. The
ordinary Brisbane poison styled whisky is a dirty,
low-grade, oily, stinking, fiery fluid, chock-full of
bite and grip and greasiness combined, that costs
the publican 6s. per case in bond. Six shillings
for bottles, corks, capsules, labels, case, packing,
for all the labor involved in production, for the
profit of the manufacturer, and —for the liquor !
Sixpence a bottle ! The bottle itself, with cork,
gum, label, capsule, and its contributing share of
expenses towards the case, must cost at least Id.
Fivepence for a pint of the Concentrated Lees of
Pandemonium ! And yet it is not much worse
than Sydney whisky, of which suoh hard things
are not being said just now. One case of real good
whisky, genuinely labelled, and of undoubted
bona-fides as to maker, capsule and cork, should
last a Brisbane publican who knows his business
a lifetime and-a-half —unless he drinks whisky
himself. The wise publican never parts with such
a bottle, except under special circumstances of
urgency or compulsion, and always pays the top
bottle price for well-preserved empties. Take of
kerosene, methylated spirit, axle-grease, spoilt
turpentine, and mixed boozers’ leavings, equal
parts ; dilute copiously with stagnant water ; add
cayenne-pepper and bilge-sweepings according to
taste; soak in the decoction for a few days brown
paper and semi-burnt linen and woollen-rags,
defunct lucifers, and any odds-and-ends suffi-
ciently dirty ; strain through a greasy rag ;
clarify with whito-of-egg, and color to various
tints with different strengths of water solutions of
burnt sugar—and there you have Brisbane imita-
tions of all the whisky brands on earth.
“ Ex-Dominie ” growls from Maoriland:—
English grammar is in need of radical reform. Local
children are taught an immense amount of rules and
definitions which I, who profess a knowledge of literature
and criticism, am wholly unable to understand. Ask a
school-teacher what an abstract noun is, and you will find
he has to confess he does not know. Make him write
down the definition he gives children and you will see at
once it is absurd. Then ask him to classify nouns and he
will give you a list, including, perhaps, common, abstract
concrete, individual, material, collective. This is not
classification, it is mere waste of time. It is as foolish as
if I classified animals as carnivorous, domestic, hairy,
cold-blooded, white, and noisy. He will define a pronoun
as a word that stands for a noun. Yet the first sentence
you take, such as “ Who killed Cock Robin ?” upsets his
definition. I wonder what noun “ Who” stands for ?
The writing taught is not writing at all, but a kind of
painting, and can only be done so slowly that it has to be
relearnt when the boy enters an office.
With regard to cleanliness, it is well-known, and you
can put my name at the end of this par. if you like, that
the younger children are extremely—only the Saxon
word will express it—lousy, and actually pick the insects
off and put them on the few clean ones. I have urged
this matter on the inspector, who says “ I have no sense
of decency.” I had charge of a school once myself, and
the first time the presence of vermin was noticed I went
through every head personally, and will guarantee they
were absolutely clean when they left me. The fury of the
parents passes description. However, I escaped with my
life, and the children brought no more vermin t.o the
school while I had it. I considered it m.v plain duty to
act as I did ; what sheep-farmer would retain the services
of an overseer who allowed the sheep to suffer in this
way ? And are not ye of more value than many jum-
bucks ?
A Perth (W.A.) advertisement puts the
thing straight, without any unnecessary blushful-
ness :
TJUILDER, 28, has nice home, wishes Christian Girl
Companion.
Most people make a thin pretence of having a
‘‘view to matrimony,” but the builder, aged 28,
simply wants a girl, and says so in as few words as
possible.
Lately there has been a considerable
migration from Broken Hill on account of the
removal of the smelting from the mines to the
S.A. seaboard. While in Broken Hill the work-
men, bossed by the Labor coterie in Sydney, were
opposed to Federation because, under the Bill,
the “little States bossed the show.” And
now, being in S.A. and more or less bossed by the
Labor coterie in Adelaide, they still “barrack”
against the Bill on the ground that the “smaller
States will be outvoted by the two big ones.” It
is hard to be an anti-Federalist when you have to
hustle for a living in two provinces during the one
campaign.
In deprecation of the candidature of Henry
Copeland (the sitting member) for Phillip division
in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, John Norton (who has
been nominated by the local Protectionist Union
for the seat, despite Copeland’s long and able
services to the party) prints in Sydney Truth a
reference to “the high-minded but unnecessary
resignation of Mr. R. D. Meagher from the seat
he had triumphantly won.” The Bulletin pre-
sumes that Norton wasn’t looking when this got
into the paper. Also, should Norton stand for
Phillip he will be beaten, and so will Copeland;
the seat will go to a Freetrader.
Re Bulletin’s recent article about preva-
lent Australian false-labelling of food-goods, it is
refreshing to note the style in which a London
magistrate recently served it out to the Junior
Army and Navy Stores people—swell crowd
though they think themselves —for vending Ameri-
can hams as Irish. An “organised system ” was
testified to, by which “ suitable-looking American
hams were cut short in the shank, warmed over
the gas, rubbed with peameal and oil, and sold to
consumers as Irish, Wiltshire, or smoked York, at
10id. to Is. 2d. a pound, the price of Americans
being 7id. to Bd.” The employes concerned de-
posed that they would have been promptly sacked
had they breathed a word of such doings, and
that “they were paid a penny commission on
every ham so palmed off, but nothing on hams
sold for what they really were.” Fined £l2, and
£3l 16s. costs!
Federation poets may well despair of find-
ing anything fresh to say on that theme, when
they remember that there is scarcely a verse-
writer in Australia for the last 40 years who has
not expressed his emotions about it. Chance has
brought to notice a poem by Charles Bright, pub-
lished in the long-defunct Melb. publication, My
Note-Book, as far back as March, ’57. The poem
is called “The Whisperings of the Wire,” and it
rhapsodises prettily about the civilising and unify-
ing efficacy of telegraphs, then being erected.
Hence these two verses, addressed to Australia
generally :
Bind up your broken countries—bind,
And make your magic girdles meet; —
And when the lightning vein’s complete,
Let its electric pulses beat,
Obeying one Australian mind 1
I hear the whispering of the wire 2
A Federal union will be
The first-fruits of its agency;
The last, a nationality
Whose light shall make the world admire.
Lazarus : I have slept out, in winter. It
is ever worse to think of than to do. There is a
tempering to the shorn. It is a poor neophyte
who takes the benches in the park. Stranded in
a city, you must always go to an outlying suburb,
and are bound to find a doss. The other Sunday
night, as I was going to church, two wagsters ac-
costed me, judging me one who knew my way
round, and they wanted a recommendation.
“ Just here,’’said I. The Here was the municipal
sheds, where one could nick a lee with the wind
from any quarter. But, if lazy, I can fudge about
inside a city any night. One rather cold night I
put in part coiled under a door-portico, part in a
new half-finished shop, and part sitting over a jet
of steam that came out of a flour-mill. This beat
any fire, and warmed me all round. When a man
sticks me up on a fairly warm night, I give him a
supper, and recommend him without compunction
to the stars. Three hundred nights of the year, in
Melb., are clear starlight, two hundred cloudless.
Rain is the most depressing thing. The beauty of
sleeping out is that there is no getting out of bed.
You are really introduced to the world of nature.
You have leisure for Arcturus, Orion, Pleiades,
and the Chambers of the South. How beautiful
is the study of noises, all the hum and tinkle of a
great city. Almost equally delicious with the in-
extricable, mysterious noises of the bush forest,
made up of “ tweets,” tappings, sighings, groan-
ings, flaps, grunts, and what not in eternal concert.
And how the dosser (some dossers) loves a sunrise !
He is like Goethe’s Faust, awakened on the bed of
roses by the myriad of little ’skeeter fairies flutter-
ing around.


TbeSCifficldCase-
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
The Pikedale Proprietary Copper and
Silver Mining Company (No Liability) advises
that it has finally closed its lists, the amount
required being fully subscribed. In this connec-
tion it may be mentioned that the capital has, at
the request of a large majority of the shareholders,
been reduced from .£120,000 in 120,000 shares of
ill, to £60,000 in 120,000 shares of 10s. each.*
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TJ7E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
£3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
«T. F, McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarenoe-street, SYDNEY.
There is Merit in
An article which steadily gains in reputation after being
tested by the pnblic for years.
That is the reason for the great popularity of
Massey-Harris Bicycles.
MASSEY-FARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch S 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 294 Bourke Street, Melbourne, 386 George Street, Sydney
Queeu Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedm.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TUB <RKS« EXT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
KliiK-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
DON’T BUY A GUN unless you first look at the
name, or (should you happen to survive the first shot)
you will regret it. GENUINE GREENER GUNS
can be obtained from all principal dealers in Australia
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to Vic. Hep.
0. W. BUCK LAND, 16 Corral-road. Klsternwick. Melb
d-\UI]iELL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
ri'lHE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
A THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
..CLEARANCE SALE..
Ujolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American jj.cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
r \
I[
I f
V ’
MA CK LIN
HENLEY
ORIMLEY
QUADRANI
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . . .
i “'Humber”
F “Swift”
“ Ariel”
. . AND
“ Singer”
CYCLES
Fitted with Qunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,-
391 George-street, SYDNEY;
and at
MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
mw
W
»yp *► V* ►NIIikJJ-ik
<•*
m
MS
m
'HJWjg
msCiiuvou lodxs
HR
S§g|
$
MS
Sit aj«M'* J!W l»i!«n» *>».»*
jjjuwoho jo jtuux
30M(1M»K| JO OJBiS
’■ *
*%
m
A*
x
Mjguwm
«i uixu mihVMuS) <*»*
•ij.nii«ni'<wi'>t>iio was sfejimia. o£ta ao iimj? umi mw
»uoj stmiooiumMH' .mo oun uypiauiojitt in'iioJio is* <piqJ» -SiiTs .'MivuTuStiJ
.rtwlTma;, jouuum cm- K>p*m xii ujfuoußj si m.bj> jeojrcus .xia *
• 'OSAvoue
si mi»p am' ?iojm HRioiS»'SSiT«3T(h» oi oqj BM-" :
ixinOo: 'uoutmuuutf 101 «ni«t ot'w.utP)Vii 01 vpittw.-vj o»T 01 9ui\t im. •pon'oii
10 -otesu qtittoi -ojiioopob a.j o.'v'ino »u opjioo <Hn» wwpimt jo ?iv« total .»*>'
ouo iiuiiuxi jum ivuif if ®wta tiio itioooi* orjimt ljiavoui • •Ouioim.wjiioni
»ii «kn»»p*iuii q* jaa'MuJungv iXp.ixu vie
r<uT
a
<«*
BSS
SSAIQOH
as
! OIOS >*
*o*o
n.l
» ouiipw
. ;$
wm
***
ft?*
m
iTwi
<V
ft:’*
<*K
MK
»V*
.-IK
M*
mk
mk
mk
oJ*»
MK
.-IK
MK
M K
MK
MIS
*K
MK
sa
4
Scene : Early morning on spick-and-span
saloon-deck of ocean steamer. Frst officer comes
along suddenly and finds common sailor-man
sauntering carelessly about chewing tobacco.
“What the do you mean? There you go
walking up and down with your hands in your
pockets spitting on my clean deck like a blanky
passenger ! ”
South Australia will accept the Constitu-
tion Bill; but if there were a 20,000 minimum
vote required the result would be very doubtful.
Not even the enthusiastic and, at times, eloquent
Josh Symon can get a big meeting, and the Labor-
party has abandoned hope of rousing active
opposition. Meantime a steady canvass is pro-
ceeding, especially in the north of the province
where the great lever is the Broken Hill trade,
which, without Federation, is at any time liable
to be spoiled for S.A. farmers, &c., by border
duties.
The latest Sinellbourne alleged embezzler,
at time of writing, is a clerk who seems to have
sloped from the employ of the Orient S.N. Co.
with Klondike in view. It is now about time
that some careful enquirer collated the statistics
of Victorian and N.S.W. embezzlements for the
past four years or so, in order that the effect of
the “ hush-it-up ” policy (adopted by “ representa-
tive ” persons when the Melbourne banks began to
go) may be fully understood. The offenders now
are mostly sons of the fatuous middle - aged
citizens who found excuses for the unpunished
criminals of a few years ago.
The Melbourne Jewish Literary Society
pegs away with its meetings in the Buxton Art
Gallery. At last meeting, a Mr. Robert Jones
(very un-Jewish name, Bob Jones !) gave them a
smartish lecture on “ The Humor of Error ” ; and,
next month, Messrs. Sevenson and Brennan will
debate the question: “ Whether the Victorian
Newspaper Press is failing to fulfil its true func-
tion.” Prizes have been offered for senior and
junior oratory competitions; also, the society will
hold its third annual ball, at the Masonic Hall, on
the Glorious Fourth of July.
Dear Bulletin.—A P. and O. officer has
been telling a Sydney paper that if his ocean
greyhound were surprised at sea by a hostile
cruiser he would keep her bow-on to the enemy so
as not to offer so good a mark to his guns, and try
to ram him. Any officer ought to have known
that modern guns miss more owing to errors of
elevation than those of direction. A ship re-
ceiving fire broadside-on only offers the height of
the side and the width of the deck as a target.
Bow-on she offers the whole length of her deck,
perhaps 500 feet. A shot that would fly harmlessly
overhead broadside-on might, bow-on, fall on
deck about the middle or stern of the ship. No
blizzard of death so destructive as a raking fire.
“ 0.E.H.” to The Bulletin :
Thackeray, in “ Roundabout Papers,” after speaking of
the pluck shown on board the sinking Birkenhead, says
“ read the story of the Sarah Sands.” Your recent cor-
respondent “ C.P.” has read it to small purpose ; hardly
an item in his aocount being correct. In the first place,
the s.s. was not commanded by “ Capt. Martip, of the ill-
fated London,” but by Capt. John Castle, still alive, at 76,
and a nautical assessor in England. The Sarah Sands, a
screw s.s. of 1330 tons, was chartered by the East India
co., in ’57, to convey to India a portion of the 55th Regt.,
numbering upwards of 350, besides the wives and children
of some of the men and of the officers. On Nov. 11, when
the ship was about 400 miles from Mauritius, and when
Capt. Castle was presiding at dinner, it was reported to
him that the vessel was on fire aft. He so quietly
requested the colonel to take his place that no
other person in the cabin suspected what was
amiss. The fire was in the after-hold, and burning
fiercely, but there was no confusion. Every order was
obeyed as coolly as given. The engines were stopped,
and the ship brought to the wind so as to drive the flames
astern. Attention was then directed to the powder maga-
zines, and the starboard one was soon cleared, but in
attempting to empty the port one the men became over-
powered with smoke and heat, and had to be dragged on
deck, senseless. Meantime the women and children
were put into the boats, and the boats’ crews
ordered to keep away from the ship until recalled.
Presently the powder left in the port-magazine blew up ;
but the work of fighting both the fire and a gale went on
till the crew, about midnight, got the upper hand,
though by the time the fire had been fought-out the
ship was in a desperate plight, with the port-quarter
blown out by the explosion, and 15ft. of water in the
hold. Spare sails and blankets were used to stop the
leaks, two hawsers were passed round the stern and set
up, and the troops employed baling and pumping.
Next day the boats were recalled, and the ship bore
away for Mauritius, arriving there on the 23rd. Capt.
Castle was afterwards personally' complimented by the
Queen upon his skill and courage.


:s
Li
§*
9
/
The Hit
..o! the..
Season....
is made by
Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. At this
season, when
warm and de-
bilitating days
are with us,
there is noth-
ing like Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla to
put new life
into the slug-
gish system.
It sweeps away
the dullness,
lack of appe-
tite, languid-
ness, and pain,
as a broom
sweeps away
cobwebs. It
does not brace
up. It builds
up. Its benefit
is lasting. Do
you feel run
down ? Take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s **ills, Mild, but Effective .
SECOND-HAND
AM)
New furnitu ie
(Best (Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Ilunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Ladies.- call and
see our CHKAP
.vi A ('HI N ES.from 20s
each Greatest BAR-
GA NS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
[THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, i
and enabii g the consti-1
union o resist climatic
influences.
Invaluab.e in all cases o'-
anaemia Influenza anti i
general d bilit .
Highly recom nended for
we..k and debilitated chil
dren «
LANCET “ A beautiful and interesting preparation."
'BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
PeafQcss
AND HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relied
IRelieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
fringes,
Natural Curlv, from 3/fe each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. lone, yo. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ye peroz.
We are the cneapestin Aug-
fralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.'Wigztll,
110 William Stuket,
rorner of Palmer-gtreefc,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will atop at Door.
Send stamp* (or full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country Order*
Hotels.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per l)ay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
7- V
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.Q
THE (xRANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E ST Ma Y n!gbr. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NEWCASTLE.
THE
Great northern [jotel
. . 18 NOW . .
tjti rn>T7TWT7TI under entirely
_ JttlJ New Management,
After complete renovation inside, *nd out.
New Furniture from Attic to Basement.
R. L. THOMAS ... Proprietor
(late of Narandera).
KOOMS
OE BOAED
AT OPTION.
Caara
Nutritive, Refreshing, Economical in use. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing
H[UN S marvellous Bill RESTOKER
*52
I
c/2
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
59
“Sr,
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
E. Holland, Esq. Dear Sir,— l wish to thank you for your skilful treatment of my hair. When
our family doctor (under whose treatment I had been for some considerable time, though unsuccess-
fully) advised me to call and see you, my hair was in a most deplorable condition, more than half my
head being bare, and my eyebrows were gone. Thanks to your beneficial treatment, my hair is now,
after ten months’ treatment, quite thick all over my head, and my eyebrows have grown in splendidly.
—Yours gratefully, E.W. Melbourne, August 13, 1897.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
The Sydney Carriage M’nT g Co.,
„ MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
r
s
•)
\
COLD
r 4
4
*
OJt 141
afi
MAC.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s hood’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Auckland (M.L.) advt. :
TT 0R SALE ("privately).—My Household Furniture.
Alderney Bull, St. Bernard Pup. Andrew Gray,
59 Shortland-street.
Valentine Browne, L.R.C.S., of Bairns-
dale (Vic.), giving evidence in a recent case,
stated that he did not believe a disease-germ could
live in Gippsland second-class carriages. They
were too dirty.
A variation : —
A GENIAL Tea Planter, of India (scion of an old
family), would like to meet with an educated
Lady of some means, view to Matrimony ; must be
kind-hearted, good tempered, not too young. Photos.
O.L.C., S.M. Herald. i
A well-born radical is one whom the
world has refused to accept at his own valuation.
A wise man is ready to strike a bargain with Fate.
r l lie wisest are those who ask much and then take
half. It is the coward who asks too little, and the
fool who imagines that he will receive without
asking. Merriman.
That clever Australian painter and charm-
ing woman, Mrs. Ellis Rowan, was approached the
other day in Yankeeland by a well-barbered
person who, on the promise of getting her into a
“leal good tiling,” secured from the lady her
stock of pictures, valued at .£3000, for the purpose
of raising £1500 on the collection. Mrs. Rowan,
after much trouble, got her pictures back less 30 of
the most precious of them.
“The prevalence of unrest and political
dissatisfaction in Russia has been shown by the
arrest of 80 students at St. Petersburg.”— Cable.
“ Unrest ” in Russia does not bring
Reform—the thought’s absurd —
Sagacious rulers merely ring
A change upon the word :
Ere real trouble has begun
They send for the police,
Who substitute an ar for un,
And ail the rest is peace.
“The big naval vote taken in conjunction
with the delay of the Queen’s visit to Cimiez,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“is understood here to mean nothing less than
a bluff to Hanotaux and France in general.
One of the ‘Govt, pilots’ told me today that
U .R.I. was in the best of health, for he had just
seen her, and the plea that rough weather prevents
the channel crossing is even less valid than the
illness excuse. Britain has got her hands full up
to her elbows just now, and West Africa may yet
unloose the hounds of war upon her whilst she is
badly prepared to grapple with them. Strange to
say, and evidencing how ‘ dicky ’ the position
must be, there is a rapidly growing good feeling
—amongst British naval officials, especially—for
the United States; and an Anglo-Saxon alliance
to sweep the world’s waters was earnestly discussed
by two of the ‘ Navy League’ mainmasts (if there
can be two) in my hearing. It fairly ‘bush-
whiskied ’ me ; knowing how these Anglo-
Yankees hate the other tag of the hyphen.”


i(2m
mMm
jfe
\
Herr liaasmvtsen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and PROPRIETOR
OF THE
fllfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
OBSER-
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagg-er in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful’ illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Oases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
r.4w>
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
1 7/
in, m
rrm
j
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th ■ Alfaline Liver and
Kidney FiUs, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Eassmussen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
w>
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Medical Page
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE softer a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
*5 \
w,
m
m
/■Or*
w ©
HI
:
/MM
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALPALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
¥
w
*1?
r/j\
“HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaine
Pat-Redilcing Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, Gs.
TRIPPING tli
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Eheumatis m,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
an d Want of
Strength, why
sho u Id they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
2
mi
K-'k
m
mrn*
s' Ml
/"I
sic *
mt.
m m
Im
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS ia so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmirsseu’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. Gd.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. Gd.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every Ibrle
disappointment or tiifß,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
f
Vi
m
Ss
- t
ll
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&e., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
rr
& *.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality i'ills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book
K£T When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
.547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable und Useful BOOK will be sent Fli EE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies A trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
e. m
». i.
f - «/.c
W,
II
W :
al
X
—■
f^-
/
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Painphletsent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free front mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills —An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but. most effectual remidy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength und Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. fid. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile I'owder- Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy andexpel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateahle. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydnej
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne —lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
Adelaide —ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z. — 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington'
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kaigoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
t3P“ ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSKN, co any of his Ldcicolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy safce
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Gknkral Post' Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, without i ah..


S.S. : “ The complaint of a poor woman
with a small family in a Melbourne suburb, de-
barred by a bad surgical trouble from earning the
usual honest crust ; ‘ I cannot get assistance
from the Local Committee because my house is
clean and tidy. The ladies visited us, and,
although I was hungry at the time, and there was
no food in the house, they would give me nothing.
They looked through the rooms, and said: “Oh !
you are very comfortable here. There are many
worse off than you,” and I was refused assistance.
If my house had been untidy and my children
neglected and dirty, mine would have been con-
sidered a deserving case.’ How like the grey
tabby cat of organised charity, the purring, in-
quisitive creature who lo es to paw over a nasti-
ness and poke her thin whiskers into family
scandals. She recognises povertyonlyinonegui.se,
and it must be dirty to be really deserving ! ”
Jack Want, of N.S.W., as reported in
Telegraph of 15th April:—
This cast-iron Constitution for ever and aye which you
can never change.
Same Want (Telegraph of 23rd April):—
One of the first amendments made in the Bill would
be to chop off from - N.S. Wales. Broken Hill and the
Riverina.
It doesn’t matter in the least to Jack Want that
he yells one day that the Bill is cast-iron, and the
next that it is so flexible that it is going to be
altered immediately.
The only party in Victoria which has de-
clared bitter war against Federation is the Han-
cock end of the Labor body—the Trenwith end
being distinctly favorable. The Hancock end is
hostile because there is no mass Referendum in
the Federal Constitution. Yet a Federal Parlia-
ment with both Houses consisting of paid mem-
bers elected on' the one-man-one-vote principle is
almost certain to adopt the Referendum later on.
And if Federation is r-jected, when does Victoria
expect to extract any Referendum from its House
of 48 Rich Landlords ?
S. A. Parliament has been further prorogued
till June 23. The period during which the States
can grant bounties to local industries expires on
June 30. So far as S.A. is concerned, this effec-
tually falsifies “Jack” Want’s gruesome warning
that the other provinces were going to enact
bounty laws wholesale, and thus make interpro-
vincial Freetrade a mpre mockery. When S.A.
has opened its Parliament, and the Governor has
trailed his official rags on to the scene and
back again, and the Address has been got through,
and the Saturday and Sunday adjournment are
over, there will be no time left for passing bounty
laws.
At the frugal Eight Hours Day luncheon
in Melbourne Friendly Society’s Gardens, the
anti-Federation group of Labor-members sat back
to back with their “ chief ” Trenwith. It was
Trenwith whom the chairman called upon to
speak up for Parliament, and Trenwith had the.
support of that ancient worker in his refusal to
talk Federation! Also, Ben Tillett avoided the
bone of contention, and when it was quite evident
that nobody intended to call upon Hancock for a
wild address Hancock and his following made a
depressed departure from the tent.
The Melbourne representatives of Labor
who gathered together for a ham-sandwich
struggle on Fight Hours Day were fearfully and
wonderfully “ loyal.” They drank to the health
of the Queen, not in casual silence, but with in-
dividual shouts of the old lady’s official designa-
tion. After which a weak-minded individual, who
doubtless thought he was only doing his dooty to
the Constitooshon, struck up the Hanthem, and
found a lot of sons of labor to join him in his
foolishness.
Amusements.
KINOESS’S 'l’ll EAT HE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS I
The Brilliant, Spectacular and Amusing Extravaganza,
Tlk Babes it) tbs Wood.
PRICES AS USUAL Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day tickets at Stegmann's, and Princess’s Cafe.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
OVERWHELMING AND MAJESTIC TRIUMPH
EVERY EVENING !
Mr. Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Drama,
When LondLon Sleeps.
Interpreted by
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And His Specially Augmented Dramatic Company,
er POPULAR PRICES! Plan at Allan’s
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION WANTED of NANCY M'CREADY,
a native of Tendooly, County Donegal, Ireland,
who left Ireland for Australia or New Zealand in the
year 1856 or 1858. Her father's name was Dennis
McCready ; mother’s maiden name was Rose Carr. They
died in the year 1854 or 1855. Nancy McCready’s brother
Janies died in Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A., on the
30th day of August, 1806, leaving some property, which
Nancy or her descendants, as next of kin, are entitled to,
if they can be found.
Any information of her will he thankfully received
oy me.
MAT GREY
Administrator of the Estate of
James McCready,
Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A.
Business Announcements. _____
S Gold U|atch for Cadies Free.
WIIAT WORDS ARE THESE :
T*E N*W W”M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Wat :hes. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
SUmps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
65 Eljfin-st., MELBOURNE.
f\UIBKLL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
i/ Realised top price, tor N.S.W. wools at
Ijrdoef Wool Sales.
PHOTOGRAPHY.
TmeOPJIY
ARTISTE
bt PHOTOQRAPHE
PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Late of Melbourne).
THE NEW PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIOS
ARE NOW REPLETE WITH ALL THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS,
ENABLING MR. GROUZELLE TO PRODUCE
LIFELIKE AND ARTISTIC PORTRAITURE.
Address : 308 George-street, Sydney
Telephone 2761.
(OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.)
Telephone 2761.
THE TENTH REPORT
of the DIRECTORS of
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
The Directors now present to the shareholders their Report on the transactions of the bank for the half-year,
which terminated on 31st March last. • . .
Acting on the announcement made at the general meeting in November, 1897, they have had to declare forieitea
for the non-payment of calls 10,531 shares, representing a capital value of £45,456 45., and in terms of the provision in
the Companies Act 1896 to that effect, have transferred this sum to a reserve fund.
The net profit for the six months just closed, after deducting expenses of manage-
ment and the other items enumerated in the profit and loss account amounted to £18,469 16 2
Balance from previous half-year .. .. .. .. .. •<r 34,196 13 11
Deduct note tax in Australia and income tax in Great Britain
Transfer to reserve fund
Leaving available
£52,666 10 1
... 2,998 11 8
£49,667 18 5
„ 4,543 16 0
.. £45,124 2 5
In terms of the powers conferred on them in the Articles of Association (No. 113), the directors nave set aside out
of the profits the sum of £4,543 16s. as an addition to the reserve fund now instituted, making the same Fifty
Thousand Pounds. • .
The following will be the distribution of the amount left at their disposal after that appropriation, viz. :
Dividend at 5 per cent, on preference shares .. .. .. •• .. £7,644 10 0
Carry Forward 37,4/9 2 5
£45,124 2 6
The paid-up capital Of the bank will now amount to £1,973,677 14s. Bd., and the reserve fund to £50,000. _
The directors have the satisfaction of pointing out that of the deferred fixed deposits, amounting originally to
£6,844,884, the sum of £5,187,044 has been released and dealt with up to date. , , ,
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Athenaeum, Collins-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday,
4th May, at noon. . . ._ . _ . „ , . ~
The shareholders will be called on to elect two directors on that occasion, in lieu of John Grice, Esq., and Arthur
Septimus King, Esq., who retire by rotation. There are no other candidates. They will also be required to appoint
two auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited,
Head Office, Melbourne, 22nd April, 1898.
F. G. SMITH,
Chief Manager.
Aggregate Balance-Sheet for the Half-Year ending 31st March, 1898.
Including London Office to 26th February, and Western Australian Branches to 14th March, 1898.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Dr. £ s. d. £ 8. d.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference shares paid in cash to
£lO 305,780 0 0
250,000 ordinary shares
paid up to £4 per
share, representing
the paid-up capital of
the National Bank of
Australasia .. .. 1,000,000 0 0
Calls made on 250,000
shares at £3 per share,
£750,000, of which
there has actually been
paid in cash .. .. 713,353 18 3
1,713,353 18 3
Less 10,531 shares for-
feited 45,456 4 0
1,667,897 14 3
To Reserve Fund Account 60,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss Account 45,124 2 5
To Notes in circulation 291,378 2 6
To Bills in circulation 431,963 18 4
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest .. 46,592 17 1
Bearing interest .. 245,709 15 10
292,362 12 11
2,128,678 8 6
3,679,801 12 3
To other Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest
To interest accrued and rebate on current
hills
To balances due to other banks
6,100,842 13 7
61,991 14 7
105,876 9 6
£9,060,854 15 2
To Contingent Liability, as per contra .. £187,577 0 0
ASSETS.
£ s. d. £ 8. d.
1,384,810 18 1
Or.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal
By trold or silver in bul-
lion or bars
By cash at bankers
By Government, munici-
pal and other public
stocks, debentures and
funds
By notes and bills of other
banks
By balances due from
other banks
By bills in transitu
37,931 1 11
7,549 14 7
646,809 19 1
4,146 15 8
68,441 1 10
385,418 11 7
2,534,108 2 9
By real estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank .. .. 458,651 17 7
By other real estate, at cost to the bank,
less £90,757 18s. 6d. written off .. 440,164 15 0
By advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts 4,618,921 2 3
By bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above, ex-
clusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts 1,005,556 11 8
By duty stamps ... .. » .. 3,462 611
£9,060,854 16 2
By liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in terms
of the Act authorising their issue,
£115,100; and liabilities of customers
and others on letters of credit and
drafts, £72,477, as per contra, £187,677
Profit and Loss Account.
£ s. d.
To expenses at Head Office, 107 Branches,
and 10 Agencies 62,228 11 6
To Note and Income Taxes 2,998 11 8
To transfer to Reserve Fund Account .. 4,643 16 0
To balance .. ... 46,124 2 6
£104,896 1 6
By balance brought forward .. .. ..
By Gross Profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to pre-
mises, and rent ... h •
£ s. d.
f; 1,190 11 11
70/.08 7 7
£104,890 1 6
Reserve Fund Account.
£ 8. d.
To balance 60,#00 0 0
£60,000 0 0
£ s. d.
By transfer from Capital Account for
amount paid up on 10,531 forfeited
shares.. , 46,466 4 0
By transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 4,543 18 0
£60,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’, and the Directors’ statements, to ooinply
with the Companies Aot 1806, appear in the Othcial Report. ..***-.**
V. G. SMITH, Chief Manager.
Amusements.
Royal standard theatre, sydnby
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-s ■)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Hen y.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
7 9th \
WEEK )
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
7 9th
WKKK
The Celebrated Pathetic, Emotional Drama,
“BAST L YWW B ”
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverle.v ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and MusgToye.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
MR. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“ HA-MLET.”
SATURDAY, April 30, Three Nights, Wednesday Matinee,
“ "Virginius.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. IST" PRICES-53., 35., 25., and la.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the sole direction of Messrs J. &C. MacMahon.
The Play of the Hour, which will draw all. Sydney, in-
troducing material involving Spanish, Cuban, Brazilian,
American and British interests.
Tlx e WHite Squadron.
Again last evening attracted another enormous house,
held spellbound by the powerful situations and episodes
with which the play is replete.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson &Co s.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
BLAND HOLT’S
SPECTACULAR MELODRAMATIC NOVELTY,
The Cotton King.
SATURDAY Evening, May 7, Production for a Few
Nights only of the Drury Lane Social and Military Dram*,
A LIFE OF PLEASURE.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Power’s Hotel Cigar Store.
The Monarchs of All!
B
ELMORE
PARK.
LAST WEEK
TO-NTGHT !
TO-NIGHT !
huridstoii’S CRnnD circus
POSITIVELY LAST i NIGHTS! .
TWICE WON PENNANT.
Our Banner, as usual, placed on the highest rounds of
Fame’s Ladder.
WHY THE WORLD WAITS.
The mighty avalanche of amusement ideas ; its exhibition
the noblest and grandest; its purity, cleanliness,
and morality beyond compare.
our new Programme.
A GIGANTIC SUCCESS!
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT !
Positively La°t Matinee, Saturday, April 30.
When the laughter of the Little Ones will be heard for
the last time under our Mammoth Pavilion.
tS'" All Matinee Programmes are a facsimile of the
evening one, and in no way curtailed.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is; Children Half-price to
Matinees only. Reserved Seats at Elvy’s.
FRIDAY EVENING, 29th April,
VICE-REGAL COMMAND NIGHT.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency. the Governor,
Viscountess Hampden, and Suite.
tS- A SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
Mrs. HARMSTON-LOVE, Proprietress.
ROBERT LOVE, Sole Manager.
Col. O. B. HICKS, Representative.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS IN AUSTRALIA OF
The Kellirxo Family.
AUSTIN RUDD. The HAYTORS.
The TILLERS. LEON and KIRK.
An original Grand New First Part, Federia.
THE GRAND BELL BALLET,
AND A BRILLIANT ARRAY OF TALENT.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION! BRILLIANT RECEPTION!
j Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT |
And his Complete London Company in the Wonderfully
Successful Comedy Drama,
“ THE IDLER.”
By the well-known Author, HADDON CHAMBERS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
JOHN H XJLINES JAMES
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BELLMAN & MOORE. Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN.
WILL WHITBURN. FRANK YORKE.
J. W. WINTON. Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
<gT GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
3rd Week! Continued Terrific Excitement!
DURING THE PAST THREE WEEKS
Seventy Thousand people have laughed themselves
hoarse.
T. A. KENNEDY,
HYPNOTIST •••
KING LAUGH-MAKER OE THE WORLD.
Under the Management of J. Kennedy.
LA UOHTERI LA UGH TER /,
FUN t FUN l
T. A. KENNEDY'S
Hypnotic Entertainments would compel Laughtei
in a thousand -year-old Mummy.
Fred. W. Hemingham, Business Manager.
People’s Prices—2s-, Is- and Sixpence.
Doors open at 7.15 ; Begin, 8.15.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
Continued GIGANTIC SUCCESS of
DAN BARRY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY-
The Great Thrilling Military Drama,
THE ROLL OMTHE DRUM.
Just Vow ths Priass— So. l U, oud SIXPENCE.


MELLIN'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
-ay be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
ahd BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
SYxXjISH Clothing’ in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar
velious value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12/6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84 '-. Cleri-
f cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 39/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/d. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
on can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly Straightforward with our customers.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs]
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
varielv of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Minors,. Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles]
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 6/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <ST AITKEIM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 «V 682 GeorKC Street, Sydney.
''-'cun Life os THArSiQAiaT tobacco l
SMOKE STGNET TOBACCO ONLV.
Best C garottes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
IUEES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Prior Wabung ; Is. 3d. posted.
“The pompous 1 respectability of the
Bankers’ Association,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “ has been a good deal
shaken-up of late, and all through Lord B .
But it is his generosity, and not his liquor, that
is to blame. One of the smartest of sassiety dames
called on him recently, and unfolded a piteous
tale about debts of <£2ooo, which she knew not how
to pay. Would dear Lord B help her with
a potent slip of paper? The generous-hearted
B was touched, and did the needful. But
when the document was presented by the lady
at the bank, a ‘mere nothing,’ added on the
right, had pushed the ‘2 ’ one place to the left.
The clerk queried at once, the. lady put up her
monocle and said there must be a mistake, and she
would take the cheque back, but the clerk was
obdurate. The ten-fold increased document was
submitted to the drawer, who agreed with the
mistake theory, and desired to cancel the cheque
and write another. But no, the matter was too
serious for such off-hand treatment, and the assoc,
must be called in, for had the bank paid the 20
* thou.’ it would have been held liable for the loss.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
A S.A. lady recently arrived at Coolgardie
after fighting two steamship co’s and a railway
department all the way from Adelaide, and leav-
ing them in ruins along the road. She had a hus-
band in the West, but his remittances were
irregular, and, when there came a longer interval
than usual, her money ran out, and her landlord
fired her into the street. So she stepped peace-
fully on board a steamer, and, when her ticket
was demanded which didn’t happen till they
were well out at sea—she simply explained that
she had none—also she had no assets whatever.
She was hauled up before a very grim and indig-
nant captain, and requested to explain, which she
did in the presence of an interested crowd. She
told him that he might put the vessel back if he
pleased, and send her ashore ; or he might throw
her overboard ; or he might make her work her
passage ; or he could take her clothes in payment,
though she warned him that the only clothes she
had were those she was wearing, and his conduct
wouldn’t be respectable; or he could give her
in custody at Albany, or put her in irons,
or he might hit; her with a rope-end. She
was perfectly resigned, and was willing to
take things as they came. The infuriated officer
did the only thing he well could do ; he let her be
a steerage passenger to Albany and there he gave
her ss. and chased her ashore. At Albany she
jumped another boat, and when another indignant
captain found her she offered him the same alter-
natives. Her fired her ashore at Fremantle with
an objurgation and 2s. 6d. Then she began to be
heard of on trains along the long line from Perth
to Coolgardie. Her explanation was always the
same. She had no money and no ticket; she
wouldn’t get out, but if the railway officials could
lift her out they might. When they tried to lift
her she hung on to the seat and explained that if
they liked to hit her knuckles till they made her
let go they could do so, but otherwise she meant
to hold on. Being threatened with the police she
explained that she would as soon be locked up as
not; she didn’t propose to walk to the police-station,
but if any officer was prepared to grasp her
round the waist she would hang in a perfectly
resigned condition over his shoulder with her
head and feet dangling on either side of him, and
let him do the best he could with her. Sometimes
she was thrown out; then she spent her time till
the next train was due in cleaning her boots with
grass and washing her stockings in a creek. More
often she wasn’t, and the train would depart amid
the cheers of the passengers. Anyhow, no one
ever arrested her, and she reached Coolgardie in
triumph only ten days behind schedule time—
which, for a grass-widow with no money and no
spare clothes, was not bad.
‘l'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s (id.
Sole Agents :
&
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, GSO-832 Gaorge-st,, Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mil ls.
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
Fob Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
HEAP
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Hi:at> Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lcnormand’s ; celebrated
Krench Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTE US.
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 wavs sure to pleaße Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s
SECRET
rimtns,
(2. Jr.
LOVERS
Pa*kf»fje
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
JNDIOEjTiom
a
f
§
Br^nd”
, EWpTor
I
sfnMHs \voundc
CoUCMJ (OL°5 If
or V
/mitatj o ms
MELBOURNE.
mm
FREEV&.
Watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
Wedding z CHristeiMg Presents
1755177-ELIZABETH S t «
OPPOSITE C:P.O.—
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
Writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A litlle book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Huiiter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KtILLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
BEE
HIVE”
KNITTING
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours,softness and durability.
ft
T RADEM AR iC 55 ®
IS ONEVERYqSKIIN.
Trnrtc tfnrJc UffiMcreih
Bstnb ishedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
HARD FREE BY
POST.
• " I'epliive ”
Ifnpfpryaundpr-
nr m niiiac-
Inreii from the
‘ifecltivd Wools.
J. J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
EH ■
MPA
UMTS
0l» SPtg
I
made
fcotc/ifyjt^n
EDIN BURGH. c^g*
|^£?r^§g§j
*“'•»*» w /«/»
y /-I
prink
(Qoderately.
. < : !»
Take a little Whisky
. “forthestomach’ssakeT'i
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
| you can get. “D.C.L.”
I Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
POWER WITHOUT GAS OH STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from 2J to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.,
Explosions Impossible
Always Ready for Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on applicatiou
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE <sc CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
]
(rift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in nil stapes, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. VVe mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Ktlcrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - ;£!.
which, jn most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS ,
at 137 Elizabeth Street , SYDNEY.
Ncn/oOS Weakness .. .
AND
Ccr?bro-Spii)al Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBON’S,
137 Elizabeth. Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 280.G.P.0., Sydney
Flense mention this jmper when writing.
IHL LAS! OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price
1/-; posted, 1/3.


If you suffer from Anaemia, General Debility, Indigestion, Neuralgia,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Headaches, or any Blood Impoverishment,
Or- —»• PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
Will Restore You. Thousands of Testimonials prove them the World’s
Greatest Blood-Builder and Nerve Tonic.
Death Was Near. She Was
Simply Fading Away.
SHE IS NOW BLOOMING WITH BEAUTY
AND RADIANT WITH PERFECT
HEALTH.
“ I am 19 years of age,” said Miss Petrea Peter-
son, of Featherston, North Island, New Zealand,
to a press representative who interviewed her last
month, “ and since I was 15 I have been suffering
more or less. I had acute palpitation of the heart,
which was brought about by anaemia or bloodless-
ness, to which I was long a martyr. Whenever I
ran upstairs my heart would thump violently
against my sides, and I would be quite speechless
for several moments, until I recovered my breath,
rsight after night I tossed, weary and worn-out,
on my bed, trying vainly to sleep. I had fearful
attacks of cramps in my legs, and so great was the
agony that frequently it caused me to scream out
in very desperation. I was always in a weak, low
state, and never felt fit for my work. My legs
would at times swell up to a considerable extent,
and this naturally occasioned myself and my
mother great suspense. Thus, as I grew older I
i>rew worse and worse, being subject also to
periods of giddiness which many a time caused
me to almost fall down. I tried denty of
medicines, and I had several doctors, but they
gave no relief. I also consulted three doctors re-
garding an affliction of the eye from which I suf-
fered. Havingalmost given up my case as hopeless,
I one day noticed an advertisement for Dr. Wil-
liams Pink Pills for Pale People in the Evening
Post. Gathering hope from this, in June, 1897,
I commenced taking them strictly according to
directions. After the third dose I found a change
for the better. I continued with them until I, bit
by bit, improved so much that four months ago I
left them off altogether. 1 have taken a total of
linn' boxes, and am now in every way in the most
perfect health. Insomnia, weakness, giddiness,
heart palpitation, .cramps, and swelling in the
legs have all disapr>eared, and the affection in my
eye has likewise ceased. As there has been no re-
currence of these ailments at all during the past
four months, it is evident that my cure is a per-
manent one. The pills have absolutely cured me,
and I will always keep some of them' by me. I
feel fit for my work and for anything. My mother
thinks the. world of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and she has tried several boxes her-
self. lam awfully thankful to them, and I have
recommended them to all my friends. Four of
them speak exactly as I do of the Pills, and can-
not praise them too highly. I am well-known
here, and numbers of people have been watching
my case with interest. You can use this testi-
monial in any way you desire.”
Afflicted with Rheumatism at
the Age of 80.
HE IS NOW THOROUGHLY CURED AND
FREE FROM PAIN.
When a gentleman has reached the age of 80
years and is then attacked by acute rheumatism
so severely that at times he is only able to get out
of bed with the utmost difficulty, the case would
to most people seem incurable, and so the gentle-
man himself thought. But a course of Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People has thoroughly
changed his ideas. Last September twelvemonths
Mr. David Robertson, of Byron-street, Kew, Vic-
toria, who is over 80 years of age, was attacked
most virulently by rheumatism, first in the right
knee, next in the left hip, and then in the shoul-
ders, wrists, hands, knees, and legs. He was
rendered entirely helpless. Every friend he had
recommended different remedies in turn—sulphur,
kerosene, outwardly and inwardly, citric acid)
marsh mallow, fomentations, hot sea baths)
several bottles of a largely-advertised cure for
rheumatism, and other articles were all tried
without the slightest benefit accruing. Ultimately
Mr. Robertson came to the conclusion that his ail-
ment was incurable. A little while later, however a
friend induced him to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
He followed the directions carefully, and patiently)
in about three weeks or a month after first taking
them, he noticed a considerable improvement in
his condition ; he had then taken two boxes. He
persevered with the remedy, and, little by little
his ailment gave him less and less trouble. He
continued in this manner until he had taken about
10 or 11 boxes, the time occupied being from six
to seven months. At this stage, every trace of
rheumatism had left him, and he was absolutely
and perfectly cured in every particular. He is
now quite free from pain. Mr. Robertson, in con-
elusion, said he had recommended Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills to many of his friends, and they had
received most beneficial results from their use.
He was well known in the locality, and certainly
continues to recommend them.
This case is one which amply demonstrated the
marvellous curative properties of this universal
medicine, under the most adverse circumstances,
ff an old gentleman of 80 years of age can be cured
cf rheumatism, what may not be effected in those
cases in which the sufferer is a much younger man
cr woman ? The answer is too obvious to need
insertion.
Liver Complaint, Weak Stomach, and General Debility.
ANOTHER CURE COMES FROM MELBOURNE.
Mrs. Elizabeth Duggan, of “ Lochiel House,” 525 Latrobe-street, West Melbourne, is a lady who
has been most marvellously restored to health by a course of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
after she had suffered most acutely for years from chronic indigestion, liver complaint, and general
debility. Seen recently by a reporter, she chatted as follows : —“ lam 36 years old, and have been a
resident of West Melbourne all my life. About two years ago my health broke down, my stomach
wouldn t contain its food, and I sank into a terrrtfiy low condition. Even brandy and egg would not
stay on my stomach for more than five minutes. Sleep deserted me, and I often wished I were dead,
as I was a nuisance to myself and a burden to others. I was admitted to both St. Vincent’s and the
Alfred Hospitals, and, although I received the greatest kindness and attention at both, I was really a
wreck when discharged, and quite unfit to carry on my duties. Several doctors also attended me, but
did me no good at all. I took a large number of patent medicines, and these likewise had no
beneficial effect. The pains in the back of my neck, the excessive weakness of my sight, severe
headaches, giddy sensations, and general weakness never deserted me. About nine months ago I was
reluctantly persuaded by a young lady to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. Now I look
back to the day I started taking them as the luckiest in my life,” declared Mrs. Duggan enthusiasti-
cally. “ Altogether I took ten boxes. The second box produced a wonderful effect, and this became
more and more pronounced as I continued with them. My appetite has returned ; my indigestion,
pains, dizziness, sleeplessness, and weakness have vanished. I am up with the lark. My work is a
pleasure instead of a distress, and the longest day is never too long. I start work sometimes at five in
the morning, and keep on till late at night; yet I have no feeling of tiredness or langour, and for this
lam indebted to Dr. Williams Pink Pills. A number of my friends are taking them upon my recom-
mendation, with good results, and as my little girl is not well I intend giving her some ; X am sure
they will cure her. One of my doctors told me I was suffering from indigestion and liver complaint,
but he did nothing for me. Make whatever use you like of this testimonial.”
A Prostrated Farmer Who was Unable to Walk.
HE CAN NOW WALK 30 MILES A DAY.
“ I hear, Mr. Batchelor,” said a reporter recently to that gentleman at his farm at Horton
River. N.S.W., “ that you have just experienced a remarkable recovery from a very long illness.”
“ I have, indeed.”
“ Would you mind narrating the particulars of your case to us for publication ?”
“ Certainly I will, for I think the case is one which should have all the publicity possible. lam
sixty-five years of age, and have been resident in this district for about twelve years. Prior to my
coming here, I had always enjoyed the best of health, and I had been accustomed to work very hard.
About six years ago, however, all my energy seemed to gradually desert me. I suffered acutely and
constantly from pains in my limbs, lost my appetite, and for months at a stretch I did not know
r
?/
u-
{ -i
3
L
Safes
lt*T
what it was to get a good night’s sleep. Work of the very lightest
nature at last became beyond the question with me, and I could
do nothing but sit by the window and content myself by watching
the others work the farm. I gave up all hope of ever being able to
do any more work, and almost believed that every week which
commenced would be my last. In my endeavors to stay the
ravages of the ailment which had overtaken me, and was gradually
drawing me into the grave, I tried innumerable so-called cures, and
swallowed an unconscionable quantity of medical compounds, but
beyond giving me temporary relief occasionally, they, none of
them, did me any good ; in fact, I honestly believe that the
majority of them only aggravated my sufferings. I was just on
the point of giving up in despair a few months back when I hap-
pened to read in a newspaper of some wonderful cures effected by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and I determined to give
them a trial. After taking the first box, I felt considerably re-
lieved, and so marked was the improvement I noticed in my
strength that I desired to continue their use. I did so, and up to
the present time I have taken five boxes. My inability has all dis-
appeared, and I am pleased to say that to-day I am as strong and
hearty as I ever was in my life. It is no trouble to me to do a
day’s farm work now, and I feel quite equal to the task of walking
at least thirty miles a day. Everyone who knows me can testify
to the great cure these Pills have effected in me, and in recomend-
ing them for cases similar to mine I can honestly say that they are
. ._, , worth more than their weight in gold. If everybody knew their
true value, there would be no other medicines sold.
TOO LITTLE BLOOD.
Too little blood ! That is what makes men and women look
pale, sallow, and languid. That is what makes them drag along,
always tired, never hungry, unable
to digest their food, breathless
and palpitating at the heart after
slight exertion, so that it is a
trouble to go upstairs. They are
“Anaemic,” doctors tell them ; and
that is Greek for having “ too
little blood.”
Are you like that? Have you
too little blood ? Pull down your
lower lip—are your gums pale in-
stead of being scarlet? Pull down
your lower eyelid—is the lining of
it bloodshot and pale ? That i?
where “too little blood” shows.
More anaemic people have been
made strong, hungry, energetic,
cheerful men and women by
Dr. Williams’
"=S5>V'
/
a
w\
X
C'
O' .'
5
i 1
r*
Pink Pills for Pale Peopl
D
WILLIAMS' tor.
INK
ILLS
FOR
|j^kE
FACSIMILE OF GENUINE PACKAGE.
Kame in Red on a White Wrapper just like thin.
than by any other means.
They are the finest tonic
in the world. But you
must get the real Dr.
UT imams’ PINK PILLS'
like this,
or it is of
no use.
Fifteen Years of Violent
Indigestion.
A WOMAN’S MARVELLOUS RELIEF.
Whether Mrs. Boyes, now residing at 162
Dowhng-street, Sydney, merited the 15 years
torture she has just completed, we will leave an*
unbiased public to say. Certain it is that but
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People her
sufferings would have been even more prolonged.
“For fifteen
years I suffered
from indiges-
tion,” said Mrs.
Boyes to a re-
porter from the
Leichhardt
Standard, and
continued she,
“a long, weary
time to be ill,
and I might
have been suf-
fering still if I
had not the good
fortune to drop
on a paragraph
in the papers
describing a cure
I
by Dr. Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People in a
case very similar to mine. Though I always had
indigestion vvith me, it came on much more
violently at times than was usual. The attacks
were at first comparatively light, but as years
went on they became more and more severe.
They commenced with a feeling of sickness and
a disinclination to eat, and when I did manage
to eat some light food it would lie on my chest in
a heavy, immovable lump. The sensation was
most oppressive and distressing, and sometimes
I was in such pain that I could hardly sleep,' and
often I would wake up in the middle of the night
with a, start and not get any more sleep till the
morning, and when I did get out of bed I would
feel depressed in spirits, and quite overcome by a
feeling of lassitude and weariness. I had violent
headaches, and a most awkward giddiness when I
got up suddenly from a sitting posture; I also
suffered from a continual bad breath and an un-
pleasant taste in the mouth. I also had bad
bilious turns. I was not as you see me now, but
was much thinner, with a pale, unhealthy com-
plexion. During all these long years, in addition
to the attention of doctors, I tried a large number
of other remedies, but none of them did me an
atom of good. At length I tried Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The effect was astonishing: after
taking them for only a short time the attack I was
then suffering from was completely got rid of. I
had a sound, healthy appetite, which I hadn’t had
for years, and my sleep was no longer disturbed.
I took altogether about 12 boxes, and the Pills
completely cured me of both my indigestion and
biliousness, and I have never had the least return
of these complaints, or, in fact, of any illness
since.”
Mrs. Boyes is at present quite a picture of
health and strength.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
HOW THEY MAY FADE AWAY.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, yellow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at
the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
wdl be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pills upon the approach of the period of woman-
hood, and thus avoid the risks of disease or early
decay.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly
scientific preparation, the result of years of care-
ful study on the part of an eminent Edinburgh
University physician, and they were successfully
used by him in his everyday practice for years
before being offered for general sale. They are
a perfect blood builder and a nerve restorer,
curing such diseases as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus’
dance, nervous headache, general debility, ner-
vous prostration, the after effects of la grippe,
influenza, and severe colds, diseases depending
on humours in the blood, such as scrofula,
chronic erysipelas, etc. Pink Pills give a healthy
glow to pale and sallow complexions, and are a
specific for all troubles peculiar to the female sys-
tem, such as anaemia, poor and watery blood,
female irregularities, etc. In the case of men they
effect a radical cure in all cases arising from men-
tal worry, over-.vnrk, or excesses of any nature.
These Pills are not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by all
chemists and by the Dr. Williams’ Med'icine
Company, Sydney, who will forward (post paid)
on receipt of stamps or post order, one box for
2s. fid., or half-a-dozen for 15s. 3d. They are
unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles la. 6d. everywhere.*
JMLUttT KJhJJPRjaSHiJNG, COOLINGi & HEALTHFUL fi£Y£RAG£2.
Trade Hark)
y
UIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
r Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug- Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & II- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAIfIAU! nmniniio KilmnnK i.iirnn.iT ... . . “ m
FOR MAKIMB DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT ES6S, IN LESS TIME ANO AT HALF THE PRICE,
De icious to Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicio.s to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
fo* *t, Dellclou . s *° al / kuids of pruit pies - Delicious alone.
iS " : Purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
/ followed. Ihe proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the aiticle and canrermn-
o housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Cus ard. Giveitatrial
f Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS ENG
Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
ShND > » K OWDER 10-DAY,
We wifi more lhan ptease yotii
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
UNT'i
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
\~m
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufaclui ing. For inslance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 10s., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s, Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 8o inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, to octaves of our beautiful golden-loned rteds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £to. Fefeience, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON. NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
Cooling.
Sp arltling.
Fresh.
VELTEN LASER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
Best Value
In the Trade!
We have to beat the other fellow.
We do not worry about the pre-
sent Losses.
The Profits will come afterwards.
Our Motto: “ Keep tlie Mill Going.”
If you want to BUY in the CHEAPEST MARKET, wo are ready with LARGE STOCKS in
Pure, Healthy, Sanitary Bedding,
Superior Woven Wire Spring Mattresses,
PATENT COMBINATION BEDSTEADS.
1000 Bales of Best Java Kapok, in 80lb. Bales at 6d. per lb.
AMERICAN & AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
FURKTITURE, «&c., «&o.
lo give you just the kind of val ue whioh wi]l enable you to offer your own Customers Bargains, and
also to largely increase your turnover. " 1
Write for Designs. Our Prices will indnee yen to give ns a share of your trade.
Telephone No. 66.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
Warehouse : 608 to 610 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NoS ‘ 1; 3 ’ 5 ’ 6 ’ 8 and 10 Union Lane (adjoining Warehouse).
mj
iv j
\AII trade 1,11.
W |l*owa!*ST
L' m mark 4
n Corset
W'l-wowflisr Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LENGT hens the waist
BEAUT IF» E S THE FIG UR E.
Wi'u-owfliST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENN E STYLE.
ASK FOR ~~
W'u.o{va«st Corset
of ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale orders taken DY
f.w.lee, Camden Buildings.
3 IS, GEORGE STREET, syokiv.
The Ways of Many Waters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Because of a painted fancy,
That is neither old nor new,
The path of the further distance
It seemeth for aye more true ;
For this have the Dreamers wandered
Forlorn, on a golden quest,
Their sails, in the sunset dipping
Aslant to the reddened West
For this have the Rovers journeyed,
Subtle and strange though it seem,
Spelled by the shade of a shadow,
Lured by the loot of a dream ;
And so doth the Great Fleet gather.
The fleet of a thousand sail,
With a long-oared galley leading,
And a liner at the tail.
They sweep with a song from Sidon
The song of an old desire,
They come with a crash of trumpets
Out from the quays of Tyre.
Along on the open waters
Do their leaping galleys line,
To trade with our tattooed fathers
The trinkets of Palestine.
Evoe! and a cup to Bacchus
The Lycian seaman pours,
Then kisses his dark-haired Phryne,
And springs to the straining oars.
Hard down, by the mole at Pharos
The Rhodian Ketos bides
The hour of the sacred augur,
The time of the wheeling tides.
They swing from the yellow Tiber
Into the laughing seas,
With gifts to the gods in passing
The pillars of Hercules ;
The gleam of Imperial purple
On Imperial ocean falls,
The flag of the legion flutters,
The stern centurion calls.
Now, loud is the shout of wassail,
And the Northern Eagle shrieks
As the Viking’s men come crowding
Out from the bays and creeks—
bons of the snows and the forests,
High in the forehead and bold,
Strong with the love of strong women,
Sturdy to take and to hold.
They glide, with a chant of lovers,
Into the sleeping lagune ;
I he sails of the Great Doge gleaming
Silver and silk in the moon—
While far in the east she glimmers
On Indian argosies,
Gallantly bearing the Mogul
Rich gifts from the Genoese.
But now ’tis a rowdy rabble
That chatters on Palos pier,
As up from the Unknown Ocean
A tom sail l ist’s clear,
And a calm world-finder cometh
Not as the Conquerors came—
Loud with the blaze of pennons,
Clamoring favor of Fame.
And lo ! from an English harbor,
In his jerkin brown a rose,
With a broad sword in his scabbard.
The sturdy John Cabot goes
Westward, and westward for ever,
But ever of stout intent,
To claim for his burly monarch
His share of a continent.
And now ’tis a white-haired Spaniard,
Seeking in travail and ruth
The place of the fabled waters,
The fount of enduring youth.
The gallants of gay De Soto
Bear out on the seas again,
And Cortez, with banners trailing,
Heels down for the Western main.
The shout of Balbao echoes
Across the Pacific waste ;
And free from St. Malo harbor
Brave Cartier wears in haste ;
The sun on their mail to glisten,
The sun on their swords to glance—
A kiss for the mistress weeping,
Then, hey for the lilies of France 1
They waddle away together,
Round-bellied, from Rotterdam,
To trade in the Eastern Islands
Or barter at Surinam ;
Or, far to the south’ard driven,
They see with a startled gaze
The hills of the mystic Java
Loom up from the tropic haze.
Now low on the Southern oceans
The gleam of their lonely sails,
Where Tasman, undaunted, has weathered
The Cape of a Thousand Gales;
Where Hartog is boldly sailing
Into Australian seas,
One eye on the chance of plunder,
And one on the Portuguese.
They dart from the nooks and the crannies,
White eagles athirst for prey,
Room for a little adventure,
And plenty of room to play;
With letters-of-marque that cover
A slip if it endeth so,
And back to their friendly harbors
Full tilt, with a prize in tow.
They stand with their port-fires lighted
To rake him over and through,
For the sake of his golden ingots
And the sake of derring-do ;
They riddle his timbers gaily,
And up on his high decks spring—
One thrust for the English lasses,
And one for their English king 1
They reel, with a drunken chanty.
Loading their swivels amain,
Be-ribanded robbers cheering,
Their black flag up to the main ;
The pick of their ocean plunder
The loot of a half-score loads,
To scatter among the ladies—
Of pleasure—in Whydah Roads.
And a low, black hull still crosses
The face of the moon away,
And again the night re-echoes
The shout of the turbaned Dey;
And the night-wind moans and shivers,
But the Dago seaman swears
’Tis a ghostly Rover chiding
His Barbary Corsairs !
The Company’s fleet is booming
Along on the sou’-east trade,
And the brave East-India clipper
On her outward course is laid;
She cheers to the passing troopship
That buckles into the gale,
A reef in her straining topsails,
The red rag over the rail.
They roll from the docks of Lunnou ;
And out of Cork Harbor go
The immigrant tubs full-listed,
“God bless ye ! ” and “South’md ho !”
Ay, south’ard and south’ard ever,
The gallant old ships of teak,
That lie at the banks o’ Yarra,
With their spreading yards apeak.
Ay, south’ard and westward bravely,
Since ever the years were born,
They battle the wild Atlantic,
They battle around the Horn ;
With the California clipper
Dainty and deep in the beam,
And the Austral clipper racing
Ahead of the days of steam !
’Tis a lordly, long convention,
Foregathering day by day,
From the Mayflower bravely beating
Her passage to Cape Cod Bay,
From the trim old wooden traders
Who smuggled their silks and Lee,
To the steel-built Cunard packet
In the pride of her peerless pac e.
They sleep in the deep, dark places,
The fleets of the days gone by;
But oft when the flaked sea-fires
To the churning screw-beats fly,
With the sound of a faint, sad music,
The lilt of an old-time tune,
They rise from their grave of waters,
To ride ’neath the quiet moon.
The ships of the Dreamers gather,
They gather at dead of night,
Till the face of the deep, dark places
Y ith their crowding sails grows white ;
And then, in a grand procession,
Away to the West they sail,
With a long-oared galley leading
And a liner at the tail.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
The president of Melb. Alfred Hospital
lately reminded young doctors, who might be in-
tending to apply for appointments as “ residents,”
that they were not expected to make a permanent
position of the office. “It was only for the pur-
pose of gaining experience on the bodies of the
patients, of course. “ Trying it on the dog.”
t Muskett, of Sydney, author
of The Art of Living in Australia ” and kindred
works, gives Australians in “ The Book of Diet ”
(Geo. Robertson and Co.) an interesting and valu-
able compendium of hints and facts concerning
tvtmt ll ! f i n k. The volume does credit alike to
Dr Musketts industry and to his intelligence,
and The Bulletin has pleasure in warmly recom-
mending it.
In Arcady,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For miles along the Hunter (NS.W.) are to be
seen the galvauised-iron and slab habitations of
easy-going cockies who have evidently not yet
learned the use of rainwater. No spouting adorns
their roofs, and such a thing as a tank is un-
known. Water for the household is obtained
from the river per medium of a more or less
dilapidated horse and a sledged water-cask. A
farmer’s wife may occasionally be seen heaving a
chunk of wood at a mangy cattle-dog as he is en-
deavoring to disentangle his head from the hole in
the cask, after he has had his fill; and the farmer
himself generally has to curse his thirsty fowls 17
times a day, as they try, by various conjuring tricks,
to reach the water in the cask at low tide. Some-
times an unfortunate “ chick ” falls into the
family reservoir and remains there till his
effluvium makes an approach to his watery grave
anything but a pleasure-trip. What remains of
him is then fished out and the cask is given a
brush-up for appearance sake.
Small wonder that a typhoid epidemic every
now and then gives the agricultural portion of the
Hunter districts a look-up, and sends a few con-
signments over the border. But typhoid doesn’t
trouble a Hunter cockie, because on that part of
the river it is customary to wake a defunct—and
the more wakes the merrier !
A recent Hunter wake took the cake. After all
and sundry had expressed their sympathy and
called the corpse “fine fellow,” “good-natured
soul,” etc., a large quantity of muddy red wine
and snaky whisky was introduced to drown the
general sorrow, and when the talking power of the
mourners had got into full blast, a large, hairy
dairyman began to tell how many pounds of butter
his little “ yaller ” heifer, that was out of Bill
King’s prize cow, yielded in a week. The wake
proper then began, and for ten minutes nothing
could be heard but “pounds,” “quarts,”
“brindle cows,” “South-coasters,” “churns,”
“separators,” “green feed,” and “Ayrshire.”
Then, after every man on the premises had called
every other man twenty-seven kinds of variegated
liar, about a dozen of the arguers hung their Sun-
day coats on the fence r and stepped out into the
milking-yard.
The corpse was forgotten, and the rest of the
company came out and “ sooled ” on the twelve. It
was a glorious scrimmage, with fists, feet, sticks,
and even half-bricks ; and, when the fighters were
quite played-out, the proceedings were declared to
be over, and everybody was invited to the funeral,
next afternoon.
These Hunter cockies would wake a man f
he had died of leprosy, as long as they could make
“ a good night ”of it. If typhoid raged all the
year round they would never look to the state of
their drinking-water; and if you explained to
them the connection between the two matters
they would inform you that when the Lord calls
you, you’ve got to go—water or no water.
A. A. A.


The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
■s
i .\wui 111 iilii
li il:
V:,
sSu^Y
3;
REPUBUQUE
A.ft F.PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the\
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
A Marriage Examining-Board.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A reformer in the Ohio Legislature has introduced a
Bill requiring persons applying for marriage-licences to
pass a medical examination. The Bill forbids the issue of
a licence to any person suffering from dipsomania, in-
sanity or tuberculosis. It provides for a Marriage Ex-
amining-Board of three physicians in each county. A
measure of this kind has been advocated by many re-
formers of society from Sir Thomas More down to our
own own day, but if science is strong human nature is
stronger. It is pretty certain that love, which laughs at
locksmiths, will not show more respect for medical certifi-
cates.— British Medical Journal, Feb. 26. 1898.
They are up-to-date in Ohio State,
For they deal out laws from the shoulder straight;
They’re passing a Bill to preserve the use
Of the marriage-license against abuse ;
And you can’t get married, whoever you be,
Without the consent of a board of three
Grave medical men. It isn’t enough
The consent of your girl and her father gruff—
You both must confront this board irate
Or you can’t get spliced in Ohio State.
’Tis hard indeed that the heart should bleed
For the sins of the flesh the disease-germs breed :
The hectic flush on your true love’s cheek
Is the sweet blush rose that ever we seek,
And the clear, white skin of her brow and neck,
The silken locks that her shoulders deck,
Bespeak her a fairy—the daintiest girl—
With long, curving lashes, red lips set on pearl,
And a brilliant vivacity lightens the whole
As her pupils dilate with the depth of her soul,
A charm so resistless her witchery proves
Man looks and is dazzled, she smiles, and he loves.
The blight’s in the bud, the moth’s in the fruit,
The germ’s in the cell, the worm’s at the root;
Remorse stings the soul, grief gnaws at the heart,
Or matter or mind is diseased in each part.
Our noblest endeavours soon falter and flag,
To-day we are zealots, to-morrow we lag ;
A world of old “ chronics ” in body and mind,
Each built for each other, blind leading the blind,
So fish in Life’s Ocean young maidens and lads,
In spite of reformers brain-addled with fads;
’Tis a lottery-net that you cast in the deep,
And the fish that you catch, you can play with—
or keep;
But seek not Ohio, that science-struck State,
Where your soul’s not your own, where you can’t
take your mate
To the altar of Hymen, unless you both pass
A naked exam.: and obtain a first-class.
We lean to old fashions, the unions we guess
Where your bride has conferred the degree M.R.S.,
Are better than those who are shifty and free,
Where your mistress, yourself, and the world can’t
agree ;
And these are the things that they legislate for
In the State of Ohio ; they bar the front doo-
Of legalised unions, Love slips out the back
And fondles his Psyche unlicensed, alack ;
So let their strong Science do all that it may,
Twill only boom licence and free-love that way ;
Where the drunkards will mate with the dribbling
loons,
The phthisical pair with the cancerous coons,
Where healthier mortals like ship-rats will clear
From the tottering State and its wreckage so near.
Vic.
Banool.
The Rush to Klondyke.—A Voice
from Vancouver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Been four days here, scraping up all the informa-
tion I can. Been introduced to miners of all
classes, from all parts—mining agents, experts,
practical miners, &c. Some come from Dawson
City and other parts of the Yukon. Met an old
schoolfellow here, who started from Vancouver
last August, with a party of 8, and 4 tons of
stores. Killed 21 horses in crossing the White
Pass. Reached Dawson City in three months;
staked out claims, and after two months’ work
had to leave for want of tucker. Got no gold out
in that time, and paid .£lOO for tucker on way
back, arriving in Seattle after nine months’ hard
toil and an expenditure of 8000 dollars. The
papers announced that they had returned with
7500 dollars of gold-dust, whereas they hadn’t a
color. This man is trying to sell his claim, but
has little hopes of doing so. The boom here is at
fever-heat; people rushing about madly, buying
stacks of stuff to take with them. Thousands
coming in every week from all parts of the world.
Worth being here to see the life ; reminds one of
an ant-hill when the ants have been stirred up.
Local people are very calm over it, but raking in
the dollars in hundreds of thousands. None of
them dream of going out—got their mines at their
own doors! and laughing in their sleeves
at the rest of us. A mining - engineer has
come back here with a report from Dawson,
but his account is so sober and truthful that the
newspapers would not publish it for fear of check-
ing the boom. He said there was work, so far,
for 4000 people, but that the remaining 2000 had
nothing to do, and that 50 per cent, of the people
were poorer than when they arrived. He says the
transportation-companies are doing their best to
get in enough tucker to keep alive the big mob
that are going in; but he cannot see what the
people will do when they get there. I do not
think there will be less than 150,000. Everything
here is in the hands of syndicates—even the press.
They are all working together to keep the boom
alive and bring as many people as possible to
spend their money here. On every street you are
stopped by someone who wants to drag you into
his store and force you to buy a Klondyke outfit.
No doubt that there is plenty of gold in British
Columbia, but it is a losing game to get it. There
is a man here who came from Klondyke a week
ago. Been working hard for three years, and only
made 50 dollars. I can hear of no one from here
who has done any good there. There will be a
great deal of gold from Klondyke this summer,
but only from the few good claims that were
taken up nearly two years ago. It is quite un-
true about the high wages on the Yukon. Difficult
to get work at any price. A party of my
shipmates are off to-morrow to the White Pass.
Going by an old ocean tramp converted into a
passenger-boat. Six of such have been wrecked
within the last few weeks. My mates spent
7500d01. on supplies, and have only money left to
pay their fare to Skagway, so I don’t know how
they will get back, or live there when their food is
done. They can only do surface-prospecting in
the summer, and have no chance of proving their
claims till this time next year. No one can know
if he has got anything in less than a year, except
in a few cases.
I don t think the danger to life on the journey
from Skagway to the Yukon is serious. 'The news
that hundreds of people were dying is quite un-
true. I don’t see the need of hurrying away at
once, in any case, as no one can travel past Lake
Bennett till-the ice breaks, which will be about
June. Ice on rivers very rough, with hummocks ;
cannot drag more than 1501 b. on a sledge. Thou-
sands camped at Lake Bennett, waiting for ice to
break; meanwhile, eating up their provisions.
Many thousands also camped at the Pass ; some
sitting on their luggage, crying in their helpless-
ness. No money to come back, and no money to
have their loads taken up the mountains by the
transportation-companies, who charge 200dol. a
ton. The rest of our fellows think they are going
to drag theirs up themselves, a little at a time.
This might possibly be done ; but, as it is 45 miles
to the lake, and same back, and this would have
to be travelled over at least six times, it means 540
miles, or two months’ work. The tucker they
would eat would be worth more than the cost of
having it packed over by the companies.
The much-talked-of Stewart and Pehhv Rivers
are not staked-out, and no one can get up them, as
the stream is too strong in summer, and in winter
the surface cannot be prospected because of the
snow and ice. Some men went a little way up
the Stewart and found rich gold, but their journey
was so slow (one mile per day) that their tucker
failed and they had to return after two days
there. Nothing can be done till the railway is
made and steam-launches built. The Stewart is
about 400 miles long, and cannot be reached across
the mountains. The opinion amongst candid
people is that this will be the most disastrous gold-
rush ever known.
KENNETH STEWART HUNGERFORD.
Vancouver, 9th March, 1898.
The Rescue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were sitting on the lower deck, near the
stern of the little ferry steamer Kirribilli, chatting,
delighted at the coincidence of their meeting.
“ They two would wed to-morrow morn ” —or
rather to-morrow six months, say; and were in
the first delicious newness of it all. Huggable she
looked too: fresh as early peach-blossom, in her
summer muslin and big kiss-me-quick hat. And
manly he : broad-shouldered and strong-haired.
Her eyes wandered, after many minutes.
“Oh, Walter, what a dear little boat ! ” She
jumped up quickly to see better the little
“dingy” which, with white flashing sails and a
bright red crescent, was bent on cutting across the
ferry-boat’s bows in the very nick of time. Half
the passengers rose, too, and, manlike, obscured
the view.
“ Those stupid men! ” Standing on the seat, she
leaned far out, clutching a stanchion; her breeze-
blown skirts fluttering behind her, and affording
just a glimpse of a saucy bit of lace and a pair of
pretty ankles.
Did the steamer lurch ? She was in the water,
many feet astern ; her cry still in the air. There
was a shout from excited passengers, and Walter
Murray, in his shirt-sleeves, stood for a moment
on the bulwarks—
“ Mr. Murray had his coat off and was over the
side in an instant; with a few vigorous strokes he
reached the unfortunate lady, and supported her
till ...”
A roar of execration, a jarring, churning shudder
that shook the boat from stern to stem ; and a
dark rushing body from the upper deck came fly-
ing, clothes and all, through the air past Walter,
who still stood staring on the bulwark.
‘ ‘ Mr. Murray had his coat off and was over the
side in an instant.” His brain had over-shot
itself —was hours ahead.
“ Oh, Walter.” Her last sob reached him. His
brain cleared with a bound. He realised his dry
clothes; the green, white-flecked waves, the black
shoulders striving their utmost, but still so miser-
ably far from their goal; the sail that flew like
lightning past the backing steamer. He realised
the sudden stillness where the splashing hands
had been ; then long minutes afterwards the white-
wrapt, dripping figure handed up from the thwart
of the Sea Gull.
As, all in vain, the knowing ones pumped her
arms about, the crowd gave way in silence to a
man in shirt-sleeves with a frozen face, who
knelt down on the deck and watched an
even stiller one. When they reached the wharf
someone took his arm and led him to a seat; then
somebody came, he thought, and seemed to bother
—somebody he knew, named Murray—about his
name and address; and then he was left alone,
and sat on there on the hard wooden seat, while
ferry-boats came and went, and passengers eyed
him curiously.
He gave his evidence quite clearly at the inquest
offered no explanation. His best friends rather
ostentatiously didn’t cut him, but soon found a
wall more interesting. A wall will echo, anyway.
A fortnight after the accident he suddenly told
his father he had decided to give up the Law.
At the University he had been correctly lazy;
now he re-opened his books. When he’d mastered
the Integral Calculus fie took up Spherical Har-
monics. After two years’ study he sat for his
M.A. degree and won first-class honors and a gold
medal for mathematics. They say he'll be a Pro-
fessor some day, but I don’t think so. I’m medical
officer for a life-assurance society.
N.3.W.
S.K.
Aaron : “A clue to the true theory of
baldness. A horse that was to he exhibited at a
show had his tail braided, turned up on itself, and
secured with an india-rubber band Gin. from the
root for two or three days. In a few weeks almost
all the hair came out of the tail. This was due to
constriction of the blood vessels and starvation of
the hair follicles. The arteries supplying the
scalp are so situated that a tight hat compresses
them and causes slow starvation of the hair fol-
licles. Women escape baldness because they don’t
wear tight hats. In man the hat pressure is in
front on the frontal arteries, and it is in tho
region supplied by these arteries that baldness
generally appears.”
Hordern’s, in Pitt-street, guinea blankets
handle straps for carrying); colors, red, white,
blue or grey, sent carriage Free to any post town
in N.S. Wales. We will be pleased to repeat the
orders for blankets sent to us by our patrons last
season. The value this year is even better than
last, and you were more than pleased then. (You
can send the money by Postal Note.) Prepare for the
cold nights and send your orders early. Hordern
Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-st., Sydney.


POKER MACHINES.
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Yalue
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
«
Vi
HQ
:
5W
li
*
s
E
L
P
P
E
E
D
I
N
G
For
Counter
Use.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
|!|ick Simmons, Daymarket, Sydney.
Dirrct Ini porter of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’Fancy Goods, Cutlery Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
EPPS’S
gbatefol— comforting
COCOA
GOUT
Readers of this paper should
know that to effectually cure
Gout the great thing to do is
to eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause of
the malady, and nothing does
this so effectually as Bishop’s
Citrate of Lithia. All doc-'
tors prescribe it. Of all Chem-
ists in two sizes. A Booklet on
Gout sent post free on applica-
tion to their Australian Dep6t,
18 O’Connell - street, Sydney.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.',
48 Spelman St., London, E.
CURED.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. aobnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS,. Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and fjI'KEN STREETS.
KstabUslied over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
?ir ,-X’. * irst-class Board and Residence jfil per
Week (single room) ; 4s. per Day.
W. L., NEALE, Proprietor.
t 3 A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a countrv in the civilised world whet
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oee
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinal-
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atone
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their us
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mam.
faetured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London. - p UI
chasers should look: to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
It the address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, thev ar
spurious
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
(mOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If 1 were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bo
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ohlokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
jL Price Waning. Is. 3d.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage
o o *
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
B e WITFS
F°3id,«S,“ulnl™s , W n d ““ Pa '° V he S “ H«uiach.,
ings of Heat T r»HQ nf i after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills Flush-
turbed Sleep!' and all CosGveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WJLL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES ! ° DS ’ &c T HE FIRST DOSE
GOInIa Tso^ 0116 BOX ° f theBe they ‘acknowledged to be'‘WOR?H A
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
Vital Organs! Strengthening the
afousing with the Rosebud of Heatth n, ol ?P lexion > bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
are -facts”admittedhva e ' Vhole Phy »>cal Energy of the human frame, these
Nervous and Debilitated is t iT-i ll \ R *> C p S ,f ? f society, and one of the best guarantees to the
he world. ' £ ~° e * ° f Pat€nt Medkk "*
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls ltd, and ‘_»s 9d each.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
original Worcestershire
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
retail everywhere.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIROOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
Scale of Advertising 1
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly ~ (26 insertions)
One Year „ (62 insertions)
Specified Positions, 10s. per inch per insertion
or on Reading Page, 15s. per inch per insertion, ne
••• 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
... 10 per cent, discount.
-. 20 „
25
> I) f|
subject to the above discount. By Paragraph
t. On Front Cover, IDs. per inch per insertion.
Don’t Delay.
stop that Cough !
• • • TAKE • • •
8
IRISH moss
The Great Remedy for'Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes,
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, FnUn^'aftef aZ'g" Corf
patlon, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extract, and Alkaloid, .StW
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowel, to Healthy Action. Do not Orife
lBSoac.


OLEAC”
<<
Discovered by Christopher
Mndd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Brinoe of Wale*
ECZEMA
. 4 £1
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
“OLEAC
COLONIAL KBPBESENTATTVB FOB THK PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. B. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb
,’RegdT^
Or Elder, Glycerine and Honey Jelly.
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat. Chafing through
Cycling, Riding, Rowing; Exposure to the Sun at Seaside,
Fishing, Cricket, &c.; Sun Blisters, See. Delightfully Cooling
and Refreshing. In Metallic Tubes, 1/-
“ NAFATHA SOAP,” Regd.
A DISINFECTANT SOAP, specially prepared for Tender
Feet, &c. Most Useful to Travellers for arresting Gnat,
Mosq .ito, and Insect Bite Irritation. Recommended by the
Medical Profession. Wrapped Tablets, 6d.
The above sold by Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen,
k 19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. .
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ O- ZEIiDIRXIDG-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
IMEammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
?She JJbbot
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK-
CEDO@E3O
40L.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ r rHT! BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortbiQgtoi) PCinjpiog Epgipc Corgpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) Simpson Brothers. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
REGULAR PATTERN
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for aU Services
Kept in Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KINO STREET and 23 ROYAL
EE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
epots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
I £l*
X *
O
BEST
AN
CHEAPEST
WATER
ELEVATOR
\KNDWN/<
r«
iSOUCff
?C£
/sousexTriT
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - - ALL SI NOS Eli SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR rATfw STITCH
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES. Ulliliil kj 111 \JU
[Batho’s Baking powder _
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gutrmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s fid each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breach-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel looks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £8 17s fid each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £’2l, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at fi< fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must he made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
lON DON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
H /ssolutely Cheapest ni Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Run Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - dost.), Brakes (complete, fi 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 36, Brooke’s
Saddles «6, Bteume! Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90-. Send for trade Illustrated Price
hist Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS ft GENERAL MACHINERT MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
m
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
Alt our Engines are, fitted with The
Governor (for which we are Sole Agents)p*
most Perfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
