

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIQ STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
3
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
lancet,\
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE. DRYSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., lieibourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe cfc Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
• FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed FURS COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
<RAckAjr
♦art
R. A. HERVBY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ri ston,
Proctor & Go., Ltd., of Lincoln,England. BROADBUNT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
■manufactured by Thomas Broad bunt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& PiiATT, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the C.iiiOiuDß Eleorical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting-.
iknd sees that yon get it.
m
m
PROOF-
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Prioe Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chis wick, Parramatta River.
“ COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
'A
An
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CICIRETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
Brfore vijifinj the Qty write io fhe Manager for
<j«d of Tariff, (jprrejpondence promptly amended to.
TZE3ZZED
(SrosV^oorHotel,
Grosvenor Square , .
SYDKTEY.
The only Hotel In the Oity with four dear Frontages.
What is Health?
Tfheumatism, Scimbt*a,
Ltnnbaffo, «fec.,
Completely cared by Mr. C. f.
PARKER, 146 Tkjtoru Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
PIONEER
LEATHER
toW'BELTINC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, VV. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
■ HECo'fccsl
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE!, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
lO 00., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
BT Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Hoyal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
lALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE Ib. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L??,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY. A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 952. J
["Saturday, May 14, 1898.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AO. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
• George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, Thk Bulletin.
B Y
APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
Messrs. GEORGE ROBERTSON and CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORIZABA—
Henham’s Tenebrac, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Brooke’s Confession of Stephen VVhapshare, 2s 6d and 3s
6d, post 3s and 4s ; Penn’s A Son of Israel, 2s 6dand 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Allen’s An Incidental Bishop, 2s Gd and 3s
Gd, post 3s and 4s ; Stuart’s From Strength to Strength,
2s Gd and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Tennyson’s Fool of Fate,
2s Gd and 3s Gd, post 3s and 4s ; Zangwill’s Dreamers of the
Ghetto, 2s Gd and 3s Gd, post 3s and 4s ; Carey’s Barbara
Heathcote’s Trial, 3s Gd and 4s ; Camperdown’s Admiral
Duncan, 16s, post 17s ; Liddon’s Some Words of St. Paul,
ss, post 5s Gd.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. HIMALAYA—
Beaman’s Prince Diamond, 2s Gd and 3s Gd, post 3s and
4s ; Bodkin’s Stolen Life, 2s Gd and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Atherton’s American Wives, etc., 2s 6d and 3s Gd, pose 3s
and 4s ; James’s What Maisie Knew, 2s Gd and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Boothby’s Lust of Hate, 23 Gd and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Pasture's Deborah of Gods. 2s Gd and 3s Gd, post
3s and 4s ; Duncan’s Voyage of Consolation, 2s Gd and
3s Gd, post 3s and 4s ; Fenn’s Woman Worth Winning, 2s
Gd and 3s Gd, post 3s and 4s; James’s Indian Frontier
Warfare, 7s Gd, post 8s ; Irving’s Life of Judge Jeffries, 14s,
post 15s ; Mallock’s Aristocracy and Evolution, 12s Gd, post
13s ; Gray’s Magnetism and Electricity, vol. i., 16s, post
16s Gd ; I opp end Bouquet’s Alternate Currents, 15s, post
16s ; Dali and Other’s Yukon Territory, 21s, post 225;
Gill’s Oil Analysis, 6s, post 6s Gd.
NEW AUSTRALIAN WORKS. —ROBERTSON’B
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
THE SWORD OF A SIN, by Alex. Montgomery.
WHEN PASSION FLIES, by Gerald Wolf. Paper
covers, 2s Gd, post 3s ; cloth, 3s Gd, post 4s.
LORAINE and Other Verses, by George Essex Evans,
with a portrait. Cr. Bvo., ss, post 5s Gd.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, a Story of the
Australian Desert, &c. Picture boards, 2s, post 2s 4d.
THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr. Philip Muskett, auithor of
“ The Art of Living in Australia,” “ Feeding and
Management of Australian Infants,” &c. Wrapper, 2s 6d,
post 3s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write to us for AbiY Book or Magazine you want.
BLOOD
LL!
The announcement of American victories over Spanish warships was received by the public with
cheers and congratulations. The American is of the true British stock, and there is a quality
about the British breed of sailors that comes out in times of emergency.
The same fact applies to quality the world over —quality will tell, even if it is only
... CAMEO CIGARETTES ...
The pure and true quality of “CAMEOS” is a guarantee that they are made from the right
stock, and by people who know how to make Cigarettes.
THE RED PAGE.
NIGHT.
(AFTER ALL.)
When the time comes for me to die,
To-morrow, or some other day,
If God should bid me make reply,
•What would’st thou ? ’ I shall say,
O God, Th v world was great and fair;
Yet give me to forget it clean !
Vex me no more with things that were,
And things that might have been.
I loved, I toiled, throve ill or well,
Lived certain years and murmured nOtt
Now grant me in that land to dwell
Where all things are forgot.
For others. Lord, Thy purging fires,
The loves reknit, the crown, the palm.
For me, the death of all desires
In deep, eternal calm.
T. W. Rolleston.
The Triumph of Death.
The keynote of the story is Death. And the
book is “morbid,” therefore? No, indeed ! That
is a quaint, traditional, superstitious fancy which
marks the close of life with sadness and only the
beginning of it with joy : as if Life were not for
very many of the living, from any exalted point
of view, a thing infinitely sadder thaq Death.
Life harmonises with one set of conditions ; Death
with another set ; but both Life and Death are
natural, may be beautiful, are inspiring themes for
music, painting, literature. The one, as a fact, is no
more “morbid” than the other ; the contemplation
of the one is no more to be sliunned than the con-
templation of the other ; and though Death come
often by disease, has not Life itself been held to be
a disease? We swing from Night into Day, and
from Dly into Night again ; and there is in the
fitful fever no more (it may be less) artistic sanity,
completeness, than in the eternal calm.
The keynote of the story is Death—death by
violence—death by falling from a shattering
height. The lovers are fascinated, and look over
the parapet of the steep Roman street. Far
down, they see a vague, horrible stain.
Giorgio broods. His uncle, the relative whom
he best knew and best loved, was a suicide.
“He died because he could not make his life
conform to his ideals.” Ippolita is sad, feeling
the omen evil. Yet, as they part, the instinct of
vitality swells up defiant, and they separate on
the edge of an intoxicating promise to meet later
in the evening.
But the keynote of the story is Death : from the
keynote the theme of Love rebounds, rises, falls,
wavers ; to the keynote m the end it triumphantly
returns.
The book is a wonderful analysis of character
and passion ; and the force, the sustained force of
it has not been paralleled in recent English. To
the fashion of treatment there is no parallel in
any English: Hardy comes nearest in his later
novels, with the philosophic idea shown in the
working of life; but Hardy’s philosophy is a stiff,
antique thing beside this of D’Annunzio, a modern
of moderns. And in any case Hardy has not the
virile pulsation of matter, the sweeping eloquence
of style, which mark D’Annunzio’s book. The
Hardy of “Teas ” and the Meredith of “ Richard
Feverel ” might together write something of
kindred potency, not the same.
The usual sardonic reflections about one’s ignor-
ance rise with the appearance of an English
translation of “II Trionto della Morte.” The
original seems to have been written seven or
eight years ago, published in Italian, and sent
through the Revue des Deux Mondes in what is
called an admirable translation. America had
the book last year, in an unexpurgated version
which was (unsuccessfully) prosecuted by a New
York “social purity” society : England gets it
this year in a much expurgated version issued by
publisher Heinemann. Yet through all the blots
and omissions of the translation D’Annunzio’s
genius shine* like midsummer sun through a cob-
web.
D’Annunzm resides always in Italy. “ The
Triumph of Death ” is only one of his half-dozen
novels : some say it is not his best, in the artistic
sense. But it seems to be his most powerful;
and last year there was a story current that
some burglars, who broke into D’Annunzios
house by peradventure, melted to warm Southern
tears on learning that it was “ The Triumph’s ”
author who came in his nightshirt to expostulate
with them. And to the versatility of the man
(lie is recognised as one of the finest con-
temporary Italian poets) testifies the enthusiastic
reception given by literary Paris to his written-in-
French play of “La Ville Morte,” produced three
months ago. D’Annunzio’s pictures give him a
diminutive air, with a smallish head set on stoop-
ing shoulders, and thick up-twirling moustaches.
He looks warm and vital, yet weary and potenti-
ally ascetic. His age is near 30.
D’Annunzio himself regards “The Triumph of
Death ” as a moral work, with the kind of shock-
moral whioh Daudet attributed to “Sapho.”
But in D’Annunzio’s book there is little of
the “Sapho” revulsion. The character of
Giorgio is presented less as insane than as
inevitable; and there is ample room for sympathy
with his course and conclusion. Throughout the
pregnant passages more comes to agree with than
to disagree with. Giorgio strives, like all of us,
for the ideal Love, and is continually cheated by
the inadequacy of the real. He harps on Brown-
ing’s “So the good moment goes.” Ippolita is
everything to him, and yet, at the utmost —noth-
ing. “ How much of you can I call my own ?” he
asks. “All,” replies Ippolita, who indeed loves
him fondly. “Nothing—or next to nothing,” he
says sadly. “You are practically an unknown
person to me. The soul is incommunicable —you
cannot give me your soul. Even in our supremest
raptures we are and remain apart —solitary.”
Early in the book the lovers celebrate the
second anniversary of their loving by a holiday
in the country. Their happiness satisfies the
woman: the man, looking before and after,
is never able to evade the obsession of
his melancholy thoughts. He is cultured, ner-
vous, sensitive tuned to the most delicate
emotions ; and at every moment the crude things
of life discord in him. Ippolita, more sensual,
less intellectual is content with the present ;
Giorgio is toroured by the past, terrified at the
future. The holiday ends—“ another fragment of
their life and love is broken off and dropped into
the fathomless abyss of Time.” “So this too is
over,” said Giorgio.
To make clear this complex character, D’An-
nunzio takes him to his home, where are shown
his parents—gross sensuality on the one side,
nervous refinement on the other. The keynote
returns, more dominating, when Giorgio is
tempted to kill himself in the room and in the
manner of his uncle Demetrius. But the time is
not yet. “A thousand invisible threads bound him
still to life * Ippolita ! ’ He turned impetu-
ously towards the window —to the light.
The distant landscape, nebulously blue and
mysterious, melted out of sight with the languor-
ous day. La Majella, all bathed in the liquid
gold of the setting sun, leaned her rounded bosom
against the sky.”
In the next phase the lovers, hitherto only in-
termittently together, resolve to be'joined for
always. They choose a country hermitage where
Love and Nature are to lead them to the
higher life. Giorgio goes first to make all
ready, and is powerfully impressed by the magic
which the motherhood of wild Earth has for all
high and romantic spirits. He foresees “ a bound-
less liberty, a noble and fruitful solitude. Oto
walk amongst these children of the earth . . .
to contemplate Nature with such uninterrupted
attention as to succeed in reproducing in myself
the rhythmic palpitation of all created life, and,
finally, by a laborious metamorphose of the ideal,
identify myself witli the tall tree which with its
roots absorbs the invisible juices of the earth
and imitates with its topmost boughs the
rushing of the sea! ” Ippolita comes, after
days of longing, to a night of ecstasy. At
the meeting “ she held his face between her
hands, and drawing him to her, passed her soft,
warm lips all over his face in one long-drawn kiss.
Giorgio recognised the divine, the incomparable
month whioh had seemed to him so often to rest
on t'ie surface of his soul, as if in a rapture sur-
passing all carnal emotion, and communicating
itself to some supersensitive element of his Spiri-
tual personality.”
And now begins once more the age-long con-
flict between soaring spirit and tethering flesh. In
Giorgio’s experience is repeated the truism that
Woman is the death of the Individual, the life
of the Race. For the woman sums birth and
death ; she rocks the cradle and she digs the grave;
creator and destroyer is she, and her left hand
knows not what her right hand doeth. There are
times when every intellectual lover sees in her
true essence the woman he loves —when he recog-
nises that her delicious caresses are sapping his
strength, that each of her pleasures hides its pre-
ponderant pang, that the light of her eyes, the
music of her voice, the seduction of her body, are
flowers spread on the edge of the precipice which
invites him. And a great hatred may rise in him
against this murderess who visibly draws life from
his veins, who emerges ruddy and joyous from
bathing in his blood, by whom, at the bidding
of incomprehensible aboriginal forces, he is seduced
to sacrifice his ideals and possibilities, his dreams
and exaltations, on the altar ol a physical lu3t.
Poignancy comes with the consideration that
ideals and exaltations are the efflorescence of lust
unattained.
The story delays not, nor hurries, but passes
inevitably to its close. Passages of beauty and
suggestion crowd closely on each other. There is
a marvellous description of a pilgrimage to a
shrine, conceived antecedently to that in Zola’s
“ Lourdes,” and surpassing it in picturesque in-
tensity. And through all goes the motive of
Heredity, swaying Giorgio hither and thither
through his sensual father, his sensitive mother.
“ He saw himself in the distant future fettered to
his carnal lust like a slave to the galley, deprived
of all will and thought, degraded, unmanned ”
and gradually his resolution takes shape and
strengthens. And as he loses force he sees
enraged how his mistress gains it —she, “ the
woman of sensual delight, the ‘ flower of concupi-
scence,’ the Enemy.” And ever as he shrinks,
she pursues. “You are afraid of my kisses!”
And his mingled love and hate, his heredity and
history, draw him irresistibly to the formidable
crisis. “ Nec sine te nec tecum vivere possum.”
The last scene comes.
The promontory fell sheer down to the desolate black
rocks round which the sluggish water heaved with a
faint splash, rocking the reflection of the stars upon
its bosom. . . . He turned and came towards her with
outstretched hands.
With a sudden rapid movement he clutched her wrists
and dragged her forward, then, throwing his arms round
her, made a dash for the edge of the precipice.
“No—no —no!” She made a frantic resistance, and,
succeeding in getting herself from his grasp, sprang back
breathless and trembling.
“ Are you mad ? ” she cried, half choked with rage and
fear. “ Are you mad ? ”
But when she saw him seize her again without a word,
felt herself dragged in a more brutal grasp towards the
abyss, she understood —in a sudden baleful flash that
struck terror to her soul.
“No, Giorgio no—let me go—let me go. One minute
—listen, listen—just one minute —I want to tell you ”
Mad with fright, she writhed and supplicated, hoping
against hope to stop him—to soften him.
“One minute—listen to me—l love you! Oh, forgive
me—forgive me ! ”
She stammered wild, incoherent, despairing words—
feeling her strength fail her, losing the ground beneath
her feet—death staring her in the face.
“ Murderer ! ” she shrieked, defending herself desper-
ately—with her teeth, her nails, like a wild beast.
“Murderer!” she shrieked again, seized by the hair,
thrown on her knees at the very edge of the abyss—lost.
The dog harked furiously at the tragic group.
There was a brief but savage struggle, as between two
mortal foes who Jiad nourished a secret and implacable
hatred in their souls up to that hour. . . .
Then they crashed down headlong into death, locked
in that fierce embrace.
. . . the rough thought that shakes my soul
I sing.
But unluckily there is no evidence that his
soul has been shaken; and to be poet a fellow
must not only be shaken : he must actively
shake. Apollo’s priestess had to writhe in
public: a private tussle with the god in the
back parlour of the temple was of no use to Delphi
or anybody. When Inspiration gets hold of a
man and shakes him as a terrier shakes a rat you
expect to see teeth-marks in the back of his
poetical neck. Where are the teeth-marks in Mr.
Evans’s verses? Well, Brunton Stephens sees
them :he ranks himself as one of vans’s ad-
mirers, and thinks the new book confirms his
judgment. “A Dream Flight” seems to B.S.
“really exquisite.” Randolph Bedford says that he
sees the marks ; and Bedford has some fibres tuned
to fine emotions. The Queenslander sees them :
it considers Evans’s performance most admirable.
Here you have in harmony a modest man of letters,
a mining speculator, who isnot modest, and a moral
weekly newspaper. And with the best will in the
world, and m spite of the decent and complimentary
premisses, the local voice is discordant. So what
is a critic to do? Perhaps the best way out of
the difficulty is to frankly Btate it.
Low at our dear God’s feet.
But at p. 41, “ On Tennyson’s Death,”
The angels rise %n beauties sweet
And bear his soul to Jesus’ feet.
After this, the introduction of Tennyson s own
feet (p. 42)
Why weep ? his aced pure feet have trod
The wondrous path to Lteav'n and God
rather spoils the effect; though there is virtue in
the corroboration of the general belief that
Tennyson washed ’em. On p. 62, the olimax
adorns Cleopatra’s feet —
Oh ! Cleopatra — o’er Time’s heaving waves
I stretch my hand unto thy spirit fleet
That I may tell thee of the God that saves,
And lay this loving tribute at thy feet.
Possibly, however, Cleopatra has fallen victim to
the necessity for a scientific and harmonious
rhyme : people with a “ spirit fleet ” must expect
to suffer so. At p. 82, “earth’s waking prayer”
is “ wafted ” “ thro’ the heaven blue and bare ”
Unto God’s feet above;
but the counterwaft follows on p. 117, when “ eerie
Death ” is invited to “ waft me above,” and (with
a superabundance of commas),
Bear thou, my soul, so sinful, home
To Jesus’ feet.
At p. 120, “Change” culminates on Time’s
“lightning speed and padded feet”; and at p.
134 those who knew “ Our Darling ” laid their
hearts “at his wee feet.” Somehow there is a
flat fall about “fairy feet” (p. 167), “thy dear
feet ” (p. 175), and all the other feet. Besides the
feet there are dingoes, curlews, and visions of the
Tomb—
Byron, Jonson, Leigh Hunt, Keats, Beethoven,
Charlotte Bronte and Chopin are there,
Marie BashKirtseff, whose hopes were woven
With the wan strands of Death’s dusky hair.
Jenny Lind, Marcus Clarke, and dear Newman [? NoggsJ
Whose face hears the imprint of prayer.
Pickles couldn’t be mixeder. But enough
has been said to show what ornaments
“ A Twilight Teaching and Other Poems” would
be to the “Poet’s Corner” of the country
newspaper. The astounding thing is that they
didn’t stay there. Possibly there were too many
feet to the inch of Corner, and Tennyson’s and
Cleopatra’s and the rest simply had to walk out
into notoriety, much to the disgust of Tennyson’s.
Capable Leslie Stephen recently agreed Tenny-
son was greater artist than poet, “ ascribing far higher
praise to the technical perfection of the Laureate’s verse
than to his thought.” A Lend. Author anecdote: Ten-
nyson, dining with John Sterling, said to have said, “I
don’t think that since Shakespeare there has been such a
master of the English language as I am. To he sure, I’ve
got nothing to say.” And we all have lucid moments.
The “feature” of a reported*new Lond. jour-
nal, The Quill Driver, is that every book review is written
by the book’s author. Amer. Bookman first utters the
salient comments: (1) After all, the author knows his
book best; (2) nobody can say the reviewer never read the
book.
Little rills of notice keep trickling in to show
that Henry Lawson's vogue is growing. From Chambers’s
and Blackwood’s Maga, publisher Methuen, and others,
he has had invitations to write. And the manager of
Boston (U.S.) National Magazine sends on March 11,
offering five or ten dollarsfa pound or two) for permission
to collar some of L’s best yarns. The cheerful Yankee
person points out that he could steal ’em if he liked, but
he prefers to salve his conscience to the extent of five or
ten dollars. This keen sense of honor should boom the
stock of five-dollar consciences quite a piece.
Tite cover to April Scribner’s Magazine (Gordon
and Gotch) has as pretty a bit of decoration as one
remembers: coloring and working are admirable.
Scribner’s illustrations are always noticeably good, and
the editorial policy se ms to please a foreign palate better
than that of Harper’s or the Century.
To Correspondents.— J.G.M.: ‘Pilgrim and Shrine’
out of print; you might pick up a second-hand copy.
‘Beliefs about Man,’ by M. J. Savage, Eoston, U.S.A., ob-
tainable through Geo. Robertson and Co. (see advt.)
W.G.T.: You can’t get Stephen Phillips’s poems in Syd.
or Melbourne at date of writing. The average bookseller
is acquainted only with the outsides of books, and when
he orders a large quantity of poems from England he
generally gets left with a stock of rubbish. So even * the
leading firms ’ now get driblets of three copies or so.
They’re safe on the duffers ; and the public sadly waits
weeks and months for repeat-orders of good stuff—
W.T.H.: Thanks... Y.P. : The ink’s all right; ’tis in-
telligence that’s lacking, Assumption isn’t proof, no
matter how high-placed the theologian.
Perhaps the best way out of the difficulty is to
frankly state it. George Essex Evans, a writer of
verse whose lot has fallen in Queensland, issues
his second book, “Loraine and Other Verses ”
(Geo. Robertson and Co.). Evtins is a good
fellow, and writes good verse (some of which has
appeared in Bulletin), and he sends acomplimen-
tary copy with a complimentary inscription. Now,
as previously explained, the newspaper-appeal is
one thing and the book-appeal is another tiling;
also, reprint-justification is another thing and
print-justification is one thing. And the Red-
Page opinion of Mr. Evans’s verses is that, con-
sidered as Poetry with a P, they are readable and
regular enough, but essentially uninspired. Often
neatly didactic or pleasantly descriptive, they
have no wings—are always on the pedestrian level.
In bis “ Dedication ” Mr. Evans says
Lala Fisher, author of “ A Twilight Teaching,
and Other Poems ” (Fisher Unwin), is a God’s-
Feet kind of local rhymer who discredits Aus-
tralia by inviting critical attention in a neat bind-
ing at 6s. There are, on a loose calculation, from
80 to 90 “ Other Poems ”in the neat binding; and
one slides through their greased commonplace
with the impression that from 80 to 90 per cent,
of them end by taking judicious refuge somewhere
near God’s Feet —which are theoretically unable
to kick anything. Probably God’s Feet make an
impression out of proportion to their numbers,
and the percentage is not really so large ; but this,
one feels sure, is the author’s fault, not her mis-
fortune. For she has artlessly tried to vary her
climaxes. The x which resulted “On Hearing
Florrie Sohmidt Sing ” does indeed leave the song
(p. 52) _


RS
S
£W''AYVV'&»
ha*:-/*
' M |j
.(jfiiililiillllj
: %
,<f‘u ffe
AND
Sydney’s beading Specialists,
DESPAIRING
YOUNG- MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all trie wa o
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed tlm treatment o
Drs.
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory
I • IVTA
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains ?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak ?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society?
Are'you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited ?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat ?
Has'the brightness'left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
mm
-4.11 Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It' would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
iv\.
P-* c l\s
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
ReSc(i?d at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer —in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a scries of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Please mention this Paper luhenwritiny.] CoHHKsPONDKNCE, P.O. Box 135 J).
D
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dk. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescrihts Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctpr and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy E NTIJIELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH,' P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to be the
Equal of your Fellow-man?
A man likes to feel so strong-, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
this element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of "them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
e xcesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 Is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
alsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R.0.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
r ATROPHY in Men N
Waited or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
kj. HINTON-WILLIS, A
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. A
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulated J
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible, j
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic j
' Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at/
'what you will learn. This Truss positively/
'does tile work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
__ BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free 1
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIG
ELASTIC TRUSS 00., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
JOH-W* DURANTS
MB
full directions'
. ENCLOSED? J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sag-rad a Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
■TIHE MODERN MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice of quacks and pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still more flaming books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us and we will correspond
with you by return post.
-V
OLD
Uf'
es
SUNBU
FINg
*'*'i
uO
f€d
W?
CHA
V
&.C
y. n >
feti+fMl
ft
? H 0
v •»


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
BIRTHDAY G
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
Address
ROSEHILL C. June 25.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
shares in the above.
Address
Australian Waterloo C. July 12, 14, 15.
100,000 Subsorlbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price tyedaeers
‘friends of the family’
-AND-
Hp-to date merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNADLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATION S, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
FORTUNE
French Sybil), 2s.
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
yon ever read, read 2 ways sure to please
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. Bs.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2> Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
&W Send Four Penny-
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
°«7
S'?
i
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Collections of 1000 varieties
complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 0 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Backets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. (id. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. . BOOKS .. . BOOKS ... BOOKS . .
Nkw Up-to-Datk Publications.
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, or the Girl with Six
Husbands; Sappho, or Life and Love in Paris. These
books are very choice and selling rapidly, each (post free)
Is. 6d. The Ballet Girl: Gay Life behind the Scenes, Is.
post free. Maria Monk, Don Juan, Ovid’s Art of Love,
Is. 9d. post free.
R. W. SKINNER,
New and Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Oastlereagh*
street, Sydney. Telephone 3403.
sSEEESB
&O TO HBLL-
IGOLAN!) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. fid.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring:?, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. 1,33 & 1.37 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to he seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE .
Send for a Catalogue.
E D WARES'
Ik^
WORLD-RENOWNED
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARDENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling- Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tnp. World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Greg Hair
to its original color.
£s?'' It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other
injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2 '6size) 4'6 per Bottle- from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
Cellular
Athletic
Shirts.
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling 1 ,
Boating 1 , and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/-and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-; White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
. . Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New\
Address: /
73 & 75 King Street,
(near York Street),
Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & CO.,Sole Agents for New South Wales.
1
gigs*
look at OUR PRICBS !
We beg- to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l. _
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, 126. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
Note Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for Our Illustrated. Catalogue.
OR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. Mackenzie’s Soap s prepared with special bcautifvingingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHIELING PEll TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessncss, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “1 find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent." This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins. .
Dr. Mackenzie's EaceLotion is notgreasy.does not contain Glycerine, and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skm soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/C per bottle; large
bottles, HI-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD. 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRDS
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird's Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Amusing to notice how G. R. Sims, writ-
ing as “ Dagonet ” in London Referee, still does
his best to ridicule the County Council and ob-
struct municipal reform. Years ago, Sims ob-
tained a sinecure civic billet for his father. The
“old man” was appointed to the utterly sinful-
waste-of-money position of Lord Mayor’s Remem-
brancer. There are no gimcrack remembrancers
or things attached to the County Council form of
government, seemingly. Anyways, G.R.S. speaks
of Ben Tillett and co. as a disgraceful crowd—
“extreme Radicals, Socialists, and self-seekers,”
and his indignation is truly funny.
Dear B.—ln a paragraph on the “Vic-
torian Ladies’ Work Association,” running a
geographical word-competition, you remark —
“ Where is Kioto, and if it be the name of a
town, is it well known in comparison with Tokio ? ”
Considering that Kioto is the capital of Japan, I
should imagine it was the name of a town, and a
very well-known one too, to anyone whose know-
ledgeextendsbeyondParramatta. Ask Jack Want.
—HX. [Kioto was the ancient capital of Japan,
but Tokio is the capital. When the Emperor’s
court was removed to Tokio in 1869, old Kioto
was renamed Saikio. The “Ladies’Work Asso-
ciation ” forwarded a. £5 prize to a word-transposer
who sent along Kioto and St. Cloud (a village) as
the names of well-known towns, and the par.
suggested that the award was unsatisfactory.—
Ed. B.]
The Silent War.
H. G. Turner : “ But even if our history had been
pregnant with the subliniest material, instead of being
hopelessly commonplace” . . . (p. 24). — The Development
of A ustralian Literature.
Away through the gaps and the valleys, alone
with the desert and drought,
Is spreading the Army of Silence ; dead fiercely
they battle it out
With hunger and mirage and madness, an eerie
invisible doom,
With phantoms that flaunt in the daylight and
shadows that haunt in the gloom.
No ring of exulting admirers is firing the braves
with a cheer ;
No volleys are heard in the vanguard, no thunder
applauds from the rear;
No leader is urging them onward, no sound of the
bugle and drum
Is thrilling their manhood with daring—for death
in the desert is dumb.
The lines of the fighters are severed by mountain
and forest and mead,
With never the love of a woman to tend in the
hour of their need,
With seldom the voice of a comrade to mutter a
prayer at the last,
When faint and compelled to surrender they pass
where so many have passed.
They fought for the cosy selections that nestle on
river and lake;
They wakened the riches that slumbered for those
that have come in the wake.
They died, but they were not rewarded ; they suf-
fered, and never a word
Is said for the life they have given, the fond things
they never have heard.
Still loveless and lonely they wander, grim truly
they stick to the ranks :
A sneer for their hire and a shrug of the shoulders
for pension and thanks.
Behind them are thronging the others that thrive
on the spoil of the fight;
But they—they press onward and outward, and
vanish in silence and night.
Go, ask them the Why and the Whither, the gold
and the glory they gain !
A shake of the head is the answer : They know,
but they cannot explain.
For strange as the depth of the heart is the love
for the bush and the track,
But only the eye of the artist can picture the
beauty out back.
The night wind to them is the bringer of many a
rapturous note,
But only the ear of a singer can fancy the music
afloat.
The prize is to others. They know it. Yet ever
they follow the call —
And only the heart of a poet can feel for the joy
of it all!
N.Q.
VON KOTZE.
“Jane.”
The wind is like a “willy-willy ” t
W’irlin’ round upon the plain,
For frettin’s sent me fairly silly
Since you’ve thrown me over, Jane !
About twel’ months ago, las’ seedin’,
Down the road by Thompson’s gate,
You said, in answer to me pleadin’,
“Yes,” an’ sealed me bloomin’ fate !
Oh, Jane ! Jane ! Jane !
You’ve broke me ’eart in two with pain !
Me believin’! you deceivin’!
Fickle, false, an’ foolish Jane !
The little Baptist gospel-skillion
Clangs its weary little bell,
A-tellin’ how the worldly million
Keeps a-goin’ straight to Hell !
I uster love to go to meetin’
W’en it meant a-meetin’ you —
The bell upon me ’eart a-beatin’
Sittin’ in the corner pew !
Oh ! Jane ! Jane ! Jane !
The bell may ring for me in vain !
You forsake me ! Devil take me !
You’ve to answer for it, Jane !
I’d like to know w’at Sunday’s made for !
Sunday ! called the “ day of rest ” !
It’s not the kind of rest. l’ve prayed for
Since you’ve gone an’ give me best !
Through muggy night an’ meltin’ day-time,
S’elp me ! How I’ve swat an’ swore,
A-thinkin’ of the Sunday playtime,
Kissin’ you be’ind the door !
Oh ! Jane ! Jane ! Jane!
W’en shall I ever smile again!
You’ve bereft me ! Nothin’s left me !
’Eedless, ’ollow-’earted Jane!
S.A.
NIL.


Itftstraliao p t c .
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established lOV 8 Cl IJ L WO % I tly ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esa.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, E.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 JPitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Established 1849.
i- \
V* vSwVj
\-V'vi
•: . . a?
->>..,,|p _V-:-.V '4 -i:
ffl. Edwin Moore.,
MANAGER.
•J ,-v . '-
;•*• '• A *l&m. ■?&’-% '*■ *»A •'! <V* -*'* *, ’* v&klfivk-'* ’■*■- -f'Z±\ *£-& ;. • j. *•*•**
• v\ •» i;•*« - ' ; *y .s*ai\Jf?*t*Ji ■' Safes'*'
Rates i2/&d!?£III>»ds
INCLUSIVE OE ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
P&B Ruheroid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
Her
so
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tattersall’s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to PitS
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre); and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
Criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for ‘Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TARIFF: - - Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand.
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
just been received, speaking of this product, says This Brandy was
judged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this chiss AISTF
TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD - ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.”
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNGr & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
dr. s. lever,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
LPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
, Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, \ulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
II ithout Plates, by means of J 3ri<f,yeieov7c,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
-98 liESlijtxe? -ss S wdney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING- STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
385
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “ PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL- offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. All tastes and pockets suited
Write for Card of Tariffs.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
B. J. & D. CITRrXm,
TAILORS,
112 King-st,, Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
$
plStlU£/ft
speciaui
*r N ;
m
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £136,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING-, Secretary.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robf,rts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
.LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of Lo>'‘ 1 ;i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessof, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
facts Respecting flixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together,
Yai)k?e Poodle.
The 'Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
CbatypioQ.
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqG^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€i)t€QQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite IVIOUOpOIe, Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 952.
SATURDAY, MAY 14, 1898.
Pbice, 6d.
It is announced by cable that the U.S. Government will
sell the Philippines to Great Britain, in the event of Spain
failing to pay'an indemnity.
C, R EAT
SALE
0 F ISLANDS'
y-
UfjdE {Z
J. Bull: “Well, I'like the cheek of that! I hold 4
■first mortgage over that property ! ”
A OlfcT FROM THE QUEEN
Muy ly he
' I~£R S
o yR
iv/ia lifyL-
“ Mr. Reid received by the last mail a
handsome book, containing a record of all
the public functions in connection with
the Diamond Jubilee celebrations. Ac-
■ companying the volume is a communica-
tion from the Lord Chamberla'in, stating
; that the book has been forwarded by com-
j mand of the Queen. Some time ago Mr.
Reid received from the Queen a photo-
graph, with Her Majesty’s autograph
attached.” - £ *-
Mr. Reid will wear the photograph
next to his—heart, as seen above. The
“ handsome book ” he carries in his coat-
tail pocket, and it therefore does not ap-
pear in the sketch. Mr. Reid is a
many-sided man, but our artist finds it.
impossible to show more than one side at.
a. time.
P “ Say, I can’t see any differ-
ence between this and the
other edition ! ”
Editor : “ Oh, yes ; there’s a lot! We stopped and
oiled the machinery ! ”
The Spanish-American war is now being fought out in
Australia between Kurnelboll and Kardinalmoran.
OVERHEARD IN TRANSIT,
Tub Excited Man: “Why, there’s a friend of mine, a businessman,
who, if this Federation Bill wins, stands to make £lO,OOO. Yefi
he’s going to vote against it! Now, what d’ye think of that ? ”
The Placid Man : “Think? Why, I think your friend ought to marry
Dr. MacLaurin’s Widow ; they’d make a nice pair.”
« WIDOWS’ ” CARTS.
“ There has been a good deal of misapprehension on tbifl
point. For instance, some of the aldermen want to knOw hew
■ many of the ‘ widows’ (who have inherited the carts) have tru'-
| r ied again ? Also, how many ‘ widows’ ’ widowers own carts 1 y
Alderman • “ But who is the party sitting in the
.tail of the cart ? ”
HHwfcx. Widow : *• Me fourth ’usband ! I’ve been a
three times—and if that ain’t
a widder within the mcanin’ of
the Hact, where will you find
1. THE IDEAL.
“ Jack’s come Home to-day.
LONDON. Friday.—The report from Pekin |, /M,
as to the death of Prince Kuug, formerly | f/.
head of the Tsung-li-Yamou. or Chinese f ■/',
Council on Foreign Affairs, now proves to be "~
incorrect.
Prince Knag revived, after Ms medical at '|§
tendants had pronounced him deacL ; ~
Clearly, a duly-qualified practitioner having
pronounced him thoroughly dead, he ought to have
remained so—Tsung-li-Yatnen or no Tsung-li-Yamen.
2. THE REAL
“ Jack’s come home to die.'
THE WORLD, THE FLESH, AND GEORGE REID.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. ,,
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin* Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian pi-ovince,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod. Managinq Director.
Literary Commurnoanons to oe addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing vrith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOQO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we arenot responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in It lade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—t.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<k Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Houtst., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <Sc Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in. Victoria, S. Australia ,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland wilt be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off income degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7?ie SSxzli 7 elvn.
SATURDAY, MAY 14, 1898.
One-Man-One-Vote.
The ghost of the old war-cry, “ One-man-
one-vote,” rises again to do duty in the Pro-
vincial interest. Almost everything under
the sun can be impressed, by ridiculous
misrepresentation, to do duty in almost any
kind of interest, and in New South Wales
“ One-man-one-vote ” is still a term to con-
jure with. A few years ago, in the days of
the brick-and-mortar suffrage, it was the
loudest war-whoop in the Cornstalk land,
till at last the Dibbs Government abolished
the property suffrage, so far as the Assembly
was concerned, and supplied the country
with some part of the reform it was craving
for. Whereupon the country promptly fired
out the Dibbs Ministry, and the unfinished
reform rests to this day where Dibbs left it.
Now the Provincial party appeals to the
country to rise up and defend its hard-won
privilege, on the ground that Federation will
wreck it utterly and beyond repair, and that
the iron heel of the Fat Man and the yoke of
the brick-and-mortar vote is again about to
be placed on the necks of the masses. In a
recent manifesto the case is set forth thus :
To-day every man in New South Wales stands as far as
legislation will permit on a footing of political equality
with every other man. Each person has a vote, and no
more than one. And a vote at Bourke is of no more
value and no less t han a vote in Sydney. But under the
wretched Convention Bill everything will he changed.
The battle that was fought in New South Wales for years
against privilege and monopoly and close corporation for
the eradication of political inequality will count for no-
thing if the Convention enthusiasts should have their
wav. From one man one political power, there is to be
one man with the political power settled according to the
province in which he may live. What is the use of Conven-
tion advocates talking of One-man-one-vote when under-
neath the clause that grants it is another that renders it
nugatory? In a word, the Bill, instead of preserving
One-man-one-vote, abolishes it. Instead of maintaining
equal political rights it absolutely sweeps them away.
• * * *
All this sounds very convincing on the
surface, and the loud advertising mob which
lives upon shibboleths and war-whoops—
the Rosa and Foran and Tommy Dodd
crowd of crude destructionists—mostly takes
this view. And yet the very first trouble is
that New South Wales isn’t governed on the
principle of One-man-one-vote, and never
has been, and that a vote at Bourke isn’t of
the same value as a vote at Sydney, and the
country isn’t ruled by manhood suffrage, and
the great principle of majority rule is not
being sacrificed because there is no such
thing, and there never was any such thing,
and there is no immediate prospect of there
being such a thing, or anything like it.
* * * *
At present New South Wales is governed
by two Houses of Parliament, which have
an equal right to make laws or reject them.
One House—the ephemeral one which comes
and goes at every election like the brown
leaves of autumn—is elected by the people.
The other one lasts for ever, and its members
hold their billets for life, no matter how much
they may betray their trust, and over it the
people have no lawful control whatever.
Therefore, the alleged Government by One-
man-one-vote goes broke at the very be-
ginning of the argument. There are 187
members of the New South Wales Parlia-
ment, and the people have control over 125
of them. But the 62 that the people don’t
control have power to block the will of the
125 that they do control, and if the 125 say
“ yes” and the 62 nominees answer “no” the
majority doesn’t carry it—the 62 minority,
if it likes to stand firm on its gouty feet,
has its way. The 62 are almost exclusively
men of wealth—it isn’t provided by the
Constitution that they should be, but they
are. Members of the New South Wales
Council being unpaid legislators, it naturally
follows that only men of some affluence can
afford to occupy the posts, and, therefore,
the Upper House is likely to continue to be
a House of Rich Men. And there is no
sign on the furthest horizon of any reform
worth having.
* • * *
The vote of a man at Bourke and the vote
of a man at Sydney are not equal ; it maybe
intended that they should be, but they are
not. The constituencies are of many different
sizes, therefore at last election 3000 voters
at Lismore and Moree had two members,
and 3200 at Marrickville had only one ! This
is a comparatively common case of one man
two votes, or else one man with a vote and
another with a bit of one. As a further dis-
crepancy, Sydney and its immediate en-
virons have a House practically to them-
selves ; the Council being a place where
there are few pickings, no salary, and practi-
cally no prospects, it has to be recruited
mainly from the men in the next street, who
can drop in and reject a Bill any time
without sacrificing their other avocations.
Further, the constituency system and the
residence clauses regularly disfranchise from
five to ten per cent, of the electors—at least
it is commonly so estimated. And, though
every man has a vote Tor half the Legislature,
if he isn’t accidentally disfranchised, and if
the fact is overlooked that his vote may be
worth only half that of the man in the next
electorate, the use of that vote is strictly
limited. He can’t vote for the man he
wants to get in ; only for the man—possibly
an utterly useless lout—who is standing in
his electorate. The majority doesn’t decide ;
if there are 1000 votes polled, and six can-
didates, the winner may be chosen by only
250 electors. The man who represents the
biggest vote doesn’t even get in ; at last
New South Wales election Tiro meson was re-
turned by 329 votes, and Nelson by 333.
But Copeland got 876 votes ; Goodlet, 718 ;
Bowman, 680; Dobbie, 727 ; Taylor, 748 ;
Gilbert, 738 ; Holden, 751 ; Kidd, 828 ;
and so on—and all these men were defeated.
This may be One-man-one-vote in theory,
but when things are so arranged that the
vote might often be as well thrown into
the dust-bin as the ballot-box it isn’t
One-man-one-vote in practice. And, in
addition to all this, things are so arranged
that if 248,000 out of 250,000 electors would
rather see Geo. Reid hanged than in Parlia-
ment, and yet the other 2000, in some small
constituency which is grateful for roads and
culverts conferred upon it by G. Reid at the
public expense, chooses to put him in, there
is no lawful process on earth by which these
248,000 can prevent him having as much say in
governing them as any of the men they have
elected. The Victorian franchise is built the
same way, only Victoria doesn’t even pretend
to have One-man-one-vote, and the Victorian
Council is elective—with the proviso that
only rich landlords are eligible.
* * * *
The Federal Constitution comes very
much nearer to the One-man-one-vote idea
than the present New South Wales
method, despite the vast amount of pride
wasted on the latter by misguided Demo-
crats, and despite the fact that, barring
South Australia, New South Wales has the
most liberal constitution in Australia. The
Federal Convention provides that members of
both Houses shall be paid ; therefore both
Houses are open to men of little or no means,
and can be captured by the Democracy. There
is no property-qualification, therefore the
Democrat won’t be forced to vote for the
Fat Man, as in the Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords. It is also provided that
no elector shall have more than one vote,
and, in addition, every person who has
NOW OR WHO ACQUIRES IN THE FUTURE A
VOTE FOR THE ASSEMBLY IN New SOUTH
Wales, Victoria, S.A., Tasmania, or
Westralia shall have a vote for both
Houses of the Federal Legislature.
This magnificently liberal proviso (which is
embodied in clauses 30 and 41 of the Federal
Constitution) can only be annulled if the
majority of the voters in general and also the
majority of the voters in three States deli-
berately resolve to deprive themselves of
their privilege, which contingency is beyond
all imagining. Therefore, so far as concerns
the Federal Legislature, the plural vote is
abolished in all the States. And, in addition,
if the Federal franchise wants widening, and
the Federal Senate is the Tory institution
which some alarmists imagine it will be, and
refuses to widen it, the democracy of the
separate States can do the work themselves.
All they have to do is to enlarge their own
State franchises, and the Federal franchise
enlarges automatically.
* » * *
The only point on which the Federal Con-
stitution departs from the principle of One-
man-one-vote is that the representation is
not equal, and one Tasmanian has between
and three times the voting power of one
inhabitant of Victoria or New South Wales.
There are so few Tasmanians that their vot-
ing power isn’t much, after all, and things
are so arranged that the disproportion is
likely to diminish—still, for the present
there is just as bad a disproportion as be-
tween an elector in Lismore, N.S. Wales,
and one in Marrickville, N.S. Wales. But
the people are to have the most absolute
control over both Houses ; the Federal Par-
liament is to be elected entirely by the
masses ; and members of both Houses being
paid, the Democracy can not only elect both
Houses but capture all the seats in both
Houses. The one discrepancy is that the
Democrat in the two smallest provinces has
not quite three times the voting power of the
Democrat in the two biggest ones, while the
fifth province has about its fair proportion.
And, though Labor claims to be a universal
brotherhood, and the horny toiler in one
province extends his most cordial sympathy
and confidence to the horny toiler in the
State across the border, yet in this particular
case he is informed that it is his duty to see
the other toiler darned first. On the other
hand, the kind of One-man-one-vote which
exists in New South Wales is that one-
half the legislative authority rests in
practice with the nominee Fat Man;
that 62 nominated Fat Men holding
their billets for life can overrule (if
they choose to do so) 125 popular repre-
sentatives ; and that, in theory, every man
has half a vote, or a vote for one-half the
Legislature—only by reason of the unequal
constituencies some men have only a quarter
of a vote. In actual voting power Salo-
mons, M.L.C. (who represents nobody),
counts for quite as much as Carruthers,
M.L.A. (who represents 1380 St. George
electors), and Salomons has his own vote as
an ordinary citizen in addition. Therefore,
the system in New South Wales is some men
J-vote and the rest of the men except-
ing the 62 ancient fossils who equal anything
up to 1380 votes each. The Federal Consti-
tution comes far nearer to One-man-one-vote
than this, and because The Bulletin has been
for One-man-one-vote first and last and all
the time, therefore it is for the Federal Con-
stitution, as being the biggest single step in
that direction ever yet heard of in Australia.
And though there is a discrepancy in the re-
presentation it must be remembered that
the Democrats of Victoria and New South
Wales (the two provinces which have less
than their share of the voting power) will be
making concession only to their fellow-
Democrats of Westralia and Tasmania, and
making far less concession to them than they
now do to the Fat Men of their own pro-
vinces. And The Bulletin would rather
trust the horny-handed Democrat of Cool-
gardie than Solomon Hyam, M.L.C., of Syd-
ney, or Cornelius Job Ham, M.L.C., of
Melbourne, any day.
Bounties.
The reasons assigned by the small anti-Federal
party in Sydney for the alleged faith that is in
it change with remarkable rapidity. Jack
Want’s wonderful invention about Victoria
charging duties upon N.S.W. coal and shutting
it out of the province has been dropped ; and
the impudent fiction of Hughes, M.L.A.,
about the Federal Senate being practically
free from dissolution has fallen out of sight ;
and the fiction about “ Braddon’s Biot ”
having committed the Commonwealth to raise
an enormous customs revenue, or any customs
revenue at all, having worn threadbare, is
being gradually abandoned. But last week
one Smith, an obscure member of the Reid
Government, and the Sydney Telegraph
started a perfectly new ghost on the subject of
bounties, and raged at large in a fearsome and
irresponsible fashion that was deafening to
witness.
* • • •
To start at the beginning, a bounty is a grant
given by the State to aid or encourage some
industry—generally a new industry. The
Victorian export butter business was created by
the policy of the Gillies Government in grant-
ing a bonus of so much per lb. on all first-class
butter exported, and a few other undertakings
have been assisted, at various times and in
various provinces, after the same fashion.
Bounties never attained to any size in any part
of Australia, but it is casually mentioned in the
Convention Bill that, after 30th June, 1898,
the power of the States to grant bounties at all,
except with the consent of the Federal Govern-
ment, shall absolutely cease. The sudden roar
of the Telegraph on this very small and thin
subject is interesting :
What he (Mr. Wish) had to deal with was the possibility
of N.S. Wales being indirectly taxed to subsidise the pro-
duction of Victorian coal. The Bill provides for this by
giving Victoria the right to squander her funds in
bounties. ... A bounty on Gippsland coal would, so far
as shutting the N.S. Wales article out of Victoria, have
just the same effect as a customs-tax. The* jiounty-
fed coal of Victoria might, if of good enough ’ quality,
be sold in Sydney for less than the product of the un-
subsidised mines in N.S. Wales. . . . This applies to
every commodity as well as to coal, but the bounty
hunger of the Victorian collieries serves to give their
ease a special prominence. It is only by State coddling
that the Gippsland mines have been developed to their
present stage. That coddling may be continued under
Federation either by differential railway rates or by a
bounty, if the latter is agreed upon by the Government
of Victoria before 30th June next. ... It only requires
the consent of the Federal Legislature, in which N.S.
Wales could easily be out-voted, to enable Victoria at any
time to grant any bounty she pleases to coal or any
other product. . . . Mr. YVisk stated that a bounty given
by the Commonwealth would have to apply to all States
alike. No doubt it would. — Telegram, May h.
» * * •
Another, and quite a different howl, from the
same paper :
Now the word “ promised ” is of special significance.
It is not necessary that the Victorian Parliament should
have ratified such promises. The Ministerial undertaking
is itself sufficient, or, as the Bill puts it, any “ AGREE-
MENT for any such bounty lawfully made by or under
the authority of the Government of any State shall be
taken to be good ” if made before June 30 next. But, if
Victoria were chargeable with those payments, she would,
at any rate, be only impoverishing her own people for the
purpose. That, however, is very far from being the inter-
pretation placed upon the Bill. It is the Commonwealth
which pays them, and the payments must be “ treated as
Federal expenditure.” This means simply that N.S.
Wales producers must contribute a larger sum annually
towards the payment of those bounties in Victoria than
the Victorians themselves, although their money will be
used in driving the N.S. Wales producers out of the
market. This is, indeed, a marvellous arrangement.
What is Victoria doing at the present time ? On this
point, Mr. Sydney Smith is in a position to enlighten us.
It is not only a question of unexpended grants, though
they are considerable. Nor yet a question of the coal
bonus, though that has reached, we believe, twice the
sum of £45,967 actually paid from the Treasury to the
Railway Commissioners during the past four years, and
will be much larger in years to come. It appears the
Victorian Government contemplate “promises” of some
£60,000 to new wineries, and other amounts, and who
can tell what sums may not be appropriated before that
dividing line, the 30th day of June next, is reached? All
this is to be “ Federal expenditure,” forsooth ! Was any
more preposterous arrangement ever entered into?—
Telegraph, May 6.
* * * •
This self-convicted perjurer, therefore, states
on May 4 that Victoria has the right to squander
her funds in bounties, and on May 6 that it is
the funds of the Commonwealth that are going
to be squandered. This is an awful discrepancy
in the fable, and badly wants explanation.
• * • *
Despite all this amazing row there is no
bounty on Victorian coal, and there never has
been one. All the tale about the alleged bounty
is invention from the first letter to the last.
Also Victoria doesn’t levy a duty on coal, and
never has done so. But both the N.S. Wales
and Victorian railways carry coal at the same
low rate—a rate which the N.S.W. railway
authorities regard as profitable, while the Vic.
railway authorities hold a different opinion.
At all events the Vic. Treasury pays the rail-
way department the amount of the estimated
loss, and the N.S.W. one doesn’t, therefore if
there is a loss it is included in the railway
shortage in N.S.W. and in the ordinary deficit
in Victoria. The results to the people and to
the coal-owners are exactly the same in each
case, and if there is a bounty on coal in Vic-
toria there is exactly the same bounty in
N.S.W"., and the whole affair is as broad as it
is long. The statement that there has been a
bonus in the past, and the other statement that
it will be much larger in the future, are both
the same clumsy fable, and there is nothing in
either of them.
* » * •
The announcement that the Convention Bill
“gives Victoria the right to squander her
funds in bounties ” is, no doubt, partly true.
It is also true that the Bill gives exactly the
same right to N.S.W., Tasmania, S.A., and
Westralia, though the Foreign-trade organ
doesn’t mention this. But the contradictory
statement that it is the Federal Government
which will have to pay these bounties, so that
Victoria won’t be squandering “ her ” funds at
all, is absolutely false, and the further state-
ment that the Federal Government must
recognise bounties which are not legally
granted, but merely promised on the unsup-
ported assertion of the Ministry, has no basis
at all. As the awful daily misrepresenter states,
“the word ‘promised’ is of special signifi-
cance.” But there is no such word or anything
like it in the Bill. The exact words of the Bill
are these :
86. On the establishment of the Commonwealth the
collection and control of the duties of customs and of
excise, and the control of the payment of bounties, shall
pass to the Executive Government of the Commonwealth.
90. On the imposition of uniform duties of customs the
power of The Parliament to impose duties of customs and
of excise and to grant bounties on the production or
export of goods shall become exclusive.
On the imposition of uniform duties of customs all laws
of the several States imposing duties of customs or of
excise, or offering bounties on the production or export
of goods, shall cease to have effect; but any grant of or
agreement for any such bounty lawfully made by or
under the authority of the Government of any State shall
be taken to be good if made before 30th June, 1898, ana
not otherwise.
91. Nothing in this Constitution prohibits any State
from granting any aid to or bounty on mining for gold,
silver, or other metals, nor from granting, with the con-
sent of both Houses of The Parliament of the Common-
wealth expressed by resolution, any aid to or bounty on
the production or export of goods.
It is also expressly stated that “ The Parlia-
ment ” means the Commonwealth Parliament
only.
« * * *
Therefore, in the first place, there is not a
single word about the Federal Treasury paying
bounties previously granted by the States ; it
is merely provided that the Federal Executive
shall control bounties in general. Of course
clause 86 doesn’t say that the Federal Govern-
ment shall not pay them, and it also quite omits
to state that the editor of the Telegraph shall
not be burnt alive without trial by Police-
Magistrate Smithers. If the absence of the
one negative means that the Federal Govern-
ment is to pay the bounties, then the absence
of the other proves as conclusively that
the D.T. editor may bo burnt by Smithers,
P. M. There are only two or three very small
bounties existing in Australia, and they all
expire within a year or two, and no Legis-
lature is making any present effort to pro-
vide for their renewal. The statement that
new bounties may be granted before June
30 on the mere promise of any Ministry is a
glaring falsehood ; the Commonwealth Consti-
tution distinctly provides that they must be
made or granted “ lawfully ” (no such word as
“ promised ” appears at all), and the only lawful
way of doing it is by drafting a Bill, and reading
it three times in the Assembly and three times
in the Legislative Council, and putting it through


committee in both Houses, and getting the
Governor’s assent. Tasmania has closed its
Parliament till June 7; South Australia to
June 23; and Victoria has just adjourned its
Legislature till May 31, with promise of a fur-
ther adjournment till about the middle of June.
This doesn’t look at all as if they were rushing
to pass bounty laws before June 30. And if
they did “lawfully ” pass any such “grants or
agreements” after N.S. Wales had accepted
the Federal Constitution, and it was considered
that they were thereby taking an unfair ad-
vantage, the N.S. Wales Parliament would still
have abundance of time to block the Bill
unless it was too busy passing bounty laws itself.
* • • •
The Federal Parliament, in which N.S.
Wales has the largest vote, may, of course, grant
bounties if it pleases, but they will apply equally
all over the Commonwealth, and come out of
the common funds with the common consent.
Further, the Act specially reserves to N.S.
Wales, as to all the other provinces, the right to
pay bounties to assist mining for gold, silver,
copper, lead, iron, tin, antimony, bismuth,
platinum, quicksilver, and other metals.
Victoria has the same right, of course,
but as it has practically no known metal
deposits apart from gold, silver, tin, and a trace
of antimony, N.S. Wales is here a long way
ahead. N.S. Wales, Victoria, and all the other
provinces have exactly the same right to grant
bounties at their own expense after next June—
if they can get the permission of the Federal
Parliament. Only N.S.W., with 31 votes, has a
rather better show to get that permission than
Victoria with only 28. Therefore, there is a
larger risk of the bounty-fed coal of Newcastle
wrecking the Victorian industry than the other
way about. The N.S. Wales and Victorian
coal-mines have been coddled in exactly the
same way—by low railway rates, only N.S.
Wales has coddled rather more than Victoria
by also spending vast sums on making harbours
and erecting coal-shoots, &c. Both provinces,
and the other three as well, retain equally the
right to go on coddling by low railway rates,
only N.S.W. preserves the right to coddle over
four times as much territory as its neighbor.
The horrible fact sticks out conspicuously that
N.S.W. has reserved power to put on a coal
bounty between now and 30th June of Is. or
2s. 6d. per ton or more, and thereby blot out
the Vic. industry altogether. And, as to
N.S. W. being “easily out-voted ” in the Federal
Parliament, Victoria, with three less members,
is still more easily outvoted. Anyhow,
N.S. W., having less than half the population
of the Commonwealth, must be capable of being
out-voted by a combination of the other four
States, and every individual State must be in
the same situation. The only way to avoid
that is not to federate at all. Yet, strangely
enough, the Telegraph says it wants to
federate.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Infamous Steal.
Syndicate grab seems to have reached an abso-
lutely transcendental state —the fourth plane, in
fact—in the just-ratified land transaction in
British Papua, the Legislative Council (ap-
pointed by Governor M'Gregor) of that peaceful
country duly consenting. A company named
the British New Guinea Syndicate has acquired
the fee simple of 250,000 acres (390 square
miles) of land in Papua at 2s. per acre, and,
within eight years, a further sum of 2s. per
acre must be spent on improvements. The
syndicate has, during eight years, the first re-
fusal of all land declared available for occupa-
tion, and if, at the end of that period, 250,000
acres have not been thrown open, which,
on account of the dense settlement and
distinctly regulated land-ownership of the
aboriginals, is highly probable, this glorious
privilege runs on till the time the syndicate is
gorged. Even then it will still be allowed
to purchase further lands in the open market.
It intends to tackle anything, from mission-
work to rubber-getting, and has proposed a
scheme the comprehensiveness of which leaves
nothing to be desired. It can purchase agri-
cultural, pastoral, timbered or mineral lands
(at 2s. an acre). It can sit down at its ease and
wait till somebody drops on to a choice morsel
of property, and then step in and claim it (at 2s.
an acre). The boss syndicators will watch
with a fatherly eye over the doings of the
ragged, fever-racked prospector, and, should
that deluded individual find, by some mishap,
a great gold-field, they will arise and claim it
(at 2s. an acre). They encourage with a bene-
volent smile the struggles of the selec-
tor near the coast, the cocoanut-planter,
the coffee-grower, the sugar-grower and
when the time has come they will choose
the best harbor or river frontages and all the
rich alluvial flats, and claim them (at 2s. an
acre). The pioneer may find vast rubber
forests, or coal deposits, and the syndi-
cate solemnly arise and claim them too
(at 2s. an acre). In fact, the syndicate does
absolutely nothing; promises nothing, pays
next to nothing, and collars the lot. It only
binds its honor as a syndicate, in a many-
worded, pompous style (as per B.N.G. Govt.
Gazette) to thoroughly, carefully and com-
prehensively squeeze revenue out of anything
and everything payable.. It will lend money
to settlers and obtain subsidies from the Govt,
for every adult introduced, borrow on deben-
tures, buy, sell, breed, grow, crush, refrigerate
(to keep the roast missionary in the hot weather),
build, mine, etc., etc. In short, the boss
grabbers assure whomsoever it may concern, that
what they don’t touch is worth leaving alone.
And this incredibly immoral, economically
idiotic, and politically criminal proposal is com-
fortably ratified by a more or less irresponsible
Imperial Governor “with the advice and con-
sent of the Legislative Council of 8.N.G.”
(appointed by the Governor aforesaid). The
arrangements, of course, date from stinkful
Brisbane, but apparently the contributing Aus-
tralian provinces, bar a few politicians, knew
nothing of this gigantic steal till it was calmly
proclaimed as “ratified.” Magnificent! The
broad wholesaleness of the transaction stamps
it as facile, princeps amongsimilar undertakings;
but the joyful irresponsibility, the utter abso-
lution from all bodily and financial risk to the
shareholders ! are—no, language is not equal to
it! What does Australia propose to do about
this infamous steal ?
The Four*" Wolves.”
There are no professed anti-Federalists now
in New South Wales. There were some before
the Convention election, and they nominated a
ticket of their own, and the Five Stupid Men
who formed about the tail of the list when the
numbers went up represented that faith, and
went to the poll with the cry that the whole
idea had to be Put Down. Since then the
Convention has sat, and—so the old anti-
Federal “push” asserts —it has produced a
ruinously bad scheme, and the other four pro-
vinces Dave conspired to swindle and rob and
defraud New South Wales. And the alleged
failure and conspiracy and fraud, instead of
making the anti-Federal push more anti-
Federal than ever, has resulted in its unani-
mous conversion. Its members all allege now
that they want Federation, only of a better
kind than the present sample; and promise
that if the people will only reject this Bill and
throw away this opportunity, they (the breth-
ren of the same old push) will labor incessantly
to get another and a better one. It is a miser-
ably thin pretence, anyhow. The tale of the
Want crowd is to the effect that the other four
provinces are “ wolves ” —and that it (the said
crowd) desires to federate with the wolves. Also,
that the other provinces are leagued together
to rob N.S.W. —and, at the same time, the
firm of Want and co. adds that it has a great
yearning to federate with the robbers, and
anyone who says that it doesn’t desire to
federate with the robbers is a liar. Then,
again, the same old Cabbage-tree Mob claims
that what it wants is representation according
to population in both Houses, in which case the
alleged league of the four other provinces, hav-
ing the larger population, would always have a
majority as against N.S.W. Next it demands
that there should be a simple process under
which the Constitution—now said to be “ cast-
iron ” —could be altered by a mere majority of
the people instead of a majority both of people
and provinces being required; and, in that
case, the alleged conspiracy of the other four
provinces could alter the Constitution as it
darned well pleased. The Want and Heydon
crowd asserts that the other provinces have
dark designs to seize the Riverina and its trade,
the western country and its trade, the rivers,
the imaginary N.S.W. surplus, and the capital,
and still it adds that it is a sincere believer
in Federation, and will leave no stone unturned
to bring about a union with the pirates
who, it says, are planning this tremendous
steal. Its one great desire is to place the power
of altering the Constitution in the hands of a
bare majority, so that the league of the other
four provinces can carry any alterations that
are necessary for the steal —the Want crowd
still solemnly alleging that the league exists
and that the steal is contemplated. Which
leaves the three alternatives—that the Cabbage-
Tree Mob is an Ananias, or a great fool, or a
traitor to its country. Either it doesn’t believe
that the other provinces are scheming to rob
N.S. Wales, and so is passing a miserable fic-
tion and slander on the people; or it doesn’t
want to federate as it says it does, in which
case it is also guilty of gross untruth ; or it
believes the other provinces are planning to rob
N.S. Wales, and it does want to federate all the
same, in which case it is a lunatic, or it has sold
itself to the alleged enemy. Its plea that it
only wants to federate with the four alleged
robbers “on equitable terms ” is an absurdity
—the four robbers have the majority of popula-
tion, and would have the biggest vote, and,
if they were the unprincipled crowd which the
WANT gang affects to believe they are, they
would alter the terms afterwards to suit them-
selves, and go right on with the robbery. The
Bulletin’s idea is that the Cabbage-Tree Mob
is merely a rather unscrupulous and rather
stupid provincial bigotthat it is against
Federation on any terms ; that it invents its
facts to make the people reject the present Bill ;
that it calls itself an advocate of Federation and
promises to start the cause afresh if the people
will only lose this opportunity, because that is
the only way to make them sacrifice a bone for
a shadow ; and that if this opportunity is lost
N.S.W. will never get another so long as the
firm of Want, Heydon and co. can prevent it.
4.
The Two Horrors.
The latest favouriteargument of theanti-Federal
crowd is a table showing how, under certain
incredible circumstances, the Federation Bill
allows a very small minority to override a very
large majority. Supposing an amendment of
the Constitution is passed by both, Houses, it
must next be assented to by a majority of the
States and by a majority of the persons voting.
And supposing the vote was like this:
For Against
Amendment. Amendment.
N.S.W ... 100,000 ... 1
Victoria ... 100,000 ... 1
Tasmania ... 1,000 ... 1,001
S.A. ... 1,000 ... 1,001
W.A. ... 1,000 ' ... 1,001
203,000 3,005
In these truly painful circumstances there
would be 203,000 votes for the amendment
whatever it might be (call it the proposal to
boil Jack Want or anything else), and only
3005 against it, and yet because three States
were against it by a very small majority
the amendment would be lost. And the
Want-Tommy Dodd crowd asks the electors
of N.S.W., as a free people, inhabiting a coun-
try where the majority always rules, and where
one man’s vote is of the same value as that of
another man, to resent this proposed outrage,
and drop the Federation Bill into the ash-
barrel. And yet, strangely enough, in N.S.W.,
with one man one vote, and with the rule of the
majority fully recognised, there is exactly the
same danger of a small minority running the
show. For instance, there are 125 electorates
in N.S.W. with, on an average, 2000 voters in
each electorate. And there is nothing to pre-
vent such a thing as this happening : In each
one of 95 electorates only 241 people vote; 80
for the Labor candidate, 80 for Protection,
for Freetrade ; result, C 5 Free
returned. In each one of 30 other electorates
2000 people vote ; 1999 for Protection, and 1 for
Freetrade ; result, 30 Protectionists re-
turned. Total : 7600 Labor votes have no
representatives at all ; 67,570 Protectionist
voters have 30 representatives ; 7725 Freetrade
voters have 95 representatives. Ihus there is
in N.S.W., with one-man-one-vote and majority
rule and all the other advantages, the horrible
possibility that, simply through the constitu-
ency system, 7725 voters might have over
three-fourths of the power in the Assembly,
while over 75,000 had less than one-fourth
among them. Of course these things have
never yet happened, but they are about as liable
to happen at any moment as the other calcula-
tion. And, supposing the Labor-party dropped
out, and in each of 100 constituencies two
people voted for Protection and only one for
Freetrade—these 100 constituencies being par-
ticularly fast asleep at the moment; and in the
other 25 there were 1999 votes for Freetrade
and only one for Protection, then N.S.W.
would run against the still more awful
fact that 225 votes returned 100 Protec-
tionist members, while 50,075 votes only
returned 25 Freetrade members. And then
that vast Protectionist majority might
swamp the Legislative Council with 140
nominees of its own party, and, having
thus the command of both Houses, it could put
a duty of 15,000 per cent, on everything, and
make it impossible for the people to take it off
again by the simple process of disfranchising
everybody except Dibbs and O’Sullivan. The
dreadful thing which might happen to the
Commonwealth on paper in the way of minority-
rule isn’t a circumstance to the dreadful things
that might happen to N.S.W. on paper any
day. And the grief of the Want-Lyne-Tommy
Dodd crowd over the horror that may happen
to United Australia in the future looks a purely
bogus emotion when compared with its dead
silence about the worse horror that is quite as
liable to happen to disunited N.S.W. in the
present.
“Braddon’s Blot.”
The grave objection to the amendment, in my judgment,
is that it fixes for all time an arithmetical proportion be-
tween annual expenditure and the surplus to be returned
to the States. It is quite conceivable that a period of,
say, 25 years in the future history of Australia, with the
certainty of great developments that inevitably await us
when federated, may necessitate an annual expenditure
of three or four millions. Assuming the latter figure to
be the correct amount, the federal treasurer would have
to raise £16,000,000 from a customs and excise, and return
to the States £12,000,000, a sum, probably, far in excess
of their necessities.— John Henry, Tasmanian Convention
Delegate.
Of the net revenue of the Commonwealth from duties
of customs and excise, not more than one-fourth shall be
applied annually by the Commonwealth towards its ex-
penditure. The balance shall, in accordance with this
Constitution, be paid to the several States, or applied
towards the payment of interest on debts of the several
States taken over by the Commonwealth. — Braddon’s
famous clause (No. 87) of the Convention Bill.
In all the row and clamor about the Convention
Bill, the above clause has probably done more
to advertise the stupidity of people in general
than any other. The clause itself is practi-
cally meaningless. It was doubtless meant
to have a definite meaning, but Braddon’s
clause was badly devised, and didn’t achieve
his purpose or any other purpose. It doesn’t
commit the. Commonwealth to a high or a
low tariff, or any tariff at all. It doesn’t
compel the Commonwealth to pay all its ex-
penses, or any part of them, out of the fourth of
the customs and excise which it is permitted to
retain. Also, it doesn’t compel it to spend
one fourth of the customs and excise, or one-
tenth or one-thousandth, or any other pro-
portion. Almost everybody, including stupid
old John Henry, as quoted, and the
Daily Telegraph, and Lyne, and many
other people who ought to know better, keep
on asserting that the Federal Government is
pledged to pay all its ex.’s out of one-fourth of
the customs and excise, and therefore, if its
ex.’s amount to £2,000,000 a year, it must
raise ,£8,000,000 by a tariff that is protectionist
and prohibitive, and also impossible, and many
other things as well; and that it must return
more money than the States require, and so on.
And yet the clause is simple enough to any one
who can read ordinary print. If the Com-
monwealth’s expenses (which will consist
almost wholly of liabilities formerly paid by
the States) equal £2,000,000 a year, it may
raise £8,000,000 by customs and excise, and
take its two millions out of that, and return
the other six to the States. Or it may take one
million out of it, and pay the other out of direct
taxation, and return £7,000,000 to the States.
Or it may raise £4,000,000 by customs and
excise, and take one million out of it, and raise
the balance by income or land-tax, poll-tax,
probate (or stamp-duty, or anything else. It
may abolish customs and excise altogether, and
pay all its ex.’s out of other forms of taxation.
It may raise £10,000,000 in customs and excise,
and return it all to the States, and pay its own
costs by running a Federal drink and tobacco
monopoly. In fact, Braddon’s clause leaves
everything almost entirely where it was before
—except that it will make the Federal Govern-
ment much more anxious to go in for direct
taxation than for customs and excise, because
if it raises £1,000,000 by direct taxation, it can
keep the whole of it, while if it raises
£1,000,000 by a tariff, it can only keep
£250,000 out of it. Considering how many
public men have climbed on to platforms and
explained this harmless and meaningless clause
every way except the .simple and obvious
right way, there must be an incredible number
of muddlers or wilful deceivers in Australian
politics. Braddon’s clause is a “ Blot ” simply
because it is useless, and a waste of words, and
a monument to a fine old English gentleman
who thought he could draft a clause but
couldn’t. But it will probably be amended out
of the Constitution at an early date, though
there is really very little reason why any one
should trouble to shift the harmless object.
The Fat Man’s Idea.
The Melbourne Chamber of Commerce had an
idea last week. What it desires is that the
British or other foreign person who invests
money in Victoria shall be exempted from
income-tax, and that the burden shall be
dumped down exclusively on the Victorian
investor. The latter, being only a beastly
colonial, is of no account, even in his own
country, and it is quite obvious, in the opinion
of the Chamber of Commerce, that he should
stand all the racket. The Chamber reported
seriously that the British investor is very much
annoyed at having to pay income-tax like any-
body else, and that capital is really “ going to
leave the country” this time. Also, a great
many people who would otherwise condescend
to send money here, and carry away the inter-
est, and spend it in England, are so much hurt
that they intend to stay away. As matters
stand, the British investor in Victoria escapes
customs, excise, and other duties, and as he
invests mostly in mortgages and city properties
he also dodges the land-tax very unanimously.
Likewise the local holder of State securities
pays income-tax on his dividends, while the
foreign one doesn’t. Except in this one
matter of the income-tax on his invest-
ments other than those in State securities,
the absentee has the blessed privilege of know-
ing that the local person pays the whole
expense of maintaining police and soldiers to
defend his property, building railways to im-
prove it, running after and arresting and trying
the man who injures it, supporting him in gaol
after conviction, paying the British squadron
which prevents it being looted by the Russian
or the Little Brown Heathen, and otherwise
being a father and a protector and a big brother
to the Bull absentee. And the Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce is of opinion that if the
one miserably small contribution which Bull
does pay was abolished, and all these things
were done for him absolutely gratis, instead of
very nearly gratis, he would be quite content,
and wouldn’t want anything more. He wouldn’t
ask that the Government should guarantee his
mortgage interest, or throw in free drinks ; all
he wants is that the absentee shall be wholly
free from taxation, and that the degraded Vic-
torian shall pay everything. It is alleged that
a deputation is going to wait on Premier
Turner in the matter. If such a deputation
had waited on old Parkks in his fighting days
it would have come down the stair head first,
and Parkes would afterwards have opened the
back door and thrown its ear into the ash-
barrel.
Letters of gold for recent W.A. Supreme
Court pronouncement (by Judge Hensman)
that the sly-grog informer who himself induces
breach of the law should be considered as an
accomplice, and consequently an unreliable wit-
ness, and that the informer-system generally
—besides being intrinsically infamous —is en-
tirely opposed to the intention and spirit of the
law. Not much cogitation is needed to see that
the putting of one man on to seduce another
into illegally providing him with a glass of
grog is equivalent exactly, in principle, to the
(say) employment of an attractive woman to
fascinate a “ right-thinking,” “ GoD-fearing ”
father of a family into his “ fall.” “ Lead us
not into temptation ” should be the concrete
letter of the law instead of merely the supposed
vaguely-pervading “ spirit.”
Some little time ago N.S.W. Legislature
passed a Coal Mines Act which provided, among
other things, that all coal coming from a mine
must be weighed, so that the men may be paid
for the exact amount produced. This reading
of the Act has been recently confirmed by the
N.S.W. courts. At present, not one mine-
owner in the province obeys the law. The
mine-owning class not only defies it openly,
but threatens the men with wholesale dis-
missal and the closure of all the mines in
N.S. W. if they attempt to have it enforced. A
still more interesting feature of the case is
that the Government makes no effort to enforce
the law, or to punish the individuals who have
thus openly conspired together to break it, and
who threaten other people with pains and
penalties if they don’t connive at the conspiracy
and the breakage ? By what possible right do
Reid and Sunday BRUNKERand their colleagues
unmake the laws of the people’s Parliament at
their own pleasure ?
In the Know ” writes as follows :
You, and a number of your correspondents who have
been writing on “blackmailing” by horse-owners of the
drawers of tickets in Tattersall’s sweeps, appear to
entirely lose sight of the fact that in the majority of cases
it is the drawer who approaches the owner with an offer
and not vice versa. And, in the great majority of cases, it
is in the interest of the drawer to so approach the owner.
I’ll tell you why. Jones, we’ll say, has a horse which re-
repeated time tests has shown him can cut out a mile in
1.42 with Bst. up. This is good enough to win at nearly
every suburban meeting. However, Jones want to make
assurance doubly sure, so he runs three or four “byes”
and gets the weight down a stone, and, providing the
horse keepswell, he has then something fast enough to win
in the very best of company. But he wants more than
the mere stake when he lets loose his carefully-bottled-
up racer in a race on which there is a sweep, and if the
drawer comes along and lays him a third of the prize, his
horse tries, and in all probability wins. If, however, the
drawer makes no advances the prad is scratched, and
these tactics continue race after race until a drawer does
come along with a suitable offer. This applies to nearly
every race in Australia, with the exception of the Mel-
bourne and Caulfield Cups, and I have known owners
reputed to be millionaires who “ wait for a bit of the
sweeps.” Patrons of Tatt’s consultations may take it as a
general rule for their guidance that owners will not run
without douceur from the sweep drawer. Owners who
race for pure sport may be counted on your thumbs.
Of course it is often the drawer who
“ approaches ” the owner, because he knows
that he won’t get a run for his money if he
doesn’t. But if sweeps were not drawn till the
day of the race then he couldn’t approach the
owner, and the owner couldn’t approach him.
Therefore the kind of owner whq enters his
horse on the chance of blackmailing the drawer
would immediately become extinct, and the
only owner left in the race would be the one
who was willing to run his animal without the
blackmail. Consequently, if a man drew a
horse under the proposed new system he
would have just as good a chance of winning
the whole money as he now has. of winning a
part of it. Also, in quite a number of cases
where the betting public don’t get a run for
their money because the horse is scratched at
the last moment, the scratching arises through
the ticket-holder’s refusal to be blackmailed,
and so a considerable part of another very large
stink arises through Tattersall’s present
system.


The MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: Z. C. RENNIE, General Man'ager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in
any other: —
preference to
BECAUSE
It is the
BEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
It is PURELY MUTUAL. All Profits go to the Policy-holders.
Tn its Fifty-five Years’ Recqjdit has no compeer.
it is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department
of the State of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
Assets, December 31, 1897 - - <£52,112,204.
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on their behalf, after
payment of all expenses of management, about 14J millions sterling
more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning the most profitable forms of investment insurance policies, apply
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices or Authorised Agencies.
Telephone 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD fok
[ifelike and Artistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Othello.”
Royal “ A Life of Pleasure.”
Criterion “Moths."
Lyceum “ The Shamrock and the Rose,”
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Royal Standard “ Under Two Flags.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ A Royal Divorce.”
Royal “Two Little Vagabonds.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops.”
For some unaccountable reason or other
the imported British company in Australia mostly
yearns after plays that are sodden with grief and
moanful to their inmost soul. Therefore, when
two imported companies put up “Moths” and
“ Ben-My-Chree ’’ on the same night, and a sad,
wet night at that, it was quite in keeping with
the tearful cussedness of things in general.
“ Moths ” is grief all through, barring a cheerful
remark made by a dying man at the end. It is
the class of play which is considered artistic
mainly because the characters are mostly be-
spangled with titles, and the scenes are laid in
expensive drawing-rooms, and the evening-dress
Eeople utter cheap cynicisms (not the brilliant
ind which Oscar Wilde used to grind out of the
mill of his intelligence, but the common sort at
three a penny, and a ticket which gives you a
chance of winning a picture of a dog given in if
you take 12). Apart from this gilding, it is a story
of how a woman urges her saint-like daughter into
marriage with a brutal Russian ; and the Russian
Bmacks his saint often and hard ; and keeps his
mistress in the same house with her ; and he also
insists on the wife receiving that magnificent
Flossie as a friend and a sister. And when she
refuses she is exiled to a lonely castle on a lonely
frozen plain, where she droops by the fire
through a long, sad act, while the snow falls
outside because it has nothing else to do, and the
wind, not being otherwise employed, howls like a
lost soul among the pines. The man she should
have married breaks in and asks her to fly with
him, but the pallid saint (aged 22) replies that she
will live out her life in frozen purity, and hear the
wind shrieking on the plains through the slow
procession of the years, and if her lawful Russian
comes round to her place of exile to spank her
again he will find her there waiting in the dignity
of her spotless innocence to be spanked as per
contract. The “ Moths ” heroine is painfully
orthodox. Having been induced by false pre-
tences to lease her body and soul to the Russian
horror, a logical brand of religion would make her
break her marriage vow rather than let that bright
particular ruffian paw her flesh and her character
any longer—but she isn’t built that way. So the
sickly tale comes to a sickly conclusion, and the
wind wailing over the frozen wastes of Boland
says “Rats” in a minor key, or words to that
effect.
* * • *
“ Moths ” started its depressing career on
a wet and windy Hospital Saturday, in the pre-
sence of an audience that was largely absent on
account of the weather. Excepting Miss Gethyn
Darragh, who has the one pleasant part,
and plays it remarkably well, there is no
cheerful person in it. Miss Myra Kemble,
shunted at the last moment into the character of
Lady Dolly, is a clever and finished actress, as
she always is, but on the first night she was neces-
sarily very much at sea in her dialogue. Cart-
wright has flashes of absolute brilliance, and also
flashes of the other fellow, and the rest of him is
respectable, anyhow. Miss Beatrice Lamb can’t
possibly look the ingenue of only 18, though she
does the saintly, passionless, frozen heroine well
enough. Only her heroine is more a tall, holy
statue than a real meat woman. Also, on the
first night, when she went out and turned pale
with powder at the prospect of wedding her coarse
Russian, she turned altogether too pale and came
back looking like a girl with lib. of flour on her
visage. Arthur Styan, Thursby, and Miss Gwen
Dallas are three satisfactory characters, and that
about sums up the crowd. The opening of
“ Moths ” left an impression of a sad, unhealthy
play joylessly slumped on in the wet amid many
adverse circumstances, and The Bulletin de-
parted in sorrow.
** * *
“Ben-My-Chree,” another drama of the
strange little Isle of Man, where a primitive
race lives principally by fishing and growing the
tailless cat, should prove the biggest success of
the Barrett season. There is no single character
in the new drama who can compare with old Pub-
lican Cregeen, of the “Manxman,” but it is
stronger throughout ; also, like most of Barrett’s
productions, it is full of grief and misery, and dead
body and loud wail and tears. The bishop’s scape-
grace son brings disgrace on his golden-haired
cousin and sweetheart, one particularly pleasant
summer night, through taking a short cut out of
her bedroom-window at a late hour, and her
brother is killed, on a beautiful afternoon, while
remonstrating with him, with a large weapon, on
the damage done to the honor of the family. This
brother refuses to remain buried ; he is planted
miserably, deep down in the sea, to be prawn-bait
and society for the conger-eel; but his per-
sistent coming to the surface in the moon-
light, and his determined piling of himself
on the beach on a bright summer morning,
draw attention, and there is an inquest.
Then a weeping bishop sentences his son to be an
absolutely speechless outcast on the most lonesome
part of the island ; and the restless dead brother
is buried ; and the social leper departs to catch
fish and go slowly mad by himself on the shore ;
and the golden-haired cousin is ejected by her
father, and she and the good old bishop break
their hearts together. The only change in their
lives is when the Governor calls and makes brutal
remarks about her character. Finally, after several
beautiful sunsets and about the most realistic
thunderstorm this paper has yet seen, the forlorn
girl falls down dead while publicly taking oath
that she is not the Tottie she is commonly sup-
posed ; and the outcast son, who has returned to
help swear to her innocence, is hauled away to be
executed for breaking silence. The poor old
bishop is left tottering on two thin legs through
his diocese, but the interesting characters perish
grievously after being miserable all their days,
and now the tailless local cat steps lightly on their
graves.
* * * *
The processes of law in Man 150 years ago
were peculiar, but, anyhow, Hall Caine swears to
the correctness of his version, so that may pass.
Even now, Man is a primitive spot where the
statutes are kept in a carpet-bag under the Go-
vernor’s bed ; and the curious little tribe with the
three legs and the abbreviated feline is a proud,
exclusive race little understood by outsiders.
“ Ben-My-Chree ” is superbly mounted ; there is
a lot of splendid weather painted on the back-
cloth, and it leaves an impression that Man is all
tremendous mountain, and blue sea, and red sun-
set. It is full of action, which is some alleviation
of its grief; the average grief-stricken play is apt
to consist too exclusively of a dying girl moaning
piteously in a chair by a dying fire. Barrett’s
Dan Mylrea is probably the best thing he has yet
done ; though old Hommey Begg, represented by
Horace Hodges, and Ambrose Manning’s Davy,
both lay over the hero in an artistic sense. Old
Hommey Begg, in particular, is a quaint, comedy
ancient who deserves to be handed down to
history and held in reverence by many genera-
tions. After due consideration of Ewan Mylrea
this paper is inclined to think that his death was
necessary and advisable, and that the Manx jury
should have found a verdict that deceased was
justifiably slain by reason of his hat being a blot
on the picture. Miss Maud Jeffries keeps her
place reasonably well in public estimation by her
rendering of Mona Mylrea ; and the only other
nows is that “Othello” is to be staged on Satur-
day, and still another baleful tragedy, “ Vir-
ginius,” is due on Wednesday following.
** * #
Bland Holt has at last been persuaded to
shift the weary “Cotton King,” and a “Life of
Pleasure ” has taken his place at Sydney Royal.
The present show is gratefully remembered as a
play with a deafening battle in it, also a terrific
horse, on which animal Bland rides off for help
under circumstances too complicated for full ex-
planation. A little band of British heroes is
beset in a jungle by the innumerable brown pagan,
and its only possible way of escape is to build a
bridge over a large gulf, and haul the artillery
across, with only a faint hope that anyone will ever
get home and see mother again. Things come out
all right in the end, but the Royal is one dense
cloud of smoke by the time the army of the brown
transgressor is fully and completely licked.
Bland’s picturesque exit in search of help while
this unpleasantness is going on involves a big
jump and a wild scramble up a precipice ; twice
already the horse has nearly slid down again and
flattened out Bland in the gully, and it looks as
if that tragedy would really come to pass shortly.
The slaughter of the brown transgressor has no
direct bearing on the play, but it is a pleasing
episode in its own irrelevant fashion. The rest of
the story mostly concerns a girl who is led away
into a life of dazzle and champagne and cigarettes
by the base captain who promises to marry her
but doesn’t. Long experience has convinced this
paper that the dramatic captain never does marry
the girl, and her folly in continuing to fly with
that utterly fishy bounder is inexcusable.
* • * •
There are 39 characters in this generally
pleasing drama, and the bulk of them must needs
be taken as read. This doesn’t include the 200
soldiers and the artillery and the great pomp of
war generally. The appearance of Miss Frances
Ross is a gratifying event; that clever actress is a
picturesque feature in any drama, and many
respectable citizens with a grievous scarcity of
hair have noted her long absence with regret.
Otherwise, things may be summed up with a
general statement that the old familiar co. is as
good in a general way as usual, and that Cosgrove
and Charles Brown are rather better than usual.
Bland Holt’s rendering of the other captain also
deserves special mention, and his appalling deeds
on top of the gee-gee are sufficient in themselves
to make the drama go, unless, as already suggested,
the animal should fail to negotiate the gully some
night. In that case, there will be a horse sitting
on an unpleasant squashed hat in the Burmese
vale, and a hurried change of bill will be an-
nounced at the Royal.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum the “White Squad-
ron ” has been extended much beyond the date
originally fixed. An abnormal public demand for
the big Brazilian war-drama is the cause of this
unexpected dragging out, but the wild horse-tail
on top of General Romacio’s helmet will stream on
the free republican atmosphere for the very last
time on Friday night. On Saturday a new drama
with a name that sounds something like “ The
Damned Shock on the Nose ” is to be produced at
the Lyceum, and this paper hopes to say some-
thing nice about it in next issue.
* * *
No new people of any importance have
appeared at Sydney Ti voli since last issue, but a
large consignment of bulk talent is on the way,
and some fresh genius which has already arrived
will be unpacked in time for Saturday. Miss
Peggy Pryde, whose unlucky name suggests the
romances ot 50 years ago, is the first sample.
Peggy W 'H be gently broken to the Sydney public
at a matinee on the 14th.
** # *
Buonaparte and his Josephine came back
to Melb. Princess’s on Saturday, and got another
warm greeting from a crowded audience. A good
many people believe in “A Royal Divorce.”
Tears come into their eyes when the low-spirited
Emperor takes an unhistorical farewell of a lady
who was actually buried at the time. Probably the
most realistic character is the one that doesn’t
claim to be historical—the innkeeper, who sits
lapping up his stock amidst the roar of cannon,
too drunk to care whether the allied armies wipe
out the tiresome Napoleonic dynasty, or die in the
attempt. Sufficient for his eventful night is the
bottle thereof. Grimaud, the innkeeper, is the
brightest joke in the proceedings, and J. B. Athol-
wood plays it exceedingly well. The Moscow
and Waterloo tableaux are much the same as
they were last season, which is equivalent to
saying that they are still full of gorgeous battle
and sunset effects, but the St. Helena rock
has been altered, or maybe Julius Knight
doesn’t stand where he did. This depar-
ture from the original effect is not an improve-
ment. Julius Knight looks thinner in the face,
whilst W. F. Hawtrey sounds thinner than ever
in the voice. Miss Ferrar, Miss Page, and Miss
Raymond resume their parts with undintinished
success, and Cyril Keightley, as a youthful Mar-
shal Ney, lends an air of distinction to his brother
officers.
** * *
“The Work Girl,” which is a wild variety
melodrama in a flaming red hat, re-appeared at
Melb. Royal on Saturday. It was there some two
or three years ago, with Florrie Forde in the name-
part, but the first production was rather less joy-
ously larrikinesque than this, and didu’t seem to
hit the popular-priced fancy so fairly in the middle
of the bull’s-eye. “ The Work Girl ” has a casual
murder by way of prologue, and subsequently it
runs on “ Silver King ” lines for a short distance.
Then the hero’s miserable failures to back the
winner are ended by an unjust arrest on a charge
of forgery, or something, whereupon his wife
drops dead, and the widower comes back, after
doing 14 years, to find his child suffering from an
illicit baby on account of a gloomy young man
in an elongated coat. Also, the same villain
who pursued the hero and his wife at the outset is
now laying plans to destroy their daughter and
her unstable admirer, and a lot of tangled woe is
finally pulled straight by a friendly outcast who
had been present at the original murder. The
troubles of the several victims in this somewhat
complex drama are not allowed too much space.
About 50 per cent, of the show is devoted to work
girls, and vegetable barrows, and a large, oily Jew
named Genesis. The girls, as a rule, are good-
looking items apart from their red hats and
feathers, and they seem to struggle for a living on
a system of their own. Perhaps they are em-
ployed in making jokes by the piece. Sometimes
they vary the monotony of toil by assaulting
Genesis. They don’t drive him under a table and
affect to despoil the sweater of his trousers as in
former days, but they tear his shirt sleeves in full
view of the audience, and leave a good deal to be
imagined after a drop-scene has cut them off from
observation. “ The Work Girl ”is a very accept-
able thing of its kind, and quite handsomely
mounted. Willie and Amy Gourlay, King Hed-
ley, Charles Holloway, Miss Alice Deorwyn,
George Chalmers, Miss Duggan, Hans Phillips,
Miss Leighford, and Miss Rose Conroy under-
take most of the business, and the rest of the co. is
numerous and fairly up to the mark. At present,
however, the attack on Genesis can only last for
one consecutive week.
* He * *
On Saturday the Holloway management
(by arrangement with W. and M.) will put Up
“ Two Little Vagabonds,” and the Firm’s touring
company, headed by Titheradge, will take the
Royal floor for 12 nights. The “ Vagabonds ”,
fell rather flat at the Princess’s last year for
several reasons, the uncongenial character of the
theatre being one reason. The Royal is the right
place for the revival, anyhow. Also, the prices
are suitable, and Titheradge, the well-beloved,
threatens to make his last appearance in this good-
hearted drama. Taking one consideration with
another, The Bulletin will be more than sur-
prised if “ Two Little Vags.” doesn’t boom at its
new pitch.
** * *
At Melb. Opera House the polished agility
of the Kellino Family shines in the centre of a
substantial programme. Austin Rudd came along
again on Saturday to fill a small gap, and Rudd
was more than equal to the gap. Just now, too,
the unique Whitburn is funnier than usual, also
Winton’s latest monstrosity lights its pipe with
much success, and Bellman and Lottie Moore,
who were always a good turn, have acquired new
interest from the announcement that their last
nights are now on. Meantime, another batch of
importations from Hingland is half-way across
the bounding wave.
** * *
Phil Newbury’s series of Saturday Shilling
“Pops” at the Town Hall has been very success-
ful thus far. The crowd at the last concert over-
flowed into the organ-gallery, and a large amount
of multitude had to be left outside with its shilling
in its pocket. As the advt. floridly remarks, “Aus-
tralians are an eminently practical people, and
practical ideas include a love of the Beautiful and
the Harmonious.’ Likewise they include a fond
desire to get full value for cash, which is what
Newbury gives them at these vocal, organic and
Biographic entertainments. And seeing that the
large building doesn’t hold more than 2500 people,
and the profits of a successful concert are easily
swept away by a flood of rain on the next
occasion, there is force in the management’s com-
plaint that the municipal landlord, who always
wants his full pound of flesh, is a somewhat un-
reasonable trader. At any rate, an unexpected
tenant, booking the Hall for eight consecutive
Saturdays, deserves to get the usual reduction on
a large order.
** * #
Allan and Co.’s Chamber Concerts, which
supplied a Wednesday afternoon want in the
winter of last year, will be resumed at Melb.
Athenaeum Hall on Wednesday next. Benno
Scherek takes the musical directorship as before,
and a number of high-class instrumental pieces
that are not beyond the comprehension of middle-
class minds have been put into rehearsal.
** * *
The departure of Bert Gilbert and Ada
Reeve from Melbourne last Friday was reminiscent
of the good old boom days, when Nellie Farren
and Fred Leslie had Melbourne at their feet.
The sprightly Ada frisked up to Spencer-street
station in a hansom decked with flowers and drawn
by a prad in a collar of roses and ribbons, while
Gilbert and a crowd of gjlded youths took their
places on the platform. Aforesaid gilded youths,
led by a pink-faced dude in a belltopper, yelled
Gilbert’s songs, all out of tune, and at intervals
gave weird, concerted shrieks supposed to be ex-
pressive of some unstated emotion ; while at the
fence a huge crowd of Melbourne’s gamins gathered
to call out “How dah you, you blackguard!”
until the worried Gilbert soothed them with
largesse, and his clever wife went round and shook
hands with the first three rows.
At Poverty Point.
Alba D.: “ Haddon Chambers had a fixed idea of pathos
—a lonely, moral wreck tramping north, to bury his
hated self in everlasting snows. ‘To the north’ —the
words were on H. C.’s lips 20 times a day. The unborn
' Idler ’ tormented him for years. I once bet H. C. half-a-
crown that the line ‘To the North Pole ’ would set a
house shrieking, no matter how heavily the pathos had
been laid on previously. But Haddon refused to have his
chamber of faith burgled. His mind-picture—the afore-
said wreck, weeping on a floe—is passable enough. It’s
the beastly langwidge that murders the bit of fat : the
word * pole,’ however gently breathed, conjures up a long
axe or a barber’s-shop. Saw ‘ Idler ’ produced at Birming-
ham, three years ago. Waited for last line with mixed
feelings.
Serv.: ‘ Where, might I ask, shall I address your luggage,
sir ? ’
Mark Cross : ‘ To the North Pole.’
I glanced around at the white-faced mechanics and button-
makers, and saw tears in every voice. Went out, feeling
that I owed Haddon half-a-caser. Last night, at Sydney
Cri., Cartwright gave the line in a quiet, subdued voice,
and the gods around me were lifted from deep despair to
innocent hilarity. Query :Is the lean Australian god
less susceptible to futile pathetics than the stodgy Bull
god?”
The policy of sending the reconstructed Comic Opera
co. to Westralia for a course of discipline before opening
up the new opera goods in Sydney and Melbourne marks
the recent expansion of Australia’s theatrical market.
Three years ago Perth was not reckoned among the Firm’s
show towns.
T.D. : “ The George Robey who has booked Ethel Hay-
don for matrimony has for years figured as a funny man
in the London ’alls, and Rickards would probably star
him in Australia on the usual princely screw. To judge
by the English song-annuals, Robey virtually holds the
lead just now in Cockney estimation. The alliance looks
like a lift into the theatres for Robey, d la Roberts and
Teddy Lonnen.”
Art hur Adams, the Maoriland poet, has become literary
secretary to J. C. Williamson.
HoldarM. : “The unflagging spirit of advt. in every
mummer's breast. Wilson Barrett, replying to the
criticism of a Sydney E. News correspondent anent his
Hamlet, winds up with categorical information re ‘ a few
more nights only;’ a matinee being also freely men-
tioned. Apropos, I note that the serious stagite mostly
refers to the ‘amusement’ an adverse press comment
afforded ‘ himself and friends.’ Which explains why he
is so anxious for undiluted praise. Criticism makes him
feel too gay and frivolous for tragic parts.” [Mr. B. and
his friends have a queer way of expressing their “ amuse-
ment,” anyhow.— Ed. B.]
Maggie Moore, having coined money at Broken Hill,
the Firm, which in the past has been shy of that out-of-
the-way place, sent.up Titheradge and the “Two Little
Vagabonds,” with such results that its oth°- available
cos. follow closely on them.
Historicus : “ ‘ A Royal Divorce ’ makes me „..mk of the
case of General Leclerc, first husband of Pauline Bona-
parte, afterwards .Princess Borghese, sculped by Canova
in the Altogezzare. Sick of Pauline’s whims and frivols,
Nap. ordered her off to San Domingo, with Leclerc as
governor. She worked on Leelerc’s feelings by making
him represent to Napoleon that his sister would be left
unprotected—a young thing, just out of a convent. ‘ Oh,’
said Nap., ‘l’ll provide Mdlle. Leclerc with a good hus-
band.’ ‘Who, sire?’ ‘Never mind.’ Davoust stepped
in, full of his project to marry a rich widow, and said he
came to ask the Emperor’s consent to his espousals with
. The Emperor cut him short, saying, ‘Oh yes, I
know, Mdlle. Leclerc.’ And Davoust had to marry Mdlle.
Leclerc, who proved the best wife amid all the spouses of
the Marshals.”
Madame Wiedermann (Mrs. Carl Pinschof), whom Mar-
chesi mentions so cordially in her new book of reminis-
cences, has been suffering badly from facial erysipelas,
but is out of danger now. Marshal Hall declares that
Madame Wiedermann is the only singer of first-class
quality (as distinguished from persons with voices) we
have in Australia ; and, although she only sings at classi-
cal concerts (when she invariably refuses to take a fee),
musical people felt when they heard of her illness that
her loss would be big and heavy. It is expected that she
will be well enough to sing the “ Alcestis ” music when
that weird and hoary tragedy is done by th» “Crinity
College folks next month.
Miss Fanny Wentworth soon got tired of Maoriland, and
decided to disband her little co. at Wellington, although
she was doing booinsome business there. The Dunedin
season had proved frosty, and Christchurch was tackled
during Lent, when the very Anglican population devotes
itself to prayer and repentance. Napoleon Boffard, the
cheerful tenor member of the co., arranged to leave for
Auckland on his own, and give a concert with local
talent. Nap. evidently knows a thing or two. Touching
Miss Wentworth’s amusing caricature of the French lady
in “ I dreamt that I dwelt,” he writes, “ Never mind, I
got my revenge of the French lady—l have the sketch —
Miss Fanny Wentworth singing at sacred concert." At
Christchurch, it seems, she gave them Gounod’s “There
is a green hill ” on Good Friday, and “ the audience was
waiting for something funny in the end, but was dis-
appointed.” Meanwhile Gounod’s plump compatriot
stood at the wing and silently roared in his native
language.
The grit of the Florences. Florence Mack in Sydney,
like Florence Schmidt in Brisbane, is briskly stepping the
staircase of song—and without managerial arm. The
Sydney Florence concerts on 20th May at the Cen-
tenary Hall.
At a Sydney theatre the other night, during the big
storm, a window-blind was blown with a crash on the
stage just as a serio-comic lady was getting on to her
top-note. “My oath!” came a voice from the back,
“ she’s brought down the house.”
George Robey—said to be affianced to Ethel Haydon—
is a rather painfully funny man in print. “ The name of
my favorite song is ‘ Riddle-me-ree,’” he says, “and it
suits my style down to the ground, which accounts prob-
ably for my habit of going down to the ground to start-
each verse. . . . Off the stage I am considered like Mr.
Joseph Chamberlain. I don’t mind being considered like
him, but to be buttonholed in the streets by Royalties
and Cabinet Ministers when I am hurrying on my way
from hall to hall is not pleasant. I’m continually having
to explain my lateness thus to irate managers. ‘ Very
sorry, sir, but Balfour would insist upon worrying me
with golf yarns,’ or ‘lt was Gladstone this time. He
wanted to know the price of screw's, as he thought there
W'as a screw loose somewhere in the Government’s treat-
ment of the American question.”’ This would suggest
that Robey is a labored mummer of the Lonnen order,
but it does him an injustice, according to Bulletin infor-
mation received. On the stage he is a bright success,
and off the stage he is a gentlemanly barrister, who took
to the ’alls in preference to waiting and struggling on for
a show in the law’ courts. If a man aspires to make
money by performing in a wig, why not turn character
singer at once ?
For “ Poverty Point ” continued on page 24.


THE
Refreshment Department
OV THE
House of Commons
( Unsolicited)
HAVE ORDERED
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
“Tb€ R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison «Sz Attwood., Sole Proprietors.
It. BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
Aus. I
Reps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Mklbournb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney;
lit Currie-st., Adel.;
Queen- st., Brisft*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
In the past four months the S.A. Government
has sold in Adelaide £222,300 worth of 3 per cent, stock.
At this rate S. A. should certainly be able to get all the
loan money it wants locally, though that dismal desert
has no earthly right to want any loan money. S.A.
already owes about £6B per inhabitant, and it is a country
—bar the N.T.—comparatively poor in minerals, and
nearly destitute of vegetation a great part of the time,
and with less visible prospects to borrow on than any
other State near its size in Australasia. Yet there are a
lot of rich men in S.A. The Lord only knows where they
come from.
« * • *
Victoria’s revenue for April was <£652,766, an
increase of £48,903 as compared with April, 1897. For
the ten months of the financial year the receipts are
£204,515 more than they were for the corresponding ten
months of 1897. Turner estimated an increase of £166,000
for the whole year, and expected that, after paying off
£250,000 of the old deficit, he would have a shortage of
£84,000. If things only keep going at the present rate,
however, the weary financial genius with the spectacles
has hopes that he may pay off the aforesaid quarter-
million of old debt, and still come out square.
* * » •
Westralia’s revenue for April was <£209,859,
which is £28,101 less than the receipts for April, 1897,
and £31,920 less than last month’s revenue. It now
begins to look as if the falling-off for the whole year, in-
stead of being about £90,000 as estimated last month, will
be well over £150,000. Westralia last year had a revenue
of £2O 12s. per inhabitant, while Queensland, with the
next biggest revenue, had only £7 13s. Id. Under these
conditions the fall was inevitable ; also it was bound to be
a terrific fall when it came. The woe is that the Forrest
Ministry, like every other boom Ministry, insisted on
believing that it was its own brilliant financing and the
natural greatness of the country which rushed the re-
venue up to three times the average of the other pro-
vinces. And, instead of making the best of its blessing
while it was there, yet being always ready for the inevit-
able slump, it has allowed itself to be taken unawares.
• * * *
Queensland’s April revenue was £332,306, being
an increase of £39,000 as compared with April last year.
The ten months’ revenue is £3,125,871 —£73,000 better
than the corresponding ten months to April 1897 ; and the
revenue is at present £532,000 ahead of expenditure.
» * * *
Tasmanian Treasurer Fysh reckons on paying
off £BO,OOO of his old deficit this year. If N.S.W. attacked
its ancient shortage on the same large scale it would pay
off £900,000 this year, but the Cornstalk province is con-
tent if it can wipe off £150,000 a year, at which rate the old
shortage will still be alive in 1913. And so far the regular
process has been to pay off £150,000 of old deficit and add
£160,000 or so of new shortage. Anyhow, the accumulated
N.S.W. deficit, at June ’97, was £2,363,139 (Coghlan’s
Statistics, page 765) —the biggest figure up to date, and
£443,000 more than the deficit at June, I££s.
* * • *
The A.M.P. Society’s annual report is the most
complete document of its kind published by any Austral-
asian office, and the figures for 1897 show that the famous
office is still prospering. The renewal premiums are
£1,220,405, new premiums £105,789, and total income
£2,080,565. All these figures are bigger than they have
ever been before ; despite all the storm and stress of bad
times, the A.M.P. keeps on growing. The funds are now
£14,479,578—a splendid increase of £751,038 during the
year. The expenses are only £8 13s. per cent, on total
income, which is a lower rate than that of any other Aus-
tralian office. Also, the balance-sheet gives a vast amount
more detail than the ordinary insurance society’s state-
ment is wont to do. It shows, among other things, that
the amount of foreclosed property on hand has diminished
by £43,000 during the year. Arrears of interest have in-
creased, but the total (£40,159) is still moderate. The
holding of State securities (£1,141,005) has increased by
£300,000 during 1897, and all things considered this is a
good feature of the case. Too much investment on mort-
gage is doubtful policy at a time when the bottom has
fallen so badly out of the property market, and when the
replacement of that necessary article is so uncertain
The A.M.P. has a surplus of <£445,235 to divide
among its members, and it reports that even this large
surplus will probably become still larger in coming years.
The estimates of future interest have now been reduced
to 3£ per cent., and the gradual process of reduction has
necessitated a great increase in the reserves. Now that
it is completed the A.M.P. expects to break out into even
bigger bonuses than heretofore. The Bulletin reckons
that it would be a vast amount wiser if it let the bonus
stand at its present figure for a few years, and built up a
more substantial reserve to cover possible depreciation.
During the past five years the A.M.P. has written off
£260,519 to cover depreciation, yet, large as this amount
is, it doesn’t look much considering the 14J millions of
property, and further considering what kind of years the
last five have been. If it is sufficient, the A.M.P. has been
remarkably fortunate. Also, there remains a reserve of
£288,488 to cover further possible depreciation, which
certainly looks large, yet it is only a very small 2 per cent,
on the total funds. Now that the A.M.P. has placed its
interest estimates on a 3£ per cent, basis it will have larger
surpluses to dispose of, and it could set itself to build up
a reserve of £1,000,000 without reducing the bonuses in
the least. Such a reserve ought to make it about the
strongest life assurance concern in the world, and the
advt. alone would be worth it.
Another thing — the A.M.P. ought to have a
State audit and a regular State valuation. Even if this
is not enforced by law the A.M.P. should apply for it as a
special concession. It is unlike all other assurance insti-
tutions, inasmuch as it holds as much public money as all
other Australasian offices put together. There is no
efficient control of any life office by policy-holders, while
in the case of a stupendous concern like the A.M.P. there
is practically no control worth mentioning. Only one-
fourth of its business is in N.S.W. Only a part of that
fourth is in Sydney. And only a small section of the Syd-
ney policy-holders have any personal knowledge of the
Sydney business men whom they annually elect as direc-
tors and trust with the control of 14£ millions of assets,
and whose reports they accept as a guarantee that the 14 j
millions are still there. Every assurance office runs itself
to a great extent, and the larger it grows and the further
its operations spread, the more it runs itself. The
A.M.P. Society wants a £1,000,000 reserve and a regular
State audit and valuation, simply because it has grown so
vast, and has so much public confidence ana public
money, that any mishap would be a national calamity.
Any other office might go wrong and be merely a casual
streak of ill-luck.
a
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co., th a
most prosperous concern in its line in Australia, shows s
profit for the year ended 31st March of £17,647, which i
about the same as the figures for the two previous years.
Shareholders receive 8 per cent, dividend (£2000) and 20
Eer cent, bonus on premiums (£7439) is divided equally
etween shareholders and policy-holders. The share-
holders’ half makes a total return of about 23 per cent,
per annum on capital. Also, £4500 is added to reserve,
making it £98,500; and £3OOO to contingency fund,
making it £9OOO. The Australian Mutual Fire has now
£107,500 of reserves and £1179 profit and loss balance,
and its receipts from interest and rents alone last year
amounted to £62l9—nearly 25 per cent, on capital. It is
a noteworthy fact that the Australian Mutual does busi-
ness in N.S.W. only. Every time the State Fire Insurance
idea crops up a number of interested experts arise to re-
mark that such a thing is impossible, because a State
office would have to confine its business to its own pro-
vince, and the only way to make fire insurance reason-
ably safe is to spread the risks over a much larger area.
Yet the most consistently prosperous fire insurance co. in
Australia does confine its business to one province—just
as the State institution would have to do. Possibly the
explanation of the discrepancy is that an expert is mostly
an individual trained to be plausibly inaccurate on his
own side of the case —the side with the butter on it.
• * * »
The Bank of Australasia, for the half-year
ended 11th October, 1897, shows a profit of £40,278, and
the usual 5 per cent, dividend eats up £40,000 of this,
leaving £278 to add to the funds. Some recent profit re-
turns of the Australasia are as follows :
October, 1892 .. £80,346 October, 1995 .. £41,159
April, 1893 .. 60,742 April, 1896 .. 40,568
October, 1893 .. 60,607 October, 1896 .. 40,400
April, 1894 .. 48,571 April, 1897 .. 45,376
October, 1894 .. 45,735 October, 1897 .. 40,278
April, 1895 .. 40,854
This half-year’s returns are the worst since 1851, and equal
about £3 7s. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds. This is low enough, certainly, though plenty of
banks are doing worse even than the ’Asia at present.
The main feature of the report is that cash on hand
amounts to £3,941,500 —equal to over 25 per cent, of the
entire liabilities to the public ; while cash and liquid
securities together amount to £5,240,169, equivalent to
34 per cent, of liabilities. This sort of thing means a lot
of security to depositors, though these bloated cash re-
serves which are earning nothing in the cellars keep the
profits low and the dividends very scanty.
The ’Asia is now 64 years old. It started with
£200,000 capital, and its dividends have ranged from
to 20 per cent. In its biggest boom year, 1885, the profits
were £274,800; now it begins to look as if they might
come down to the odd £74,800 with the 2 left out. It
is difficult to realise, in this year when the Cornstalk
population is so much addicted to looking for a midnight
crust in the ash-bin, how big and glorious that great bor-
rowing boom of last decade really was, but a look back at
the huge dividends of banks that are now either very
humble or wholly crumpled up conveys some idea of the
situation.
* * * •
What the State export depot has done for South
Australia is partly shown by the fact that in ’96 the
export of wine from the province totalled 391,233ga15. ;
last year it reached 513,827ga15.
* » * •
Letter ( verbatim , barring names) from a pro-
spector on the new Far Northern field to his German
backers in the city :—“ Dear Mr. Gooshenime and partey.
Gentelman, your a lot of Duttch cows wen I telygraft you
to sen me mutiny for leaces you did nott send me enugh
munny you are a lott of Duttch cows. Wy coud you nott
trust mee am I a badd man I am nott like that Duttch
cow your partner—l do nott chais littl girls. You are a
lot of Duttch cows wy coud you nott trust mee. Did you
thenk I wanted munny for Yosheywarys I do nott drenk
mutch. You are a lott of Duttch cows. You thort I was
on a picknick. I will nott fined any moar mines for you.
You did nott send me enugh munny. Yures faithfully
i Murphy. PS You are a lott of Duttch cows.
* * • *
From boom-time to sewerage-time. In the boom,
a Melb. speculator bought a suburban block, and ran-up
some half-dozen similar wooden villas, which he insured
for £l5O each. To escape the sewerage complications, he
is now offering them for sale (for removal) at £74 each.
T’other day, one of them was burnt down. The insurance
people want to buy one of his adjoining villas for £74, and
place it, phoenix-like, on the ashes ; but he is sticking out
for his full £l5O insurance-money.
« * * •
Buying big estates and selling same in fair-sized
farms is profitable in Victoria. At the recent Ballan sale
prices ranged from £lO to £25 per acre, and, as improve-
ments were slight, unearned increment must have been
thick. M.L. system of Govt, taking over estates for sub-
division cannot come too soon.
* * * *
One of these days (writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent), a swindled client will discover the law on the sub-
ject, and claim from the clerk of petty-sessions the money
which he is unable to get from his lawyer. Clerks of
court are legally bound to pay over moneys which have
been lodged with them to the successful party in a suit,
and not to his solicitor, or anybody else.
* * * *
Broken Hill Proprietary is about to duplicate
its concentrating plant; the mill, which will be on the
same general principles as that now in operation, will, of
course, be erected on the mine.
* * * *
Broken Hill British concentrating mill, which
was lately overhauled by an imported expert, is giving at
least as much trouble as ever, and has been running only
occasionally during the last few weeks while still another
overhaul has been carried on.
* * * *
Kohler’s zinc-extracting (experimental) plant-
referred to in times past as the. Carmichael process—has
at length been put into operation at the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary.
m • * •
Printed that three shifts before a recent big col-
lapse in a Broken Hill mine (and this, too, reckoned one
of the most carefully managed in the district) a couple of
working miners protested to a shift boss against working
in the place, which they regarded as unsafe, and, according
to their account, were told that if they did not choose to
work there no other place would be found for them.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 writes down its nominal
capital from £500,000 to £125,000. The actually sub-
scribed capital was £68,000. Of the 100,000 shares, all but
4000 (which were sold at £6 par) were handed over to the
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. in payment for the_ block ;
these 96,000 were issued as paid up to £4 10s., and 10s. has
since been called.
* * * *
So many complaints—probably ungroimded, as
a rule—are made that contractors in the B.H. mines suffer
through incorrect measurements being taken that the
proposal has been made for the appointment of a check
inspector. Mine officials, pooh-poohing the complaints,
say they don’t mind the measurements being checked,
and invite all parties to be present at measurings in which
they are interested ; but, as for a check-inspector, who
shall pay ? The miners’ union, at any rate, shows no dis-
position that way.
* * * *
What the Barrier trade means to S.A. is pretty
well illustrated by the fact that in ’97 the railways car-
ried 465,000 tons of stuff to and from Broken Hill.
* * * *
Girilambone and North Nymagee copper-mines,
N.S.W. The Sabbath tipster (who said Girilambones
were going to £5) has gently dropped them —nobody is
advised to hold or buy either of them ; not a word about
the latest developments.
* * * *
Cu9S : “ ‘ What has become of the Beacon gold-
mine?’ The Beacon is still serenely hammering away 24
hours a day, six days in the week, at the same old stand six
miles S.E. of Coramba, in the heart of the meanest scrub
that ever drove a prospector dotty. So far as not * hear-
ing overmuch about the Beacon,’ please take that as a
normal condition of affairs: Manager Orabb does not
work the Beacon by playing the bassoon. Further, in-
stead of the Beacon having paid ‘one or two small divs.’
it has paid three, equal to 7£ per cent, on the £200,000 at
which the property is capitalised. Is there another Bull-
owned mine in N.S.W. that has done so well in the first
12 months’work? The Beacon manager had to clear a
battery-site in the midst of a dense scrub six miles from
a decent road and to get in the machinery supplies, &c.,
and cut three and a-half miles of track ‘on his own.’
Yet, in lOmonths from the day he arrived on the ground
he had the record of 4905 tons of stone put through,
yielding 76460 z. gold. Further, he has reduced the cost
of treatment from 50s. sd. per ton to 30s. 6d. The Beacon
is quite well, thank you.
“ Denning’s claim, near Coramba, N.S.W.,
some time since put through the Beacon battery—three
miles distant—46 tons stone for 22dwts. per ton. They
are now carting in a further lot of over 100 tons, and
should this go as well as the last, of which there is little
doubt, then they seem in for a good thing, as the reef is
big—from 2£ft. to 4ft., like the ‘ Reward ’ reef in the Beacon.
The claim is situated on the summit of one of the highest
ridges in the district.
“ The Coramba King is taking another vaca-
tion. The Beacon co. has bought the battery at Nana
Greek, and will remove it to its Mt. Brown property on
the Coramba-Coff’s Harbor-road, five miles south of
Coramba. Nana Creek, which, some 16 or 18 years ago,
was a busy, thriving mining town, is now absolutely
deserted, the warden’s clerk, who has lived there for the
last 18 years, having been transferred to Coramba. The
extravagant Govt, pay this official £4O a year. Fancy
living a hermit’s existence in the heart of a wilderness,
ten miles from home and 40 miles from nowhere, for £4O
a year ! Why aQ. Divisional Board clerk is a king com-
paratively. Yet the present clerk stood it for 18 years,
and then ‘ bucked ’ when he was ordered to shift. Said if
the public wanted to do business with him let them come
to him in his sylvan retreat. Why in h —l should he
move in to the public ? ”
* * • *
Why N.S.W. Mines Minister Smith should
propose to confine his national mine-accident fund to
coal-mmers is not clear. It cannot be that coal-mining is
riskier than metal-mining, because the figures of Minister
Smith’s department show that it isn’t. These are the
number of fatal accidents per thousand workmen in the
last three years (the Mines report for ’97 is, of course, not
out yet—only four months of the current year having
gone)—
Silver. Gold. Coal.
1894 .. ... 2-14 0-80 0767
1895 .. .. 4-29 0-62 1108
1896 .. .. 216 116 2-541
The fact probably is that in coal-mines disasters come
comparatively seldom, but are apt to be big, and so to
give an exaggerated idea of the miners’ dangers, while in
silver-mines the unfortunate fellows go off unnoticed one
by one.
* • * *
Hillgrove Proprietary Mines —an English co.
that is spending a heap of money in the hope of picking
up the Baker’s Creek ore chute, has driven a tunnel
over 700 ft. “ Hillgrove is building a good deal of its
hopes of future greatness on the result of the great enter-
prise of this company.” The same co. has the “ Paddy
Lackey Deep Levels” scheme. Enterprising, no doubt,
but time wifi show as to its judgment.
• • * »
The Mines Dept, of N.S.W. might, with some
profit perhaps, get expert opinion as to the safety of
the present system of under-ground open-cutting or
quarrying at the B.H. mines. The number of accidents
which happened, and several unreported yet remarkable
escapes from still worse accidents, support the view of
many experienced workmen that the method is extremely
unsafe ; and it ought not to be sufficient answer to this
that it is cheap. The fault—at least the most striking
fault—is that the excavations are much too lofty for the
roofs to be “ read” or sounded as it is imperative for the
safety of the workmen that they should be. Instead of
being from 20 to 25 feet high they should be no more than
10 feet; then not only could places weakened by firing in
the working face be detected, but they could be effectively
staved.
• * ■ *
For unrewarded pluck in adversity and without
reward the writer wants to pass the cake to the Hongkong
men who are running mines at M‘Donald, N.S.W. Some
seven years back they paid more cash and shares for the
old Balmoral mine than all the mines in the camp were
worth ; put up a new 20-head mill, and then found that
they had little or nothing to crush. After going down for
over £20,000, they bought and opened up other mines on
the field, got on to a run of stone in the Eureka, the-first
crushing from which went 29dwt. This put them in great
shape. Another Hongkong co. has started operation's, and
the 20-head mill is being moved to the payable mine—the
crushings from which are gradually coming down, unfor-
tunately. Altogether, over £lOO,OOO of Hongkong money
has been spent in Mt. M‘Donald.
• * * *
Horatioßottomley, the London mining-magnate,
who is always “ explaining ” something, was industriously
booming Northern Territories at latest. The shares, by
the way, have slumped considerably, owing to Lowe, one
of the directors, selling every share at top-prices, and,
when the mail left, Bottomley was “explaining” Lowe’s
action, amid loud cheers.
* • « *
Within two or three weeks of the awful Bottom-
ley slump, which has forced the Market Trust, with its
recently-subscribed capital of 21 millions, into reconstruc-
tion and struck absolute terror into the Northern
“Terrors,” “Moses Moss,” of London Truth, said:—
“The W.A. Market Trust has again shown great strength,
and Northern Territories have now gone ahead to £4 15s.
on a cable received from Port Darwin by the Financial
News, according to which the properties are phenomen-
ally rich—especially the Eureka and Howley. It is
stated that, in the former, there is sufficient high-grade
ore in sight to keep 40 head of stamps at work for several
years.” He also coolly talks of 50,000 tons of tailings
running from 1 to 3oz. available from Chinese old work-
ings. Great Heavens ! John leaving 3oz. tailings ! And
he puts down the general value of the lode in one level at
6oz. per ton. Knowing this group some Australians in
London started to sell them “short” in thousands.
Bottomley stood to his guns as long as the money lasted,
finally found himself in trouble, and now wants another
quarter-million to help him out of the mud and says he
has not lost confidence. No one could accuse him of that,
but there must be many people who would prefer
Bottomley losing his own confidence instead of their cash.
The same great authority barracks for the amalgamation
of the mostly-worthless mines floated by the London and
Globe, under the new scheme to carry them along,
remarking that if they don’t agree to the scheme “ more
money will have to be put up as if enough had not been
already spent to prove their real worth.
• • • •
“ The lines of Mr. Albert Calvert, the eminent
explorer, litterateur, financier, company-monger, and
sportsman, have not of late been cast in pleasant places.”
But is there any place in the world outside of London that
would have so long tolerated such a very hollow pumpkin.
Calvert’s racing-partner, while trying to recover from him
£14,000, money due, deposed that Calvert tried to fix him
up with shares in the Imperial Western Australian Cor-
poration, which, on inquiry, he found began and ended
with Calvert—there was nothing in it but Calvert, and,
having had too much of that already, he wanted to get
out of it. Whatever the verdict, “it is thought Calvert’s
name will be of no value in future for prospectus-pur-
poses.” Australia sized up Calvert when he first appeared
on the horizon.
* * ♦
Bayley’s United, Coolgardie, has at last had a
crushing—2l6 tons for 48oz. But it is explained that to
date it has treated 4001 tons of tailings by cyanide for
over 4000 oz. gold. That must have made a big hole in the
heap, and this crushing indicates what will become of the
mine when the heap is finished.
* * * •
Sons of Gvvalia, W.A.—960 tons, 13280 z. ; to
date—BBs7 tons, for 12,1760 z. Very good, and, in the face
of an enormous capital, shares are at a good premium in
London. It seems, too, a hard thing to find another mine
in that camp.
* * • •
Kalgoorlie wire:—“ The market is now much
firmer, and investors are eager to get in, feeling that the
war will not have any effect on future working.” Strange
that the war-scare affected no other mining camp in Aus-
tralia. Kalgoorlie mines are controlled by an army of
London gamblers, and apart from yields or developments
“ bears ” and “ bulls ” will swing the pendulum. The first
get the benefit of any scare, war or otherwise, and the
latter get it as soon as it is over.
* » * »
Of the 82,3440 z. of gold obtained in Kalgoorlie
district during the first quarter of the year, 16,3890 z. was
recovered by cyaniding. The L.V. Consols, Australia,
and Brown Hill, which are using the process, are in
hourly dread of a demand for a percentage by the holders
of the patent rights; and as the Golden Horseshoe,
Boulder Main Reef, Ivanhoe, Bank of England and others
contemplate using the process, an agitation has begun (in
influential quarters, of course) in favor of the Govt, com-
promising with the co., as was done in M.L.
* * *. *
“ The Golden Casket has belied its name,” said a
recent Bulletin par. Mines with such names nearly
always do. They are generally the “second errp,” pro-
duced for company-floating on the strength of the first
crop’s success. Of the Kalgoorlie mines proper there is
only one “ Golden ” anything. It is the Golden Horse-
shoe, and it has gone out of the gold-producing list. The
Towers (Q.) has one successful “ Golden” only—the Golden
Gate. Bendigo hasn’t one, nor has Ballarat. Broken Hill
had Silver Hills, and Silver Crescents, and Silver Dales,
and Silver Crowns, and Extendeds of all these things ; and
not one of them paid a dividend —few of them ever gave
any ore to market. When the gold or the silver is stuffed
into the name the chances are that it’s not in the mine,
and so it is sounder policy to “ pass.”
* * * *
General Gordon Extended :—The liquidator has
declared a div. of lOd. on the paids and sd. on contributing
shares. That is better than spending it on the mine.
What has become of the General Gordon itself ; also the
G.G. “ pups,” and where, oh ! where, are the experts who
reported so gorgeously on them ?
Of the upwards of 200 gold-producers of Westra-
lia 143 are wholly or partly owned in England, and 71 per
cent, of the total gold-production came from these. Of
the 18 div. payers now in that province 13 are Bull cos.,
and they take 96 per cent, of the total divs.—amounting
to just under half-a-million. These and many other
figures are furnished by J. C. Auldjo, who seems to be
quite unable to get hold of the call-paying end of the
game.
* * * *
Gympie yield for April, ’9B, was 9524 tons
crushed for 10,6450 z., as against 5143 tons for 87490 z. in
April, ’97. Cloncurry alluvial output for April was only
lOloz. Clermont turned out last month 41090 z. (alluvial)
as against 1080 oz. in April, ’97-—a splendid increase. Mt.
Morgan returns for April, ’9B, were 15,524 tons for
13,8360 z., as against 8322 tons for 13,0550 z. in April, ’97.
The most remarkable feature in Queensland returns for
April is the great increase in alluvial output—so73oz.
being the sum total—a big increase on 20240 z. in April,’97.
• * » »
Q. gold returns for April, ’9B, as compared with
April, ’97. In April, ’9B, stone treated amounted to 96,158
tons, giving 68,0710 z. ; alluvial, 50730 z. ; total, 73,1440 z.
For April, ’97, there were treated 52,839 tons for 62,3680 z. ;
alluvial, 20240 z. ; total, 64,3920 z. Increase for April, ’9B,
on April, ’97, amounted in all to 87520 z.
* * * *
April returns for Ch. Towers run : 57,924 tons
treated for 34,0330 z. gold. These figures are made up
thusly : 18,080 tons Of quartz for 18,5360 z. ; tailings and
concentrates, 39,844 tons for 15,4970 z. Total, dividends
for April amounted to about £19,800.
* * • *
For the year ’97 Queensland sugar statistics run
thus : 66,211 acres of cane were crushed for 97,824 tons of
sugar and 2,364,020 gals, molasses. Southern Q. contri-
buted 34,146 tons (of which Bundaberg’s output was
16,999 tons) ; Central Queensland produced only 805 tons ;
Northern Q. 62,873 tons. Mackay alone gave 22,818 tons
towards the total output—for once beating Bundaberg,
temporarily depressed by a bad season.
'* • * *
Chillagoe Proprietary shares have reached .£1650
for a 480th—£200 paid ; and the Chillagoe boom has
started in dead earnest in Melbourne. One Chillagoe
share was even bought in Sydney (of all places !) last week,
and the average Sydney mining-man is just sufficiently
awake to rub bis eyes and ask : Where is Chillagoe ? The
pegging-out boom is on—many miles have been pegged ;
ana there are many boomsters on the road to Chillagoe
capable of “staking” all the land between Chillagoe and
Cloncurry on the one side, and the coast on the other.
They have come from Tasmania, where the copper-boom
has burst; from WestraUa, where it is easier to raise
money from the dead than on a mine ; and from Mel-
bourne, where boomsters of the pegging-out and “ cheap-
option ” sorts are always kept on tap, to be sent to the
uttermost parts of the earth on an emergency. Of course,
they are all the representatives of “ powerful syndicates,”
and have millions of capital behind them. That is why
they don’t walk to the field. Queensland provincial press-
men within hundreds of miles of Chillagoe can now look
forward to a large supply of cheap whisky with con-
fidence. Other Melb. syndicates have everything ready
but the money, and are advertising investors to dump
down £5 quickly, as a capable man is ready to start.
That awful mining authority, Sydney Sunday Times,
directs attention to the new thing, about which it is—just
you bet! —going to have special information shortly—
obviously quite innocent of the fact that the camp is
nearly 20 years old, and it is over a year since the people
who have now got all the mines for miles round started
operations. “ Beware of Chillagoe cats ”is the writer’s
tip, and it is given with a feeling that, like his criticisms
of Westralian mining swindles, it will only be respected
by that asinine animal, the public, when it is too late.
* • * *
M.L. mines: Waihi — 6690 tons, for bullion to
the value of £22,852 —the largest output for any month.
A consistent producer ; worse luck, there are very few in
the country. Waitekauri —1680 tons, for £4851 value.
Most of the mines taken over by Bull in last boom are
proving beyond doubt that they were born in lying and
fostered in iniquity, and that the gold is not in them.
* * * *
Maldon (Vic.) remembers once more the glories
of the South German, which paid £185,400 in divs. on a
called-up capital of £11,400, and threatens a revival. Last
quarter the gold-returns for the district amounted to
£88430z., or 35620 z. more than for the last quarter of ’97,
and this and the operations of the Maldon Goldfields co.
(English) have sent the little town on a tear. Of course a
Stock Exchange has been opened. Up to date the English
co. has done nothing more than forward a five-ton parcel
for treatment; but as it gave 4oz. to the ton the district
already distinctly hears many stamps clattering.
By the way, what a marvellous prejudice the
average mining man has against machinery that doesn’t
make a clatter. The Lake View Consols filter-presses are
locally scorned by a big crowd on account of their silence,
just as the leaching plant at B.H. was.
* * * *
Shearing in the earliest Western District (N.S.
Wales) shed —Nocoleche—has commenced, under the
contract system, naturally detested by the unions. A
contracting firm claims to have made big engagements
with Bourke, Brewarrina, and Walgett machine-using
. sheds for the season.


ORIENT
••••••••••••
-x CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
/ Opposite \
v 0.p.0. ;
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A .
SNAP-
SHOT
The
Victor
Camera
21/-
Tis
Duplex
Camera
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ee ow Advertisement on Page 23.
SOCIETY
The Hauhau religion, which seems to be
the main animating cause of the present Maori
outbreak at Hokianga (M.L.), is a queer mixture
of Christianity, Maori mythology, and European
militarism. It was promulgated during the
laranaki war of 1863 by a prophet named Te Ua,
who instructed his compatriots that they were the
lost ten tribes of Israel, and that by united action
they could drive the pakeha into the sea. They
were to worship the Christian God, also Riki, the
Maori God of War, who had chosen as his military
representative on earth the spirit of Joshua, the
?°pof Nun. The ceremonial of this remarkable
faith consisted chiefly in dancing wildly round a
pole stuck in the ground and bearing at the top a
newly-severed human head, while the votaries
chanted something like this: “God the Father!
Hau ! God the Son ! Hau ! Hau ! ! Attention !
Instruct us ! Attention, Jehovah ! Avenge us,
Hau ! Jehovah, stand at ease ! Hau ! Fall out!
Hau hau, pai mariri hau ! Big rivers, long rivers,
big mountains, attention ! Hau-hau ! ” The gro-
tesqueness of the function was increased by the
fact that the military commands in the prayer
■re rendered in English, with an imitation of the
AT N.S.W . NATIONAL ART GALLERY.
FIRST CRITIC : “A strong bit of impressionism!”
SECOND CRITIC: “ Yes; evidently of the rude and lusty school!”
-Piccadilly bleat of the peg-topped warriors of the
Crimean era. Te Ua’s religion probably would
not have made much headway had not he pro-
phesied the wreck of the Lord Worsley, which
actually occurred at White Cliffs, Taranaki, and,
of course, tremendously impressed the Maoris and
greatly increased their patriotism. It was Kere-
opa, a disciple of Te Ua’s, who murdered mission-
ary Volkner at the East Coast. Volkner was first
hanged, then decapitated, and finally the Maoris
gravely drank his blood out of his own com-
munion-cup !
♦ * * *
It is not generally known that up at
Argent’s Hill, Nambucca district (N.S.W.), there
is a large and flourishing community of Mormons.
Some of their rites, especially that of baptism, in-
duce considerable curiosity among their “Gen-
tile ” friends, and large crowds gather to witness
the “ immersions.’’ So far as is known, polygamy
is not practised, but the shameful intermarriages
that are taking place will yet lead to State inter-
ference—the sooner the better.
• * * *
Mrs. Rosser, who suicided with her hus-
band, the French cyclist, in Melb., the other day,
prepared herself for the great event as carefully as
if she had been dressing for a ball. She put on
her most effective dress, elaborately curled and
dressed her hair, arranged herself upon the bed in
graceful pose, and died with her face set in a
pleasant smile. The writor knows of another
similar instance, but the woman in the latter
case hanged herself in evening dress, with all her
jewellery on, and a touch of carmine on her lips.
The average man’s vanity is not small, but it is a
poor passion beside that of the average woman,
who would always rather look well than be well.
* * * *
Nature and Art again. A girl hanged her-
self at Maribyrnong (Vic.), the other day, and her
mother at the inquest said she knew of no motive
aside from the fact that the girl had been much
depressed by reason of her inability to learn a part
in a teetotal dialogue that had been set her at
Sunday-school. Constance Cotterell, authoress of
“An Impossible Person,” was roared at by the
critics when she made her heroine attempt to
drown herself because she could not get off by
heart some slabs of Shakespeare that she was re-
quired to learn. Perhaps there is a good deal of
reason in these rash acts. Live and learn is not
always an easy thing.
* * * *
Those who profess to “know all about
these things ’’ assert that the real reason so many
domestic creditors of a certain high official have
been left lamenting for a season is that the money
intended to liquidate the debts was entrusted to
another official, who was as delighted to meet with
the “stuff” as with a long-lost relative, and
equally loth to part with same.
* * * *
In Melb. Criminal Court, last week, the
astonished loafers in the gallery sniffed the odor of
Australia’s good old convict days when Judge
Holroyd passed the death-sentence on a man con-
victed of setting fire to a house on March 23rd,
“certain persons being then therein.” Of all
civilised countries, this is the richest in capital
offences. The Federal flag, when it comes, cer-
tainly ought to present a picture of Nosey Bob
gazing upward through his hempen noose at the
Southern Cross.
* * * *
At Hobart, one
morning in the long
ago, Capt. Macdon-
ald, of the 99th Regt.,
rode to Sandy Bay
beach, and tried to
start his horse into
the water for a swim ;
but the brute took
the bit in its teeth,
and bolted with the
gallant captain up
Sandy Bay road. Mrs.
Payne’s school boar-
ders, in charge of the
French governess,
were taking their
morning walk when
the naked soldier
came along. The go-
verness was equal to
the emergency.
“Haltelk!” she
screamed. “ Fermez
les yeux ! ” She was
obeyed. The captain
tore past, and the in-
nocents resumed their
walk. “I wonder
who it was?” said
one, aloud. “Eh!”
cried the governess,
witli the complacency
of the better-inform-
ed, “ eet vas ze Capi-
tame Mactonold—
oui ? ” And then they
all marvelled how she
knew !
• *
Dear B. Saw
the queerest sign-of-
the-cross lately—pro-
geny of John Ah
Chow and Rebecca
Moses. Your hypothetical Scotch-Jewish cross,
which is to charge down on the human race with
a claymore in one hand and a p.n. in the other,
is not a circumstance to this.—Fuzz.
* * * *
The recent abundant crop of terrible mari-
time disasters will not have been an unmixed evil
if it wakes up the stay-at-home, feather-bed
majorityof the Australian community totheurgent
necessity for a complete overhaul of the local re-
gulations affecting the seaworthiness of shipping.
I j ie attempt to have the matter drastically dealt
with shall not, if The Bulletin can help it, peter
gently out like the half-hearted efforts of tho
past. The nail must be driven home this time,
and the province relieved from the reproach of
being oriminally indifferent to the safety of tho
sea-worker.
* * * *
Certain recent disasters suggest the re-
markable contrast between the control (?) of sea-
traffic and that over traffic ashore. Shipping
bosses repeatedly order, or, at least, allow, their
employes to brave risks which, if they were under-
taken in occupations ashore and life was lost,
would place the men responsible in gaol for a year
or two. Writer remembers one case in which the
captain of a coastal steamer flinched before
the tremendous seas raging on a river bar,
but received positive instructions to cross. A
t xssenger remarked that a tussle was likely. “ A
THE RULING PASSION.
DISTRACTED MOTHER: “John! John! I believe
baby’s going to have a fit.”
JOHN : "By Jove Iso he is. Where’s my camera?”
tussle !’’ ejaculated the skipper, grimly. “ There
ain’t going to be a tussle, sir. There’s going to be
a wreck.” Next instant —scrunch —bump—bump
—and the stewards were handing out life-belts all
round. Had the skipper refused to cross—well,
there are plenty of master-m iriners coasting about
as second mates.
T.D. : “ Struck to-day (Hospital Satur-
day) in Sydney with the class distinctions made
by the collecting damsels. Johnnies of the collar-
and-cuff brigade were bailed-up at every corner,
and made sure of three-penn’orth of fun with a
kissable girl and a possible mash for Sunday even-
ing. But the grimy laborer —who would pro-
bably be a most cheerful and liberal giver to insti-
AT THE PAWNSHOP DOOR.
ISDORE WOLFENSTEIN (who has a difficulty to surmount): “Vat's de
use of goin’ to Schmidt? He doesn't know me from a crow.”
MIKE O’HOOLIGAN : “ An’ small blame to him for that same!”
tutions expressly provided for him—was almost
inevitably permitted to pass without appeal.
Thus snubbed, it is against a man’s grain to fork-
out voluntarily. To reach all classes two separate
collections are necessary, one by the girls of the
suburban elite, and the other by (say) a selected
contingent of the prettiest Boothites. I’d back
the Salvation lasses to rake in most shekels.”
♦ * * *
Undetailed items of the remarkable N.S. W.
M'Sharry arbitration-case promise to be of absorb-
ing interest to the public of a couple of provinces ;
but those relating to witnesses’ expenses, giving
witnesses’ names and the fees they were paid for
living about Sydney within call of the court,
threaten to win special notice.
* * * *
In acknowledging receipt (per Thos. Brady,
Cooktown) of J 213 4s. 9d., subscribed by the miners
of Woodlark goldfield, New Guinea, The Bulletin
regrets that, despite the irrefutable facts in his
favor, Suffield is still in prison ; and the ghoulish
N.S.W. Dept, of Justice persistently refuses to
permit inquiry into his case. Pointed attention
will, it is hoped, be drawn to the matter in next
session of N.S. W. Parliament.
* * * *
Kati-Kati : At ’Ome people talk about
their rich relatives in Australia. In Australia
they bray about their rich relations at ’Ome. Of
the poor relations nothing is said ; they do the
talking. Curious, this pride in being more un-
successful than one’s relatives!
The police raided a pub., the other
night, for selling after hours, and caught the
landlord coming out'of the bar with two
drinks. “Oh ! got you q,t last!” said the
Inspector ; “ who are they for ? ” “ For rae-
self, ye id jit, ” said Mike, tossing them off.
* * * *
Pronounced “ Johnnie ” sitting at
table in Vic. mining-township hotel, with
bottle of fizz under his wing. Burly Out-
Backer, to ditto, with nod towards gold-top :
“Parse the tomater-sauce, will ye ! ’’—and
in an instant the cham. is grabbed and the
bush ogre is pouring it liberally over the
contents of his plate. The horror of the be-
reaved was only less ludicrous to behold
than the blank astonishment of the bereaver
at the way the “sarce ” played-up amongst
his “ vittles.”
Very diminutive bounder (aggra-
vated Hebrew stamp), in gorgeous array,
seated solus at the centre table of Mel-
bourne’s most fashionable cafe, ostenta-
tiously sipping gold-top (he had a big bottle
all to himself), and smirking round for ad-
miration. As the place began to fill up,
however, he lost his nerve ; his hand began
to shake as he lifted the glass to his mouth ;
he broke out into a cold perspiration as the
girls all round him giggled while comparing
the hoggish mannikin with his big bottle :
and at last, unable longer to endure the
mischievous amusement with which his
gradual collapse was being observed on every
side, he jumped up, upsetting his chair, and fledl
into the wilderness—undone by too much glory L
* * * *
At a recent N.S.W. banquet, the three
local doctors contrived to get so badly “ tanked
that, when their joint health was proposed there-
was an awful pause before the least “ paralytic ,v
of the trio managed to get upon his legs by dint of
nearly dragging the table over. “ Gen’lemen,” he-
said, “ I beg to (hie) supposh—that ish (hie) to
prorosh — that I (hie) now sit down again!”'
Vociferous applause.
* * * *
An Australian temperance-saint defaulter,
whose painful disappearance with the cash is
being gradually forgotten, among his other good
works once presented a handsome ornamental
iron railing to a certain church. The butter of
eulogy was spread very thick over the Cold Tea
brother on account of this gift, and it was not till
he had gone, and had taken a good deal of the
church funds along with him, that the builder
turned up to state that he must either have his
mom yat once or get back the railing. The comic
saint had told him to debit it to the church, and
the gift was a sinful hoax.
• * * *
Melb. Mayor M‘Eacharn is starting to
make a fine Fatman record for himself on the local
Bench. Two stevedores brought before him for
stealing a jug each —value 4/6 in all—from a crate
on the wharf were sentenced to three months im-
prisonment. “The Bench intends to make an
example of cases of this sort,” said Magistrate
Mayor-Shipowner M'Eacharn. Proputty !—ship-
pers’ jiroputty ! What a dour old man he will l»e !
There are nume-
rous ways to become a
municipal counci'lo 1 .
Recently a candidate
in a Vic. shire can ver-
sed the district with a
Bible carried ostenta-
tiously under his arm
and eyes turned to h s
hat-rim. His plan was.
very simple. He didn't
bother about the usu il
culvert and road ques-
tions, but on arrival a 1
a Protestant home he
would ask the inmates
to “join him.” Then
he would spread his
handkerchief on the
floor and tell the Deity
in sepulchral tones of
an awful necessity
which existed for “ in-
clining people’s heaitV
and so forth. And he
got in.
• * •
In a long com-
munication to the Press
detailing some tardy
prison reforms, N.S.W.
Justice Dept, gravely
rebukes outside critics
for condemning its ad-
ministration. And in
the same breath it ack-
nowledges the justice
of outside criticism by
announcing that the
shocking Darlinghurst
solitary system is
doomed —the system by
which the Justice Dept,
proved itself a greater
criminal than any un-
der its control, in slow-
ly murdering the minds
and bodies of immature
lads, first offenders, by close confinement and
starvation fare !
• * * *
The incongruous can never be imagined by
fictionists with the bite of real life. In a Melb.
VISIONS.
An Epilogue to “Ghosts.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear, though the daylight’s scarcely seen,
I am l deadly dry so soon,
And thou art naught but a dead marine
A-flash in the misty moon ;
A-flash in the misty moon, I say,
And dry as the husks of Sin ;
’Tis thine to mock at my thirsty clay,
And usher my goblins in.
For there in the dawn are spectres twain
That lurk in the ghoulish grey,
The ghosts of two by a landlord slain
When he telleth a boozer “ Nay ! ”
A flask so fair doth a hero bear
As a Viking bore his queen,
’Tis only the bottle that once you were,
And the drunk I might have been.
Q.
P. LUFTIC.


u
Tcv.
m
m
r~ Ui
v=
ri
(&
n»
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
-DOSE’S CELEBRATED
■“ BYE LOTIOKT
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. HOSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. fcSf Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free Inj post throuohout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and Millett).
CATALLAItO LIQUORICE.
Wholesale Only
from
HY. MARKWALD
11 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY.
178 William-9t.,
MELBOURNE.
14 Currie-st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
breaeh-of-promise case, the other day, it was
alleged that defendant took plaintiff and another
young lady to a prayer-meeting, which made them
so faint that he had to go for a bottle of brandy.
• * * *
Of the 640 candidates who applied for the
40 billets in Vic. mounted police, the number was
judiciously weeded down to 445. 236 of these
were promptly bumped because of varicose veins
and other physical defects, 33 were not tall
enough, 12 were too old, 6 too young, and 31 too
heavy. 127 were still left, and from them 69 were
picked for further examination. 10 of these failed
to pass the medical test. 18 didn’t ride well enough,
and 2 had faulty sight. This left 39, who were
appointed, and the department is beginning to
despair about finding the 40th man.
* * * •
Among the candidates for the Vic. mounted
police examination was a strapping young fellow,
“highly recommended by the local member,” and
whose physique at once made him a likely man.
Medical examination showed him to be entirely
satisfactory, and the usual enquiries were started
as to his character. The result was that the
would-be “ cop ” was shown to have a list of con-
victions for minor and fineable offences of which
any Collingwood larrikin might be proud, his
brightest deed of riotous behavior having been
expiated by three months’ hard. When the local
member was remonstrated with over his recom-
mendation, he indignantly protested : “ Why,
that’s just the sort of man you want in the police-
force—he’ll know how to look after the others.”
* * * *
P. . “ 640 applicants for 40 possible and
unannounced vacancies in the mounted-police
force of Victoria. Rather ! Don’t think it’s only
the Mary Anns who worship ’em. Why, here in
a provincial daily—one of the first half-dozen in
N.S.W.—is a half-column report of a ‘ send-off ’ to
Mounted-Constable So-and-so. There was ‘ a
large gathering of friends and representatives of
various bodies,’ including a couple of M’sP.; and
part of the business was ‘ a presentation from a
few of his friends as a token of respect,’ though if
there isn’t a rule against the making of presenta-
tions to constables there ought to be.”
• • • *
At the recent Tas. militia manoeuvres the
local press reports that
Ten rounds of common shot and five of shrapnel were
served to the southern Artillery, the northerners being
onlookers, having failed to bring their ammunition. With
the common shot the targets were pierced in three places
[seven misses in ten]. At the close of the practice the
Commandant expressed himself very highly gratified. . .
The infantry forces were engaged in field firing. Firing
was carried out by sections, who fired volleys in suc-
cession from the right of battalions until the ammunition
was expended. Considering that a very large percentage
engaged in the practice were absolutely new to it, the
Commandant expressed his pleasure. The camp is one of
the cleanest ever held. The muster is now over 600 (! !).
During the officers’ mess a flashlight photograph was
taken of the gentlemen at dinner. ... In con-
nection with the report that the northern artillery
were onlookers at Saturday afternoon’s proceedings, it
might be mentioned that they, like the southerners, only
have fifteen rounds supplied to them each year, and they
A BACKBLOCKS
CRITIC.
MAN ON THE FENCE : “This
blessed paper ain’t got no sympathy
with the poor settler. It’s always gettin’ on
to the man what sits on a rail. Does the
bloomin’ editor think the blanky country’s
furnished with blanky horse-hair chairs an’
spring sofles?”
decided on leaving it behind them for their camp in
November next.
As this is real war, and not comic opera, the
transition to the Russian Council of Invasion is
easy—■
Admiral Swigowhiski :• I dread the Tasmanian fleet.
True; it is only one small torpedo-boat; but—the braves
who man it!
Prince Popemoff : Yes, if we can only keep clear of
that we might effect a landing.
Admiral S. : Your Highness must not overlook the
artillery force.
P.P. : I have not overlooked them. My plan is to
approach near enough to induce them to fire, when after
15 rounds Tasmania is ours !
Admiral 8. : Pardon me, your Highness—the gallant
Six Hundred !
P.P. (frowning) : Ha 1 I had forgotten !
A long pause results in invasion being indefinitely
postponed ; and the Tas. warriors must still con-
tent themselves with shedding the blood of hostile
raspberries.
TOREARMED!
REV. DOGOOD: "My good man, why don't you
leave off that horrible drinking? You will
have ‘delirium tremens'."
OLD SOAK : “Tha'sh alrish, bosh: my ole woman'sh
a snake sharmer!"
The Bulletin hereby gives due notice, ;is
required by the Act, that if there are 80,000 votes
for Federation in N.S.W. on June 3 it intends to
smash Zech’s window. Zech’s is about the biggest
plate-glass window in George-street, Sydney, and
considering the smash that a brick would make
going through the window, and the wreckage the
same brick would make among the glass and
china inside, and the further smash that the ruins
of the window would make among the glass and
china, this paper has selected Zech’s window as
the place where the biggest possible smash can
be done with the smallest amount of brick. It
has long been saving up Zech’s window against
some great occasion when it would have to cele-
brate or burst, and if the necessary 80,000 votes
are forthcoming on June 3 the said window goes.
And if Federation is carried in all other provinces
as well The Bulletin intends to wreck Nichol-
son’s piano emporium into the bargain.
True to their predatory instincts—as a
newspaper leader-writer would observe—some of
the women passengers who put themselves into
life-belts when the s.s. Edina looked like sinking
recently on the Vic. coast, refused to relinquish
their fittings when the danger had passed. Ul-
timately they carried the belts home with them
as interesting mementoes of the “shipwreck,”
and became indignant, as a rule, at the “ mean-
ness ” of Howard Smith & Co. in requesting a
restoration of the goods. The glorious unreason-
ableness of lovely woman appears to great ad-
vantage in any little case of this sort. Says she—
a sailor found me a belt to put on, and if I had
been drowned at the bottom of the sea how could
they have expected me to give the thing back
again? Also, she insists upon making special
rules for special occasions, and if in the course of
a panic rush at a theatre she were to get accident-
ally possessed of somebody else’s diamond brooch,
or somebody else’s husband, no arguments would
persuade her that she hadn’t a fair right to keep
it or him under the cireumstances.
* • * •
Colonel Fire-low Price remarked in his
swashbucklering way at a recent Melb. banquet:
“ I see before me representatives of every leading
industry of the pro vince ; the class of men who have
helped to make Victoria, and will continue the
making in spite of the frothy utterances of im-
ported agitators.” Cheers from the makers of the
province. Unfortunately, several other “makers”
were unavoidably absent—in gaol—or they also
would have cheered.
* ♦ * *
Dear Bulletin : Your Melb. polony yarn
isn’t a patch on what occurs every day in Sydney
and suburbs. To-day our butcher sent us some
excellent steak and some kidneys, for asteak-and-
kidney pie. My wife brought me one of the
kidneys with the question “Is there anything
wrong with this kidney ? ” I examined it and
found the kidney substance almost wholly re-
placed by hydatid cysts. If the servant had been
cooking it would probably have all gone in. Did
you say steak and hydatid pie ? No, thanks.—
Medico.
When readers see in the daily press a
column or couple of columns of clear-typed
anonymous matter, affecting to describe,
but, in reality, fulsomely eulogising
the management of a Govern-
ment asylum or depart-
ment, or some such insti-
tution, they should warily
test the statements before
giving faith to them. Num-
bers of Australian institu-
tions now regularly concoct
and forward such articles,
and have the front to ask
the editor to publish them
as if written independently
in his office. In several
cases lately, a large Aus-
tralian daily has complied
with the cheeky request,
with the result that the in-
mates of the institutions,
other than the officers, tak-
ing the articles to be the
work of newspaper-men,
will curse reporters while
they live.
* * •
When a Vic. farmer
Out-back wants to get a
small, “ neglected ” boy
from the State to drive
home his cows gratis, he
has first to apply to the
secretary for the district,
who is usually the minis-
ter’s wife. Next he has to
get a gospel-shop-keeper to
sign a document stating
that he knows and esteems
the applicant and his
cousins and hisaunts,
and, as there is
generally only one
such man in the
place, he applies to
the secretary’s hus-
band. This done, the
application is con-
sidered by the com-
mittee —which consists
of the minister and his
wife and the secretary and
her husband. Hence it is
very important that the applicant should be
a regular attendant at the weekly howl, else
his chance of getting a small, scared boy who
daren’t talk back to run after the cows gratis
amounts to about half of nothing.
AS HEARD ON THE BOGAN.
JACKAROO (log.): “I say, shearah, sheah those sheep’s legs down to the feet.”
ShEARER : “ But, sir, they may get bitten by snakes.”
JACKARO O: “Oh—aw — well, if you think there is any dangah, don’t be—ah—too
particulah.”
A lady speaker at a late meeting of Melb.
W.C.T.U. stated, in tones of alarming horror, that
she knew of a youth being turned from religious
resolves through seeing a Sunday-school teacher
put drink to his lips. Awful !
Dear Bulletin.— A woM or two more
about that “ unnatural offence ” case and the Mel-
bourne sup-press. “ Scribe,” as a reporter, should
know better than to call a mere record of a sen-
tence a publication of a case. Re the extraordinary
delicacy of Melbourne dailies, “ Scribe ” is quite
too ingenuous. How about the Oscar Wilde sen-
sation? Did the sensitive editor cut out the
demoralising details, or did he crowd ’em all in,
and beat up “further particulars?” Melbourne
was not to be benefited in any way by the sensa-
tional accounts of the purple viciousness of the
author of “ Dorian Grey,” but an account of the
baboonish crimes of a local man in the position
Kennedy filled, understandable to adult citizens,
was demanded of the public press as a public
duty. When “ Scribe ” admitted that the dailies
had published reports of such cases he demolished
the one poor excuse he had for rushing into print
on this matter. “Scribe” should have signed
himself “ Circum-Scribe.” —S.S.
* * * *
In Mark Twain’s “ More Tramps Abroad,"
Woolloomooloo is described as “ a well-known
pleasure-resort.” You must go from home to hear
the truth.
* * * *
The foolishness of Acting-Governor Mad-
den, in getting himself photographed (for the
Australasian) as Commander-in-Chief-Justice of
the Victorian military and legal forces, is almost
incredible. Time that some scientist or other
turned his mind to the question of Australian
climatic and educational influences on Irish
character. In White Knight Fitzgibbon, and
Madden of the waxed mo., Melbourne contains
two Irishmen who, having all the national audacity
and irrational talking disposition, are utterly lack-
ing in their ancestors’ sense of the ridiculous. If
Madden were a Dublin man, he would laugh at
himself as the only successful lawyer on earth who
ought to have graced the floor of a draper’s shop.
Being an Australian of the brainy-athletic order,
he reckons himself a brilliant spectacle in any
capacity, and will probably be masquerading at
some function in a suit of tin armor before his pre-
sent term of Acting-Governorship has expired.
He can put his hand on his heart and say, with
Fitzgibbon, “ There is no fun in me.” But why
is this ? What is the explanation of bright Irish
“ cheek ” developing into this humorless self-con-
fidence ?
» * • *
Recently the Governor of a certain Aus-
tralian gaol and his horse were both sick, and the
gaol doctor prescribed for both. Somehow the
bottles got mixed, and the horse took his boss’s
mixture and vice versa. Horse now dead ; and the
Gov. is getting well tolerably fast.
A unique il-
lustration of con-
jugal persever-
ance and hope-
fulness is a black-
edged card prin-
ted to the order of
a North Austra-
lian benedict. It
is in “Loving
Memory of our
Dear Babes now
in Heaven”
nine of them al-'
together. Their
respective periods
of life on earth
ranged from 36
weeks in the case
of Amos Samuel,
down to some-
thing less than a
week for Jere-
miah, Rachel El-
len, Josiah, Miri-
am, Percy George
and Isacchar, not
reckoning Mar-
cus, who was still-
born. Probably
they died from
the effects of
christening, for
we have it on the
authority of the
late coroner Youl
that Scriptural
names are re-
sponsible for a
lot of infant
mortality. Even
Marcus may have
perished at the
thought of the
distinction in
store for him.
The card setting
forth these melan-
choly particulars
was issued in
1891, since when
the printer has
not heard from
the bereaved par-
ent. He there-
fore assumes that
the gentleman
must be getting
his in-memoriam
printing done
elsewhere.
* •
“More Mis-
conduct by Mi-
litiamen ” is a
Melb. newspaper headline that sets one thinking.
* * * *
Coroner at bush inquest to boy who is
about to give evidence; “My good lad, do you
know what will happen if you don’t tell the
truth ? ” Boy (unhesitatingly): “ You’ll go to
hell.” “Silence in the Coort! ”
UNDER HOT SKIES.
(A North Queensland Shetch.)
Poor little thing ! A tremulous unfolding,
A fleeting dash of color, the delight
Of wakening, the wonder of beholding
Those thousand subtle mysteries the night
Of dreamless innocence had harshly hidden.
Then, all at once, a gasp of ecstasy,
A feast to which all fairy queens are bidden,
And earth and heaven coruscate in thee.
And—after that—the long, long years of fading,
When those who loved and worshipped thee in spring,
Drop slowly off, and sullenly evading
Thy hungry look, pass by, poor little thing !
VON KOTZE.
Alas ! it was sad !
When the God-fearing lad
His Sunday-school teacher saw lip the long-sleever,
From grace he fell straight,
Took to staying out late,
And drinking like any debauched unbeliever.
But, strange to relate,
This is never the fate
Of youths who see teachers, with sanctified vigor,
Lip she-pupils gay :
More pious grow they,
And cling to Religion like Death to a nigger.


Do man Can Tell
How good or how bad a boot is until that boot has been put on
somebody s foot and worn. Then the outside gloss will disappear,
and it won t take long to find out whether the leather is true or
f 0r I the sake of ar gument we’ll say that there are makes
of MEN S medium-priced boots that LOOK nearly as stylish as
Callaghan Boots. But in all the city to-day, price for price, there
is no boot that WEARS like the Callaghan Boot. We put solid
leather into our boots, and that is what makes them last. Of course
the fine workmanship counts much too, but it’s the leather that
counts most. If you buy a pair of Callaghan Boots now you will
buy from us always.
Gent’s Winter Boots —
15s 6d, 17s (id, 22s 6d, 255, 28s 6d.
Ladies’ Winter Boots —
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
She Works Hard.
The woman or girl who has a lot of house-work
to attend to has by no means an easy time of it.
Working about 14
hours a day, and
hard work at that,
they don’t get much
time for out-door
exercise. They get
their meals at all
ho u rs. Washing
and scrubbing,
ben d ing over a tub,
or kneeling on a
damp floor are not
the healthiest posi-
tions in the world,
and the wonder is
that such women don’t become broken down sooner
than they do. Their digestion becomes impaired
and the female organs get out of order, and this
necessitates a course of Bile Beans. All ailments,
such as Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation, De-
bility, Headache, Dyspepsia, Influenza, Colds,
Liver Complaints, etc., are cured by this wonder-
ful remedy. Female weaknesses, too, are very
often caused by derangement of the liver or sto-
mach, and Bile Beans never fail to give permanent
relief in cases of this kind. Bile Beans are made
in one of the largest and best equipped laborato-
ries in the world, in the city of Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A., and have been used in that country for
years by the best physicians. The sales every year
amount to millions, and this fact enables the pro-
prietors to sell at the low price. To be obtained at
all Chemists. Australian Depdt, the Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Viotorian agents —Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melb. ;
S.A. agents—Faulding & Co., Adelaide; W.A.
agents Faulding & Co., Perth; Queensland
agents —Hoffnung & Co., Brisbane.*
GLOBE TEAS have wo Equal '
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney,
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 10, 1898.
My Deak Myee—
The Hon. Mrs. Ferguson, a lady who has always
sacrificed herself cheerfully in charitable causes,
set off for Europe last Monday with her Majah
and her baby, and Margaret-street was blocked to
the wharf with cabs and carriages. To its mates,
the crowd owned up that it was defrauded by the
non-appearance of the vice-regal parents, whom
its delicate instincts had pictured weeping publicly
on the shoulders of the departing. Flowers filled
the cabins, and those who could not decently
attach themselves to the principal parties hung
round the nurses and the baby. Mrs. Ferguson
was neatly gowned in a navy tailor-costume, and
set an example to—well, certain decked-out brides
of “small” but moneyed people whom wo have
lately seen set out on their travels. In the
background, violent scenes went on between ladies
with families clinging round their skirts, who
couldn’t climb boxes, and so were hazy on the
vital question of the hour —did Mrs. Ferguson
cry ? These ladies fought the matter out manfully
in spite of the haze, and were as keen as over on
the subject when the Moama was out through the
sea gates, a speck on the horizon. For their own
Seace of mind, they inclined towards the tears.
Nothing hurts a crowd so sorely as a dry depar-
ture.
All the charities are awake this month and hop-
ping. The Tempe ball is under discussion, and
the Factory Girls’ ball, which comes off on May
19th, is causing many nicely-cut noses to turn up
in a way that suits them better than they guess.
The reason of this nose-lifting is that some two-
hundred shop-girls are to be allowed into the hop
at half price, and Miss Potts Point may be vis-a-
vis to the maiden who sat up the night before to
complete the hand-tucking of Miss Potts Point’s
chiffon sleeves. Society-girls are so red with
WTath and injured feelings that it wouldn’t be
kind to advise them to go soft, and remember that
their mammas have climbed into society by the
ladders of these same charity committees. Strange
to say, the men who prop up the pillars of ball-
rooms are taking a lively interest in this particu-
lar dance.
Prince Alfred Hospital Ball, last week, was a
huge success as far as the galleries were concerned.
The two-shilling on-lookers sat in their seats, and
gazed away comfortably at all there was to be
seen, and reckoned the ball was a brightly-gilt
one. But the party proper stood on one leg for an
hour and a-quarter, and watched the cotillion
appropriate all the gaud, and all the chairs, and
finally went home to catch the last train with-
out a pinch of supper in its pocket. The big
circle of chairs had entrapped the guileless
Government House party, and the supper doors
remained sealed until the last trump of the
cotillion broke up the circle at half-past eleven.
Mrs. Willie Mitchell, in her historic red and
ravens, was the smartest feature of the cotillion.
She set everyone going, and would have been a
tip-top leader if she had stopped her followers
half-an hour earlier. However, natural history
points to the fact that the followers are harder to
stop than to set going, and the ball that was not
the cotillion had better accept the inevitable. Her
invitation to the dance was for young men only,
Captain Dangar being set to entice the ladies. A
few thin and tired figures made even the ad-
miring galleries yawn, but two performances were
highly successful. One placed 30 men behind a
curtain, and 20 maidens in front of it, and the
supreme moment happened when a man had
battled madly through the curtain and punched
another man in the eye, to find himself in
the arm 3 of a 20-stoner who was a cook
in her 10-stone days. Another jolly figure,
savouring rather of horse-play, showed Mrs.
Willie whipping up a team of prancing men,
while Captain Dangar drove a dozen women
round the room. A philosophical reflection had
a feed here on the fact that the lady drove her 24
men along much more easily than the man his
dozen women. These games don’t shine as
luminously on paper as a description of kiss-in-
the-ring, and twos-and-threes; but Sunday-schools
don’t go to the same picnics as cotillions, although
you might imagine they were related if you didn’t
know better.
Towards the end of the game the Town Hall
was turned into a lively toy-shop, and mothers
rammed squeaky dolls into their pockets with
placid smiles, while family men carefully acquired
jumping-jacks and shooters for Tommy at home.
Unattached men and girls were not so happy with
their toys, and I saw a tawering regimental vainly
beseech a friend to rid him of the curly-headed
waxen beauty who cried “mama” and “papa”
whenever he touched her. One of the cruellest pre-
sentations thrust a powder-puff on a man whose
skin is a shade too dark for ordinary wear, and the
gallery got a crick in its neck when the Governor,
with a bland smile, refused Mrs. Willie’s offer of
a toy.
Both the cotillion and the ball were well-dressed
affairs, although the ball didn’t show off to as
much advantage. Mrs. Harry Levy was fixed up
in patches of heliotrope brocade, white chiffon,
blue velvet, diamonds, and other items. Mrs.
Thring garbed herself in green brocade and pop-
pies ; and Mrs. Macarthur, the other secretary,
struck blue notes over white satin. A white silk
frock was smartly trimmed with the black shoul-
der birds introduced into N.S. Wales by Mrs.
Mitchell. Two Hebraic sisters would have worn
jaunty muslin frocks more effectively if they had
reproduced each other less faithfully. The day is
done when the mother of a family bought a bale
of cloth, and attired herself and her daughters
after one image. In fact, it is not even toney to
dress twins alike, and the white frock and blue
ribbon for the fair baby and pink ribbon for the
dark has been superseded by a complete contrast
of pelisses.
Do men appreciate Hospital Saturday? is a
problem that the lady-scribe who sets Sydney
social problems for Sunday afternoons will pro-
bably be asking soon. The question was answered
in a way last Saturday by many men. “There
are no pretty women and no nice young ones on
this year,” and they buttoned up their coats, and
went home sadder and richer men. The great beg
of the year fell a little flat this time, although
the amount collected was not so far short of last
year as expected. The rain may have been at the
bottom of the mischief, for young and pretty
women won’t run inordinate risks of colds and red
noses, but it was a noticeable fact that the col-
lectors were chiefly of the type that is branded
“Good women.” They stuck to their guns like
Britons through the rain, and assurance was the
only quality they needed. It is one thing for
a man to have a box pushed meekly under his
nose, and another to be killed by a smile and then
revived by a peremptory demand for coin. Of the
two methods, even the millionaire prefers the lat-
ter, and the Domain loafer has never had
more than one opinion on the matter. The
top score was achieved by the ladies who haunted
Anthony Hordern's corner, alongside of Paddy’s
Market, where you do not find your heaviiy-
gilded capitalists, but where Mother’s swollen legs,
and Tommy’s tonsils, and little Sis’s bronchitis,
and poor Dad’s smash-up under a bale of wool,
have made the hospital a very real institution.
A woman’s point of view of this subject must
be less definite than a man’s, for the collectors let
women severely alone for the most part. But a
murmur’s in the wind, and next year’s Saturday
may set a contingent of johnnies to beg coppers
from their lady friends. The sex influence tells
even on coppers, and where’s the sense in setting
women to beg from men, and letting other women
go home unmarauded for the want of a man to
ask them ?
False-hair centred itself in chignons of abnor-
mal growth when Ouida wrote “Moths,” but
luckily the dramatist does not insist on anything
of this kind. In fact, the Cartwright co. dressed
the play on Saturday night a few months in ad-
vance of Sydney fashions. Miss Darragh, as
Fuchsia Leach, gleans the richest harvest of
frocks, and rings the changes on a green glace
silk and a white grenadine, both being made with
the big insidious flounce from the hips that stamps
all the nice gowns now. A yellow chiffon, trimmed
with little ruchings of itself, was carried elegantly.
Miss Beatrice Lamb keeps herself unspotted from
the world in white all through the play, but does
not don the most effective make-up for such color-
less confections. Yere is pale and beautiful, as
are all Ouida’s heroines, but there is pallor and
pallor—the pallor of life and the pallor of death,
for instance. The one archaic frock of the play is
worn by Gwen Dallas as Nadine. A fawn satin
bodice, and a multi colored skirt, whose pleats are
not quite old enough to be aesthetic, and far too
old to be in fashion, had reached rather an un-
comfortable stage of life for a frock.
The re-appearance of Myra Kemble, after a long
absence from the footlights, roused the house for
several minutes, and revealed the fact that the
popularity of this lady is as strong as ever. She
was innocently wicked, but her Lady Dolly was
too frugally attired for a wicked Ouida-woman,
whose simplest white muslin frocks never cost her
less than ilsoo apiece. Miss Stewart was a much
more lavish worldling as the Duchesse de Sonnaz
and looked appropriately chic and naughty in her
white hat and brown velvet pelisse, heavily
adorned with ermine. The male Moths don’t add
much to the picturesque side of the play, and, in
spite of Ouida’s famous tirade against the modern
man’s attire, they sport regulation coats, and only
one is credited with corsets.
Bland Holt and his “Life of Pleasure ” are
knocking out some happy tableaux at the Theatre
Royal. The house-boat scene appeals loudly—
Chinese lanterns, crimson carpets, window-cur-
tains, gay crowds in the cabin and on the vpper-
deok, and four professional banjos tum-tumming
cheerful tunes to the night air. What is a banjo
without a houseboat? The reversal of this truth
struck William Black long ago. He revels in
these water-houses, but never sends a party out
without a banjo, and that may be why his men and
maidens leave the heavy sentimental aione. This
instrument doesn’t strike the very bottom of the
heart-strings, even in the moonlight on the
Thames, and is nicely adapted for picnics.
Miss. Frances Ross, in a top hat and riding-
habit, is one of Du Maurier’s sketches to the life.
The long neck that pleased this artist’s eye, and
the meekly-aristocratic features, are all there.
Elizabeth Watson, whose life of pleasure is the
reason of the play, does not draw too heavily on
her dressmaker. Her early gowns are nice in a
gentle little home-made way, but home-made,
when applied to frocks, doesn’t mean made in
London, or even in Germany, though the latter’s
nearer. Like a sensible woman, she puts on her
best dress when she is going to throw a glass of
wine in her false lover’s face. This is a green
velvet princess robe, revealing green-silk under-
skirts, and the whole brightened with gold trim-
mings. Some merry-looking cloaks flaunt them-
selves round the Empire Music Hall scene, but
the best-dressed woman in the play is a walking-
lydy who never opens her lips. ‘And here a false
note strikes loudly, for a smart dress will make
the most silent woman in the world fluent.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Maddens make the mounted orderlies
attached to Govt. House work hard. They make
the most of their temporary glory, and scarcely go
anywhere without an orderly clattering in advance.
One can hardly go out at night without seeing the
carriage dashing through the city with the orderly
on in front and a paddock of boiled shirt front
gleaming from the inside of the brougham. It is
related that on an occasion during Gov. Madden’s
first performance of the part, he visited the theatre
in state and the crowd blocked the footpath when
His Waxellency wished to enter. “Orderly,”
screamed the Private Secretary, “cleah the path ! ”
“Can’t, sir,” replied the mounted trooper, touch-
ing his hat, “ it ain’t my fungshun to take my ’oss
on the footpath, and the people wouldn’t like it.”
So the sec. and his boss had to push through the
crowd, and the orderly was afterwards officially
informed that he had acted quite properly.
“On the night of drizzling May 6th, gleams of
dripping umbrella enlivened the gloom, and whiffs
of wet mackintosh flavored the air round about
the ’Varsity and College Crescent. One attraction
was a united debate between Princess Ida girls,
law students, and ’Varsity Union members ; while,
over the way, Queen’s College was billed for its
yearly concert, with the Acting-Governor and
party in the arm-chairs. At the latter function.
Mamma Madden and daughter Ruby, with their
fair hair top-knotted similarly, wore black frocks,
differentiated by a red cloak for the elder lady
and blue shoulder-straps for the younger.
“ Which reminds me, somehow, of bitternesses
engendered in progressive euchre’s early days by
misunderstandings re those terms ‘senior’ and
‘ junior.’ A man—or, worse still, a woman—would
come along and demand, in a stand-and-deliver
tone, * Are you senior or junior lady ? ’ The ques-
tioner meant, of course, ‘ Are you newly-arrived
at this table or not ? ’ But until you understood
these technicalities you probably snapped back,
‘ Shall I send for the family bible ? ‘ or ‘ I’m will-
ing t® put it to the vote if she’s not frightened ! ’
“ Straying back to the concert in the college-
hall, warmed by a hearty blaze in an open fire-
place. Between the acts people fell to studying
the wall-decorations. They were mostly Maori
or island curios., though a commanding portrait
of a dark gentleman, with long black beard,
longer black coat, and lean forefinger pointing
down to an open bible, caught my eye. Wesleyan
parson, maybe, because ‘Queen’s,’ you know,
belongs to that ilk. Anyway, no collar or cuff
showed from where I sat, and for all one knew
his rev. might have had conscientious scruples re
linen underwear, limiting himself to a decollete
short-sleeved woollen weskit.
“ But at the eleventh hour the artist must have
spotted the ‘ hidden want ’ in his picture, and
cleverly exonerated his sitter from unjust suspi-
cions by unfastening just one button of the pic-
tured coat, somewhere about the middle chest,
so as to reveal an inch of white.
“Then there was the college crest, at sixes and
sevens with its accompanying motto, like most
heraldic mixtures. What is the connection, does
anyone know, between ‘griffins rampant’ (on the
fight, presumably) and the legend ‘ We build for
eternity ? ’
“As for the performers, Fanny Lyndhurst
warbled feelingly, while Minnie Waugh and
Grace Kemp (Mrs. Fred Evans) were pleasant to
look upon, the latter wearing white brocade and
carbon buttons. Gladstone Simons’ recitations
were worth listening to ; and the hospitable col-
lege boys themselves encored everything, hustled
and bustled Barker’s big harp up and down the
platform-steps, handed ladies on and off, sang the
’Varsity anthem, nervously spilt hot coffee over
girl-guests in their studies later on, and altogether
made things go with a fizz.
“ A course of Autumn Flower Shows leads me
to the gratifying conclusion that although God
clothes iilies, chrysanthemum growers attend to
their own floral tailoring with flaunting results.
Fashion invariably bloats its objects, and chrysan-
themums have been a craze for years ; conse-
quently the gay Jap. blooms of a decade since
have swollen into glaring mammoth blobs of color
like gaudy cauliflowers. “Who drives fat
oxen should himself be fat.” The heavy, florid,
overfed affluent blooms which stare haughtily at
you from the show-tables and in the gardens and
drawingrooms of the rich, are the exact type of
the folk who grow them. Fat flowers for fat men.
But dahlias this year are the fashionable snap.
Chrysans. are out. The up-to-date dahlia has,
consequently, become more bullet-headed, more
loudly tinted, and .more stiff. It always was a
haughty vegetable, anyhow.
“Re the Kalgoorlie row, please note as a touch-
ing instance of family love that Govt. Resident
Brown, of Victoria Plains, W.A.—who wired
‘ My God, I’m proud of you 1 ’ to John Forrest in
his trouble—is a near marriage-connection of the
bullocky Premier’s. Mr. Brown’s sister is the
widow of Lady Forrest’s brother, and altogether
relationships are so complicated that if I wanted
to be popular with Perth blue-blood, I’d as soon
fly as jab any of the Browns, Hammersleys,
Lefroys, Lofties, or Forrests in the ribs with my
brolly.
“ Funny to note the air of puzzledom that stole
over a good majority of Marshall Hall’s audience,
at his Town Hall concert, when he abruptly
announced that Madame Wiederinann was too ill
to sing, didn’t say what was to follow, and dashed
his orchestra into something weird and mysterious.
Nearly everyone thought that the Prof, wouldn’t
lose a chance of airing his own composition—
hence, perhaps, some of the thunderous applause
that followed the orchestra’s splendid rendering of
Hamish M'Cann's ‘ Ship of the Fiend.’ One indi-
vidual, very much in the inner circle of Conserva-
torium things, who had been at all the Alcestis
rehearsals, gained a brief celebrity amongst half-a-
dozen hearers by pointing out the soulful meaning
of particular passages, and averring that the crash-
chord at the end meant Alcestis’ last cry. Where
is that critical knowledge of music concerning
which the culchawed few have so very much to
say?
“ Last Friday was Poverty Pointers’ day-out in
Coll ins-street. First and foremost sailed down
the Block Elliott Page, in wintry garb of rifle-
green cloth befurred, with bunches of violets stuck
about her, escorted by Marcus Napoleon Knight.
Next sensation was a beflowered hansom, the
horse with a garland of chrysans. round his lean
neck, and inside more flowers—it was like a short
funeral for flowers. More posies; also Bert Gil-
bert, who had drunk his last glass as Uncle the
night before, and Ada Peeve, all smiles. These
two stars haven’t gone with the opera team to
Westralia.
“ Great excitement the last night of ‘ The
Babes.’ The performers, big and little, played-
up like two-year-olds. Dollies, in the toy-ballet,
came down like ninepins. A ‘ robin ’ turned over
on her ankle, and looked like squashing the sleep-
ing orphans. Little Gulliver, snubbed by Maid
Marion for his * sauce ’ re her bloomers, jumped
up and tried to snatch a kiss. Pa Gilbert put a
stop to his daughter’s pertness by picking her up
and carrying her off like a baby.
“ The audience felt sad but tried to bear up.
When Ada Reeve knocked up against a man in
her brown-velvet ‘ twicers,’ and offered her king-
dom for a petticoat, the wished-for garment, such
a nice, useful pink-flannel one, descended from
Heaven, or, at all events, from the gods. Also
the frisky favorite was loaded with floral boats,
lyres, and buttonholes galore. Hubby got pipe,
walking-cane, and, like the rufflans, a bottle or
two. A big blue-satin bon-bon, ‘ pulled ’by the
baron and his daughter, held chains and chains of
flowers, which Miss Reeve hung round her neck.
“ There were such lots of weird, wild laughers
in the audience that night. A stout woman in
the d.c. ‘ took on ’ terribly at the wet-nurse joke.
During her paroxysms, her neighbors heard bodice-
seams go off like crackers, and by the end of the
evening all her frisettes, and most of her hair-
pins, had slipped down her back. Miss Elliot-
Page, all ruched with red chiffon, looked on from
a box with Julius Knight and Baritone Pauli. A
bride and bridegroom, just back from the honey-
moon, came along with the party, the heroine of
the group all in black from the crest of funereal
feathers in her golden hair downwards.
“ After the performance forlorn young men
stood about outside disputing the rival charms of
the ‘jelly,’ ‘champagne’ and ‘salad’ girls, and
vowed that if it meant one o’clock, they’d see Ada
Reeve come out. One reason of that bright star’s
popularity is the graciousness of her gift-reception
tactics. She never overlooks the shabbiest flower,
and t’other night when a solitary Virginian-
creeper leaf fluttered timidly from aloft, she wel-
comed it as warmly as the rest. She likes
chronicling her booty, too—the diamond bangle,
the canary-bird, and what not. Hubby’s bag, so
far, includes a gun and a drinking-flask.
“ At the Royal, ‘ The Work Girl ’ (Eugenie*
Duggan) was sweated according to promise on
Saturday night, and pocketed her starvation wage
in the presence of a sympathetic multitude. Or
square-headed spectator enquired from his seat A
the audience how long Eugenie had worked for
her 3s. 6d., and, getting no answer, withheld his
hoot from her employers till the facts should be
placed before him. Later on, the worritced work-
girl, vexed by a false lover and a child of shame,
jumps into the Thames and is rescued by her long-
iost father. The latter carries her unconscious to
her garret, whence she soon emerges neat as a new
pin, with hair freshly crimped and dainty col-
larette and cufflets, to tell her shocked parent her
tale of woe. Ida Gresham is effective in her
greeny silk evening frock with lots of bare
shoulder framed in an all-round ruching of
violets. Somehow the naughty girls of melo-
drama are passing fond of the 1830 bodice. And
small blame to them, for their anatomy, unlike
their stage morals, is generally beyond reproach.
“Seems to me that lover Montgomery, of ‘ The
Work-Girl,’ models his deportment on that of
Aide Richard Neville. Even when his jealous
wife and irate pa-in -law switch his old love round
the drawing-room, he hangs his arms meekly at his
sides after the pattern of his supposed exemplar.
But if Lord Richard’s young woman were being
spanked for nothing, he’d probably change his
tactics. Circumstances alter cases.


By far the Best Victorian Coal
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
Kuppers Elberfeld La
PERSONAL ITEMS,
Arthur Orton died at 6 a.m. on Ist April—
** All Fools’ Day.”
The Spanish Admiral Montijo, of Manila
infamy, is nephew of Empress Eugenie. Another
gilded nail in the old coffin.
A brother and sister—she Mrs. Ooghlan,
he Walsh—living near Warrnambool (Vic.), reckon
203 years between them. The man claims 104;
the woman 99.
John signifieth “mercy of the Lord.”
John Want, W. John Lyne, John Norton, John
Haynes, John Lucas will urgently need some
“ gentle dew ” after June 3.
Toby Barton is accused of having his eye
upon the Federal Chief-Justiceship. Well, no-
body accuses any anti-Federalist of being fit to be
Chief Justice of the Federation.
The late JOHN M’ELHONE, M.P, (N.S.W.).
Photo., Tuttle & Co.
xhe war is mixing the Sydney cable news-
man sadly. The other day he wrote of the
Spanish Congress. U.S. Consul Bell must be
prepared to be styled Don Casus Belli.
The China was wrecked while the ship’s
company was celebrating the birthday of Mrs.
Freeman-Thomas (Gov. Brassey’s daughter) who
was a passenger. O Brassey, thy name is Jonah !
The confession of a Chow murderer at
Rockhampton (Q.): “I killee him. I wantee
killee him. He takee money. All li. You
chokee, chokee. No caree. No savee. No
ketch ee.”
The brothers Piddington, N.S.W. Ms.P.,
are on opposite sides in the Federal movement.
Happily their initials supply the needed dis-
tinction. A. B. is Anti-Bill, and W. H. B. is Will
Have the Bill !’ Idington.
Barristei-
Want’s recent
yarn about
Salomons,
Q.C., propos-
ing to buy Tas-
mania was an-
ticipated by
Mark Twain’s
observation,
when in Syd-
ney, that ‘ ‘he
liked the har-
bour so much
that he was
thinking of
buying it,’’and
anyhow the
gag, in one
form or anoth-
er, is w e 11-
stricken in
years.
Told of old
Kaufman, o f
Lake View
Consols fame,
that, having
long promised
his friends
something ec-
static in the
way of Euro-
pean cheese, he
at last invited
a select circle
to partake of
the newly-ar-
rived dainty.
“Now, James”
(or it may have
been Barney),
he said to his
British servant
when the aus-
picious mom-
ent arrived
“now ve villhaf
dot cheese!”
James (or Bar-
ney), confiden-
tially from be-
hind his hand,
“The cheese,
sir ? Oh, sir, it
went bad, an’
I berrid it! ” It was a Limburver !
A new rule decided upon by N.S.W.
Cabinet at the instigation of Premier Reid, to
apply in all future cases, is that a Supreme Court
Judge may obtain leave of absence on full pay for
six months, but any extension of that period must
be at ordinary pension-rates. Hitherto a Supreme
Court Judge obtained six months’ leave at jB2GOO
and then applied for another three or six months
and usually got it on the same terms. In future
the extended term will be at the rate of £lB2O.
The late Francis Longmore was a N.S.W.
man in the first instance. From 1839 (when, as a
lad of 13, he came over from Ireland) until 1852
young Longmore tilled the soil at Wollongong.
The gold-fever drove him to Ballarat.
The three N.S.W. District Court Judges
now on pension served—Wilkinson, 33 years;
M'Farland, 30 years; and Dowling, 38 years.
The pension is £750 a year, and in the cases
stated has been running for five, seven, and eight
years.
The Mrs. Weatherley who died at Yass,
N.S.W., the other day, at the age of 82, was a
sufferer in the Gundagai flood of half-a-century
ago. A boatman rescued her just as her house
was floating away. Over 70 buildings were car-
ried away, and 89 persons in Gundagai alone were
drowned on that occasion.
The Rev. Metcalfe, Church of England,
held 230 services and travelled 3900 miles in the
last twelve months- through the wild Bombala
district for a church revenue, all told, of .£lOO.
Should not Jacob Garrard’s Factory Act be
amended so as to include punishment for the
sweating of unprotected parsons?
A proposal that Ben Tillett should be in-
vited to speak at Healesville (Vic.), roused a local
councillor to move an amendment that the dogs
should be sooled on Ben if he were seen anywhere
thereabouts. When a man knows his own
deficiencies in logic it is probably the wisest thing
he can do to keep a dog to argue for him.
An old, unscrubbed man who died in Melb.
last week with bank deposit receipts for £lOOO
sewn into his loathsome rags, claimed to be the
lawful heir to a certain Hazelbrae property in
Scotland. Satisfactory to know, however, that he
couldn’t prove his claim. The property has re-
mained in the hands of people who, presumably,
wash themselves.
Chief Justice Madden has—thank the Lord !
—decided to “ weigh his words more carefully
in future,” and refrain from drawing comparisons
between Shakespeare and Mark T vain. If
Madden were to make a practice of weighing the
same lot of words at regular intervals he would
be surprised to note their steady loss in weight
through evaporation.
Mrs. Phil May (writes London correspon-
dent of Sydney D.T.) ought to be a happy woman.
She has been done into a bronze bust by Bertram
Mackennal, for exhibition in this year’s Royal
Academy, and her portrait is included in the new
series of “ Types of English Beauty,” which “ can
be obtained at all respectable stationers,” etc., in
London and the provinces.
The demised Longmore, Vic. ex-M.P.,
had during his first term a Parliamentary hench-
man, one Cope, a clean-shaven, comedian-looking,
facetious local preacher, who, in a yellow ban-
danna neckcloth, sat hunched up in the corner,
emitting Hancockian interjections. One night
Longmore said—“ I ask, Mr. Speaker, what class
of immigrants the Government would introduce?”
Cope : “ Porpoises ! ”
Q. Governor Lamington may yet fill a big
place in British politics. He is in the English
inner circle, is a personal friend of Curzon, who
was his “ best man,” and is a better speaker than
most of the lords who occupy front positions. His
style recalls that of Hartington ; but he probably
has more brains than Hartington, has a finer wit,
and is more human. Indeed, he is very human ;
he would be a gigantic success in Q. if find
the missing words.
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
THE GOOD CLERYMAN : “ I'm glad to hear you candidly admit that you owe your
present position to the accursed drink."
PRISONER : “ Yis ; whin the warders are boozy the laste wurrd ‘ narks’ ’em, an’ if
they hadn’t reported me fur bad conduct I’d ha’ bin out long ago !”
Wm. Williams, discoverer of the first
quartz-mine at Adelong, N.S.W., who sold
Williams’ gold-mine in 1870 for .£45,000, still lives.
He was lately banqueted on attaining his 98th
birthday.
Melb. : “ Demise, Bear Rapiport. The
circumstances of his inglorious descent from the
magistracy with friend Baxter, at the instance of
Lormer, are fresh in mind. Nevertheless, though
blind, he was incomparably the most able amateur
justice who ever sat on Melb. Bench,”
THE TROUBLE.
“I suppose you'd be sorry if I were to die?"
“Of course I would. You know I look a perfect guy in a
black suit!”
S.A.’s lost Rechabite, who has now been
missing along with the cash for many months, is
still heard of at intervals. He has been “seen ”
at Melbourne and at Sydney by people who didn’t
report the matter till he was gone, and a Melb.
hair-dresser who shaved off his respectable beard
also knew him, but kept dark till some time after-
wards. He is now supposed to be overlanding to
Brisbane, but nobody seems to tear after him at
any pace worth mentioning. The unanimity with
which people who spot the much-wanted Rechabite
walking peacefully up and down big cities,
decide to say nothing about the matter till he is
gone, is truly remarkable. Does anybody really
want that walking Rechabite ?
Charles Clements, recently hanged for
wife-murder at Dunedin (M.L.), died like a com-
fortable fat man without any sign of emotion.
When arrested he was a gaunt, emaciated prisoner,
but he fattened wonderfully in gaol, and, after his
sentence in particular, he laid on flesh at an alarm-
ing rate. He finished up with a large breakfast,
and the only remark of any importance (apart
from a casual oath) which he made on the scaffold
was, “Don’t let me drop all at once.” But there
is no way of hanging anyone by instalments, so
they dropped the fat man simultaneously, and,
after he had bounced once or twice, death, in the
beautiful language of the daily paper, “was in-
stantaneous.” t
John Haynes, M.L.A. :
About Charley Collins, M.L.A., recently dead. Please
don’t let it be inferred—as it might be from your recent
par. —that I was preparing Mr. Collins’ farewell address
to the electors when the news of his death arrived.
Collins wanted no such assistance, being a hard-headed,
able man with broad political views. He could give
points in politics to our very best men, and was no drone,
no slavish follower of the biggest side ; no billet-hunter
or log-roller. I always found him a plucky voter, and
absolutely independent. As a Jew he was a Christian,
and as a Christian he was no “ Jew,” for he was always
staunch with the people. What Collins asked me to do
for him was merely to revise his “ screed ” for suggestions
or corrections. As for myself, Charles will know I do
him justice here, and perhaps in return he will some day
put in a word for me with Father Abraham.
The late Francis Longmore (Vic.) while
one of the kindest of men, held on to some hatreds
as a limpet clings to a rock. One of his theories
was that Fatman was sure to fry in the next
world. “I’m disinclined,” he said on one occa-
sion, “to believe in the dogma of an eternal
punishment. It seems paradoxical, if we admit
the justice and the mercy also of the Creator.
And yet, when I contemplate that ogre of our
civilisation, the land-monopolist, and recognise
that society owes so much of its woes and misery
to his baneful influence, I cannot well see how we
can banish the theory of hell from our faith. For,
surely no other punishment equivalent to the
enormity of the land grabbers’ offence is con-
ceivable, than that of an eternal wasting m the
flames of hell.” A good old man, of simple
faith.
Since Ben Tillett’s advent to Melbourne
many of the Labor-leaders and Trades Hall people
have much changed their style of elocuting. In-
stead of each speaker going on his “ own ” and
evincing a distinct individuality, they all now—
with but scant success—model pronunciation, ex-
pression and gesture upon the little man. Stephen
Barker, J.P.—he never signs without the final
letters—president of the Trades Hall, is about
Ben’s most slavish imitator, and has adopted all
Tillett’s faults without acquiring any of his
merits. Ben pronounces “knowledge” “no-
ledge ” ; so does Barker. Ben chews up his open-
ing sentences as if he were just finishing a tasty
mouthful; Barker begins as if he had a large, hot
potato in his mouth. Ben wastes about lOsec.
between some of his sentences in a fidgetting “ er
—er”-ing, and Barker runs it to about 40. Ben
himself must be tired of this “ sincerest form of
flattery.”
Hanson, the recently - de-
ceased Sydney printer, was once
partner with Sam Bennett in the
old Empire. Bennett used to
lunch with Hanson at the latter’s
house. But when the two old
chums had quarrelled, Hanson,
remembering how he used to feed
Bennett every day, actually sued
Sam for 400 luncheons at a shil-
ling each. Bennett defended and
got a verdict with costs. And
Hanson, always a melancholy kind
of bird, looked from that day
forth as though he were taking
it out of his own personality
to make up for the losses he
had incurred in nourishing Sam
Bennett.
“ Bertram Mackennal dis-
played his Royal Academy ex-
hibits, and other products of the
past twelve months, to a fashion-
able assemblage for days,” writes
The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent. “‘Grief,’ a marble fe-
male study, is the most striking
representation of hopeless misery
the writer has ever seen. A
marble bas-relief ‘ Silence,’and a
colossal sarcophagus in tons of
marble—a mighty undertaking,
representing two years’ work yet
to be done, to order of an Aus-
tralian doctor, who thus commem-
orates his young wife’s death —
were the other chief objects in
view.”
Died, the other day in Syd-
ney, cordial-water manufacturer
Starkey. Which reminds the
present writer that years ago he
attended a meeting of creditors in
a bankrupt estate, Starkey and a
certain Hebrew money - lender
being also present. The usurer’s
claim was, of course, on promis-
sory-notes, and Starkey appealed
to the shent. per shent. man to
forego interest and enter his claim
merely for money out of pocket.
“Veil, T like dot,” said the man
from Poland. “ Shent. per shent.,
and vrom my frient Misdter
Sdarkey. Vy, gentlemen! Mis-
dter Sdarkey boods vun benny-
vort of soda into a gallon of vater,
unt he sharges a shilling vor id !
Shent. per shent. indeed ’’—and
no further attempt was made to
induce the financier to decrease his
claim.
Verily the old order changeth. Sixty
years ago Hone Heke, in a war mantle of kiwi
feathers, the mer 4 of his chiefship in his hand, led
his be-plumed and tattooed warriors against the
forces of Kuine Wikatoria, and succeeded in sack-
ing the European settlement of Kororarika — the
brothel of the Pacific as it was called. To-day we
read of his grand-nephew, another Hone Heke,
attired in the high hat and broad-cloth of the
pakeha, with pakeha words meaning “member of
Parliament ” tacked to his name, a pleasant-faced,
copper-colored gentleman with flashing white
teeth and a flower in his button-hole, hasting by
train and steamer to act as pacificator in a dispute
between his truculent tribesmen and the pale-
faced children of the civilisation into which he has
been adopted. Catch old Hone Heke the First
stopping a tight or any “ divarsion ” of that sort !
Fancy the scorn of the disembodied spirit of the
grim old warrior as he contemplates the degeneracy
of his modern kinsman who, instead of being noted
as a skull-breaking, blood-drinking leader in haka
and toa, is chiefly famous for the possession of
one of the nicest tenor voices in all Maoriland !
The late FRANCIS LONG MORE, Victorian
Radical, in his fighting prime.
Photo., Alfred Williams, Melbourne.
Scotty Stirling : “ The recent bowling-out
of the Maorilander Burr, by the duty-stamp that
could not have been printed before 1882, reminds
of one Alexander, who forged an excerpt of a
charter of novodamus, whereby he was entitled to
a little property, including Nova Scotia, all the
American fisheries, the right of creating knights
and baronets of Nova Scotia, tremendous posses-
sions in Great Britain, Ireland, and the Isle of
Man, and the earldom of Stirling. Unfortunately,
he did it on the back of a French map of Nova
Scotia, dating it two years before the map could
have been published. The fraud was detected by
the interpolation of a line on the lithographic-
stone, but the Scotch verdict of ‘ Not proven ’
was recorded at the trial. N. 8.—1 wish be had
got it, because I, Scotty, am a nearer relative than
Alexander to the attainted earl, and I would cer-
tainly have made The Bulletin a baronet. Vide
Samuel Warren’s miscellanies, the ‘Romance of
Forgery.’”


• • -cmvioxa ni aavK
“ BOJMIHi aoo-o
asuHj. „
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Worcesters hii't
Pure English
Pure Malt
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook s S&ucs has been awarded more p r i 2 e Msdsils
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
IN
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED PROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE* MALT.'
AND
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
A most curious divorce-case has just come
off in America. A girl had married her half-
brother, without either knowing the relationship.
Mr. T. C. Allen (member Eng. Assoc, of
N.S.W.), Consulting Engineer, having entered
into partnership with Mr. Arthur Griffith
(M.L.A.), International Patent Agent, 41 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, the firm will henceforth be
in a position to supply to intending patentees
without charge expert engineering opinion on the
merits of their inventions.*
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CUBE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
FRANZ JOSEF .
FILSEIV ER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
Quarantine is a great institution. Recent
investigations proved that the tick can live on
almost every “ critter ” that flies and every snaky
calamity that crawls. Beetles and flies are found
to be swarming with the pest —and beetles and
flies respect no quarantine line. Euphemism at
present in vogue in N.Q. : “There ain’t no ticks
on Thompson’s gal.”
* * * *
Illicit distillation is about the most profit-
able bush industry ; half the pubs, would close if re-
stricted to the sale of duty-paid spirit. As shown
by the small number of prosecutions, the risk is
small with reasonable precautions. A blend of
honey and corn makes a good ferment ; both are
home products and save the nasty enquiries aroused
by large purchases of molasses. The new worm-
less still is a great improvement. The use of
charcoal prevents smoke. A good dog voices a
stranger half-a-mile off. “ Heaven and Hell ”
fittingly names the product.
* • • *
Jinda : “ Whether Wragge’s assistants,
stationed at Kosciusko, will be able to remain there
through the winter is much doubted by men who
have lived on the Snowy. Writer spent ’97
fossicking and ’possum shooting within a few
miles of Kosciusko and, although the winter was
exceptionally mild—in fact Kiandra could not
hold its snow-shoe meeting that year, on account
of the snow on the champion course not being
sufficiently deep—found the snow and wind storms
altogether too rough. Was also one of the party
which made the first winter ascent, on 19th Aug.
last. A more bleak or exposed position could
hardly be imagined, and, although the height is
nothing out of the way (7,600 ft.), the inaccessi-
bility of the station, and the prevalence of high
gales, will render the observers’ stay a perisher.
Apropos of the winter ascent : A daring exploit
by one of the party has, so fax', not appeared in
print. With the exception of one, all the party
left their shoes at the foot of the last 500 ft. pinch.
McAllister, who manages a mine on the Grey
Mare Range, carried his ‘ski ’to the summit. After
the inevitable photography, the rest of the tourists
were astounded to see Mac. jump on his shoes, and
start from alongside the cairn. The snow was
frozen in patches on the side of the hill, and the
way in which those shoes jumped 10 and 12 ft. at
a stretch, was enough to make the oldest ‘ riders ’
squirm. I’ve done the quarter mile in 23 secs,
myself, but I’m prepared to say Mac. did over a
mile a minute. He reached the bottom safely, but
could not pull up for at least another half mile, out
on the plain. ‘Wouldn’t tackle it again for
*BlOO 1 ’ said Mao. when we rejoined him. ”
* * i *
Apropos “J. Murphy’s” musical Irish-
Chinese family (writes a bakblox correspondent),
J once knew in Queensland a similar family.
They kept a wine-shop. Ah Fly (married to an
Irishwoman) stoutly claimed to be Ilish himself,
and always promptly resented any hint to the
contrary. Had four or five in family ; all musical,
Mellyann, especially, excelled on the violin and
played to visitors. She was a neat little thing
with a big head of hair and an eye full of “ soul.”
Biz. consequently boomed. Towards the close of
a pleasant evening, when host and guests aliko were
full of liquor and sentiment, the old man would
MORN “ BULLETIN” PORK SUPPER.
s>y : “ Mellyann, play ‘ Deal Lillie Shammelloek,’
an’ make poo’ ol’ pa’s ’eart bleet.” Then, in ex-
planation to the company, “ Pa and ma's countly
song.” Heard afterwards that a man named
Murphy (I wonder if it’s the same ?) had
“ stoushed ” pa for claiming country with |hitn.
[The second time in three months the bleeding-
heart incident has been reported in Bulletin
but Great Truths can never be too widely lied
about.]
Dear Bulletin, Talking
of ohopping-matehes, the most
remarkable match I have seen
took place in the Kahikateanui
Block (M.L.) in ’7l, when Cana-
dian Pete, Long Joe, and Mick
the Tassy put up £3O among them
for the man who could get a 4ft.
pine down first. When they
came on the ground each man
had with him something beside
his axe. Pete had a long-handled
shovel, Long Joe had a bucket of
water, and Mick had a packet of
candles and a tin box of matches.
What on earth they wanted with
these we couldn’t guess, and we
had some doubt as to whether
any tools beyond the axe were
allowable ; but as each man had
provided himself with something
“not in the bond,” we let them
all go ahead. We took little in-
terest in the matter till we
judged they would be “ taking
down their second chip,” and
then we went in to inspect.
There was Pete, with his axe
stuck in the tree, shovelling away
for dear life at a pile of chips
which had risen nearly to his hips
and stopped him from swinging
his axe. We went on to find Long
Joe dipping his axe in the bucket
of water after each second stroke
(chip, chip, dip —chip, chip, dip)
with the regularity of a clock.
“ What was he dipping his axe
for ? ” Why, to prevent it get-
ting red-hot and burning the tree
down instead of chopping it, of
course. That w. uld have dis-
qualified him. We plunged
through the supplejacks to see
what show the Tassy had against
two such heroes. There was
Michael, chipping away with a
candle burning in his “scarf.”
What did he want the candle
for ? ” Why, to see with. His
chips were flying so fast that they
darkened the sun. Naturally,
Mick’s tree was down first. And
Maoriland is also a great country.
—Adah.
* • *
Dear Bulletin. —May not
excessive “bunkiness” have some-
thing to do with the Great Aus-
tralian Apathy ? Outside the
larger cities, three-fourths of the
population read, write, and have
their spells while lying down.
Chairs are usually of conspicuous
not-thereness, and so much has
the bunk-habit grown into our
life that even the casual “spel-
ler ” by the roadside invariably
stretches out in preference to
sitting. Bunks are not handy
things to sit in. The new-chum
tries it at first, but always succumbs to the custom
<»f the country. Also, if excessive tea-drinking is
individually injurious, what collective effect must
it have upon such a tea-swilling community as the
Australians ? —Derelict. [Never stand up if you
can sit down, never sit down if you can lie down,
never lie down if you can be dead and remain
down permanently.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
On Wanganui River steamer. Potatoes
wanted. Cook goes ashore with two buckets, digs
potatoes up, fills buckets and brings to steamer.
Captain hands cook bottle; cook goes back to
where he dug potatoes, stands bottle on a mound.
As steamer goes round river bend, aged white
man is seen sitting on mound and swigging from
bottle. Left sitting.
* * ♦ *
In the old Wellington (M.L.) public-house
dayo, when it was drinks for everything, drinks
for every game of euchre or crib, &c., the “ regu-
lars ” used to get so full that they couldn’t hold
any more. But pubby was even with them if
they wanted to stay on, which was generally the
case, as they couldn’t negotiate the badly-lighted
streets when so “ tanked.” He used to issue
bronze tokens, each representing one drink ; so
that the swollen-headed “regular” of the night
before could present same in the morning—without
additional expense—for his pick-me-ups. But,
after he had got through his second or third pick-
up, he was generally booked for the rest of the
day, and by the time he was shot-out next morn-
ing he would be possessed of more tokens. Things
have altered.
* * * *
They were talking plough in the bar, and
when the gorgeous commercial offered there-and-
then to take up all the local ploughing champions
they commenced “ chucking-off ” at the idea
of the immaculately - clad drummer turning
a furrow. “Well, money talks,” said the
man of samples. “ I’ll make a match against the
three of you, for a sweepstake of a fiver. You’ve
got a plough in the paddock next door, and we’ll
plough over to a lamp on the other side. Let the
landlord judge in the morning.” It looked too
good to miss, so the yokels raised the money in
the township, and, the stakes being lodged with
the publican, all hands adjourned to the paddock.
A big lantern was left against the further fence,
and the drummer peeled off his frock-coat, hung
Ids bell-topper on the fence, and waded in first.
The three local men followed—each privately con-
vinced that he had, at least, badly beaten the man
WHAT THE COUNTRY WANTS.
SWAGMAN No. 1: “I see all their talk now is Federation .”
SWAGMAN No. 2: Oh, blow their federation! What we wants is conversation of the water to allegate these
yer bloomin’ backblocks !”
from town. But, alas ! in the morning, the only
decently straight furrow was the drummer’s. The
other three squirmed all over the paddock. Then
the commercial collected his cash, and cleared for
the railway-station, where, in the shelter of the
booking-office, he handed one of the fivers to the
small boy whom he had employed to dodge over
to the far side of the paddock and cautiously shilt
the light while the other competitors were plough-
ing.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —It is printed that the
true barramundi exists only in the Dawson.
Allow me to express my belief that it is found in
all the Gulf (of Carpentaria) waters. I have my-
self caught the giant perch with its distinctive
orown spots on either side of the head in the
Walsh and the Mitchell Rivers. The Walsh,
which in summer is nothing but a chain of clear
sand-bottomed water-holes, is particularly rich in
fish, and at the height of an old-man drought the
steadily shrinking holes are literally alive with
fish, big and little. — Kotz.
* * * *
S.C. : “ Have noticed in Bulletin much
discussion re ‘bung-eye.’ It may be the same
disease that attacks residents of Samoa, Tonga,
Tahiti, Fiji, and other tropical islands. In Fiji
it is called Cika (pronounced Theeka). Rife in
summer ; children are the worst sufferers. Natives
say it is caused by the seed blown off the reeds ;
this starts itching and causes running or blear-eye,
which flies further inflame until both eyes are
swollen so that the sufferer becomes blind. The
only cure is to remain in a dark room for
about a week with bandaged eyes. All S. Sea
flies are poisonous. If they alight on the smallest
cut, and are allowed to remain, that cut will be-
come a serious sore. A mosquito-bite, if left alone,
won’t be felt next day ; but, if scratched and a fly
gets at it, it will take weeks to heal.
* * * * ■
Wellington: “Have just finished a tour
in the districts where the ‘ Maori comes from ’
(between Wanganui and Tokaanu), and noted
with interest some of the poetic romance attached
to this beautiful but fast-decaying race. Heard a
honeymooning couple complaining one morning to
an accommodation-house proprietor that their
cooings had been disturbed by a shock-headed, un-
sober native bursting into the nuptial chamber
and wanting to raffle a pipe. In another place a
friend was suffering from a stiff back, and had the
affected part rubbed with whisky, some of which
was left in a pannikin by his bedside. In the
morning a friendly native came in and, smelling
the spirit, asked what it was. ‘Whisky,’ said my
friend. ‘Me try,’ and the darkie tossed off the
liniment with gusto, patting the place where his
waistcoat ought to be. In Pipiriki, where the
Maoris are celebrated for their chorus-singing, a
party of tourists made up their minds to hear a
sample, and, after arranging terms (mostly for
stimulants at the finish), a young musical chief
led the songs. The first 10 verses were fairly good
native style —usual monotonous chant—but the
11th and last was undoubtedly : ‘Come, landlord,
fill te flowin’ powl, until it does flow obar. For
to-night we merry merry pe. For to-night we
merry merry pe. To-morrow we pe sobar.’ In
fact, the Maori thinks of nothing but liquor in
connection with pale faces.”
* * • *
The locomotive in Bananaland is subject
at times to various limitations. Last year a
train on the Northern line was stopped by cater-
pillars that had gathered by millions on the rails.
The consequent greasing had so minimised fric-
tion that progress was impossible. A month ago
a train on the Southern and Western line was
blocked by i/rass. A heavy wind had piled the
loose, dry herbage over the rails to such an extent
that the train had to come to a standstill. Any-
one who has seen the grass accumulated against a
fence in the Western country during a stiff breeze
can easily understand this.
* * * *
Things are deteriorating woefully in the
bush. A sw aggie was trudging along the road,
bearing his burden as cheerfully as a temperature
of lOodeg. in the shade would allow him, when a
cocky drove by in a spring-cart. “Give us your
swag,” said Pumpkins, kindly; “I’ll carry it to
town for you for four bob.”' “No, thanks, old
man.” Cocky drove on, but shortly turned back.
“ Look here, mate. Blow me, if I don’t give you
a lift for two bob I ” Offer again declined; and
Pumpkins departed crestfallen and curseful.
* * f *
Hugh K. L. : “Be record loads of wool.
Over 90 bales of wool, weighing over 11 tons, have
been carried into Charleville. Have also seen a
load of over 90 bales come into Barealdine. ”
* * * •
“ Narrogin ” (W.A.) : The settlers here
talk glibly of lakes, swamps, and l’ivers, but for
months one might ride through the district and
never see a pint of water. Nevertheless, until
some 25 years ago game of all sorts abounded, and
the lake country was the happy hunting-ground
of innumerable blacks, with whom the early settlers
had much trouble until the measles broke out and
swept the blacks off the face of the earth. When
the disease was upon him, the poor, ignorant
savage always made straight for the water to cool
his heated carcase, with inevitable fatal conse-
quences. The shores of Parkering Lake were
soon strewn with the dead bodies of the victims,
and about this time several settlers missed their
pigs. As these, however, were in the habit of
foraging for themselves in the marshes and swamps,
little note was taken of their absence; but one
day, when a drove of pigs turned up looking sleek
and fat, their owner’s suspicions w(?re aroused.
He took a ride round, and there, sure enough,
along the lake shore were the dismembered limbs
and torn carcases of the dead blacks upon which
the pigs had been feasting.


Though professedly circumstantial accounts
ha"'e been circulated re an alleged long debate
among the Sydney D.T. directors concerning the
paper’s Convention Bill attitude, The Bulletin
now has it on convincing evidence that the deci-
sion of the directorate was unanimous and
speedily arrived at—instead of, as alleged, being
squeezed through by a narrow majority after pro-
tracted discussion.
Gilfillan and M‘Creery, assayers, metal-
lurgists, and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne. Complete battery cyanide
and chlorination plants for bulk tests.*
The danger of amateur corn-carving has
found another instance in the case of the Mrs.
Jackson whose abduction by her own husband
made her famous a few years back. The husband
had started, immediately after the marriage, for
Australia, and, when he returned to England,
the lady would have none of him. Finding
that, as a suitor for conjugal restitution,
the law would have none of him either, hubby
promptly kidnapped the unwilling one and de-
tained her in a house to which her relatives vainly
laid siege. Then they took to the law, and habeas
corpus scored again. Jackson had to “ disgorge ”
Mrs. J. and revert to the anomalous position of
not being able to have either his wife or a divorce.
And now Mrs. J., having tinkered with a corn,
has died in a couple of days of blood -po i son in g.
WHAT IS “ D.0.L.” ?
“ D.C.E. ” is a brand applied to whisky, and is
a guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and
of a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for
“ D.C.L.” (Black Bottle) Scotch.*
A Far Western correspondent to The
Bulletin
John Forrest's long-deferred visit to Esperance Bay and
Norseman has at last come off, but the policy of wait-a-
while has effectually snuffed out the claims of both places
to consideration on the grounds of commercial and
mining importance. Two years ngo Esperance was a
bustling port, and the Norseman a busy reefing field.
Now the Bay township consists of a desolate collection of
iron shanties backed by a circle of sand-hills, and the few
remaining inhabitants take in each other’s washing for a
living. Esperance residents deserved a better fate. They
used to hold champagne banquets on the slightest provo-
cation ; the arrival of a steamer always meant a glorious
jamboree, and in between whiles the few business places
would close with unanimity, while bosses and em-
ployes combined to paint the “ town ” scarlet by way of
relief to the deadly monotony of sand and iron. The
loss of the services of the “local correspondent” struck
Esperance hard. He was a person of vivid imagination,
who out of a couple of citizens on a day’s fishing could
evolve a harbor excursion of 500 holiday - makers.
Norseman is in a state of dismal stagnation. Even the
presence of “ IJitlander” Sampson with his monocle fails
to relieve the dull grey of depression. But for the occa-
sional excitement over some mine-manager’s discovery of
a new lie to wire to Adelaide the casual visitor might
imagine he had struck a Cuban village after passing
through the gentle hands of Weyler.
The Wunderlich Ceiling and Roofing Co.,
of Sydney, has been fortunate in securing, as head
of its designing department, Mr. Phil Goatcher,
whose beautiful decorative work is so well-known
in connection with the Art Decorative Co. —now
incorporated with the Wunderlich.*
Liverpool apd Lopdop
(Slobe IpSOrapcc Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Hounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.S.W. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Gumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater., Esq.: and
Eric 11. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head, Office Australasia
62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QIJ AID'S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON S WHISKY.
SoftCaO'/aS Shirts
Madr to Mkasurr.
Post free 30/- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
*
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. /' /K 1C It HO I'll 1C Its,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for thr
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk
A New History of the Discovery
of Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cardinal Moran, in his “History of the Church
in Australia,” has made the remarkable discovery
that Port Curtis, Q., was the identical spot De
Quiros landed at in 1606, and christened “Tierra
Austral del Espiritu Santo.” This land, for very
good reasons, has always been held to be the
largest of the New Hebrides group, but Card.
Moran places it as mentioned, and claims that
there, nearly three centuries ago, the first Mass
was celebrated in Australia.
Such an assertion by a lesser man, in a lesser
work, would have excited only passing ridicule,
but coming from such a quarter many people have
taken it so seriously that it becomes v th while
to show the utter absurdity of it. The Cardinal
begins rather artfully by stating that the degrees
of latitude, in the published narratives of those
days, were often purposely misleading. But, for
all that, he seems himself to accept them as cor-
rect when it suits him.
Cardinal Moran states that there are extant
three descriptions of this land of Espiritu Santo —
those of Torres, De Quiros, and Don Jnan Arias.
In point of fact there are a good many more;
besides many letters on the subject. Juan
de Iturbe, the accountant of De Quiros,
wrote a long account; so did the chief pilot;
so did Don Diego de Prado, and others.
In seeking for justification for his Port Curtis
theory, the Cardinal seems to lean mostly on the
narratives of De Quiros and Don Juan Arias,
whereas the geographers prefer the unvarnished
tale of Torres. In fact, there is no comparison
between Quiros and Torres, and the exaggerated
estimation in which the former is now held is in-
explicable. Torres was a sailor and a leader;
Quiros w’as a dreamy, religious enthusiast. They
left Callao with instructions to go as far south
as latitude 40deg. They went as far as 26deg.
and then, against the advice of Torres, sailed
northward. Mutiny and disaffection showed
themselves. Torres advocated the sharp measures
of those days. Quiros “ placed an order on the
main-mast that no one should swear or take the
name of God in vain, under penalty of a fine of a
patacon for the departed souls.” Needless to say,
this did not have much effect. Several of the
chief officers went on board the Almirante, the
ship commanded by Torres, disgusted with the
want of firmness shown by Quiros. Don Diego
de Prado, writing to the king from Goa,
sending maps of Torres’ voyage, says: “That
which was discovered by Pedro Fernandez Quiros,
the liar, were those rocks and small islands,
because his crew mutinied at the bay of the island
of Espiritu Santo.” He furthermore calls him “ a
prattler ” and several other derogatory names.
Juan de Iturbe, writing from Mexico, accuses
Quiros of having neglected his opportunities, and
discovered nothing more than islands which were
known before. In addition, he ridicules him for
having established the order of Espiritu Santo,
with habits of blue taffeta, and given liberty to
two negro coolies who were not his to liberate.
The Cond6 de Temos was of the opinion that
Quiros had got it into his head that he was to be
another Columbus, which was his weakness.
THE FAIR SEX.
BENEVOLENT PERSON (to young gin) : “Is that
Your little one?"
VICTORIA : “No; him belonga the other lady."
This seems to show that Quiros had not much
honor in his own time ; in fact, Torres scarcely
veils his contempt for him. He had one friend,
who “ damned him with faint praise a priest,
Fray Luis Alioga, who said that he was a good
Christian and a well-intentioned man.
Cardinal Moran, however, believes in Quiros
and in Don Juan Arias. The latter says that the
land was populous—the natives superior to the
general run of black races ; and that there were
plantations of trees and many kinds of delicious
fruits. There were lofty mountains in the back-
ground, and two large rivers fell into the bay—
one as large as the Guadalquiver, and the other
not quite so broad. The description given by
Torres will come in its turn. That of Quiros is
very glowing. It states that there were several
beautiful islands, seven of the principal ones ex-
tending 200 leagues ; and one of these in particular,
distant only 12 leagues from the harbor, was about
50 leagues in circumference.
Now for the Cardinal. “All these details fit
in admirably with Port Curtis, on the Queensland
coast, in the 24th degree of south latitude. The
trend of the land from east to west, the row of
islands in front of the harbor, the large Curtis
Island at a distance of a few miles, all correspond
to the harbor of Holy Cross, in which De Quiros
cast anchor (?) The Dawes Range and other
mountains are seen in the distance. But a yet
more striking coincidence is found in the rivers.
Two important (?) rivers flqvv into Port Curtis—
the Calliope and ” (here the Cardinal has made a
The ship HEREWARD, sent ashore by the gale at Maroubra Beach , near Sydney.
Photo., W. Johnson, William-st., Sydney.
slip, and put in “ Burnett ” instead of “ Boyne ”).
The latter has three large tributaries —the Auburn,
Boyne, and Barambah—and when, with their
united waters, it enters the sea, it is in every way
equal to the great river—the Guadalquiver. Now,
as it happens, the Calliope and Boyne are not at
all important rivers, and the united normal flow
of fresh water in them would not much more than
fill a plunge-bath. Auburn and Barambah Creeks
have dry, sandy beds. The Guadalquiver can’t be
much of a river if it can’t go one better than the
Boyne.
But we will give Torres a chance. Here is his
account of the finding of Espiritu Santo: “At
the end of that time there wore opinions that, as
it was winter, we should not go beyond 14deg.
latitude, although my opinion was always very
much to the contrary. It was decided that we
should seek the islands named by the Indians of
Taomaco; so we left this neighborhood, steering
to the west, and, after a day’s sail, we discovered
a volcano, very high and thick, more than three
leagues in circumference, very thickly wooded,
and with black inhabitants with thick beards. To
the west, and in sight of this volcano, at the dis-
tance of eight leagues, there was an island not
very high, and very pleasant to look at.” (Here
a short passage about—“ Leaving this, and going
southward towards this large island that we saw,
we discovered in it a very large bay, well-in-
habited and very fertile, with yams and many
fruits, pigs, and fowls. ”)
This was Espiritu Santo, and most people
will acknowledge the faithful resemblance
to Port Curtis. Even the pigs and fowls
are present to this day. Torres goes
• on : “ All these people are black
and naked ; they fight with ar-
rows, javelins, and large clubs.
. . . The bay is very fresh,
and has many and large
rivers; it is in 15§ lati-
tude, and will have 25
leagues circumference.”
Here the ships parted
company, De Quiros
sailing away in the
middle of the night
and • finally turning
up at Acapulco. Exit
Quiros as far as the
Bay of St. Phillip and
St. James and the
founding of the New
Jerusalem were con-
cerned. The further
details of his voyage
are not pertinent.
With Torres it is
very different. He
waited and looked
about for, he says, 50
days, then held a
council and started.
“I intended todouble
the island ” (Espiritu Santo), “but the weather did
not permit, though I ran along a large part of it,
in which I saw very high mountain ranges. It
has many ports . . . throughout there is much
water and rivers full of water.” Torres then
sailed south-west, and continues : “ By the south-
west course I did not find any signs of land ”
(according to Cardinal Moran, he ought not to
have found any signs of salt water). “ Thence I
turned to the north-north-west as far as lldeg.
and a half. Here I fell in with the beginning of
New Guinea, the coast of which trends from east
to west, a quarter norjth-west and south-east.”
It will thus be seen that for Torres to sail on
the course he did would have necessitated his
striking inland at once from Port Curtis. Although
these tactics are often adopted by modern coast-
ing steamers, they were not in vogue in the days
of the discovery ships. On his south-west and
nor’-nor’-west course Torres would have done a
good deal of overlanding before he got to sea
again. Moreover, Gladstone and the Louisiades,
where Torres struck Papua, are not far apart
in longitude. How about the volcano only
eight leagues from the first island which was in
sight of the one they christened Espiritu Santo ?
How about the arrows, the fruit, the abundance
of fresh-water rivers and high mountains ? Well,
the Cardinal wipes these discrepancies away with
a bold sweep. De Quiros states that they erected
a cross, and built a church to our Lady of Loretto.
Twenty Masses were said there, and the men
flocked to share the indulgence (they were in a
state of semi-mutiny at this time). There was
also a. procession which sanctified the land by its
presence.
“ These words,” says Cardinal Moran, “ appear
to set at rest all controversy as regards the first
celebration of Holy Mass on the Australian Con-
tinent. ”
With regard to the relics of a Spanish vessel,
said to have been found at Port Curtis, there is
nothing very strange in this, for the timbers of
more than one have been found on the Barrier
Reef further north. The ships of the Pacific ports
of New Spain could easily come to grief on the
unknown Queensland coast, if they were blown
south of their course. If Cardinal Moran has, as
he claims, settled the question by the account De
Quiros gives of the first Mass, ho has also, ipso
facto, established the hitherto unsuspected fact
that Torres was the first overlander. There is no
escape from the d ilemma.
ERNEST FAVENG.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
H.O.G. : Your verse is charmingly adapted
to illustration. But your initials! Barkis: Note
posted. .Frank H. : Time to give that, riot a
rest D.ir: You don’t shine in your new sphere
of action Ferrum : It is a good story as it stands.
Why trouble about immaterial details? In such matters
Tmi Bulletin doesn’t profess to be a history C. : Nor-
wegian bread-making question far off our beat .. F. :
One slab from your ingenuous missive “ The husband
was unfaithful, probably, and the wife chose to consider
her feelings outraged. If so, she deserves to be quoted as
a shocking example of female foolishness. The accident
of fortune not only tempts a duke to indulge himself
with more than one woman at a time—it also enables him
to treat each of them prettily. A sin in a poor man,
because it may cause him to spend away from home some
of the money that his home needs, unfaithfulness may be
a charm in a rich man, for it should prevent him
from forgetting how to make love to his wife.”
The Bulletin submits this for the consideration
of the W.C.T.U., and would like to be behind
the door, or under the table, during the debate
Medora : Bulletin has no space for long yarns ; never-
theless, it doesn’t print narratives in telegraphic form.
(2) A column-and-a-half at most. ... C.B. : In The Bulle-
tin’s opinion that D.T. article is hysterical and random in
places. Not a majority of seduced women become
“ social outcasts,” and a large proportion of prostitutes
would have been prostitutes under any circumstances.
The rationale of the apparent anomaly the writer makes
so much of appears to be that, though a woman is (in
this country) and sexually adult at about. 16 or
under, mentally no woman is ever adult, and a period has,
therefore, to be arbitrarily fixed for making her her own
mistress Dimboola : If your brother wants to become,
sooner or later, the slave of a metropolitan printer’s-
broker, he couldn’t set about it better than by putting
his coin into a country newspaper. The C.D. (Contagious
Diseases) Act provides for the minimisation, in connection
with military efficiency, of a sexual evil which it has been
found impossible to eradicate .... Wantabadger.v : You
have one stanza worthy of the immortal Purtell, Smell-
borno’s laureate :
When the woman behind a horse does sit
She always wants to chuck the bit,
And when a man plays on the banjo
He always wants to slake his toe.
Llewellyn: Bulletin didn’t say that two evils make
a good. It merely objected to the pot reflecting on the
earnestness of the kettle Marco : Tiie Bulletin is not
“ afraid to print criticisms on itself.” Only they must be
interesting criticisms, not dreary hog wash A.D. :
Bulletin heard Mr. Harry Foran speak in public once,
and it hopes never to hear the gentleman again, as long
as it lives. Also, never after it dies H.B. : Neat, but
tame J.E. ; Should have thought anybody would
understand that the man’s heart-strings had been fatally
strained by the shock, and that the “I” refers to the
raconteur. “S.K.” “Quote-marks” not indispensable
where there is no interlocution G.H.O. : Metre ap-
parently unable to make up its mind what it’s going to
be A.J.C. : Still out of your line Ally B.: Hardly
up ; though style promising F.P. : More of a cursing-
match than a “cricket-match” R.A. : Parson-trick-
ing yarns mostly chestnutty Evan W. : Same old
“ Too late ! ” yarn. Not ill-written, though ; try fresher
subject Spook : Verse neatly conventional. “ Grans ”
may use Karl C. : “Lex” begins promisingly,
but tails away into commonplace Helen O. :
Well-conceived but indifferently executed Jake:
Poem about a “gam-tin” respectfully declined
J. Pannikin : Firm not of much standing ; name not in ’9B
list of publishers .... Electric: (1) Inquired leading gun-
maker ; doesn’t know of any. (2) Yes, if never been fired
out of. (3) Ring, Imperial Arcade, Sydney Dargo :
“ Parson,” hardly class enough. Re other, two stories
under same heading would savor of a series—which Bul-
letin eschews ... L.N.G. : “Hades” ingenious, but not
finish enough A. R. Nott :Tootame A. A. A.: Funny
“ wi’ deeficulty ! ” Yang Anvut: “D. of 0.” conven-
tional in tone J. 11.5. (W.A.): Why such ornate periods
to say merely that, the Salvarmy man “did’em bad?”
“ Hell-Dorado” is good .... A.J.B. : No literary merit in
either Lucy W.H. : Rather too stretched-out. and
wordy, but not without promise Sarah G : Bristles
with grammatical blunders Val : —ueless W.H.S. :
Caoitally written, but dreadfully hackneyed theme
E.K. : Tame, plain jackass lie . .. A. 11. O’K. : Drunken
bullooky not novel enough A.A.: Edgeless Robert
M. (M.L.): Pity the only good one should be unprintable.
E.S.S. : “ Ab’s ” good. “ Bush Twist ” spoilt by last
verse ; might re-write and send. Bit hysterical on the
woman-question ; basis of truth, though Banksia:
Full page of amiable twaddle R.P.S.: Sentiment*
do you honor, but don’t concern Bulletin readers......
Thomas : Evidently not “ the Rhymer ; ” unless—stay !
perhaps you pronounce “laid” and “paid” to rhyme
with “ side ” and “ bride.” Lots of people do that now-
a-days Driver : Drive on, with our blessing ! M.H.
(Q.): Has undoubted promise. Experience and practice
lacking Tub: Accept some cold water 1 E.O. :
Norton will make the gentleman weep tears of blood.
Just you see! Atnbo: (1) No. (2) Hitherto Jack
Want has given ’em all bullockdriverese on the smallest
provocation. Now, Jack poses as a perfect Chesterfield.
A.S.C. : Declined J.J.T. : What sort of doctor did
he try? If you sand addressed envelope will recommend
you to a competent and honest specialist J.J. O’M. :
Some of verse good G. Eastgate : Clever, but long-
drawn Long-’Gn : Very near the mark this time
Louis M. : “ Hughie ” good. “ One Better ’’ is one worse
—falls away badly at finish 7x 7 : Good item atro-
ciously scribbled.' Consider our time .Rory : Borey !
L.Z. : Moss-grown antiquity Francis O : Spirited,
but rhymes defective and metre bumpy John
F. Dean, Garupang Station, Balranald : Send address
Manager Bulletin H.B. (Turn.) : Hopeless draw-
ing A.D.B. (Q.): Possibly “Thicket.'’ and other.
Previous packets unusable Anhidrotic : Noted
Pansies: “They are sentless and dead.” And you are
spellingless and alive! Mysterious Providence! Q. :
Didn’t we tell you M‘llwraith was only bluffing? But he
spoilt his bluff when he fixed a departure-date. Never
fix a date Doc :No ; stick to stone-breaking . Oldie :
Note your prospects of “ the better land.” Keep your
poems for it J.A. (Vic.) : Forwarded to gentleman
De Capo : Glad it isn’t Da Capo A.S. (Hargraves) : Too
pastoral and borderish for B C.E.R. : Neither bright
enough Robb D. (M.): Many thanks: will save hints
till wanted Mirania : Honest, now, did your 13 years
write that themselves ; or is it good old pa’s fine Austra-
lian hand? Phil Brant: Cheerlessly incapable .... IBM.
(Bakblox): Your first attempt gone to our last resting-
place 7x7 : Your MS. is most difficult to read ... I._C. :
N.S Wales has had five Chief-Justices—Forbes, Dowling,
Stephen, Martin, Darley ; and S. Australia five— Jeffcott,
Fickling, Cooper, Hanson, and Way Ignotus : Consider-
ing yarn W.P. : Very plain, ordinary kissing Geo.
McA.: The first war-poem of the season has been tenderly
laid to rest Jaybee : Not much novelty P.E.C.: Per-
haps, when opportunity P. J. O’M.: Too much gravy.
...B.D. (Melb.): You mustn’t shower commonplaces on
Cupid E.H.V. (Syd.): Far too old-fashioned. How
would you like to walk about in a fig-leaf costume of the
year 1? R.K. : “For Sale” goes too long, and not
hard enough E.R.N. : Aren’t taking any “ dales "or
“daisied sod.” F.J.M. (Out-back) :It may scrape in,
and again it may not Alice McK. : “ Dream ”no good.


PROVINCIALISM FROM THE PIT-
THE ARCH ANTI-FEDERALIST : “ So, so, gentlemen, you'd rather reign in Hell than serve in Heaven? Well, so would I; I’ve been there myself!”


1
public Treasury \ \
3f§§en raito up°“ \ \
\
\BSm resources undeveloped 7““*' WlUl "UtgA \
WUm keep 80 t«ht a s’t 2f“ 0t aff9rd tog.\ \
fjglf P^stri **- »Pon.ft«g\ \
ever go ? Pen<lilnire '
?;s**r.£a
. ||jSp|(g|p|||||§|gj9|g||||g^^’^®iony..^
Sirg
| George Turner will lay the lesson to heart, 2=
| he may have another les#e of power; but 22
= if he has not the courage, the sooner*
% hands over the Treasury to someone whog[
I has the bdfter it will be for the country.
_ . <• cZ—— —'
. &
A
d °’ 5
Ck*
‘‘ Ya '^ e nS '
\ *
J
; W o\i
% f re -f% °v
tyice
,W/ *&> H pL
WKy %^ ct '
W* : &:p-
CwKq.tt' 'better'.
WHO SHALL RULE?
A TACCUSATION QUESTION.
The oase was adjourned, and yesterday po®;
ctaMe'Chisholm informed the court that he visited
defendant's house on Friday last when the hus-
band picked up the child and started foi the omco
of the publio vaccinator. Mrs. Coultas seized hus-
band and ohild, and a vigorous battle ensued.
The constable watched the tide of -victory ebb to
And flow until, fearing “ the baby would bo pulled
to pieces between them,” ho intervened and the
fcnsbaud retreated, leaving victory with his better
bftH. " /
*<\t®V cf .AX'S
\l? x
ojilled r -lb eye I
X. by
\ Vb f»T?e.
\ 1 s> u }t o <S e • Av*J —7
\
owy xtpdoi^--
\y*wry.
" I’ll »a/e, a,
felizOile
lsn.>l>o^e."
P“"“™A FEDERATION A
LfEMO FOR POLLING DAY, 3rd JUNE,
( y 1398- J i,l
1 \ Air—GarryowMl. 11
JJfor Anatralaai«b natal day // /I
h¥(‘re ripe and\\ndy. Hnora/y Hooray l / 1
jjn spite of alt *H» would bar'/he way l I
j To unity, fcc*« and glotf. // I
3New South Wales will be leaf and true— // •
IS South anfl Weatedo Austral/, too; I
dVietoria’a port eJidUl brav/y do, 1
5 'The like •Bunfoman'a story. // •
«And Bonnv Queensland will Join ere long,
7 And'fill the gaAill to, fortress strong;
(i Shield against /**igners’ laid and wrong,
'A And conflict!cruel and go
*Then Auatrajisia andtrsft
, A natiotefciu t4\heTtingdoms Three, -a
With t hJftr. to one Crown shall vbe^^^s|s
\jth age ifl
And here's a health t<Nthc :
And all xvho’ve worked day.
When our States unite, Gcd grant they may,
Unheeding Trades Hall <t Tory
E G. FITZ GIBBON.
-wSWil^f^erAKor?;— l{oW looK^eVe,
rtigtiboy i 'f y d- o v^
S i ’g^ ) 1 iijio l^a.
ajr **§?*?'* .
SOME VICTORIAN NOTIONS.


Eight-Hours’ Day in Melbourne roused the
Age to a leading article in which it congratulated
the workers on their affluence and comfort. Also,
it urged them to be peaceful and contented, and
turn a deaf ear with a large plug of cotton in it to
agitators who want them to adopt “untried nos-
trums ” for the further improvement of their con-
dition.” This fine, gouty, port-wined conservatism
is very comfortable for Fat Man—only if the
world had always been contented, and everybody
had carefully avoided untried nostrums, David
Syme would be a stark naked savage to this day.
And the general opinion of those who know the
large, bony, knobby David is that without his
clothes on he would be a frightful spectacle.
Mr. T. H. Kelly, who leads the financial
wing of N.S.W. Anti-Con ventionists, is reported
to be the most heavily insured “ life ” in Aus-
tralia.
Warren, South Australian M.L.C., and
one of the agricultural experts of the wheat pro-
vince, made a careful comparison of Westraliaand
Queensland before selecting in the former for his
sons ; and he has written to the W.A. department
setting out the reasons for his preference. His
only complaint is that the oountry is “rather
woody.” On the other hand, J. R. Kelly, ex-M.P.
of S.A., and another acknowledged agricultural
expert, has made choice of Bananaland.
The Colonial mutual [ife Assurance Society
(LIMITED)
Branches throughout the Colonies and the United Kingdom.
Directors in New South Wales:
The Hon. J. F. BURNS, Chairman. The Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.O.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH, Esq.
Progress of the Society, 1873-1897.
Policies Issued, 76,748, assuring ... ... ... £23,860,490
Amounts Paid to Policy-holders ... ... ... £1,928,645
Accumulated Funds at 31st December, 1897 ... £2,153,342
.. . PREMIUMS MODERATE . .
Claims paid immediately on Proof of Death and Title.
Premiums may be paid at any office of the Society in the Colonies or in the United
Kingdom.
Policies kept in force out of Surrender Value so long as there is sufficient to pay One
Quarterly Premium.
The Society is established throughout on the Federal Principle, and thus secures for its
members the widest scope for remunerative investment.
Offices :
ABERDEEN.
ADELAIDE.
AUCKLAND
BRISBANE.
BALLARAT.
BELFAST.
BENDIGO.
BIRMINGHAM.
BRADFORD.
CAPETOWN.
CHRISTCHURCH.
CARDIFF.
CORK.
DUNDEE.
DUNEDIN.
DURBAN.
DUBLIN.
EDINBURGH.
GEELONG.
GLASGOW.
HOBART.
JOHANNESBURG.
LAUNCESTON.
LEVUKA.
LIVERPOOL.
LONDON.
MELBOURNE.
MANCHESTER.
NEWCASTLE, U.K.
PERTH, W.A.
ROCKHAMPTON.
SYDNEY.
STOKE.
WELLINGTON.
Offices: 105 Pitt-street.
A. ROSS MILLER,
Resident Secretary.
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
Paid-up capital .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve fund (£500,000, invested in consols at 95, the remainder being used in the
business) .. .. .. .. .. 800,000
Reserve liability of proprietors .. .. .. .. ~ 1,600,000
SIXTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS, with the Accounts for the Half-year to’ 11th OCTOBER
1897, Presented to the Proprietors at the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, held on Thursday, 31st March, 189 S.
R B F* O R T.
The directors submit to the proprietors the. balance-sheet as at 11th October last, with the profit account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes, and for
all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £40,278 7s. Id. The addition of £17,997 7s. Id
brought forward from the previous half-year, gives a disposable balance of £58,275 14s. 2d., of which the dividend
declared will absorb £40,000, leaving £18,275 14s. 2d. to be carried forward to next account.
When the last report was issued, it was thought that the then coming season held out hope of improvement, but,
unfortunately, most districts have again experienced severe drought, which has continued until a very recent date.
The consequences of the drought were slightly modified by the improvement in the prices of wool and com, and,
although the improvement has continued to the present time, the losses of stock have resulted in a material reduction
in the shipments of wool as compared with those of the previous year.
The frozen meat trade continues steady, but prices, during the period under review, ruled somewhat low.
Recent advices tell of a more or less general rainfall throughout the colonies, and it is to be hoped that the disas-
trous season of the last three years may now be followed by more propitious times.
The directors have to record, with regret, the retirement on account of failing health, after over thirty-nine years'
service, of the London manager, Mr. Prideaux Selby. With the desire of preserving Mr. Selby’s connection with the
bank, they have appointed him an honorary director. The post held by Mr. Selby has been conferred upon Mr. R. W
Jeans, who previously held the appointment of secretary.
The dividend declared is at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum, or £1 per share for the half-year, and will be pli-
able, free of income tax, in London and in the colonies, on the Ist April.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 24th March, 1898.
0. G. HAMILTON, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, FROM APRIL 12, 1897, TO OCTOBER 11, 1897.
Undivided profit, April 12, 1897 .. .. .. .. .. £57,997 7 l
Less dividend, October, 1897 .. .. .. .. ’40,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to October 11, 1897, after deducting rebate on bills cur-
rent at balance date (£8,515 10s. Id.), and making provision for ail bad and
doubtful debts .. .. ~ .. . £l5O 604 8 8
LESS :
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the
superintendent’s department, and 142 branches and
agencies
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, &c.
London—
Salaries
General expenses
£70,975 4 6
19,381 12 6
7,499 3 6
1,942 18 1
7 1
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial..
London..
Leaving available for dividend
£99,798 18 5
£8,548 4 0
1,878 18 9
10,427 2 9
110,226 1 2
40,278 7 1
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 11, 1897.
£68,275 14 2
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
Circulation .. .. .. .. £445,355 0 0
Deposits .. .. .. .. 12,860,664 8 7
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,000,873 19 4
£15,306,893 7 11
Capital .. .. £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 800,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000
is invested in 2f per
cent, consols at 95,
the remainder being
used in the business)
Profit account; undivi-
ded balance .. 58,276 14 2
■ 2,458,275 14 2
£17,765,169 2 1
ASSETS. Or.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances ..£3,941,500 7 8
Loans at call and at short notice .. 486,000 0 0
British and Colonial Government securi-
ties .. .. .. .. .. 812,668 12 3
£5,240,168 19 11
Bills receiveable, advances on securities,
and other assets .. .. .. 12,063,663 18 4
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand,
and London .. .. .. 461,336 310
£17,765,169 2 1
_ F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. E. W. JEANS, Manager
” e have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg* to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-
sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs, as sbown by the books.
London, 14th March, 1898. WELTON, JONES, and Co., Auditors.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 6s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, 8s Cd.
A Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 6s 6d.
yA
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 12., 6d.
Links to match, 12s 6d; Silver, 4s.
«CXX>
A. Saunders.
Large-size 8-bar Amethyst, 265.
16c. Gold „ „ 465.
vrCrv
A- Saunders.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
16c. Gold, Diamond and Redstone, 355.
A. Saunders.
16e. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, JBB ss.
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3 ; smaller.
£2, £2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 16c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
3-Bird Heart and Chain Gold Brooch, 10a 6d
Latest London Style.
16c. Gold 2-Heart, Opals
and Diamond, £2 10s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 16s;
Larg:e, 21s.
16c. Gold, 255, 80s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
18a g01(1,5ca t >phires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
15c. Solid Gold.
4 Diamonds, 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
9a Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold, 7/6; extra strong-, 10
18c. Gold, 20/- Silver, 3/6.
Initial Free.
I- 16c. Gold, 16/-
Any Name or
Gold 2-Bamboo Bara Scroll Pearl Set, 15s 6d
15c. Gold, 82s 6d.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
n
m
Tiie 19th. Century Watch.
GoM Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c., £2.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s
16c., 20s, 265; 18c.
265, 30s, 355, £%.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
A. Saunders,
Good Wishes Lucky Bone Gold Brooch,
10s 6d ; Large Size (plain), 6s 6d.
I’earl Set Bird Centre, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 265.
15c., £2 15s, £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
OTS
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
Hand - made Wedding Rings and Keepers
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send fcr
card.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
365, £2 6s, £3 ; extra,
£3 6s. 15c. £3, £4,
Send for Pattern Book
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
(Post Free).
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Gold Brooch,
Pearl Heart,
12s 6d.
m
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s Od, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
We guarantee you the same satisfaction as if you were here to f
Our Stock is Large and Up-to-Date, and at PRICES PAR BEWW ALL OTHEM
All articles sent Post Free to any address required." Send for Price List.
for our Complete Illustrated Price
Clocks, Jewellery and Silver-plate.
Book of Watches.
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Pattisons’ Morning Dew
:n:im
mm
m
BWS
3
i;
h
Z-'Wi
m
wm
W///
m
vzk
m
%
mm
uv
Mi
I
I
!!!!
sss
M I
...
life
m
m
t
m
g*
3
W
:>s?a*»s
!?&s•’
ns *Mu!:::
H
Pattisons 1 Whisky
SCOTLANDS BEST,
SOLD HERE, THERE , /4ND EVERYWHERE.
PATTISONS LIMITED, HIGHLAND DISTILLERS,
LEITH; and at EDINBURGH, BALLINDALLOCH, and KEITH, N.B,
Head Offices (Registered): 172 to 178 CONSTITUTION ST., LEITH. 22 and 23 MINCING LANE, LONDON, E.C
ACistralaSiaQ Braocb Offices
16 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY


Chips of WiSdon? . .
Eat Granuina and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuina in the morning
For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuina is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
Chief
SR
IMMImi
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH BTREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. Anti-Bill League is run mainly
by Ms.P. who fear obliteration. The Ante-Billet
League.
Austria supports Spain. It recalls the
Republican arguing with the Austrian Emperor.
“But,” says the Emperor, “royalty is my
business / ”
The Sydney Anti-Federal Leagues have
federated. What’s the matter with the Confederate
League for a handy name? Federals v. Con-
federates is a familiar shibboleth.
Who and what constitute the British New
Guinea Syndicate ? Has Albert Edward’s man
Friday, the fat and hungry Somers Vine, who has
been smelling round Australia, got anything to do
with it ?
The member for one New South Wales
constituency will be opposed at next election by
an individual whom he found a few years back
amongst the Sydney unemployed, and got work
for in his electorate —where he still is.
Politics make strange bedfellows. The
Sydney Confederate party embraces every Domain
Demosthenes and every Croesus of the crusted
Conservative clique—the National Ass and the
asses whom Champion declared led the big strike.
Gavan Duffy’s attention was first notably
directed to Australia through his having, as an
English M.P., opposed the Victorian Constitution
Bill with as much vigor as Tillett, Hancock,
Higgins, and Maloney are now directing against
the Federal Bill.
Considering all the awful things which
Sydney Telkoraph says it is discovering in the
Federation Bill, all of which its little tin gods,
Reid and Sunday Brunker, somehow overlooked,
what kind of unspeakable fools are Reid and
Sunday Brunker, anyhow ?
Q. : What have the Australian provinces
been subsidising the Government of Papua for
these many years? Answer: In order that the
country might be developed up to a point at which
it and all the work of all the pioneers might be
profitably grabbed by the British New Guinea
Syndicate.
The N.S.Vv. Social-
ist League, in providing
for the recall of members
of Parliament by a vote
of those who elected
them, have stolen from
Mrs. Ida Halloran, B. A.,
of Sydney, the one prac-
tical piece of sound policy
which that viewy lady
hasigiven to the public.
The classical B.A. years
ago, pivoted her political
beifig on that reform, and
the Socialists of herneigh-
borhood in lifting it into
their system should have
“ acknowledged.”
The United King-
dom’s liquor-bill for ’97
ampunted t0£152,281,723.
England averaged out
£4, Is. 9£d. per head :
Scotland, £3 Is. 9d.; and
Ireland, £2l4s. 2d. The
average Scotsman drinks
ljgal. of spirit perannum;
thd Irishman, l‘oBgal. ;
the Englishman, o‘92gal.
(Bull makes it up in
He boozes; the
others take nips). Con-
sider the total. It
aniounts to one-fifth of
the National debt; this
is equal to the rent of all
the houses and farms of
the United Kingdom.
It iis also half as much
again as the revenue,
twice the bread bill, and
ten times the contribu-
tions to all churches,
chapels, and charitable
institutions.
Doesn’t the Q. Govt,
gang run the State con-
veniences for afl they
are worth ! Picnics on
the Lucinda; special
trains here, there and
everywhere; telegraph
at disposal, etc., etc.
Brisbane Worker told
lately how a high politi-
cian recently sent a
wire ” of 81 words free over the State lines,
to recommend a certain course of action during
an electoral conflict. „
Re Orange and Green. If these villainous
processions cannot be abolished, they should at
least be permitted only on the parties paying cost
of police supervision, and entering into bond to
defray the cost of any damage which may arise to
person or property.
That painful horror-monger, E. W. Knox,
writes to the Sydney papers to announce that under
Federation the Victorian railways might “actu-
ally enter into competition with our railways” in
N.S.W. Come to think of it, so they might.
And, of course, they don’t compete now, else Knox
would have heard about it.
One-eyed Freetraders hold that however
the Commonwealth Bill fares they immediately
score against Protection in N.S.W., inasmuch as
the hitherto probable association in one Protec-
tionist team of Lyne, Barton and R. E. O’Connor
has been rendered impossible by acute Federal
differences and biting personal estimates.
Marvellous how the Federal agitation has
temporarily affected parties. In S.A. even the
bitt<-rly-personal hospital towb have been sus-
S ended. On the affirmative side, Kingston,
ymon, Baker, and others, who only recently
never met except to glare at eaoh other, are now
working side by side. It is, however, amusing to
contemplate the opposition crowd, composed, as
it is, of the Single-taxers, Laborites, a few Tory
merchants, the Advertiser, and Ward, M.L.O. !
S.A. Labor-party is now organising
strongly against the Convention Bill. Polling,
by the way, happens on a big local race-day, and
the Laborites will suffer. When the Convention
delegates were elected last year, the failure of the
Labor crowd to elect a single representative was
attributed to the fact that the working man pre-
ferred punting to politics.
N.S.W. Premier Reid lately did a vigorous
reach-out for the beer-and-gin vote by telling the
publicans that he was emphatically against local
option. Yet Reid claims to be a theoretical
supporter of the referendum, andlocal optionisonly
the referendum on a small scale. What is really
wanted is not its abolition but its extension to all
manner of other purposes.
A rumor begins to go round that Premier
Reid is weary of cooking the finances and trying
to hold up the dead-weight of Sunday Brunker
and the dunder-headed S. Smith, and that he will
presently annex the Agent-Generalship and go
’Ome. Probably it is the best thing he could do.
Ten chances to one in that case that Reid would
be A.G. for the Commonwealth at a big salary.
Gem from the late oration of T. J. Byrnes :
“ The Govt, is not there to check the expressed
opinion of the country or to evade the necessary
consequences of such an expressed opinion, but
rather as trustees to formulate and advance a
policy which the whole of Queensland has agreed
to.” Just fancy a Govt, waiting to formulate a
policy until the whole country agrees to it. No
wonder Bananaland makes no progress when such
are its ministers’ guiding principles.
Dear Bulletin. —Godless v. denomina-
tional education. A notorious fault of the R.C-
schools is the ridiculous educational value attached
to everything Irish. At one school in my
suburb not more than half-a-dozen out of 100
pupils are Irish-born, yet the youngsters are
crammed with historical small-talk of the Green
Isle, from St. Columbkille down to Parnell.
T’other day I questioned a Catholic school-boy
regarding Alexander the Great, Napoleon, and a
couple of other lights of the historical firmament,
and drew a blank each time. But the same
youngster reeled off a complete list of the ancient
kings of Erin, and gave me the yarn of Wolfe
Tone and Coy in minute detail. So far as Aus-
tralian facts were concerned, he wasn’t “up” to
the gold-discovery period, and although he pre-
cisely located M‘Gillicuddy’s Reeks and the
Devil’s Punchbowl, he had never heard of Mounts
Cook or Kosciusko —they didn’t happen to be in
dear ould Oirland. But he knew the Yaucluse
snake-yarn off by rote.—T.D.
Tasmania is being used just now as a sort
of cool storage depot for new-chum Chows. When
an incoming vessel has more than her due allow-
ance a-board, she drops them at Tassy, and leaves
them to filter into Melbourne under the usual
tonnage regulations. Tasmanian law allows one
Chow to every 100 tons, and the poll tax is only
£lO. If Raspberry Land continues to take in
COMPETITION IS THE SOWL OF TRADE.
(Traveller at Crowlands, taking glass of wine, praises the dry
wines of the Gt. Western.)
BIDDY OHELLERAN : “ Och! does they dry the wines at the Western?
Then we must dry ours!”
pagans at the present rate, she may presently be
known as the Flowery Land in contradistinction
to the Cabbage Garden.
Agnes Smith, who resides at Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum, claims to be 116 last birth-
day. The asylum authorities didn’t receive a
birth certificate with Agnes, but they are disposed
to accept a good deal of her age as true ; also, they
have it on more-or-less unreliable authority that
their ancient lodger was the first lady school-
teacher in Victoria, likewise the first white woman
who came to the new settlement, in either of which
cases she must—by her own account—have been
an enterprising young female of 60 at the time.
S.M. Herald’s unwonted spurt of energy
on behalf of Federation has died out, and that
large, placid organ now only approves in its usual
slow, benign, fuzzy fashion. And, as the other
shoddy morning publication continues to blast
furiously and climb over the mangled corpse of
Truth in the Provincial interest, the small, scared
men of Reid’s weak Ministry begin to get down
off the fence on the Provineialist side. At latest
advices Ghould—the bloodless lawyer who declines
to let Suffield have a fair inquiry—has extended
the clammy hand of brotherhood to the Want
crowd, and Potato Young has done likewise. As
a rule, it is a pretty safe thing for any decent
Democrat to vote for the cause that Ghould disap-
proves of.
Over in Westralia, where John Haynes’s
brother lives, the Government grants “ free resi-
dence areas ”to miners. Free residence areas, be
it observed. The meaning of this is that when
the miner camps in the great, howling wilderness
of God-forgotten, where the blighted land is worth
about nothing per cubic mile, he is expected to
pay, in advance, £2 the first year and .£1 per year
afterwards for the right to occupy £-acre of
ground. And the Government often sells the land
right out to British shindykits for about 2s. 6d. an
•acre all told. In addition to this arrangement,
the miner may be fired-out at any time, only re-
ceiving the bstre value of improvements. It is a
great country, that land where John Haynes's
brother lives.
It is announced, that “ Tom ” Slattery will
stand for Fitzroy Division of Sydney “on the
one ground of his opposition to the Federal Con-
vention Bill.” This means that Slattery will ask
the people to put him into Parliament solely be-
cause he is against Federation. Therefore, he
must also ask them to put him in because he in-
tends to do something to squash Federation—•
otherwise the mere fact that he is against Federa-
tion wouldn’t make any more difference than the
fact that he is against the transit of Venus or dis-
approves of the equator. When Slattery asks the
people to put him into Parliament because he is
an anti-Federationist and prefers being a worm
rather than a butterfly, he must mean that he will
be able, in Parliament, to help the worm interest
along. Now, the Federal question has been re-
ferred to the people. If they say “ no,” that ends
the matter for the present and there is no use for
Slattery. If they say “yes”—then the only use
for Slattery is to vote that Parliament should refuse
to obey the will of the people, and disfranchise the
nation, and kickover the boasted principle of the
rule of the majority, and throw the Referendum
overboard. The only use in Parliament now for any
man who goes in on the. Anti-Federal ticket is to
vote that Parliament disregards the will of the
people. So that is the issue on which Slattery
appeals to the people. Slattery, by the way, is
solemnly pledged to fight Premier Reid in King
Division, and his decision to stand for Fitzroy in-
stead looks like an unobtrusive sneaking-out from
the big and hopeless fight which was in front of
him. If Fitzroy Division, which is mainly Wool-
loomooloo and Potts Point, does put in Slattery it
won’t prove anything at all in regard to Federa-
tion. Slattery will probably get in because he
was the bosom friend of the late M'Elhone, whom
Woolloomooloo loved for his lurid vocabulary ;
because he is Catholic and Irish, and Woolloo-
mooloo is largely both these things ; and because
he is personally acquainted with every Mike who
sells rum in the electorate and every retired Mick
who used to sell rum there, and the Moike who
sells or used to sell rum there is legion.
Women have
strange uses in S.
A. politics. Most
political parties
contain one or two
men, generally of
the brainy sort,
who have a weak-
ness for the flesh—
the kind of flesh
which is young and
wears a bright
smile and an aure-
ole of golden curls.
It is the special
mission of the boss
women of the par-
ty to Supplicate
with these sinners,
and do whatever
else is thought
necessary to keep
them in the Nar-
row path. So far,
however, the plan
hasn’t been a con-
spicuous success.
The Victorian
Anti - Federal
League has the in-
credible impudence
to ask the Govern-
ment to postpone
the Federal Refer-
endum for three
months, “in order
that meetings in
opposition to the
Bill might be held
throughout the pro-
vince.” They have
a 50,000 minimum
in Victoria, so if
49,999 electors vote
for the Bill and
only Hancock and
Higgins against it,
these two gentle-
men win, and the
49,999 electors go
down badly. Then,
if there are 50,000
votes for Federa-
tion the opposition
crowd has the
chance of scaring
up 50,00' and win-
ning that way.
Yet it isn’t satisfied even with this stupendous
start, and wants more. And Turner, in-
stead of firing this cheeky crowd dovvn-stairs,
had the amazing weakness to promise that
he would submit the proposal to the other
Premiers. Ur if it wasn’t weakness, then it looks
very Jikc treachery.
Westralian legislation has some merit, after
aIL The Red Dust Land has a Mines’ Regulation
Act w hich, as interpreted by Justice Hensman, sets
out that in ejase of an accident the owner must
show that there has been no neg lcct on his part
and on part of the manage r ; although if a person
does not take reasonable precaution the damages
to whk . h ho wou]d otherwise be entitled will be
reduced. An attempt was the other day made to
WILLING TO
ADMIT.
J.P.: “So yer
called constable
Doolan a fool,
did yer? I
suppose you’ll
admit there’s a
bigger fool than
’im in the court at this present moment —urn?"
BENDER. : “ Yes; didn't reckon ye’d own up though,
yer Worship! ”
induce the Judge to place a narrower construction
on the clause that the occurrence of an accident is
prima-facie evidence of negligence on the part of
owner or manager; but the Judge would not
bite, and the jury awarded the battered miner
£263. In N.S.W. the same provision, contained
in a regulation, was long ago brushed aside as
ultra vires , and no attempt has since been made to
supply the defect.
The Reason of it
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene: Any drawing-room, anywhere. Infuriated wife shows generally - amor-
ous husband photo, of flaxen-haired frailty, found im his coat-pocket.
SHE.
Scoundrel, villain, lying traitor
Turn your false gaze full on it.
On her face the imprimatur
Of the wanton clear is writ.
Smooth-tongued viper, base betrayer,
Answer: What is it you see
In this tntth-and-honor slayer
That you do not find in mb ?
HE.
Softly, calmly, quell this passion,
Kindly do not fret and rage
In that tense, dramatic fashion
Dear to mummers on the stage.
You, I own, than she are fairer
But—my partner now for life
And of all my cares the sharer;
She is someone else’s wife !


Melb. Age last week acknowledged the
receipt of a donation of fifteenpence, for the local
dogs’shelter, “from M.M. (deceased).”
Six months’ hard was what Richmond
(Vic.) Bench lately served out to one Rogers for
being inconveniently cleanly. Rogers was a Ya,rra-
banker who, when he had washed his only suit of
clothes in that balmy stream, used to lie in the
sun in the “altogether” until they were dry.
There was no allegation of wilful exposure ; and
the spot Rogers chose for his purpose was not
visible from any road or house. Yet, for not
electing to remain, like the rest of his fraternity,
filthy and malodorous and a promising germ-
centre, Rogers gets about as much as if he had
bashed his wife to a mummy, or half-murdered the
officious bobby who ran him in.
The present epidemic of typhoid in Melb.
is more or less due to the tardy introduction of
anti-typhoid measures. Germs are brought to
light by the street diggers employed in laying
underground sewer pipes, and the disease is bound
to crop up freely in place after place until the
excavation work has got beyond the thickly-popu-
lated districts. A few people must perish for the
benefit of posterity, and if Providence would only
give a power of discrimination to the germs
there’d be nothing to grumble about. Providence,
unfortunately, is too busy to attend to these
little matters. The old city councillors who made
Smellbourne what it is seem to be germ-proof.
They die, it is true, and worms eat them—but
not from typhoid. From overfeeding, as a rule.
THE SCALES OF JUSTICE.
-ttt
lt4
f\V°
yJO
|||hy not guy
of the Originators
AND NOT OF THE IMITATORS ?
We Originated the Celebrated
HALF-GUINEA BOOT.
They are not of mushroom growth. They have
been before the public for years past, and have
MADE A NAME FOR THEMSELVES.
They represent Good Weight, Good Measure,
Good Shape, Good Leather.
JOHN HUNTER & SON, LTD.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
Corner of George and Market Streets, Sydney;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS IN
NEW SOUTH WALES.
J. It. Dickson, who threatens to sulk
because the callow Byrnes has climbed over him
into the Q. Premiership, acts as agent for Anglican
Bishop Tuffnell’s Brisbane property. The pro-
perty, which is chief!}' houses, is situated in a not
over-fashionable quarter, but the income from it
is considerable. The old Bishop, like Dickson,
knew the meaning of the word disappointment.
He, with seven well-groomed, saintly parsons,
landed one day in Brisbane in the certain belief
that the Anglican Church was the State Church
of Queensland, and that Govt, grants and titles
were, as in dear old England, the order of the day.
But while his ship sailed over the blue Queens-
land Parliament passed an “ Act for the Abolition
of State Aid to Religion,” and Tuffnell and party
found themselves in the “soup.” Contemporary
records say: “The Bishop was greatly dis-
pleased.” However, he was a man of thrift, and,
though his opportunities were lessened, he man-
aged to buy up land and houses, the business
management of which he entrusted to the pains-
taking, serious-visaged Dickson.
Van Dobson’s reach after dollars as com-
pensation for the loss of his mountain chalet by a
bush fire allegedly lit by a Govt, servant—a
prison-ganger—has been successful, and patriotic
Tasmanian taxpayers are called upon to again
take up a collection on behalf of the Ruling
Family.
Dear Bulletin; —Your par. anticipating
that a verdict against the Govt, in the Van Dob-
son bush-fire would magnify Govt, responsibility
to an anti-Socialistic degeee is all right. The case
has already been used as an argument against the
extension of the Govt-as employer principle. But
the trouble can be avoided by the simple method
of issuing “ instructions.” Had Tas. Govt.’s ser-
vant in this case received “ instructions ” not to
light the bush-fire, Dobson might have whistled
for compensation. Govt, couldn’t prove that such
instructions were given.—J.D.
A FAITHFUL LOVER,
For 65 years I smoked only Ogden’s Guinea
Gold Cigarettes, says an octogenarian lover of the
weed.*
HELIDOA SPA WATER
Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
0F PIANOS in
Tljc ai)d Largest WareljoOS?
IM AUSTRALIA..
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC AT
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYXJOTEY.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
REQUIRES the services of an INSPECTOR
OF AGENTS for Victoria. Remuneration
by Salary, Commission, and Bonus. Applications
will not be entertained except from men with a
satisfactory new business record. Apply by letter
only, giving particulars of previous experience, to
THE GENERAL MANAGER, 419 Collins-st.,
Melbourne. Leslie J. Park, General Manager.
TUESDAY, 21st JUNE.
BY AUCTION.
Tenham Cattle Station-
TO be SOLD pursuant to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Queensland, made in an
action, Hammond v. Hammond and Others, num-
bered 55 of , 1897, with the approbation of the
Honorable IVU. Justice Cooper, by Messrs. B. D.
MOREHEAD & CO., of Brisbane, Auctioneers,
in conjunction with Messrs. HILL, CLARK &
CO., of Sydney (the persons appointed by the said
Judge), at Mary-street, Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, on the 21st Day of JUNE, jB9B, at
Eleven O Clock in the forenoon, in one lot,
TENHAM STATION
(Outside Tick-Infested Area),
Situated in Gregory South district of Queensland, con-
sisting of 276 square miles of country (more or less), of
which 190 square miles are Leasehold, having 17 years to
run from the Ist July, 1897, and 86 square miles of country
held under Grazing Right, under “Crown Lands Act of
1884.” Together with
6500 CATTLE (more or less), Fifty (50) HORSES (more
or less), STATION PLANT, STORES and IM-
PROVEMENTS thereon or belonging thereto.
The Country is situated on Cooper’s Creek and Kyabra
Creek, about 40 miles south of Windorah and about 230
miles west of Charleville railway station. It is very rich
fattening country for cattle, consisting of lightly timbered,
open, mulga country, with occasional black-soil plains,
abundance of salt-bush, blue-bush, cotton-bush, and other
edible shrubs. TENHAM is splendidly watered by the
main channel of the Cooper and its many branches, be-
sides springs. The Cattle are quiet, and have been well
worked. In the herd there are about 1000 head of Bul-
locks and Cows fit to start for market. The Improvements
are sufficient for the efficient working of the station.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be had gratis at
the office of Messrs. Macdonahl-Paterson and Hawthorn,
Edward-street, Brisbane, Solicitors for the Plaintiff;
Messrs. J. F. Fitzgerald and Power, Queen-street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the Defendants; or at the offices of the said
B. D. Morehead & Co., Brisbane; Messrs. Hill, Clark &
Co., Sydney ; Messrs. Ryan, Hammond & Mates, Mel-
bourne ; and Messrs. Barker Bros., Adelaide, and at the
place of sale.
Dated this twenty-fifty day of April, 1898.
(L.S.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
. Deputy Registrar.
The Spanish-American War.
-.y.—
■ ** .
t
■
m
■%
mir
«*•
#
<£r. k-Tt &
: r-r
(By permission of Meioourne Punch.)
Spain issues LETTERS of MARQUE.
The Spanish Government have decided not to recog'
nise the “Berlin Treaty,” as far as it refers to the
privateering clause, and have consequently issued
Letters of Marque to many prominent Spanish firms,
with a view of preying on the American mercantile
fleet. At the Beginning of the ’97-8 Australian
Racing Season, the DUNLOP TYRE COY, also
issued Letters of Marque to all riders of
Dumiop tyres
i
throughout the colonies, granting permission to cap-
ture all Records, Cash Prizes and Trophies
found on every cycle track in Australia, and the
result has been a great capture of valuable prizes,
S<W€r€igpS
having been pocketed by those cyclists who were
wise and discerning- enough to select
and ride
Duniqp Tyres
and
the
result has been a triumphant march all along
the line, once again verifying the old adage—
“THE SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.”
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
and at 486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Handfuls *f Money
5/ 1
M 3
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
- CASH -
R€6IST€R.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES' TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’ machine
ecords cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, and
mounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
W. A . LIN GUAM, General Manager .
A i iFUL, FABRIC
ti
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS
VELVETEEN.
99
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOP.
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS" Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS”
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with C.
guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject all Substitutes.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUND HRS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3/-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Wa terpr o o f.
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11 . Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
D!!!!!!ji>iiii
Riiniiiiiiii,
l ( " i i i


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
ITKTIIEK ItrilKEl) KATES.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
At rate of 4d. in the £ per month.
La”ge amounts as per arrangement.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT,
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D, & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(next Metropolitan Hotel, between King & Market streets),
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability _ 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Sou tar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiiey, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:-Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
£\^ssum
•Socy&u
head office
Intersection Hunter, Bugh and
Castlereagh Streets,—*
• SYDNEY •
Established -1079. lU <.
*P T iH*fc.rM o«f
Off/ce in Austk* u * *
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed^2oo,oooSterling.
JBanJc of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Readi.no Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M„ General Manager.
Elliotts
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4/6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 6/-, 6/6, 8 6.
GENUINE BENGALI, RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, i, f, f, 10/-, 12/6.
All Razors Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 3/6, o/-, 7/6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c\, 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <£ Agency
Company, Limited•
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 . £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £3,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J. P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBistiopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
[ Authorised Capital ..£500,000 0 0
j Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
| Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
ffclbotiro*.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
3t QUEEN ST., MELIiOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Missing Friends.
TNFORMATION WANTED of NANCY M'CREADY,
a native of Tendooly, County Donegal, Ireland,
who left Ireland for Australia or New Zealand in the
year 1856 or 1858. Her father's name was Dennis
McCready ; mother’s maiden name was Rose Carr. They
died in the year 1854 or 1855. Nancy McCready’s brother
James died in Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A., on the
30th day of August, 1896, leaving some property, which
Nancy or her descendants, as next of kin, are entitled to,
if they can be found.
Any information of her will be thankfully received
by me.
MAT GREY
Administrator of the Estate of
James McCready,
Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A.
CAMUEL JEFFS, the Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W.,
last heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father's will, conditional on the
trustee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to he sent to
HILL & SCOTT,
194 Hereford-street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
Business Announcements.
USE
Spooler's
ROYALNAVY DRESSINC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
" OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
%3irowiMiiioiimiiM omul!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), Cd.'and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, &c. ’
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
S~IITI]JELL’S Fluid, Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
ty ; , Pr ®r ent , 8 the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRN AMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, May 14, 2 p.m.
-Konoowarra, Tues., May 17, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Tues., May 17, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLB
GERALDTON
Konoowarra, Tues., May 17, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, May 14, 2 p.m.
-Burwah, Tuesday, May 17, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, May 14, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIIMMiNT FAKES TO ALE FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm, Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this fine are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Hound the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Slrct ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearG.P.O., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
Qw' -VIA-
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
DESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U- S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-wefekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
• Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
Bd. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address—Ujemsejx.
Code—Moueing & Neae, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 267, (J.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHARE BROKE RS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOK
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, May 24.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, May 24.
ALBANY, a
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And ail North West Ports. „
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, May 24.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, May 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
May 17.
Best & Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
he despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Kuddart, parker & Co’s [ins
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
IH‘|luiraith, f|)‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Dootor and Stewardess carried'.
FARES From £l5 15s. to £4O.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
'ORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
’assengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
EAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
irits Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
[TWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
iKN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Steamer.
Coin-
Tons
mander.
Stuttgart
Weimar
Karlsruhe
Oldenburg
Gera
Stuttgart
P.Lnitpold
Leave
Sydney,
Noon.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
isage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
iced Rates. Through tickets over the Go’s Own Lines
irope, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
pe, America, ete.,cari be prepaid in the colonies.
I. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


IHH
* Plum *
umid
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the pu ) ..
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. e
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, 've
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use o
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p • J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leatuer case, ala.
nee j gj n o] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, oOs.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL'S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Pates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoi) N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.
158, 180, and 283 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
Church-street, Parramatta.
9
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, & 900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION 1 .
Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HUD'S marvellous MIR RESTORE
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
*
a S
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
E. Holland, Esq. Dear Sir,— l wish to thank you for your skilful treatment of my hair. When
our family doctor (under whose treatment I had been for some considerable time, though unsuccess-
fully) advised me to call and see you, my hair was in a most deplorable condition, more than half my
head being bare, and my eyebrows were gone. Thanks to your beneficial treatment, my hair is now,
after ten months’ treatment, quite thick all over my head, and my eyebrows have grown in splendidly.
—Yours gratefully, E.W. Melbourne, August 13, 1897.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. Gd., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
/<>:} COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Ask for
WHITE
heather
WHISKY.
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2J x 1J ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, Cd.
The DUPLI3X, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sizid View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4Jin. x 3}in. (ip-) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAW HEY I!, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates sin.
x tin., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, '<os. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sm. x tin. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies ts. 2d.
DRY PLATES.— “VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. ; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD-,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
ee KZIKTGr STREET,
See Our Advertisement on Society Faye.
S3rX33XrESY.
POKER MACHINES.
CICARS_FREE
CK
DROP 3? IN THE SLOT
iiiHiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiimimt
fetililHiilta
lllll!llllllll!llllllll!lllllllllllllllll!tlllllllllll!lllll!lll!llllllllll
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Yalue
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
8
»
m
V 9
m.
,*>
m
m
v
win
§m
li!'LI i! 'L
s
E
1m
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
For
Counter
Use.
(Dick Jimmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
ZRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
; THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WOULD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold in Bottles, 6d„ i/-, and 2'- each.
Proprietors l GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO , LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIUOCK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOE STREETS, SIDNEY.
HOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Hr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is fid-
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post:
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; Tiie Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s Gd.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Gd.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s Gd. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s Gd.
Heptambron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Gd ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is Gd post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing’ all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave l>or<s. 2s 6d.
Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OU”
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


“I thought I had a Stamp.”
Many inquiries having been made at this office tor
the above humorous picture by “ Hop ” which
appeared in The Bulletin as a coloured supple-
ment some years ago (and which has been long out
of print) Mr. Hopkins has, by special permission of
The Bulletin, executed an etching of the work,
and a limited number of signed artist’s proofs
may now be had only on application to this
office. The proofs are printed on Whatman’s
“Creswick ” drawing paper, 14 x inches ; size
of plate, x 12. As every detail has been carried
out by the artist himself (including the printing)
these proofs have all the value of an original
drawing. This will be an exceptional opportunity
to possess an example of “ Hop’s ” work, which is
rarely to be seen outside the pages of this paper.
On receipt of Three Guineas we will send by
post or parcel delivery to any address.
BULLETIN OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.,
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
v ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
it SiF Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
Beware of tbe Fricijd (?)
WHO TALKS AGAINST
“RED BIRD” Cycles.
He receives a Commission
to Sell Other Lines.
Red Bird, Ruby Rim, and Black Bird
CYCLES are Sold direct by the Manufacturers,
who have a reputation to lose. We have manu-
factured better Cycles than anybody else for
the past Twenty (20) Years.
YOU GET THE BENEFIT OF THAT EXPERIENCE.
kAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA4444AA4
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.,
CYCLING SCHOOL-
Wavcrloy Road, Woollahra.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH-
-64 King Street, SYDNEY.
HUMBER CYCLES (AMERICA'.
“ These r.re produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality ”
Reduced.
LADY’S
GENT’S
26
25
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY; and at 381 Little Oollins-street, MELBOURNE.
Miss Lilia Wilde, the very pretty girl who got very few
good chances in Australia, has done well since she re-
turned to G.B. At latest dates she was scoring heavily
as Berenis, in “Sign of the Cross” on tour.
Kowalski, the John L. Sullivan of the piano, played at
London Savage Club before the Prince of Wales, the
other night. In the first round the instrument was
severely punished and retired to its corner very limp ;
but early in the second round Kowalski landed a blow on
the point of the jaw which laid it out dead to the world.
It never recovered consciousness.
Organist Wiegand’s free recitals have been booming the
hitherto much-neglected Melb. town organ. The man
who was hired by the city fathers to grind out weekly
tunes at £3OO per year has deceased, after a long series of
performances often given to an audience of three hall-
keepers. Since then the organ has only boomed forth at
irregular intervals. Moils. W. must find playing on it a
much stiffer job than tackling his own “ kist of whistles ”
with all the latest improvements. Melb. organ is played
by main force with no improvements at all.
. Person interested in ladies costumed and uncostunied
informs The Bulletin that quite a piece of the trunk of
The Tree of Knowledge ” is bare.
An actress named Ella Sterling achieved a sufficiently
romantic climax at Liverpool (Eng.), last month. Iler
husband died under a surgical operation, and the widow
threw herself from an upper window of the Adelphi Hotel,
leaving a note addressed to her brother-iu-law. “My
dear Fred,—Tony asked me to go with him, and I am
going. Good-bye. Bury us together, and forget poor
Klla.
At Florence Schmidt’s concert in Brisbane. Mrs. Store-
kipper : “ She’s a soprano, ain’t she ?” Mrs. Haberdash :
“ Not at all, she’s Irish.”
Several Australian managers almost live in their
theatres. The restless and mercurial Bland Holt is one
of them. From 9.30 or 10 o’clock every morning until
midnight he seldom leaves the “ shop,** not even for
meals, which are frequently brought to him.
. The imbecilities produced by the Nellie Farren benefit,
in London, make it evident that, after all, the Englishman
can ill afford to sneer at the Frenchman as “ hysterical.”
After the close of the pantomime at Drury Lane the pre-
vious night, sundry enthusiasts were discovered
“ planted” under the seats, with the intention of getting
front places next forenoon ; and outside the theatre all
night was a huge crowd, reading, playing cards and
boozing, by the light of candles and Chinese-lanterns.
Different as was the expected event, it was simply the
execution-mob over again, and with just about the exe-
cution-mob’s opinion-value.
Francis Nesbitt (MeCron), the old-time Sydney trage-
dian, had a queer experience once in California. He tried
gold-digging, but was not strong enough to rough it, and
determined to return to ’Frisco. At the time many law-
less characters went from Sydney to California, and,
posting themselves on the route of returning diggers,
levied much blackmail. Nesbitt came in their way and
was stuck-up. While in the act of stripping him, he
thought he recognised one as an old Sydney hand, and
asked the highwayman if the latter did not remember
him. “ I am Nesbitt, the actor,” he said. They dis-
believed him, as he was travel-stained and dusty. “If
you are Nesbitt, give us a speech from some play.” He
gave them “Tell, to his native mountains,” whereupon
they believed him, expressed their delight, and, instead
of robbing him, offered him meat and drink and money.
California did not agree with Nesbitt, who returned to
Sydney. Some of the MeCron family still reside in Parra-
matta.
On a wall near Sydney Cyclorama some well-meaning
persons have had painted “ For the wages of sin is death,
and the gift,” etc. Thev have hired the wall, and intend
to hire others for a similar purpose, but the Cyclorama
proprietors, though they are raking in the shekels ever
the Holy City, object to the on commercial
grounds, and have erected to obscure the
Wurrd. “Damnation and the dollars ! ”
“ ‘ Tom ’ Haydon’s ‘ Sporting Reminiscences ’ has done
much better than either author or publishers expected,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ The
Times, Sportsman, Referee, Field, &c., gave it good
notices, and a second edition was soon exhausted. His
daughter, Ethel, is likely to be associated with Nellie
Stewart this Christmas at Drury Lane as principal girl to
the latter’s principal boy. An Australian panto, in Lon-
don 1 —‘ what ho !’ ”
“ Sievier” puts the sensible question : Why is it the
orchestra, when playing an overture, always leaves
off and waits for the ring-up bell? Why not continue
fiddling till the curtain does go up. This sudden
stoppage always reminds the audience that the perform-
ance is due, and in many cases leads to a perfect uproar.
Were the overture repeated, I am certain an audience
could be “ kidded ” to wait till nine o’clock for the cur-
tain to rise. ,
Nearly all our best musicians are “ made in Germany.’
Look at the Marshall Hall orchestra. The Professor him-
self was educated in Germany ; then in his band—the
very pick of the musical talent available—there are :
Dierich, Brennicke, Schacht, Wallenstein, Weinberg,
Wiedermann (two of ’em), Hattenbach, Winchelmann,
Ceschlna, Riihr, Pechotseh, and Liittick. There is a
plain British Smith in the orchestra, and he plavs the
flute. But even the drum is in the hands of a Nichoff.
This German prevalence being pointed out to a musical
expert at the Marshall Hall concert, he said : “ Do you
know that if Britain went to war with Germany, the
British regiments could hardly get a band to play them
on to the battle-field ? Nearly all the military band-
masters are Germans, and many of the best bandsmen
are of the same nationality.”
Nellie Farren, interviewed by London Sketch, claims
that she and Fred Leslie “practically introduced bur-
lesque for the first time to the Antipodes.” She might as
well claim that she discovered them. There is an inter-
esting article called “ The Burlesque and the Beautiful,”
bv the late “Orion” Horne, in the Contemporary for
1871, wherein he describes at length burlesque as played
in Melb. and Sydney. He speaks of the “ Great Plague of
London” burlesque as “this alternately alluring and
mocking siren, the anomalous seducer who, amidst all
her rude, bespangled charms, equally ridicules herself and
her besotted victims.” “In these dazzling abortions,”
Horne declares, “Melbourne, as usual in all thirig3 good
or bad, topped the climax.” That was in the pre-Firm
days.
Melb. Jewish Literary Society decided at
its last meeting that “ the Vic. newspaper press
is not failing to fulfil its true functions.” Also,
the Society re-affirmed a previous statement that
its third annual ball (which, by the way, has a
pawnbrokerish sound) will be hung up on July 4.
The great object of the M. J.L. Society is to create
intellectual occasions for calling public attention
to the annual ball. Every meeting concludes
with a further reference to the promised “hop,”
and the Melb. newspaper press fulfils its true
function by publishing a line to that effect.
The decision of the British Privy Council
in the case of Adams v. Young (Minister of
Works) —which virtually decides that N.S.W.
civil-servants appointed under the Act of 1884
have fixity of tenure in their positions—will
cause the issue of many writs from retrenched
officials against the Government. Nearly, three
years ago the present Lord Chief Justice of
England—then Sir Charles Russell and a leader
of the bar—privately expressed to a Sydney friend
the opinion that most of the retrenchments of
officials holding office under the ’B4 Act were
illegal.
Another point which the N.S.W. Pro-
vincial gang has worked very quietly is this : At
the Convention election a man could vote any-
where in the province on the production of his
elector’s right, and as a result about 146,000 votes
were polled. At the Referendum, bn June 3, the
voting is to be by the electoral rolls, and conse-
quently every man must vote in his own electorate.
This proviso, it is generally reckoned, will keep
about 10 per cent, of the population away from
the poll, and if so, 14,000 votes disappear in one
act, and the chance of getting the 80,000 mini-
mum is so much the less.
The shifts of the argumentative politician
seldom drive him into such a desolate byway of
ineonsequentiality as that into which antagonism
to the Commonwealth Bill drives a recent Daily
Telegraph writer. That writer exultingly points
out that, with the possible exception of W. P.
Crick, all the members of N.S.W. Parliament
who in 1892 actively opposed the raising of the
age of consent of girls to seventeen are now in
favor of federation on the basis of the Convention
Bill. Ergo. But then his statement of the Par-
liamentary fact is also wrong.
A certain Hogue, M.L.A. (of N.S.W.),
has a particular bee in his bell-topper to the effect
that Ballarat (Vic.) will be the Federal capital,
and he holds that every good N.S. Waler should
be agin Federation on that account. Why
shouldn’t Ballarat be the capital—if Victoria is
such a fool as to consent, which The Bulletin
doesn’t believe? The Federal capital is to be
ceded entirely to the Federal Government—to be
confiscated from the State which now owns it, and
become the joint property of all the States. If
Ballarat is the capital,'Victoria loses nearly 50,000
population ; one of its best cities ; a fine goldfield ;
one member in the House of Representatives,
which will make N.S.W.’s preponderance all the
greater ; a lot of revenue ; it cuts its small terri-
tory still smaller ; and it sacrifices an important
section of its great Western railroad. And
N.S.W., as one of the Federal partners, becomes
a part owner of the city and the goldfield and the
railway and the revenue and the territory, and all
the rest. So long as the Federal Government
doesn’t want to grab Goulburn or Bathurst or
Armidale, or any other N.S.W. city, what has
any Hogue to complain of ?
SPORTING NOTIONS.
English stewards are not so easy-going as the
A.J.C. of N.S. Wales. Timon, heavily backed by the
public for Liverpool (Eng.) Grand National, was scratched
an hour before the race. The owner of Timon, when
called upon for an explanation, produced a vet. certificate
that the horse was not fit to run. In N.S.W. a horse
rushed by the public has.actually been -taken on to the
course and scratched just before the race, but no such ex-
planation was asked his owner by the A.J.C. committee,
who invariably run on the lines that a big nominator can
do no wrong.
* * • «
It is on the cards that Lochiel will wind up the
Australian season as premier winning sire, as to the end
of April he leads Carbine (£10,708) by exactly £lOOO.
Next to “ Old Jack ” comes his expatriated connection,
Trenton (£10,327), whilst-Gozo (£8953) is a fair fourth,
w ith Neckersgat (£4485) and the others beaten off. For a
young sire, Bill of Portland has done well, £2830 standing
to the credit of his offspring. Of winning owners, W. R.
Wilson is easily first with £10,828, which was won for him
by seven horses, recording 21 wins.
*** ' •
Lillie Bridge, Sydney, if writer recollects aright,
was the first course to try the starting-barrier, since used
all over the racing world. The little course has now
another idea in force—a rope stretched across the course
at the rear of the ponies, giving plenty room to turn, but
not giving the boys the room necessary to rush their
mounts up to and through the webbing.
* * » *
The rival dailies of one Australian capital
abound with humor skilfully disguised as “ Turf Notes.”
One sporting editor is an authority on turf history of 30
years ago, but couldn’t remember what happened the day
before yesterday to save his life. A lovely blunder
of his was the announcement that Hopscotch had
been sold for a large sum to go to the stud. The rival
editor is chiefly remarkable for his inordinate vanity, but
he doesn’t know the difference between, say, “ hock ”
and “ gaskin.”_ Example : Noticing a horse return to the
paddock showing lameness, he asked a friend what was
wrong and was told the nag had strained his “ sarcastic
tendency.” He received the information with a dubious
“Oh, you’re joking.” “Not at all,” was the answer;
“but I should have said his ‘ gastric tendency.’” And
“ gastric tendency ” it was in the paper’s next issue.
• * * *
Up-country race-meeting. Protest entered
against first horse for running inside post. Mr. Public-
house (judge) loq. : “ I don’t care a damn. I see’d he had
it won half a mile away.”
* '* * *
At next annual meeting of the A.J.C. a motion
is to be submitted that members of the Press be in future
admitted to all “ inquiry ” meetings of the committee. It
is to be hoped that this be carried, as the public have a
decided right to know how and by whom “ the oracle is
worked.”
* * » *
Such is equine life. Years since one could
scarcely pick up a paper without seeing Hogmanay’s
name as the winner of a race. The patriarchal horse,*l7
years old, was sold last week in Victoria for 22 “bob”
and a “kick.”
* * * m
Is the Caucasian played-out ? At Cassilis races
(Gippsland, Vie.), on Eight-Hours’ Day, there were eight
events, and Ah Sam, a little Chow, rode three win-
ners and twice ran his nags into second place. The
bush boys up in that district consider themselves amongst
the best on top of a horse, too, and the racecourse at Cas-
silis demands horsemanship.
* * • •
Charles Lea, of Lea and Perrins’ sauce, died
lately, leaving £1,700,000 personalty and £30,000 realty.
,He used to be a great coursing man some 20 years ago,
when he assured the writer that only a very wealthy man
could afford the luxury of a coursing stable—a racing
stable M as, he alleged, a cheaper luxury by 50 per cent.
* * * *
The news that Gilbert, the walking crank,
has broken down at Nhill (Vic.) surprises no one M'ho has
seen him. When in Adelaide he was completely worn
Out and feared a collapse. He is a short, weak-framed
man and suffers from chronic rheumatism—or neuritis,
which is a very different thing.
• • * *
The walking-round-the-world-for-a-wager “gag”
is growing monotonous. One of the latest pedestrians is
“the gentleman who gives his name as Captain Tre-
villyan,” and is just trotting round, the globe doncher-
know “ to decide a wagah of £lO,OOO between the Earl of
Dudley and General DeLaey.” Dudley, bai jove ! backed
feller named Smith to walk against him, but Smith got
knocked up in Melbawne and couldn’t go any further
donchersee, wherefore the gallant Trevillyan has—haw 1—
won wagah, already. Meanwhile there doesn’t
seem to be any public sympathy displayed for the pros-
trate Smith in Melbawne. Tins Bulletin would like to
hear how Smith is progressing. Perhaps he is dead.
* * * *
The feminine craze for naked male legs, fostered!
by cycle racing, reached its logical conclusion attheMelb.
Eight Hours’ sports, when a damsel M’ho had “ the habit ”
badly could contain her feeling's no longer, and jumped
the fence to rush across the track upon a group of bare-
legged riders waiting in the arena. What the lady’s in-
tentions M-ere will never be known, for a spoilsport “ cop-
per ” arrested the intruderess. Her pathetic explanation
that she yearned to examine those legs at closer range met
with no sympathy, and she was marched off the ground.
Outside, however, she broke away from custody- and in-
vaded the dressing room, where, it is to be presumed, her
curiosity was fully satisfied before she was recaptured'.
Next morning, P.M. Panton fined the worshipper of the
hairy- calf 20s. The disillusionment was worth 40s.
* * » *
The complaint comes from Hingland and other
parts that cycling robs the legs of their native elasticity,,
and unfits them for the mazy u-altz. It is even said to
impoverish their “ setting to partners ” in square-dances.
This is a matter for sassiety to enquire into, with the
assistance of medical science, and, anyhow, it should be
possible to restore elasticity to the bike leg by a judicious
process of greasing. But the bike is undoubtedly a
serious rival to the waltz, insofar that it serves to abate
the particular craving for dissipation which originally
prompted girls to force mugsome dances into vogue.
* * * *
A Wellington, M.L., cyclist missed his lamp.
In morning, reports loss to the police. Police show him:
his lamp. “How did it get here?” asks the cyclist.
“Oh, there’s a man before the court now for breaking
into an oyster-saloon early this morning, and this was his
dark-lantern.”
• * * *
A stone-deaf man won a committee-man’s race
at a recent M.L. sports-meeting. He beat the pistol, and,
when asked afterwards how he got away, he said he-
watched the tongue of the starter —“ old pal o’ mine—
alwa.vs sticks his tongue out when going to fire a gun.”
* * * *
The Westralian gold-fields feel that the time'
has arrived when they must declare that they are re-
spectable ; so this season some of the footbalbmatches,
which hitherto have been played at the Boulder and some'
other settlements exclusively on Sundays, are to be held
on Saturday afternoons. At one or two way-back places:
in N.S.W. matches are still played on the Sabbath—at-
White Cliffs, for instance—and lately a revivalist im-
proved the shining hour by warning the population that
the epidemic of typhoid was sent to scourge them for'
this sin. It sounded all the more impressive, too, because-
so many of the afflicted u-cre athletic young fellows.
* * • «
It is authenticated in Southern N.S.W. that a-
u-ell-known oarsman once tested a local hard-drinker in
continuous long-beer swilling. The game was started,
with single drinks, but after the person with a throat had
sucked down three without waiting for breath, the oars-
man ordered them in couples, and then in threes. “This:
is much too slow,” he protested at last. “ All hands to-
the pmnp. Fetch ’em in half-a-dozen at a time.” And
they did. When the score stood at 22 the sculler cried a.
halt, but his beery nominee looked up in astonishment
and exclaimed : “ Why, I ain’t nearly done yet! Thought
yer was going to keep it up until I stopped yer? ” Then
he accepted “ shouts "from everybody in the bar.-
* * * *
Tom Doyle, town-councillor of Kanowna, was
charged with, and acquitted, of inciting the miners to
assault John Forrest. He is a big, raw-boned Irishman
with the facult}’of doing, or saying, the right thing in a
most unconventional manner. “ Doyle’s latest ?” is the
prelude to hundreds of screaming goldfields’ yarns—
mostly unprintable. Had Doyle not made big money out
of his hotel he would have been one of Australia’s cham-
pion cyclists. Some Coolgardie sports once took a crack
rider to Kanowna with designs on the local lucre which it
was known would be planked on Doyle. The latter had
been into Kalgoorlie that morning on his machine, and
returning just in time to hear of the challenge, elected to
race right away—first man to report at Kalgoorlie P.O. to
win. Doyle beat the “good thing” by a quarter of an hour.
• * • *
“ The professionals of Stoddart’s cricket-team
declare that the last trip to Australia was a highly enjoy-
able one.” Which goes, at least, a little way towards
explaining why the said team was donkey-licked four
times out of five in test-matches. Also, it raises a ques-
tion as to the meaning of “ high enjoyment.”
* * * *
Great rivalry between football and lacrosse in
Adelaide this year. Although football declines, lacrosse
clubs cannot secure Adelaide Oval, the only enclosed
playing ground, as the Football Association has a lease
which doesn’t expire until next year. Then will come the
tug-of-war.
* * * *
Billiard-champion Weiss, after his London
draw with Roberts, took on C. Dawson, one of the best.
Weiss showed great form throughout, making one or two
breaks of over 200 and several over 100. Alt hough Weiss
has secured good matches, Memmott, his old conqueror,
seems to have struck comparatively bad times.
♦ * * *
S. : “ Foxes have come to Berrigan, N.S. W.—of
course from Victoria. Last year there was only one,
which I got with a shot-gun (howl! ye in pink !). This
year there are several, which, doubtless, are doomed if
Scotty the Rabbiter (Mr. John Bean, no relative of
Sawny) is about. Hon. Rupert Carrington preserves
kangaroo, but not Reynard.”
* * * *
Newhaven Jackson has taken up a challenge
thrown down by Body. The Swift man has a reputation
for bullocking work besides rare sprinting capacity ; and,
therefore, the Maorilander will have to chaw off as much
as he can masticate in order to get fit for the struggle.
The insignificant Provincialisb party in
Victoria has put up a world’s record for brass
front. It is hard to believe that such a small
party possesses so much cheek without being
entirely cheek. The whole 30 shillings which was
subscribed at the Trades Hall to oppose the Con-
stitution Bill having given out, the Provincialists
approached Premier Turner, and actually asked
that the date of voting on the question should be
postponed indefinitely, or, in other words, until
“they had had an opportunity of enlightening the
people.” No. 1 piece of metal face. Further, they
asked that facilities be given them by the Govern-
ment for organising opposition. When abruptly
asked by Turner what this meant, the little brass
crowd boldly stated that it was after free railway
passes. Bromley, by the way, joined in with this
Eush, and it is the first indication he has given of
is position in regard to the Bill. Evidently he is
opposed to it. Anyway, it doesn’t matter very
much if he is, for the party is so absolutely help-
less that Bromley will make no perceptible differ-
ence either way. Further, who is Bromley?
The Hospital-trouble is temporarily dead
in Adelaide, and the Paris Nesbit trouble is
taking its place with great applause. Paris
Nesbit is a clever lawyer and a thoroughly good
fellow with too much blood in his head ; and for
the last few months he has been spending his time
in going in and out of the local lunatic asylum
with more or less picturesqueness, and usually on
horseback. The last time he was asyluined the
letter of the law was not fulfilled, and Nesbit, in
a lucid interval, took a point so successfully that
the medical superintendent opened the door in a
hurry and let him out. Then Nesbit had a dark
interval and was taken back to the asylum ; but
he is really so little more than eccentric that thfi
other day he was released on parole. When asked
to come back Nesbit refused, and the last of him
was a gallant figure on horseback taking impos-
sible leaps in the Mount Lofty ranges or there-
abouts. The Kingston Govt, naturally and pro-
perly allows Nesbit every possible latitude, but
there is a growing feeling that his eccentricities
are becoming rather too obvious, and instructions
have been issued to capture the gallant figure on
horseback. The Bulletin irrationally hopes the
instructions won’t catch him.
The recent furious gale upon N.S-.W. coast
will for various reasons make a time-mark
in the province’s history. In the first place,
though only showing an absolute maximum wind-
velocity of 44 miles an hour, as against the 56 of
the “Dandenong” gale, last week’s visitation
showed—storm for storm, 24 hours against
18—a total wind mileage of 894 as against 849.
The resultant maritime disasters also have points
of special interest about them. The remarkable
good fortune which ran the ship Hereward
blindly upon the sand, instead of upon the rocks,
at Maroubra Bay, some distance south of Port
Jackson, was in strong contrast with the hopeless
“ ill-luck ” which ended in the s-.-s. Maitland’s
utter smash-upagainsttheßoat Harbor cliffs—after
:somebody had blundered in sending such a calm-
weather boat to court disaster in teeth of the gale.
Very strange also was the fact that the abandoned
«.s. Merksworth managed to' make Newcastle on
her “own,” and sank while the lifeboat was
making to the rescue of the crew, which was not
on board. The gallant way in which the s.s.
Duckenfield fought her way through the worst of
it is strong testimony to the necessity, for coasting
purposes, of such a compact and powerful type of
vessel as she is. The craft that could live through
those terrible three days from Newcastle to Nel-
son’s Bay ought to weather anything.
Hard Lines for the residents of Victoria and
N.S.W. Messrs. M’LEAN BROS, and | RIGG, Ltd.,
the Well-known Ironmongers, are offering decided bar-
gains in electro-plated ware, table and pocket cutlery,
lamps, cooking stoves and ranges, household and kitchen
requisites. The sporting fraternity have not been for-
gotten—special bargains in Cashmores, Hollis and Scotts
D. 8., B.L. guns. Send for our Gun and Cartridge Price-
lists, posted on application. Don’t forget, M’LEAN
BROS, and RIGG Ltd., furnishing general and builders’
Ironmongers, Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, George-street,
Sydney.
An asthmatic old N.S.W. lady recently
lost her pet cockatoo from what appeared to be
actual asthma, supposed to result from long imi-
tation of its mistress’s coughings and wheezings.
Sufficient account, by the way, is not taken of
parrots as possible disseminators of tuberculous
•disease—to which they are peculiarly liable.


A Silver Ribbon
Around the Head Tube means Massey-Haais.
MASSEY-HARRIS
Means Best in Bicycles
JIASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Bstaut.ishbd
1847.
luwi. ■ I'rini'iv w ■ 7 >
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Beanch Depots: 294 Bourke Street, .Melbourne; 885 George Ptieet. Sydney
M Queen Street, Brisbane; Cranford Street, Dunedm.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
• •
The King of the Road
Is without doubt the most wonderful value
ever offered to the World of Wheels, em-
bodying as it does all latest improvements
in its working parts of construction gene-
rally. It is produced at a price which places ... mialitu
within the reach of the shortest purse a Machine far superior to most of the so-called extra qua y
Machines on the market. Complete—with Spanner, Tool Bag, Pump, and Uii oan.
PRICE
£l2 10s.
Frame
Subs
Wheels
Spokes
Rims
Gear
Chain
Weldless Steel Tubing throughout
Oil Retaining:. ’9B Barrel Pattern
28-inch x back and front
Tangent, Half-plated
Janies’, Regist’d., Divided Spoke Groove
Interchangeable, 63, or to order
Brampton’s Best Block
SPECIFICATION :
Plate Crown
Tyres
Pedals
Handle Bars
Cranks ...
Finish
B.S.A. Pattern Parts
Dunlop Principle
Rat. Trap or Rubber, Dust Capped
Ramshorn, straight or upturned
Clinch Square, Detachable
Usual parts (including chain wheel
highly plated, remainder in black.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 61 to 65 Druitt-st., Sydney.
Mention The Bulletin.
Width of Tread, sin.
Weight, about 271 b.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE..
lljolf American High J|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVE RLE Y
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
{)
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
363 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
“nRUNKENNCSS” CUR€D.
Lady having cured her husband secretly of in-
temperate habits, will gladly send particulars of remedy
to anyone forwarding stamped envelope. Write Mrs.
0. FORREST, Box 1412, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
«» unis’ Klns-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W• ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &, FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent, for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
" DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
W. W. GREENER’S
Renowned
Guns & Rifles
Can now be obtained through all principal dealers in
Australia. BEFORE BUYING A GUN, LOOK AT THE
NAME, and save trouble with all Life Insurance offices.
Address enquiries —W. W. GREENER, Box 326
G.P.0., Sydney ; or to 0. VY. BUCKLAND, 16 Ourral-
road, 1 Elsternwick, Melbourne (Vic. Rep.).
QTJIBWLTSS Dipped Wool tram pets its own fame
Realised top price, 12Jd., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney Wool Sales.
K
j)oes this Interest you ?
How is it that Married Men live longer than Single Men?
. . . They don’t, hut it seems longer.
Now, to get rid of “ that tired feeling,” married men should occa-
sionally take that great tonic—
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
buy bottles INTACT I
OTHERWISE, YOU MAY BE IMPOSED UPON WITH SOME FIERY
ADULTERATION.
ft?
*«
9fi
&
W
6*cacyf
OAMNCV C
sue
$
si
91
§1
«**>
6:
v4V
O*OWC
51
32
"4*
wV
*l*
K
-iV
91
MA
*mm&
m
m
Ml
£*“2s
o«ac>r
4&§
511?
Mi
*►!
<aw
91
Sri
KM
S4K
CSAU»CVt\
&
91
sV
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . . .
, “ Humber”
i
f “Swift”
“ Ariel”
. . AND
“ Singer”
CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,-
391 George-street, SYDNEY;
and at
MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
' ■
"M
/■;:;\T)ircn
.
fl&acfrme Ac,
SOIO to
itf'Srciss i ’
3(r IbciclH' he free ftcm nil muvucctioiis ut flCatcrwt snh-
■> tOovtnnaiiohii!.i'Wcwilt , make goo? nl outtaortenr am? timewithinone
WiiV trem.o.nc'd sratchaioang Meets not cause? 6? occiocitts. rough usage. o.r
licc.tcct; . till partVTo N returnee to its (cWringe pait» foe epiminalton, together
will? the tinnihee ot the fUjaehine to .winch thou N'tojtjVi before any claim is
allowed. . ’ ' ■
. . cisc. ctcatcst Care i? tahen in ttie selection »hf> fitting;of ‘l®nnMl'
pnenmatte; twes, winch we strangle reeotnmcnh, ntih our guarantee tuns con*
cuveentlg wttb'thiU glccnUt Che Simloi* pnemnatte Csr« tompamaiititteh,
who guarantee them tor gwetee flEentbfe
2>fite of ipimcbase
limit of iSuarantcc ...
got toe *wnl CecßtMoKt t»..;
©cect /Tiannoer.
rife*.


a/’
!b.
$2
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., 0. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE CONSTIPATION.
SECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
"*■* (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing: of the HOME of bes!
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georpe-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
. .
ItHEI
pEAF
ULEABJ
IW“ “ Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scikntific Aurai,
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear.
|comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Ciialmkrs, Apent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne
FRINGES,
If fit uni Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS end TAILS,
SOin. long, f/e, ell real heir.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
up, i/6 per oz.
w* ere the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for ell Hair Work.
Send Color of Heir.
W. H. Wigz^ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price
Prompt attention'given to Country Order*
While the young King of Spain’s English
I instructor has been receiving ,£lOOO a year and
free quarters .in the palace, the Government is
£400,000 in arrear with the remuneration of the,
at best, miserably-paid official schoolmasters.
Spain is the Turkey of the West!
H. : “ One of the principal rev. gents in
England addicted to sermons ‘For Men only,’
Pastor Dawson, has just announced that he has
abandoned the practice of this Varleyan and
Grattan-Guinnessy line. He is convinced that it
is more likely to be an engine of demoralisation
than otherwise. Henceforth his young wethers
and ewes are never to be separated. More than
all, the Men Only line is ‘un-English.’ That, of
course, is a clincher.”
Dear Bulletin. —lnteresting to note how
hardly a single Sydney or Melbourne paper, in
describing Havana (off its own bat, as it were)
fails to ring-in Froude’s statement that the har-
bour is “polluted by the sewage-accumulations of
three centuries”—misprinted by one Melb. weekly
into “three countries .” James Anthony, as
i usual, exaggerated a bit; still, it is true that no
l skipper who knows the harbour and can get hold
i of a buoy cares to let go an anchor, by reason of
| the soulful odours which would attend the break -
! ing of the mud-hook out again. But as Havana
is, and always has been, a fairly healthy place,
the fact goes strongly to confirm a growing sus- i
picion that we have been hearing a lot too much
i about bacilli and bacteria and pathogenic germs
! a nd all the rest of it. If sewage had a-tenth of
I the power for evil it is credited with, Havana,
calmly sniffing-up the stinks of 10 generations,
ought to be to-day no better than a charnel-
house.— Sardonyx.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
H. : “I have just been reading, in a
Melb. newspaper, of a boy killed by falling from
a ship’s yard in the dead of night. Not enough is
made of such occurrences. Think of it ! The in-
experienced nervous lad sent aloft on a swaying !
mast, in the black stormy night, to hand-in sail. !
In the case under notice, the poor boy fell 30ft., i
his head knocked the handrail, and he was pre-
cipitated into such a fearful sea that no, boat could
live in it. Horrible ! I contend it was no place j
for a boy at all. A case rises in my memory of j
such a lad who fell off a yard and was drowned ;
near Cape Leeuwin. His mother, at home in i
Melb., watched the progress of the ship, and I
when it came into port—at night—had sup- ■
per prepared, and there the poor creature sat i
listening—and waiting—and waiting. Horrible ! !
—I say again. Brunton Stephens had something
if my thought when he wrote —
live me a woman to strive with, a man, or a demon, or
angel ! j
When did I tremble or cringe when the proud and the
strong were my foes ? ]
But from the weaklings of Christ, from the delicate !
lambs of Evangel,
From the lorn looks of young innocents—save me, oh '
save me from those !
Likely enough the commiserated lad was a coarse,
onscienceless lout—likely enough, on the other
hand, he wasn’t! But, good or bad, give the boys
a chance.” I
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHEAP
;>i A CHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONICi
FERBRAVAIS
FER BRAYAIS
FERBRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases oU
anaemia. Influenza and 1
general debility.
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil- |j
dren. \
LANCET'* A. bea uliful and interesting preparation,"
( BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ .It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
i blacken the teeth.
' Sold by Chemists all the world over.
xtam.
A cup of Van Houten’s Cocoa contains
nourishment than the finest heef tea.
more digestible
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
R3T Send for Price List. TE&
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
OLD
|6 P
pf*
vppft 1
VERy
CHOICE
Smelting Co. or Australia
(LIMITED^,
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODXJCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
ii. '
£■ %
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
. . BRANDS OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all cWs of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT7„T “fm
All information regarding Rates, apply
REFINERS of SILVER, LEAD, BULLION
THE MANAGER,
Smelting Co. Australia, etc.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
v'-'
Benger s Food is sold m various sized
iins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of nil Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food ’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


m •' / m
-
Herr Rassmassen, Celebrated Herbalist,
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
fllfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur dailv, and an
INFALLIBLE'' CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
vOS>,
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved healtli will be liv-
—*— ' ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th - Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
» r
m
HEALTH &
Happiness.
Haw invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them indoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
V\
ft
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on' the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness-in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Bassmnssen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus: brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Medical Page.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
m
V!
“HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
\l
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaline
Fat-Reducing' Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING th
Pantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
vT* JW'
mm
/' 1
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted. Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every 1 i Hie
disappointment or tiiflh,
their complexion sutler-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
-i
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
A
k
S
i /I
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
ailliards was witnessed in one of the principal
oilliard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
svas known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
;he cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
n 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
itassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality t ills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
If
**532
lit
How to Obtain Pree Book
IST When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
:ON, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
1 ’ j trpTJT? PASSMnsSKN
dressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
iluable and Useful BOOK will be sent PL EE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmnssen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
-sV*
-
v-^-5^5 -r '
€ l
r
Z < 7>
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND ',
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 23a 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury; and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s,
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children arid Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler—A guarantee
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful fur Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide —154 Ruddle Street ;
N.Z. —91 Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Coolgardie —Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
B*r- ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
lIERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer if., to his
Head Office : 547 George Street*
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy saVe
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, without iau-.


Sydney bill-discounter Himmelhoch (Him-
melhoch in German means “sky-high”) was in
the witness-box at Hobart the other day in a law-
suit arising out of a gambling transaction. Book-
maker Drake was suing on some bills an alleged
victim had given him ; said bills the victim now
disputes. Defendant’s counsel stated that Him-
melhoch had been brought into the case in order
that proceedings for the recovery of the amount
of the bills—about <£loo0 —could be legally taken.
In cross-examination, defendant's counsel to Him-
melhoch : “You know Moses Barrington or Ben-
jamin?” Witness: “Yes, I haf seen him.”
Counsel: “Heis a pal of yours, isn’t he ? ” Wit-
ness (very quietly, though decidedly): “I haf no
pals.” (Laughter.) Counsel: “ You have no
pals—that is, you don’t trust anybody ? ” Wit-
ness: “It all depends.” Creed of the per-
shenter : “ I haf no pals ! ”
A Silver Watcb
GIVEN AWAY. *»
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
V*T F*R F*D*R*T*o*-
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducine and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, per
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which gives me more than satisfaction. —
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M'CARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch and Jewellery Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney;
■nd No. 28 (4th Floor), Tuckett’s Chambers, 359 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
Colmane’s
Eucalypti
Extract"
For —•—
Winter Couchs
Colds &
ChestGomplaints
USED BY
Earl Jersey
ordCarrincton
PURITY !
What’s in a name ? Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten years Colemane
and Pure Eucalypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte fas
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
""PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice.
Is. boxes everywhere.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DBROBERTS’
P» or «& D
yo/{
JX//Z MSEASEf
AND WOUA/DS
or EVERY
Descrip t i or/'
d?roberts
Alterative
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
A/vdall d/sorders of the
STOMA C// a L/VER .
OE ALL CHEM/STS //// & 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICQTT L°. BR| DPQR,T.
tfASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR SCUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Hotels.
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTM POLE'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE O.AO
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE 0.P.0.,
H B BTOYB,
Mavaour
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DR. MACKENZIE Expanding' Shoulder
Brace for Men.
In bringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, and
for clerks, accountants, and more especially cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are such a protec-
tion to the lungs
and kidneys the
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity without the
slightest danger of
catching cold.
W 0
0
m
Dr. MACKENZIE’S Celebrated Shoulder Brace
and Spinal Supporting Corset.
The Corset not only protects the spine, but also the
lungs, keeps the shoulder-blades in proper position, and
prevents stooping or roundness. In a word, the wearer
unconsciously acquires a graceful and perfect carriage.
m
m
W Y*f
; ■>
These Corsets can be obtained nowhere but from the
Dr. Mackenzie Corset Company, and are not sold by any-
one but ourselves, we having the patent rights of the
goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Send for Circulars to above Company. Address—Dr.
MACKENZIE, 89 YORK ST., SYDNEY ; 147 b COLLINS
ST., MELBOURNE.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
A SILVER WATCH FREE
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE?
RW*T* H * S K
P*N*T*A* T * M
We will Present to Every Person SOLVING the above
Puzzle one of our Splendid
SILVER WATCHES,
LADY’S or GENT.’s, having
SOLID SILVER CASES, Jewelled Movements, and are
Reliable Timekeepers. List Price, 50s.
Send your answer at once, with a stamped addressed
envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE. If so, and
you purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS to
wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be sent,
securely packed, free by registered post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert. Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
81st 1
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
81st
WEEK
“A WIFE’S P€RIL.”
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverlev ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
Hl.lt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
MR. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
LAST "2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS 1
BEN-MY-CHREE BEN-MY-CHREE
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY,
OTHELLO.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
qiHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
“THE PLAY IS UNIQUE.”
BLAND HOLT’S
Colossal Melodramatic Spectacle,
“A LIF€ OF PLEASURE.”
Written by Henry Pettitt and Sir Augustus Harris.
A GIGANTIC SERIES OF STAGE ILLUSTRATIONS.
“THE PLAY IS UNIQUE.”
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the sole direction of Messrs J. &C. MacMahon.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of The Play of the Hour, in-
troducing material involving Spanish, Cuban, Brazilian,
American and British interests.
Tlxe Wlaite Squadron.
SATURDAY, 14th MAY,
Will be produced the Beautiful Play,
THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s ; Stalls, Is;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS 1
“A ROYAL DIVORCE.”
SATURDAY, May 21—THE MANXMAN.
PRICES AS USUAL, Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day tickets at Stegmann’s, and Princess’s Cafe.
Latest London Designs.
ppwsy
Gold Bell and Chain Brooch, 12/6
ilMiilo
qiiiiiia
Real Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
15c., 18s 6d; 9c., 13s 6d.
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s.
<®s!i
tiiip
no
Gold 2-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9c., 10s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d.
Gold Heart and Chain Brooch,
9s 6d.
Gold Buckle 2-Bar Brooch.
Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
Gold and Amethyst Shamrock
Lucky Wishbone Brooch, 20s.
<l#
Gold Name or Motto Brooch, 8/6.
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
22s 6d.
Our New
Gold
Bamboo
Bracelets.
Best Finish, and
secured with
Safety Chains.
Post Free
Gold Amethyst Heart Brooch, 13/6
CC
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Pearl 2-Bird Brooch.
17s 6d.
Gold 3-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9c., 15s ; 15c., 22s 6d.
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
1®
Pearl and Ruby or Sapphires.
9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 21s.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Gold Mounted, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
With Name or Motto, 6d; extra.
m
msmman
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. Gd.
PLEASE SEND for our ILLUSTRATED SLIPS of LATEST NOVELTIES.
not:
E Ouft
Only Australian Adurbrs—
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION! BRILLIANT RECEPTION I
| Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT |
And his Complete London Company in the Wonderfully
Successful Comedy Drama,
“ The Middleman.”
By ARTHUR JONES.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, Ss, 2s, and Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
INCREASED POPULARITY of
MiSS Lißiao Trss
ENGLAND’S
PRIM A DONNA.
Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN Miss AGNES HAZEL
Irish Comedian. Serio-Comic.
Tbe Three N€geln>aQO&-
Miss LIZZIE KIIRK, THE TILLERS, FRANK LEON,
WALLACE KING, and THE QUAKERESSES.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Til© Kellino Family.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BELLMAN & MOORE. Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
WILL WHITBURN. FRANK YORKE.
JOHN TT XT L I 3ST 3E2 S JAMES
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Cbas. Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS of Work G-irl.
SATURDAY, 14th MAY,
Two Little VagaboQdS.
In which Powerful Drama the Popular Actor, Mr.
GEO. TITHERADGE, will make his reappearance, sup-
ported by Williamson and Musgrove’s POWERFUL
DRAMATIC COMPANY.
tfIOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
S®" 14th and 21st MAT.
SATURDAY
SATURDAY
SHILLING-
POPS.
POPS.
NEWBURY-SPAR A COY .
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Public Notices.
Public Service Board, - •
50, Young-street,
Sydney, 21st April, 1898.
A COMPETITIVE Examination of Candidates for
Junior Clerkships in the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney, and at various Country
centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to suit
the convenience of candidates, on the 27th June, and
four following days. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made is 50. Candidates must not be less than
16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day of exam-
ination, of good moral character, and in sound health.
Persons already employed in the General Divisions of the
Public Service will be admitted to the examination, pro-
vided their age does not exceed thirty years. . The sub-
jects in which Candidates will be examined are Hand-
writing, English (Dictation, Composition, Precis writing,
Parsing, Analysis, and derivation of words), Arithmetic
(full course), Geometry (Euclid, first Book), • Geography
(outlines of physical and political geography, and the
geography of the Australasian Colonies in moderate
detail), English History from the Middle of the Eighteen
Century to the present time, especially with reference to
the Colonies and Dependencies. Candidates will also be
allowed to take any two, but not more than two, of the
following subjects .'—Mathematics, English, a prescribed
Author, viz.:—Tennyson’s “ Gareth and Lynet.te ” (Mac-
Millan), Latin, French, German, Elementary Chemisty,
and Elementary Geology. Application to attend the
examination must be made on a form for the purpose,
which can be obtained at the office of the Board, and
must reach the undersigned not later than the Ist June.
Candidates will be required to pay an examination fee of
10s., which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions
or the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to
the Secretary of the Board with the form of application.
A list of registered candidates with centres of examination
Will be published in the Government Gazette, after the
time for the receipt of applications has expired, and can-
didates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined.
The Regulations and copies of the papers set at the
last examination can be obtained at the Government '
Printing Office, and the principal booksellers.
By order of the Board,
J. W. HOLLIMAN. Secretary.
0 a 70.
Public Service Board,
60, Young-street,
Sydney, 30th April, 1898.
rrHE Public Service Board hereby notify that a Com-
petitive Examination of Candidates for admission to-
the Professional Division of the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney, and at various Country
Centres which will be fixed as far as possible to suit the
convenience of candidates, on the 27th Jilne and four
following days. The estimated number of appointments
to be made is 20. Candidates must not be less than 16 or
more than 21 years of age on the first day of examination,
of good moral character, and in sound health. Persons'
already employed in the Clerical and General Divisions
of the Public Service, or who may have previously been
employed therein and retired for reasons other than an.,
offence, wi 1 be admitted to the examination provided
their age does no exceed 30 years, Candidates may elects
to be examined for either the Engineering, the Survey,
or Drafting Branches, but must state in their application
the Branch which they desire to enter. Candidates for the
Engineering Branch will be examined in the followingsub-
jects (1) Handwriting, (2) English (Dictation. Com-
position, Prhcis writing, Parsing, Analysis, and Derivation
of Words), (3) Arithmetic (full course), (4) Geometry
(Euclid, First Book), (5) Geography (outlines of physical
and political geography, and the geography of the Aus.-
tralasian Colonies in moderate detail, (6) English History
from the middle of the Eighteenth Century to the present
time, especially with reference to the Colonies and
Dependencies, (7) Mathematics (Euclid, Books 2 to 4 and
6, including easy exercises in these books, Algebra up to
and including quadratic equations), (8) Elementary
Drawing, and (9) Elementary Geology. Candidates for
the Survey or Drafting Branches will be examined in the
first eight subjects referred to above. Candidates for all
branches will also be allowed to fake any two, but not
more than two, of the following subjects (a) English, a,
prescribed author, viz., Tennyson’s “Gareth and
Lynette ’’ (MacMillan), (b) Latin, (c) French, (d) German,
(e) Elementary Chemistry. Any candidate for admission
to the Professional Division, who has previously passed
the examination for the Clerical Division, may, on appli-
cation being made by him, be credited on examination
with the number of marks obtained by him at the
Clerical Examination in the subjects that are common to
the two examinations. Application to attend the ex-
amination must be made on a form for the purpose,
which can be obtained at the office of the Board, and
must reach the undersigned not later than the Ist June.
Candidates will be required to pay an examination fee of
10s., which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions
or the Treasury, and the receipt therefore forwarded
to the Secretary of the Board with the form of applica-
tion. A list of registered candidates, with centres of
examination, will be published in the Govrrnmbnt
Gazkttb, after the time for the receipt of applications has
expired, and candidates will also be advised direct of the
place at which they will be examined.
Copies of the Regulations in regard to this examination
can be obtained from the Government Printing Office.
By order of fche Board,
J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
Ba-76.


MELLINS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquaiity English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs[
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Bru.shware and
Perfumety, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO thejladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10,6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <ST AITKEIM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 it 682 George Street, Sydney,
Tl>€ Empire’s Leading
Authority.
DR. STEVENSON MACADAM, Consulting
Chemist to the British Government, writes :
“ Analytical Laboratory,
“ Surgeon’s Hall,
“Edinburgh, 10th February, 1898.
“ I have examined by Chemical Tests a
sample of “ Peptoniskd Emulsion ” sent me
by the Minerva Company, Manufacturing
Chemists and Food Specialists, with the re-
sult that I find the Emulsion to be a first-class
preparation of Cod Liver Oil presented in a
very palatable and agreeable condition, and
rendered doubly beneficial from admixture
with Alkaline Hypophosphites, and more
easily digestible by the addition of Pepsin.
“STEVENSON MACADAM, Ph.D., &c.,
“Lecturer on Chemistry and
“ Consulting Analytical Chemist.”
MINERVA EMULSION is on Sale by ALL
CHEMISTS throughout these Colonies.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at it
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightfu
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject t<
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a completi
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, anc
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. N<
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, i
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain
Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attacl
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cougl
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Nigh
?' ve , a “ came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weal
that l could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro
"ounce' l “° be in consumption. I had a lot of medicine:
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got £
Dottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats lefl
me, lhy appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; anc
a J n " ow ln good health, for which lam truly grateful, anc
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
troly.p. SMITH, Ilalpin Park, Nhili, Victoria.”
After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
tor Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
x quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
a viYpnoAvT/. pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
xi ear no s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
xectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
tne Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Bmall sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. Oil. Sold by chemists and
medicine Vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable localiy.
“I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to anyparfcof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I'rloc, 10s. (><l.
Sole Agents :
59
The Result.
Craig & Aitken,6Bo-632 Gsorge-st,, Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Coni raptors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
Foe Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely ovei come Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long Standing. Are the same
tto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
TO FAT PEOPLE.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to get permanent relief,
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ’S OBESITY
POWDERS. A Reduction of 61b. a week is guaranteed to
anyone, young: or old, by their use.
PRICE, 6s. and 7s. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Read.
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
JPD
J?
AJfoiCAtA\EN
iNDlGEjTlofl
PMRoT
BR6ND’
WLVpTur
WoUNDC
(bU6MS (QLPS If
OF” >
/MITATI°mS
Mffij
POST FREE 2^*
Watches-Clocks-JEWELLERY-BiRTriDAT*
WEDD!l\lc Z PRESENTS
H NEWMArJ-1755177-FI!7ARFrii sr.
OPPOSITE G;P.O.
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into pry life." So
writ's a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-trtatrrent that
has re tored so many men.
A litile book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir., —Please inform your readers that I have heen
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will he pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years befirs Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
Bee
HIVE
KMTTIHG
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wlieeling, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
Trade Mai k Registered.
Estab ishfdl7Bs.
San pie SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
AN • “ I’eehive ”
Hosie>.v&Under-
\v ar m nu 'ac-
tnred from the
‘beehive Wools.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
Cl I nil
ILLt
' $
MADE
Hark
L
hmssssMHin
EDINBURGH. «u**
fcfc:
.^asMessi' 4 *
' "/J/ //■/ t
■ rtn ' J **«'iu ilk.6j > y-n
f’mmjn*/
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND OR MARINE)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
rxplosiona Impossible
Always Ready for IJse.
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s o^n
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
F.llcrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of DrnnN
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
KerVoOS Weakness . . .
AND
Ccrebro-Spifyal Piscase&,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters ea,sy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dp. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-: nosted. 1/3.
Q. Labor papers seem to prosper. Accord-
ing to last balance-sheet the Worker is on tho
boom ; People’s Newspaper has made steady
headway ; Towers Eagle never looked healthier ;
Gympie Truth-the ablest of them all—has
blossomed into a semi-weekly ; Toowoomba
Democrat, at last sight, had been enlarged ;
Ipswich Standard has paid for its plant and is
now firmly established; Maranoa Advocate
grows fat with ads. But where, oh where, is the
Democratic Brisbane daily ?
The first faint beat of the electoral drum is
heard just now in Bananaland. The tough old
Tory M.L.A.’s have to face the Opposition of the
Democrats only but in the Democratic camp.
A multitude of aspirants, just free from addressing
the hens in the back-yard from the top of a wood-
heap, are hustling one another viciously wherever
a dubious seat gives promise of defeat to Fat
Man. The dry bones of the Old Opposition are
astir, and suggestions for a compromise with
Labor are in the air. Significant—the num-
ber of hints and invitations given to Charles
Powers in the last few months from various Demo-
cratic strongholds.
A favorite anti-Federal dodge to catch the
crowd is to purport to show that, in consequence
of the fixing of a minimum of five members in the
House of Representatives for any province, New
South Wales will in half-a-century have one
member for each 300,000 people or so, and Tas-
mania one for each 40,000 or so. “Therefore,”
triumphantly, “in a few years, even in that so-
called popular House, one Tasmanian will equal
eight men in New South Wales.” More nonsense,
of course, for it presupposes that the House of
Representatives will consist of 60 members
whether the Commonwealth’s population consists
of 40 million or four million people, while the Con-
stitution simply provides for 60 as a minimum
suited to present conditions.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A fearsome W.A. lady publishes a “ West
Australian National Anthem of Sympathy ” on
account of John Forrest having been accidentally
prodded by his hysterical secretary’s umbrella in
the presence of a crowd of alluvial diggers whom
the Forrest Govt, had unlawfully deprived of
their sole means of livelihood by the famous 10ft.
regulation.—
God bless our Premier 1
Long live our Premier I
God bless Sir John !
Always victorious.
Faithful and glorious,
Long may he reign over us
Our uncrowned king.
God bless our Premier !
John Forrest our Premier !
Long live Sir John !
Though times an heathen rrga,
We’ll write on history’s page
Kalgoorlie’s late outrage
On brave Sir John.
God bless our Premier I
Long live our Premier 1
Our brave Sir John ;
Boldly he faced the foe
With not one coward’s throe,
Nor struck one defence blow,
Our brave Sir John.
Our children’s children will
Shout when our name is still,
Long live Sir John !
His name will never die,
Millions unborn will cry,
When forgotton you and I,
Long live Sir John 1
Mrs. Margarktta Dorr.
The sandgroper has only one little brown-paper '
god, and imagines that the sun rises behind his
corn and the fixed stars set in his coat-tail pocket.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Book-Arcadian Cole named all his daugh-
ters after jewels—Diamond, Pearl, Ruby, &c.


WINTER WITH ITS CHILLS AND RAINS IS HERE !
THEREFORE, BEWARE OF
RbetinjatiSii), NeOralgia, Sciatica, L(in)bago,
■■■■■■■■■bhbbbbhhbbki fammmammmammmaammMsmKßßMmmtmmtmmmßmm
loflOcijza, ai)d Wasting CoGgbS ai)d Colds.
... DR. WILLIAMS’ . . .
Pink Pills for Pale People
Absolutely Cure these Ailments.
Aching Rheumatism.
IN BED FOR ONE LONG YEAR.
NOW STRONG AND ENERGETIC AND
WITHOUT A PAIN.
The cold days of winter are near at hand, if not
already here. The unhappy suffer from rheuma-
tism and such ailments dreads the return of his
or her complaint. There is one way, however, by
which rheumatism may be positively and per-
manently cured. In proof of this we append the
following statement: —
A reporter recently visited Mr. Walter Tye,
of 33 M'Arthur-street, Ultimo, Sydney, whose
marvellous recovery from a most severe attack of
acute rheumatism has been the subject of much
comment in that neighborhood. Mr. Tye readily
volunteered to give the following statement of his
illness and recovery :
“ I am milkman by trade, and ride on the cart
when distributing milk. We serve a very long
round. You can readily see that the very nature
of my occupation compels me to be out in all sorts
of weather, for whatever happens we must not
disappoint our customers. It is some 18 months
ago that after being out in very inclement wea-
ther, I commenced to suffer from aching agonies
in limbs and body, and flying pains and stiffness
in the joints ; and I also experienced sudden chills
generally succeeded by heavy sweats. The pain I
suffered was so severe that sleep was an impossi-
bility, and should I doze off I would be suddenly
aroused by spasms in the muscles of the joints in
which the rheumatism was worst. I had the best
medical advice, and the premises of a well-known
chemist were fairly ransacked in search of a
specific that would tend to alleviate my agony.
To make a long story short, I was laid up for 12
months.
“Relief, however, at last arrived, and from an
unexpected quarter.
“ Boiler-maker Jarvis and his wife are near
neighbors of ours, and I had read of his wonderful
recovery from locomotor ataxia by the agency of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Thinking they might
possibly have a beneficial effect in my own case, I
determined to try them and did so. It was not
until after the third box that I experienced any
decided change for the better, but you must bear
in mind that mine was a case of long standing,
and, it was feared, one that might become chronic.
My health then improved by leaps and bounds,
and I am now, as you can see, strong and hearty.
I took, in all, eight boxes.
“The nature of my business call for the display
of considerable activity, and I am pleased to state
that I have had no return of my old symptoms,
and can face the coming winter without any
anxiety.”
“Have we your permission to publish these
particulars, Mr. Tye?”
“ Certainly you have.”
+-
Sciatica for Two Entire Years.
“I AM CERTAIN I AM COMPLETELY
CURED.”
Mr. George Hynds, a well-known resident of
Blayney, was recently interviewed by a Blayney
Advocate reporter about his serious illness and
remarkable cure. He obtained the following in-
teresting narrative, which Mr. Hynds said he
would be glad to have published
“ About two years ago I fell a victim to sciatica.
I was drawing wood at the time. The complaint
forced me every now and again to take a spell.
The ailment kept getting worse, until at last I
could not even work, and had to go to bed, being
unable to walk. It affected my right leg from the
hip to the ankle, the pain being worse in my ankle;
I also suffered from terrible pains in my back. I
was in bed for four months, during which time I
suffered excruciating pain. I had a doctor attend-
ing me all the time, but he gave me no relief,
although he used every means m his power
• ~ n /T 1.1/v inof o c if if morn Krnlron
tard and fly blisters on my leg, which left it in a
terrible state, and did not do me the least bit of
good. At last he told me that he could do no
more for me, and that the sciatica would have to
take its course. I then determined to go tQ the
Bathurst Hospital, but my medical adviser said
he didn’t think I would get any benefit there.
However, I said I would try it. After being
completely bedridden for four months, and on the
day before I was going to the hospital, I managed
to get into town, and I met a friend and told him
my intentions. This gentleman strongly advised
me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
before. I went to the hospital. As my friend spoke
with such confidence about the pills, I took his
advice, and went there and then to Mr. C. Fer-
guson’s store, and purchased the last three boxes
he had. After the first box I could get about
again, and I went to work again drawing in
wheat for Mr. Robert Marsden. When I had
finished the second box I felt no pain what-
ever, and considered I was cured. I then took
the third box at leisure, although there was no
occasion for it. I commenced taking the pills last
October 12 months. Mr. Marsden and Mr. Fer-
guson and a host of other people who knew my
previous condition could hardly believe the rapid
change which came over me. Some people said
that the sciatica would again return to me next
winter, but I am glad to say I went through the
t'SV''
&
s- )
W
winter without feeling the slightest effects of this
terrible complaint. I have enjoyed excellent
health ever since I took the pills, and my cure has
been the means of a large number of people taking
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills about here.
“I am certain that the pills and no other
remedy cured me; in fact, tho other remedies did
not give me the slightest benefit.”
Mr. Hynds’ wife was present during the inter-
view, and endorsed all her husband’s statements,
both appearing very happy when testifying the
marvellous curative properties of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.
Influenza’s Dread After-Effects.
PARALYSIS AND ERYSIPELAS AS A
RESULT.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS PERFORM
A MARVELLOUS CURE.
“Yes,” said Miss Jamieson, in answer to a
query put to her by a representative, who waited
on her at her residence, Autumn-street, Ashby,
Geelong, Victoria. “ I know something about the
curative properties of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Some few years back, when influenza was so bad,
I was unfortunate enough to experience a very
severe attack, and the after-effects remained on
me for some time.
“Although generally experiencing robust health
previous to this attack, when at last I was able to
leave my room I was almost of ghostly proportions
—not at all like lam now. And I continued in
this state for some time. I did not mind the weak-
ness so much, feeling sure that would wear off in
time with good nourishment. But in March of
last year I commenced to experience great incon-
venience from pains in my right side. I consulted
L_
amedicalman, who
said that it was
merely the after-
effects of the influ-
enza, and I was not
to worry myself.
But, as the pains
continued, I did
worry myself, and
went to Melbourne
to consult a special-
ist. He informed
me that it was par-
tial paralysis. He
put me through a
course of treat-
ment that left me
as I was, and I returned home fairly worn out.
Whether the worry, or the heroic treat-
ment I had undergone was responsible or
not, I will not venture an opinion upon, but
a week afterwards erysipelas set in on my face,
and for weeks and months I suffered the greatest
agony. In January a friend (a Miss Evans,
of Eaglehawk, near Bendigo) came down to
see me, and one day she bought me a box of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. When visiting Mel-
bourne I took them, and four days afterwards the
pain commenced to go away. I continued taking
them for some time, and in all I used eight boxes,
discontinuing them in August. From then until
now I have not had the least symptom of a return
of either complaints—complaints that I had not
been free from for four years. lam 22 years of
age. Scores know my sufferings, and the means
of my recovery I am only too pleased to supply.”
“ Your friend, Miss Evans, must have felt very
pleased at the success of her experiment.” “ Yes,
it was the knowledge that a neighbor had gained
considerable benefit from the pills, in a very bad
case of debility, that induced her to buy me the
first box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.” “ One can
scarcely realise the fact of your once resembling
what the departed are credited with, Miss Jamie-
son.”
“No (laughingly) there is nothing ethereal
about me now. lam nearer 12st. than 9st. Yes,
you can include that, if you like,” and with a
word of thanks the representative withdrew.
Neuralgia for Ten Dreary Years.
A MELBOURNE LADY’S SUFFERINGS.
“ Neuralgia,” said Mrs. Ross, of Rathdown and
Palmerston streets, Melbourne, “ was the com-
plaint I suffered from for a period of ten or twelve
years. During the daytime my sufferings were
painful, but on retiring to rest the agony I suffered
was excruciating, reducing me to a state of general
collapse. I felt it during the day slightly, but
most severely at night.”
“ Did you consult any doctors at all ?”
“Many; but received no permanent benefit.
They gave me draughts and powders, but the
effect was really nothing.”
“You, of course, ha’e tried other remedies?”
“ Yes; I tried everything, but obtained no
relief.”
“ What induced you to try Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People ? ”
“An elderly lady, resident at Heathcote, 74
years of age, who had been a sufferer from rheu-
matism for 40 years, and who had been absolutely
D* WILLIAMS'
INK
ILLS
FOR
\-E.
Blood
Builder
and
Berve
Tonic.
of these
PI LI jS
were
SOLI)
DURING
1897.
D? WILLIAMS'
INK
'ILLS
FOR
cured by their use, recommended me to try the
Pink Pills for Pale People.”
“ How long since might that be ? ”
\
“ Six weeks since—the beginning of July. Dur-
ing the time I was taking the first box I lost only
one night’s rest, but since then I have never had
the least return of the old complaint.”
“ Have you used much of the medicine ? ”
“ About four boxes. Previous to my taking
them the pain in my head reduced me to such a
state that I was on the verge of madness. The
last three years I had been very bad, so you can
imagine the pleasure it was to me to find a remedy
that has actually made a new woman of me."
“That is so,’’ remarked Mr. Ross, who was
present. “Had you see my wife a few months
since and now, you would scarcely believe her to
be the same woman.”
“Yes,” added Mrs. Ross, “my recovery has
been most pronounced and satisfactory to me. I
have great faith in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and recommend them wherever pos-
sible.”
Pale and Sallow Girls.
HOW DISEASE AND DEATH AWAIT
THEM.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, yellow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at
the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pills upon the approach of the period of woman-
hood, and thus avoid the risks of disease or early
decay.
4.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly
scientific preparation, the result of years of care-
ful study on the part of an eminent Edinburgh
University physician, and they were successfully
used by him in his everyday practice for years
before being offered for general sale. They are
a perfect blood builder and a nerve restorer,
curing such diseases as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus’
dance, nervous headache, general debility, nervous
prostration, the after effects of la grippe, influenza,
and severe colds, diseases depending on humours
in the blood, such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas,
etc. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills give a healthy
glow to pale and sallow complexions, and are a
specific for all troubles peculiar to the female sys-
tem, such as anaemia, poor and watery blood,
female irregularities, etc. In the case of men they
effect a radical cure in all cases arising from men-
tal worry, over-.vork, or excesses of any nature.
These' Pills are not a purgative. They are
genuine only with the full name, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, and are sold by all
chemists and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Company, Sydney, who will forward (post paid)
on receipt of stamps or post order, one box for
2s. !>d., or lialf-a-doz *n for 15s. 3d. They are
unrivalled as a tonic for both sexes.


“ Tents are unhealthy. Better an open
bivouac, with the feet to a good fire.” —Napoleon.
“Country residents who get their living
by tillage,” is what Launceston, Tas., Daily
Telegraph calls farmers.
The coroner’s jury on the Dudley colliery
explosion, Newcastle, N.S.W. (15 lives lost), re-
turned an open verdict; and N.S.W. Mines Dept,
announces that the ventilation regulations will
now be strictly enforced.
At a N.Q. railway-station, recently, a first-
class carriage was seen suddenly to disgorge its
contents in a condition of much drench and
d n ! A shunter who had been directed to fill
the lavatory-tank on the carriage-top had turned
the water in at the lamp-hole !
According to S.A. Register, one of the
prisoners at Mt. Gambier criminal court was
sentenced to “six months’ with hard labor, to be
served in Mt. Gambier Hotel.” The meaning of
this is presumably that reporters’ thoughts still
have a bias in the same old direction.
The case of William King, of Pentridge
(Vic.), is interesting. William is a convict in
irons and deposited in a dark and lonesome cell.
Once in every few years William is let off the
chain, and out into the prison-yard, and he in-
variably seizes the first opportunity to fall bodily
on a warder, and try to blow his eye out, or belt
hi 3 head in with a shovel, whereupon he is seized
and returned to his lonesome cell, and presently a
J.P. drops in and gives him nine months in irons.
This happened for the ’teenth time, the other day.
Everybody admits that King is mad, but official-
dom has not the necessary sense to have him re-
moved to an asylum where he would be properly
looked after; and the chances are that William
will kill a warder one of these days, and be
banged.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
THE MOST KJSJ j'KjfiJbHiJNa, COOLitfGi & MjQAJLTHFUJU B£¥£2RAQ£.
Tra-ie Suk)
.• a
IT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MON TSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole. Consignees —
EVANS, LESCKER & WEBB, LONDON;EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.. D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRIGE.
SOLD IN BOXCS
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and caurecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa eood Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT ami LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
JgP-%- tOTytevt
ms
-i.M» r . OR ORDER 10-DAY.
will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
pg-
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
\~m
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Oigans a lx.onth. Fiom this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small proiit
over the cost of manufacturing. For inslance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 tos., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Desciipliom Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, f octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-'oned r>eds, i3stops.
Right and left knee swell. Flee with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £iq. Refe.ence, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co
•)
WASHINGTON, NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Bo*
Fresli.
Cooling.
Sparkling.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
n
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“ VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per lllustr’n., AH 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne.— m
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
WiUiMsT
|ll MARK
M Corset
VVi(.iroWfl<ST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN, ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
P EHFECT in shape.
LEN GTHENS THE WA lS T.
SEA UTIFIES TH E FIG UR E.
W'uCowa'ST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
parisienne style.
ASK FOR
W'wvov/a'ST Corset
mark
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
wholesale orders taken by
f• w. lee, Camden Buildings,
2 ie. GEORGE STREET, SYONEY.
VISITORS. TOtTHE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
Lifts.
(Under \Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartmerits, Furnished with all H "1" E L
Modern Luxury. Two] minutes from the Park. Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
j MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen’s Gate? Terrace.. London, S.W.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
Incompatibles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the wharf, Brownlow Cole kissed his wife
tenderly, and went aboard the steamer as the
sailors began to loosen the ropes that held the
gangway. Leaning over the railing as the vessel
forged slowly sideways into the stream, his lips
were trembling and there was a film over his eyes.
He saw her standing near the edge of the wharf
with two other women, smiling in enjoyment
of the whole scene of departure—the vessel
with its uncertain, irregular movements; its
hissing steam, its clattering winding-engine, as
well as the churned and eddying water, and the
fluttering of handkerchiefs from the decks and
wharves.
For a moment it hurt him to think she was not
affected otherwise. They had been married two
years, and this was to be their first real parting.
At such a moment, he felt as if nothing could
possibly have distracted his attention from her.
And naturally, as she loved him, it seemed
to him but right that he should have occupied her
whole attention for the time being. “ But she is
such a child,” he said to himself.
The eccentricities of the screw ceased. The
long line that had served to warp the vessel into
the stream had been cast off from the shore and
drawn aboard, and a boat with two sailors in it
was being hoisted up into the davits. For a
minute there was a pause, as if the vessel were
inflating her iron lungs, waiting intent upon the
starter’s “Go !”
Cole took his glasses out in order to see his wife
more plainly. She sawtheact, and waved her hand-
kerchief back to Cole, smiling. He was impressed
with her beauty as she stood on the wharf in the
morning sun. The white muslin dress showed the
outlines of her splendid, full figure against the
shadow of the sheds. The fine velvety skin with
the peach-bloom of her cheeks, the crowning
masses of her dark burnished hair, the face, every
mood and expression of which he knew so in-
timately, all appealed to him, for the moment,
under the exceptional circumstances, with a
magnified, exaggerated charm.
It hurt him to think she was so beautiful. He
could not help wishing that she were somewhat
less attractive. It seemed to him as if her charms
must have impressed other men as exaltedly as
they had him, and that all other men desired her
with the fervency of his own desire. He scanned
the men upon the wharf to see if any of them
noticed her, and, if so, to detect their thoughts
from expression or manner. It was a habit he
had learned. In a glance he seemed to see her
beset by men who aimed at her undoing, while he
would not be beside her to counsel and protect her.
The thought made him shudder coldly.
For she was weak. Again and again he had
warned her that she put too much faith in men’s
honor.
She had not the faculty of fencing her sex
round with the difficulty and the reserve that
safeguards it against disrespect. In her inter-
course with men, she left unwittingly here and
there little loopholes, through which he had a
haunting dread that some skilful and unscrupulous
adventurer might enter and wreak upon her untold
wrong. There was no stability in her character.
Her impulses swayed her. Her mind was little.
Incidents that to hint were of the utmost triviality
appealed to her as serious and important. He
had despaired of ever being able to put himself
into her warped and narrow point of view, just as
he had despaired of ever being understood by her.
She had no conception of the dignity of his pur-
suits, or of his literary ambitions. It was incom-
prehensible to her that he should have any honor
* writer _ And yet when she heard h £ w?rk
praised, her love for him expanded, temporarily,
into idolisation. At first he had tried to encour-
age her to take an interest in his work, but find-
elfort vain, he had desisted, and returned
to the inner isolation of his bachelorhood. Ihey
had quarrelled; afc times bitterly-misinterpreting
each other. He had invariably been the first to
relent, and this, in a way, had spoiled her. It
had led her into doing blameworthy acts with
certainty of being forgiven—acts which
otherwise she might have been deterred from,
ghe had done ma * y thingB which were capable of
being wrongly construed, and which had tortured
him with suspicion often and often ; but generally
after more or less delay, and more or less trouble,
explanations and reconciliations had been effected,
But she was unreliable. She concealed her
transgressions in a jungle of misrepresentation,
wherein he usually lost himself endeavoring to
discover them, and so would give up the pursuit,
adopting the most feasible and condoning way she
would show him out of the tangle. He had never
in his heart felt that he could absolutely trust her.
Still, for all, he had never had any tangible trans-
gression on which to base a specified accusation ;
and perhaps she was right when she often told
him that he was of a morbidly suspicious tempera-
ment. On such occasions he was wont to reply,
“It is because of the intense interest I take in
you. If I loved you less, I would bother about
you less. Why can’t you deal openly with mein
all things? I do so with you.”
She was impulsive, passionate, wilful, unstable,
unreliable, trivial, childlike.
He was emotional, artistic, irritable, discon-
tented, and exacting.
She had many qualities finer than he, and many
baser, but he had the feeling latterly that, instead
of lifting her up to his level, she had all the time
gradually been dragging him down to hers,
, „ , *
q, , ... ~ ~ . ,
, S , he , wasnofc - Wlth „ the f other two women when
** e 100^ ed a £am. He found her standing apart
from them talking to a man whom he had not en-
countered in his binocular survey. He recognised
h '™ as occupant of the room adjoining theirs
the hotel & German named Druck, tall and
full-blooded, dominant, triumphantly vinle-and
handsome. He had warned her-even quarrelled
wlUl he J °Y er 1 the persistent attentions of this
uian, who bad more than once audaciously at-
tempted to offer her presents. Druck was an
amateur photographer and a painter m oils. He
desued that she would sit for him, in order that
b, e m, "bt paint her portrait. She had mentioned
thln » s to her husband, who had
quietly replied If you accept anything whatever
froul l '““. 1 shall k " ow , what it means. ’ He had
warned her against having anything at all to say
01 \. d .° with him. Yet, there she was standing
talking to llm ,' , , ~ , , , ~ . ,
, As the vessel rounded the bend of the river she
had her back turned, but he could see that she was
fidgetting uneasily on her feet while the German
stood looking down upon her through his glasses
exultmgiy.
* * * *
The steamer passed out of the river with the
afternoon’s tide, and, rounding the cape, turned
her head southwards. By that time he had
worked himself into a fever of uneasiness about
her. He paced about the deck restlessly and tire-
lessly. At night he could not sleep. His mind
had room for nothing but the one horrible
obsession which devoured it piecemeal. He
tried to cast it out without avail. He tried
to take the most favorable view of the matter,
but his mind had become too fevered to
calmly weigh the pros and cons. He thought
of the consequences of a downward step to a
woman of her nature, and he traced her remorse-
lessly through them all. He felt that he could
never again know any happiness while she was
adrift upon the world—“a dove that all God’s
hawks for prey had got.” He thought of the hold
she had upon his life, and, for all her faults, of the
loneliness, and worse than lovelessness, she had
replaced. In his hours of discontent he had
often compared his married life with his bachelor-
hood, and had resolved always that, even at its
worst, the former was the better of the two.
By night, as he watched the vessel tearing a
path through the hungry, clamorous ways of the
sea, another thought flashed often over his mind —
a thought on which his life hung. He wondered
what sustained the thought itself.
i-r , *, . * , * , * . ,
He left the steamer, buoyed somewhat with the
idea that, if she were determined to be unfaithful,
not all the safeguards in the world would prevent
her. At any rate, he told himself he had
done all that he was capable of, and his worrying
about her now could make no difference. He
knew, beyond all doubt, that she loved him as
much as she could possibly love anyone, and more
than she loved anyone else, and on that rock he
buißhis hope, and comforted himself as best as he
* * • •
She met him on his return, smiling. She
laughed at his suspicious questionings. She asked
him if he thought she couldn’t look after herself,
and if the German mattered anything to her.
Pooh ! He felt easier, but he had often noticed
how his suspicions became disarmed in her
presence. She answered all his questions as to
where she had gone, and what she had done,
readily. She had hardly seen the German at all,
and she had had nothing further to say to him
than the ordinary courtesies of the day She had
slept with her doors locked at night. One night
the key of her door was missing, and she had
jammed a chair against it, for fear. He felt that
he had been unjust to her, and he told her so.
She laughed
Three day's afterwards she presented him with
a gold pencil-case. He asked her, guardedly,
whence she had procured it.
“From Mitchell, the jeweller,” she said, “I
bought it for you there.”
Passing Mitchell’s in the afternoon it occurred
to him to go in and inquire.
They knew nothing whatever about it.
He was horrified at the discovery, but cooled
quickly into determination. At home he ques-
tioned her further, telling her eventually of the
discovery he had made.
She admitted that what she had said was wrong,
but that she had really and truly had it sent to
her by a cousin in Sydney.
“ She wrote to you also ? ”
“Yes.”
“ Where is the letter ? ”
She opened her private desk and procured it.
He devoured it in quest of some reference to the
present. He found it in a postscript, but in the
imitation of her cousin’s handwriting he recog*
nised, at a glance, the penmanship of his wife.
He burst out into a torrent of indignation and
accusation. She made no reply, but followed him
with her eyes as he walked about the room trans-
formed with fury.
Passing near her desk, his eye caught the edge
of a photograph which she had forgotten to hide.
He drew it forth astounded. It was his wife’s
portrait, in evening-dress, cut very low, with her
face and eyes turned upwards devotedly.
He had always dreaded lest his love for her
might conquer hi 3 self-respect and force him, in an
emergency, into condoning the unpardonable.
But now he was conscious of a strength altogether
unanticipated. His mind made itself up like
lightning. He went out of the house quietly.
She smiled to herself. “He will come back
again,” she said. “Besides, nothing wrong has
happened. ”
* • * *
A week afterwards she wrote to him : “ I am
going to England with Mr. Druck. Have you
anything to say ? ”
He answered : “Nothing.”
FRANCIS KENNA.


Tartans are gaining in favor with the Ladies
daily. The fashion for the season is Tartan. That goes
without saying. The best house for Tartans is Hordern’s
in Pitt-street, where most of the true Tartans now adorn-
ing the fai r sex have been procured. Of Tartan belt ribbons,
Tartan military ribbons, Tartan ribbons for other pur-
poses, Tartan silks, Tartan velvets, Tartan dress stuffs,
Tartan trimmings, Hordern’s in Pitt-street have the
finest and largest collection in Sydney. Every lady who
is unable to come to town, should send for patterns and
see how we excel both in variety and price, especially in
price. HORDERN BROTHERS, 203 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
S/s
sZ
m
zz
•fifi/r
6
f
i
mm
m
m
m
m
' 'A
>Z
mx
VA
7//A
* ••
m
*
V/.
//A
%
m.
7/M
y//////.
f
-M
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
5>
J
A Nightcap Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
True, there’s virtue in total abstaining
When it isn’t aggressively proud,
Nor addicted to solemn disdaining
Of jokers who shout for the crowd.
If your thirst be severely aquatic
You escape morning pains in the head,
But you taste not the pleasure ecstatic
Of a drink before going to bed.
Some people will never take warning
From the awful examples they see ;
1 hey start to get “ tight ” in the morning
And finally die of D.T.
With livers corroded by acid,
And noses condemnably red
They can’t fix a mind calm and placid
On the drink before going to bed.
Give me tea, if you will, with my dinner;
Deny me the solace of beer;
I’d as lief be a saint as a sinner
Till midnight and slumber draw near.
I abandon all claim to a wassail,
For I’d rather take whisky instead ;
Please grant me, cold temp’rance apostle,
One drink before going to bed.
Nay, preach me no arguments petty
’Gainst the evil of touching a drop—
Let the spirit be “ up to the pretty,”
And the water well-nigh to the top.
I would dream idle dreams of ambition,
Or look back on the years gaily fled,
With a sigh of contented contrition—
Good old drink before going to bed!
What memories sw 7 eet it is bringing
Of girls I had almost forgot;
They are laughing, and sighing, and singing ;
The blood through my veins runneth hot
As they pass in a misty procession,
Those charmers so easily led,
And I toast each delightful transgression
In my drink before going to bed.
Then the Best Girl of all—the deceiver
Who fooled me and maddened my brain—
She whispers, and O ! I believe her,
And Love holds me captive again.
My heart will be sad on the morrow,
All its tears even yet are not shed—
But the joys of delusion I borrow
From a drink before going to bed.
Melb.
EDMUND FISHER.
Dr. Forbes Winslow, the eminent Eng-
lish mental specialist, claims to possess a pair of
rubber-soled shoes used by “Jack the Ripper.”
He says that person was a well-connected medical
student who developed epileptic mania, was at
length confined in Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic
Asylum, and died some few months since.
The Selfishness of Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He turned his face on the pillow, so that the light
of the sunset played upon it and gave it color—a
face of almost perfect beauty, its features shar-
pened and refined by suffering. His eyes rested
upon the patient countenance of the woman at
his bedside, and something in its weary calm
seemed to irritate him more.
“ You take it so easily,” he said, with an im-
patient movement. “You don’t know what it is
to die. To die! —to leave life—warm, pleasant
life—the horror of what may be behind—the
terror of it—the terror of it! ” Sweat-beads stood
on his forehead, and his hand gripped the bed-
clothes hard.
Her eyes rested on the beauty of his face, and a
sudden passion that could find no warmth of
expression in her pale features leaped into hungry
fire in her haggard eyes.
“Do you think I feel nothing?” she said. “Is
none of the bitterness mine ? ”
He writhed again in the bed.
“ Your bitterness,” he said. “ What is yours
to mine? You’re only losing me; but I— l’m
losing Life. Life— do you hear? Life ! And
they tell me to bear it like a man. Fools !—it’s
because I am a man, and life is so good that I
can t leave it ” His voice died away in a quer-
ulous whimper.
She thought of the abject poverty to which he
was leaving her, and told herself that even death
was easier to face than such a life. By years of
scepticism, of mocking unbelief and keen ridicule,
he had destroyed her belief in a God, but she
wished now almost unconsciously that she could
pray. Not for her own sake—the misery of her
situation did not admit the possibility of comfort,
even from God—but for his.
She had heard and read of men dying like
heroes—glad to meet and grapple with Death—of
others flinging down their lives as men cast aside
a worn-out garment, and here was her husband
sobbing feebly among the pillows, at the thought
of leaving a life which had owed its pleasure and
its comfort to her hard and unremitting toil.
But she loved him—how she loved him ! And a
terrible yearning to hold him in her arms and
shield him from all the world—from Death itself
—seized her and shook her from head to foot.
But it passed, and she was calm and composed
when he looked up again.
“ Then there’s my book,” he went on, fretfully,
as if he were resuming a broken conversation ; “ I
haven’t heard from the publishers yet, but they’re
sure to bring it out. That will mean a good sum
for you, so you needn’t worry about money matters.
Oh, if I could live to enjoy my fame ! ” he broke
off again with a choking sob.
The worthless manuscript lay on the table in the
room outside, where she had placed it when it had
come back three days before—curtly rejected ; but
she did not tell him.
“ And little Lily,” he went on ; “ you'll be kind
to her ! ”
“I have been, so far; mothers generally are,”
she said, quietly, trying to steady the break in
her voice. No thought of her—only the child !
“ You'll marry again ! ” he said, after a pause,
and speaking almost fiercely. She shook her
head—the cruelty of it took away her speech.
“You will!” he insisted. “And that poor
little mite will have a stepfather. Perhaps he’ll
be kind, and then she’ll love him better than me—
and forget me. How can I lie here peacefully
with that knowledge ? My God, how can I die ? ”
His distress and weakness were pitiful. She
knelt beside him, her white face rigid in its lines
from the fierce effort of her will.
“ She shall not —I promise you. If it will com-
fort you, 1 will swear—by the God you have
taught me does not exist—that she shall not.”
His face brightened.
Her arms were round him, and her lips on his
for the last long kiss, when suddenly he drew
back again, and his lips quivered.
“ You will keep your word ? ”
“ I will keep my oath.”
He sank more heavily back on her arm.
“ That is better,” he muttered. “ How dark it’s
growing—l was doubtful—women are so weak—-
and—selfish ! ”
For a moment, a wild longing to shriek out
discordant laughter seized her. But then the
night came, and she laid the dead head gently
down.
Sydney.
NELLIE M. FIELD.
Fate’s Finger.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were two bridges over the creek, yet people
would persist in crossing on the log which spanned
the stream about midway between them. This
log was withinahundred yards of Peter Broderick’s
hut, and one night, during a lull in the rain,
Peter opened his door and saw a lantern glimmer-
ing from the log. The light remained just long
enough for him to notice by its flicker that the
creek had risen since nightfall, till it was running
nearly a banker. Then the lantern seemed to
drop, and out of the darkness came a fearful cry.
Not the scream of a woman ; the frenzied cry of a
man in sudden peril. Peter rushed down to the
water’s edge and called,
“Who’s there? What is it?”
For answer, he heard only the rush of the
stream and the thumping of his own heart. Match
after match he struck, lout the wind blew them
out. Then he saw the lights of open doors on
both sides of the creek, and the shadows of people
moving about.
“Bring a light here, quick!” he shouted.
“ There’s a man in the creek.”
And then came the slamming of gates and the
splashing of boots in the pools, as men and boys
ran down to the bank. Then two or three fol-
lowed, carrying lanterns.
“Where are you?” someone called out in the
darkness.
“ Here,” Peter answered ; “ here at the log.”
When the lanterns arrived one of the men ex-
amined the log hurriedly. Sure enough, there
was the mark of something hard —such as a boot—
having slipped from the log. A piece of rotten
surface had been broken off, and the wood under-
neath was dry. Then somebody discovered a cap
caught on a snag, and when this was examined
everybody seemed to say together—“ Poor old
Kennedy! ”
It had happened at last! The neighbors had
expected it sooner or later. Kennedy was very
old and obstinate. Never could be persuaded
to go round by the bridge.
The news soon spread and half the township
gathered in the rain. Some had seen the old man
going home; some had spoken to him not an
hour before; and one could avouch that he had
not reached his house.
A man was sent to “The Crown,” where Dun-
can Kennedy the younger had been seen sitting in
the bar.
The messenger approached the son with natural
hesitation. “Duncan,” he said, “your father is
in the creek.”
“What! The old man?” Duncan slewed
slowly round and leant his elbow on the counter.
“ Yes. There are a lot of fellows down there
now trying to find him.”
“Oh! He’ll get out again,” said Duncan.
“ Trust the old cock for that! Don’t you chaps
bother. He’ll turn up all right to-morrow.”
But the police looked at the matter differently.
With meat-hooks fixed to the ends of clothes-
props they dragged the stream for half the
night, and when they went home at last to
wait for the dawn a light still burned in the
house across the creek where an aged woman
watched for her husband’s return.
When morning broke, Brightman, the local
undertaker, was the first to reach the creek, and
the first thing he saw was old Kennedy, shivering
on a stump on the bank--wet through, and slightly
incoherent. He had fallen in, but, after a struggle,
had got out again on the opposite side to Brode-
rick’s. Then he had made for home, but it
was very dark, and he had lost himself, and had
to wait for morning.
It was a touch ing picture that the sun rose upon.
Brightman was seated by the old man’s side on the
stump, holding him by the hand ; but there were
those who said that Brightman was a hypocrite.
They had heard his hammer during the night!
* * * *
However, in the course of years, Bright-
man did get the job, and people hardly believed
in the grief of young Kennedy, who had always
said that if they had taken his advice upon a cer-
tain occasion they wouldn’t have made such damn
fools of themselves !
“ Wait till his own turn comes,” they said, for
he had taken to heavy drinking—and the log re-
mained !
It happened accordingly, one day, that when
Duncan’s mother was seen in the township leaning
on her stick and asking everybody who passed
about her Duncan, who had not been home for two
days, the news spread widely through the little
community that Duncan Kennedy was missing,
and that when last seen he was drunk. So people
went again to the creek with their clothes-props
and meat-hooks—and this time they were success-
ful.
Everybody said he deserved it—everybody ex-
cept a poor woman who was very old and had no
other son.
DARGO.


FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
BE SUKE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull,
Sold in bottles, at I*. lsd., 2s. 9 d., 4*. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Snffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
EPPS’S
GBATEFOL—OOMFOETHKJ
COCO A
GOUT
Readers of this paper should)
know that to effectually cure)
Gout the great thing to do is
to eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause of
the malady, and nothing does
this so effectually as Bishop s
Citrate op Lithia. AU doc-
tors prescribe it. Of all Chem-
ists in two sizes. A Booklet on
Gout sent post free on applica-
tion to their Australian Dep6t,,
18 O’Connell - street, Sydney.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
-48 Spelman St.', London, E.
CURED.
WHEN YOU BUY
fimui! o*7 or Extract,
BUY TH: BESf-
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS..
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLICTT BBO\, L+-d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalypti's Oil Co. Ltd. , Hobart.
Visitors to
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in-Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
&T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
|J OLLOWAV’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
1 I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines ha ve not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkvv Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
DR. J. GOLDS BRQWME’B
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor^ —
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWHC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chxorodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
rpALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Waning. Is. 3d.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIABONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, j
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; i.
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN &
Scale of Advertlsln
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly ~ (20 insertions)
One Year „ (52 insertions)
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25
Specified Positions, 10s. per inch per insertion, subject to the above discount. By Paragraph
or on Reading Page, 15s. per inch per insertion, nett. On Front Cover, 10s. per inch per insertion.
Stop tliat Cougii i
Don’t Delay.
. . . TAKE . . .
Bonnington’s
nisH mass
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases), all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu.
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


discovered by Christopher
Mudd, P.Ij.S., Botanist to
H.K.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
OLEAC”
Permanent Cure, Seif Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3/-
COtONIAIi REPRESENTATIVE FOB THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
s
“INCOMPARABLE
SMELLING SALTS,”
As supplied to the Queen. Regd.
The Perfume is specially distilled for these Salts. Invaluable
in Hot Assemblies. Always Refreshing. Of great value
ia the Siok Room. The best Companion at <. hurch, Chapel,
Bull, Theatre, or any Heated Assembly.
Sold in Plain or Cut Bottles, price £d. t 1/-, 1/0 & 2/-
“BABY’S SOAP” {The ORIGINAL).
A Superior Mild Soap, prepared for the INFANTS FIRST
SKIN. Delicately Perfumed. Recommended for Children
and Adults with. TENDER SKIN, i n use 30 years. Price 3d.
The abeve said by all Chemists and Stores. S,.le Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEE3EMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen,
l 19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. /
58
TEAKS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
"W- c. ELDRIDGB & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
9
"f*
<©HE JJbBQT
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
___ MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also
“ TUB 81.0 CE,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)ii)gtoD P(m}pii}g Eogifyc Con>paoy-
(Australadan Branch.) SlmpSOn Brothers. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHTNGTOH
SHADE MARKS-
Sydney, N.S.W
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ , , ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alioe-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock,
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
"Pin*!APrc n-f ie Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
i IUUt/Ul o Jl G f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
qtt o ™^^ Bo , l , lB only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRTNCIPi
?AL PLACES
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
OP SYDNEY with
Visit CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)-92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
**fADE for TEA. (Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of
, these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WO
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,”
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT
25 HARBOUR STREET,
ATTENTION.
H. PATESON,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. *
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & 0.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
AND
CHEAPEST
WATER
\ ELEVATOR
v -.KNOWN “
• ■ f ■ .j- ''■* > *
Knowles Steam Pumps
YVestinghouse Engines
Columbia. Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Pans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
OSCILLATOR puTfw qttt^u
me machines. URAIIM tjlliLll
Bathos
Bakin 9 Powder.
mm
.'■‘jv t.
mm
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
A & Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading- Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
looks, with cartridge machines ana cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s fid each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price t'lo 10s, reduced 63 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners oomplete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge inachinesand cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7los ea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s Od per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 187 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
J Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Niekle, Perry's, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz), Brakes (complete, 0,6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3,6, Brooke’s
Saddles 66, bieumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90,-. Send for trade Illustrated Price
hut. Guaranteed to supply 26 per cent, oheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lo| £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
Are *l3.® IB®®*.
We have them in Stock :
SINGLE AND DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULAES & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
