

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
u The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
•9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE—
-56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
i.
A
>-. c ,
R
c,Vo^
o C
p
V
R, A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
ot all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Rcston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln,England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam - driven HYDRO-KX
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.
manufactured bv Thomas Broadbkxt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mathki
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu
factored by the Culoridb Elbcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
HU!:! -r.v
3
- 'Ndi
PIONEER
LEATHER
"belting
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICiIc son, ltd,,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the _
- - Imperial 2S3Eot;©l
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
0. FOX, Proprietor.
Ask for
Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And. see tlxat you get; it;.
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
large stocks always on hand.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh>st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
"COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
(VOE
m
PROOF
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CISIRETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
HOBAR
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
Before viriting the Of/ wrfero the Manager for
Ord of Tariff, (prrejpondence promptly attended to.
TIEaiJE - -
(arosV^oorHot^l,
Grosvenor Square,
SYD3NTEY.
The only Hotel in the City with four clear Frontage*.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand.
The
Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
just-been received, speaking of this product, s&ys “ This Brandy was
judged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WUxvlni Ui)
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL.
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this class ABLE
TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD-ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.”
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY. A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 951. J
[Saturday, May 7, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
PER R.M.S. OROTAVA—
Gould (Nat), Gentleman Rider, 2s, post 2s 4d. : Savage's
Shadow of the Pyramid’s, 2s, post 2s 4d ; Farjeon's Grif,
2s Od and 3s Cd, post 3s and 4s ; St. Auhfci’s Fair Impostor,
? o an /l P 3a and 4s ; Homer’s Hernani, 2s 6a
ail j o P 3s 4s ; Carmichael’s Carstairs, 2s 6d
an j o * P osfc an( * 4s > Lorimer’s Josiah’s Wife, 2s 6d
and 3s Cd, post 3s and 4s ; Austin’s At Random, 2s 6d and
3s fid, post 3s and 4s ; Barrett’s Was She Justified, 6s, post
6 a s ; Coxs Prospecting-, ss, post 5s 6d ; Davies’Miner’s
Arithmetic, 4s Cd, post 5s ; Brook’s Street Railroads Loca-
„° n > post 7s ; Mills’ Railway Construction, 21s, post
22s ; Aflalo s British Vertebrates, 7s, post 7s 6d ; Simpson’s
Sine Lights on Siberia, 16s, post 17s ; Hardy and Bacon’s
Stamp Collector, 8s 6d, post 9s.
NEW AUSTRALIAN WORKS.—ROBERTSON’S
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
SIN, by Alex. Montgomery.
WHEN PASSION FLIES, by Gerald Wolf. Paper
covers, 2s fid, post 3s ; cloth, 3s fid, post 4s.
_™E DEVELOPMENT OF AUSTRALIAN LITERA-
TURE, by Henry Gyles Turner and A. Sutherland. Cr.
Bvo., 6s, post 5s Cd.
LORAIN E and Other Verses, by George Essex Evans,
with a portrait. Cr. Bvo., ss, post 5s fid.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, a Story of the
Australian Desert, &o. Picture boards, 2s, post 2s 4d.
Just Published: THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr. Philip
Muskett, author of “The Art of Living in Australia,”
reeding and Management of Australian Infants,” &c.
Wrapper, 2s fid, post 3s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
301 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
r | TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
JL Price Is. ; per post Is. 3d.
AMERICA v. SPAIN!
“ Cry havock! and let slip the dogs of war.”
Iho disturbance now going on round about Cuba will not
aliect the supply of
...CAMCO CIGARETTES ...
as our arrangements have been made with a view to such
a contingency, and all our Cigarettes and Tobaccos will be
shipped in British bottoms, and under the flag that has
“ braved a thousand years the battle and the breeze.’ 1
THE BED PAGE.
RATNBOWS AND WITCUES.
I remember, ever so long; ago,
At the other side of the world away
When rain would cease on an April day,
When the mountain mists would roll and rin
And the rainbow ride in the purple skies—
Dow they would say to us, * Run, dear heart.
Out where you see the bright bow start,
And there you will gather a heap of gold,
As much as ever your hands can hold ;
Out of the wood and beyond the gate,
Run for your fortune or you'll be late I *
How we would run 1 I remember still
The dangerous dash down the garden hill
And many a stumble and many a slip,
Our eager eyes on the rainbow-dip ;
Limbs a-weary but never a rest,
Beating hearts on the hopeless quest—
For the further we raced the further passed
The rainbow goal, till we tired at last.
0 golden years! ye are past and gone
With the far-off flash of a distant dream;
But still we are striving and straggling on
Chasing the gold and the rainbow gleam l
I remember, ever so long ago,
At the other side of the world away
As we in our tiny white cots lay'
Half in slumber and half-awake
Watching the nesting swallow take
(A moving shade on the blind so white)
His last trip home to his nest at night—
How they would say at our bedsides: ‘Soon,
Dear little heart, the great red moon
Will climb the sky to her fleecy seat,
Stars at her shoulder and stars at her feet;
And if you should wake to-night, dear heart,
When the night and morning meet and part,
And open your window ever so wide.
You II see where the brave broom-witches ride
Low to the fir-tops and high to the moon
With their peaky hats and their pointed shoon ;
And first of them all your lover so fair,
The moon-wind tossing her red-gold hair 1'
Our childish hopes they are dead lang syne,
But l wait at night with my window wide,
And many a lonely watch is mine
To see my love when the witches ride!
*.B.W.
WILL H. OQILVIB.
The Basis of Art.
Upon this ancient and tough subject a Foreign
Dogmatist called ‘Compton’ supplies something
winch is either a sermon or a text, and the Local
Dogmatist supplements what may be a text if it
isn t a sermon. And possibly a dash of suggestion
may spring when text smites text, or sermon
succeeds in banging the head of sermon. ‘Comp-
ton ’ begins—
Barren as the Burns controversy has been, i
has—hke occasional previous plunges of the ‘Rec
Page into Art polemics—accentuated the cry in'
need of criticism for something or anything liki
system. Argument, without admitted facts or
established generalisations, generally becomes
mere polarisation of personal dogmatisms. Dis-
putants immersed in fathomless incertitudes de-
duce such inferences as are not authenticated by
their unsupported say-so from vast general prin
eiples rapidly manufactured to Ruit the momentary
exigencies of the dispute. There is no canon by
which mouth-filling generalities can be tried, no
accepted principles from which definite con-
clusions can be evolved. (by which,
be it understood, is meant the consideration and
not the practice of Art principles) is apparently
the only realm of intellectual energy where each
man may still be a law unto himself. The writei
who proves Burns a great poet beoause of his
plenitude of ‘moral sense,’ the other writer who
regards him as a mere haggis-eating doggerelist
because of his scantiness in originality, his ad-
mirer who exults in his universality, and his
detractor who sees him tied to the earth, earthy,
all start by assuming that their particular point is
the point by which art in general is to he judged,
itaoh begins in the middle of things with whatever
premises he thinks proper, and ends, still in the
middle of things, with whatever conclusion he
thinks necessary.
[This is interesting ; but how does it apply? Is there
not, for example, an underlying inference that Some-
body here considered • Burns a great poet beoause of his
plenitude of “ moral sense"'? But nobody here so
considered. Is there not an underlying inference that
somebody here regarded Burns •as a mere haggis-
eating doggerelist?’ But nobody here so regarded.
Then there is a direct statement that such persons, wher-
ever they consider or regard, all stark, by assuming that
their particular point, Ac. But the statement itself is
assumption. So far as the Burns controversy is con-
cerned, it is erroneous assumption. Neither of the dis-
putants pretended to do more than voice his own views.
One begins to have a dreadful suspicion that ‘Compton*
has himself started in the middle of things, with the
premisses he thinks proper.]
Any effort to begin at the beginning would in-,
volve the questioning of all these and similar art-
prinoiples. Leaving out altogether the ‘ moral
sense ’ theory of Art (which, by the way, has just
been reinforced by another powerful spirit of
unreason, iolstoi, in his last book) take the pro-
position that true art-work should be ‘ universal.’
Perhaps it is true. But why is it true? Cer-
tainly not because a ‘ Bulletin ’ correspondent
asserts it ex cathedra. Nor yet because any
amount of other authority—all equally dogmatic
and unwarranted—can be got behind it. So far
as I have been able to see, no other grounds have
been hinted at. And yet, if a sound conclusion,
rt must rest upon visible foundations. Clearly,
either about matters of taste we must not dispute,
or if we dispute, we must bring the dispute into
the logical category, and conduct it orderly, ‘by
slow gradation and well-balanced form.'
[Unluckily for ‘Compton,' people will dispute about
matters of taste; and they can’t dispute logically,
because logic has no foothold. All that logio can do is
to argue that, there is no basis for argument. Then logic
is done. Here are two things: Man and a universe,
infinitely varying in space and time. Problem: to find
the spot and the moment when any given impression of
the universe, or part of it, will be received by two men in
exactly the same way, and with exactly the same force.
Why, there ain't any sicli a spot or moment—not
this side of eternity, anyway. Even supposing that
two identical brains ever existed, with two identical
sets of senses, there have never been two iden-
tical environments. So, applied to Taste, logic
has to begin by admitting that it can only get ap-
proximations, never accurate values for comparison.
Outside mathematics, discussion can never be more than
the for-what-it-may-be-worth affirmation of a personal
and exclusive emotion or judgment. So there is nothing
true except to the individual ; and if, for example, a
color-blind individual sees red as green, red is green for
him, and he can call this a Green Page if he chooses, and
be as right as anybody is.]
Nature raised to the manth power’ was the
bold and hopeful epigram by which a Bulletin
contributor once endeavored to express the
true inwardness of art achievement. A taking
pronouncement, its extreme condensation con-
ceals a failure in grasp for which that condensa-
tion is partly responsible. Expanded, it reads
that the object of Art is to pourtray Nature, but
to pourtray her not as she is, but as she appears
to the sensibility-and-imagination- fitted artist.
It is an effort—and a bold and good one—to dis-
tinguish Art from photography. The mind is un-
questionably a higher machinefor depicting Nature
than the camera. But, as usual, its epigram-
matic lucidity is the outcome of abortive general-
isation ; the facts are expressed tersely because half
of them are neglected. There are branches of Art
into winch Nature as subject matter does notenter
It seems quite evident that any sufficient formula
must include music in all its forms, as well as the
imitative arts. The intense similarity between
the phenomena presented and the emotions
excited by the two kinds compel the grouping of
them in one genus. The defiance of Prometheus
or the curse of Lear stirs the same dormant eino-
-rl >nal i rei ! a *. th ® thunder of the Fifth Symphony,
lhe Faculty, whatever it may be,
responds indifferently in the normal man to har-
mony and color—to poetry and song. Nothing
but small, specific differences divide the effects of
one art-manifestation from another, while, as a
group, they are generioally distinct from the
emotions which attend on spotting the winner or
seeing Clem. Hill caught at short-leg.
Tiie notes of the chromatic scale, which are the
elements of music, have no existence apart from
the purposes of the art, in the way in which the
elements of the plastic or verbal arts can be said
to exist. Observe. Of the six hundred billions of
colors in the spectrum, the artist is free to transfer
all, or as many as are practicable, to canvas.
They constitute his material, his vehicle. They
already exist in the external universe, no doubt,
though I am inclined to regard this as an accident
rather than an essential of the art. But from the
innumerable sounds existent “in Nature,” twelve,
arbitrarily picked out in certain arbitrary rela-
tions, form the entire material of the composer.
Music hangs upon this handful of arbitrary
relations. It depends, not upon middlb C being a
note of so many vibrations per second, but
upon B and D being separated by such and
such intervals from it, and upon the intervening
sounds (of which there are millions) being reso-
lutely ignored. This arbitrary suppression of
sound gradations, and the consequent arrival
at the ‘scale’ has no counterpart out-
side the art. The confused noises of the forest
and the street are not music. The voices of
Nature know nothing of diminished sevenths—
there is neither tonic nor dominant in the thunder
or the hurricane.
These entirely human musical intervals, un-
heard of and unguessed at ‘ in Nature ’ until some
unknown benefactor of the race invented them,
are the source and origin of the most amazing
aesthetic influences. The sweetness and lightness
of Mozartian melody spring from this selective
process based on an arithmetical juggle. Beet-
hoven stirs abysmal depths of feeling because he
deals in twelve oarefully-ohosen noises instead of
twelve million; the splendors of Wagnerian
orchestration are due to the fact that each note
vibrates just half as rapidly as its octave.
In all this there is very little reference to
nature, and long-continued settlement of every-
thing by nian, who, finding that certain noisns
please linn, selects and combines them as his
imagination and judgement dictate. That man
himself, with his whole mental bag of tricks, in-
tellect, imagination, and everything else, is part
of nature is true enough. But it does not affect
the point. The ‘ nature ’ which is to be raised
to the manth power is external nature, including
man, where necessary, objectively only. It is to
supply the passive subject for mam’s transform-
ing energy. And my contention is that in music
that imaginative energy uses its own products as
subject Were there no other man but the artist
i O ‘ TiW d Btl f b Jt m " s,c - though there might be
uo Fortunes of the Rougons. 9
an^ I< T’ ? b is c,ear that effects pro-
duced on the faculty (again, whatever
nf L^ Y - u arlBe frotn arl,itrar y combinations
a t kci*! phenomena, prmded by the imagina-
tion and judgement of the composer. The bolder
and subtler the imagination the deeper and more
genuine the effect.
[Now ‘Compton ’ interestingly and obviously ‘falls in ’
And observe, it is possible to say logically and decisively
that he falls in because there is involved-not a question
of Taste but-a question of Fact. Of course Music is
included in the sphere of Art But ‘Nature as subject
matter enters into * Music just as certainly as she
enters into Painting, or Sculpture, or any other
branch of Art. The human eye and ear select
the light - vibrations and sound - vibrations which
they are best fitted to select and that is
all about it. Probably some men’s ears have
more nerve-filaments than other men’s ears, and cer-
tainly other men's ears have nerve-filaments vibrating dif-
ferently from those in some men’sears ; and a man’s Music
is made for him, in the first instance, by the number and
kind of vibrations which his ear selects and conveys to
his brain. As men are more or less built on the same
pattern, their ears often select approximately the same
kind of sound-vibrations, and the hearing-centres in
their brains are often stimulated by those vibrations to
approximately the same reactions. But there is no
ground for affirmation that such-and-such a sound-vibra-
tion does not make Music.—for somebody. The confused
noises of the forest and the street often are Music
—for the man who finds them Music. Chinese
Music is Musio for the Chinese, though 'the
Chinese scale has but five notes. The modern
European system of Music dates from the 17th century ;
but was there no Music before the 17th century? Of
course there was ; there was Music whenever a sound-
vibration harmonised with a nerve-vibration. And the
‘imaginative energy ’ will use its own products as subject
when it can do without sound vibrations, and no sooner.
Now where are we 1]
Reproduction of already existent fact and form
is but one of the accidents of mundane art. j.
prion, any given combination of straight line
with curved is likely to be the copyright of som
alreadyexistingThing. ‘Thoseaccursed ancients
complains the writer, ‘have stolen all my bes
points. The artist and le bon Dieu have had the
same ideas— le bon Dieu had them first. Bot
artist minds—earthly and Cosmic—are emphati
cally creative, and there is incidental plagiarism
between them. It is a Pre-arranged Harmony
nothing more, and indicates neither the fact no
the desirability of imitativeness. In music, th
Composer has had the idea in advance of th
Creator.
The products of the imagination when function
ing in relation to the Faoulty (whatever
that may be once more) are Art.
Imagination is the imprimatur of art. It may
have a material basis or not, but when it has it is
not the material, but what imagination bodiei
forth from it, that constitutes Art. It is concernec
with 1 reduction, not with Re-produotion. Thai;
in certain spheres it can only re-produce is due to
the completeness of production in them. The
Iliing that Exists is an incident, not an essential.
That the idea of Art’s being necessarily either
irue or ‘Moral’ or ‘Universal’ is utterly
foreign to this ooncept goes without saying. Art
stands out of relation with all faculties except
one It owes no horn .ge to either the intellect or
the Moral Sense, save a shifting degree of obliga-
tion to avoid such intellectual repugnance as
would debar a free exercise of the HS«thetio
■Faculty. Some coherence in art work is neces-
sary for the manifestations of its merits. Im-
pressionism too pronounced in painting and in
literature, and musio too avowedly of the future
.®ri Vo 'iM blu^ ed anfl no .n-®atl>etio trace behind!
Ihe L hreo Musketeers' is not wholly reprehensible
intellectually. It hangs together just sufficiently
tor its brilliance to become manifest. To the
question How Much Intellect is wanted in Art
the answer is that the demand is purely subjective,
and differs with each spectator. One man will
see nothing but beauties in ‘East Lynne’ or the
Divine Comedy ’; the judgement of another will
be outraged to the extent of strangling all satisfac-
tion.
Recent economic speculations have familiarised
us with the idea that where there is no Want
there is no Utility—that Utility is not an intrinsic
quality but a relation. So in Aesthetics, we must
be prepared for the conception that Art-merit
depends on the satisfactory fulfilment of a rela-
tion with Faculty. A steam whistle churning
out melodies in the midst of Infinite Space would
be mechanism only. Not till the cherubs and
seraphs came along would it be music. Where
there is no appreciation there is no Art.
P.S.— A local celebrity in these parts can ‘dog-
howl with singular effectiveness, and impart a
most depressing human mournfulness to the
canine yelp. It is Nature raised to the manth
power par excellence. But it is not Music.
[‘Compton’rashly proceeds to build up, after having
pulled down, and we learn that Art, is the product of the
imagination when functioning in relation to a;. This is
very profound—a: is always profound—hut it doesn't help
the anxious enquirer too much. ‘Compton’ seems to
hold that Art is ‘ Nature ’ (and occasionally something else)
* raised to the manlh power.’ Now, what else is there ?
Admit his contention that Man is subject and Nature
object, Man can’t spin his Art out of himself, like old
Jack Robertson’s 1 hical telegraph-wire spider. ‘Comp-
ton pins his fond faith to Musio—in other words, to
sound-vibrations raised to the manth power — selected
and combined by the human brain. But the human
brain merely invented the combination ; it didn't in-
vent the vibrations. These were already existing in.
Nature: Man merely raised them to bis own power.
Obviously the sound-vibrations are external to the
musician ; if they were not, a man stone-deaf might be
a master-composer. ‘Compton’ is really affirming the
local thesis without knowing it. As to the dog-howling
gentleman: it doesn’t follow that because Music is Nature
raised to the manth power, therefore Nature raised to
tit ? manth power is Music. And, finally, that remark
about the relation of Art to Madame N. and Monsieur M.
was never given as a definition—only as a suggestion.
And
Agnes Ben bam writes—
Your note on Edward Maitland (March 19) will bea
supplement. The candid investigating spirit which di
tinguished the earlier Maitland was characteristic of hi
to the end, but many years before he died hi3 menta
position had entirely changed, and the agnostic author o
‘ The Pilgrim and the Shrine ' wrote in tones of unfalte
ing certainty upon the themes he once thought it im-
possible to arbitrate upon. Kindred souls still find
worth while to f dlow Maitland’s curious researehe
into the mystic Borderland between Flesh and Spiri
His language is always particularly lucid, and his styl
masterly. In the preface to ‘The Soul, and how it fount
me,’ ne says, with a brief touch cf sarcasm, that ‘ nowa
days most people are not only wholly undeveloped as t
the inner regions of their nature, but are proud so to lie.
That little book, the record of strange personal experi
ences, was the prelude to his ‘magnum opus,’ ‘Th
Perfect Way,’ which he wrote in conjunction with Anna
KingSiord. This book is wholly concerned with ‘ th
supreme questions, Whence come we ? What are we
Whither go we?’ and is profoundly mystical, yet no
unintelligible to minds accustomed to wander in simila
fields of thought. To those on more ordinary levels the
appendices should appeal as beautiful expressions o
poetry in prose form. The following verses describe the
state of exalted consciousness and spiritual sympathy
experienced by all poetic souls in moments of rapl
ecstasy—
The personality of the poet is divine; and, being divine,
it hath no limits.
He is supreme and ubiquitous in consciousness: his heart
beats in every element.
The pulses of all the infinite Deep of Heaven vibrate in
his own : and, responding to their strength and their
plenitude, he feels more intensely than other men.
Not merely he sees and examines tlies- rocks and trees;
these variable waters and these glittering peaks:
Not merely he hears this plaintive wind, these rolling
peals: °
But he is all these: and with them—nay, in them—he
rejoices and weeps, and shines and aspires, and sighs
and thunders.
And when he sings, it is not he—the man—whose voice
is heard: it is the voice of all the manifold Nature
herself.
In his verse the Sunshine laughs; the Mountains give
forth their sonorous echoes ; the swifs Lightnings
flash. "
The great continual oadence of universal Life moves and
bpcotnes articulate in human language.’
This tmy be transcendentalism ; but it expresses phases
of emotion sufficiently common in human experience to
be accepted (figuratively at least) by most of us. Eien
Harriet Martineau, a particularly level-headed writerof the
last generation, leaves upon record the ecstasy she ex-
perienced when, looking on the glorious prospect from
a mountain-top, she realised her oneness with the Uni-
verse. But though emotion may bring through sym-
pathy a sense of kinship, intellectual processes are less
easily communicable, and it is to be feared that the bulk
of Hie Perfect Way ’ will remain caviare to the general.
Spiritual knowledge requires to be apprehended by spiri-
tual faculties, and these tatter are. little esteemed or cul-
tivated nowadays. Should anyone feel tempted, how-
ever, to asoertain how much of mystical teaching ma y be
received by the intellect alone, he will find nothing to
offend him in the clear English and scholarly style which
remained to the very last characteristic of Edw. Maitland;
and he may find much to attract.


ms
y
♦
v*:
•w
54.
4
fl ’
AND
Sydney’s beading Specialists,
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who lias lost his will-power, by continually
committing' himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the wa *b o
life, should, without delay, consftlt these emimnt Special its. Now', the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endoised ireatmen o
Drs.FREEMAN&WALLACE
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last ” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they ate willing to Sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes ?
Do' the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back ?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains ?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak ?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This'affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet ?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ? ■
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches ?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
.All Trams stop at the Boor.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, leyi-
bility, and -secrecy are’ obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
Who,' through false modesty-, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
s
f \ Ww,
;>
P* c h\&
jg> TtPE-- t v4i^
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
m
•Z\ -
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or Including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Please mention this Paper when Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
Young* men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—‘
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to be the
Equal of your Fellow-man ?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
this element can recover it. They can he strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can be found in-the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M.R-.0.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
r ATROPHY in Men
Waited or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb.
WEAK BACKS.
lamp: back,
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
i BAIN in the BACK,
whether the result of a
strain, cold, exposure,
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism, stooping,
hard work, or dissipa-
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and permanently
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.”
It sends a soothing,
wanning, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes RIGHT TO -THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation of blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
remedy for weak back. Read all about it in the little
“ Book No. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
1." Address:— Magnetic Elast’c Truss Co.,
San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL & CO, 158
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHNI PURANTS
[-Sffrs
,Rrfce4fePterßto.
FULL DIRECTIONS]
. ENCLOSEOf 'J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4‘6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
ITIHE MODERN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice ef quacks and pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still more flaming books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us «nd we will correspond
with you by return post.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, : y
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/8.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot rne_ '-bores above.
Name
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
s’. ares in the above.
Name.
Address
June 4,
ELLESMERE S.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
ROSEHILL 0. June 25.
To TATTERS ALL.
Address
Australian Waterloo C. July 12 , 14, 15.
100,000 Subßorilbera at S.
Address
£ t g
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Hedacers
‘friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafds, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Tears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestio
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life )
A d v e n.
tures, and
Oonfes- 1
sions I
of a |
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand's ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the beet
you over read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
*2 TRANSPARENT CARDS, Bs.'
SECRET
' Photos,
ls.
LOVERS
Package
H,
Supply Agency,
» Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
£3T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,’
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
NEW MUSIC.
“ Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms," a right morn
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse ’
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers. If.
PAXTON & CO., 1!) Oxford Street, London, anc
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
TJ ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
J ~ i - and PIANO. “Martha," “Robert le Diable,’
“Crown Diamonds," “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera," “II TroVa
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Alspjvrfahged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & <30., London
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
4 GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
A stories), Is. Sd.
RBB5ra
m
UWWV\AJ
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6«1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratia.
Fred KCageix
(Late D. A. Vindin 4t Oo.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.8.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£lO 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SIMILE OF
ROYUTESTIMONIJU.
OKO
FOR THE
Yrade mark
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
Oju
s && u* 1 tfp.
jfUrfLo *IA& '4\C^w\. ) AS3
"&C/vfc *3
c l>t ukji. J kssJii &><>£-,
®/u/vix^ t '- / C 4^
'£'\s*4S^j g
tt44
KOKO
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and its
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoub'edlythe Be stPrera ration for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Coo', & Invigorat*- g. i-, 2 6 * 4 6 «iz s, cf all Chemists,
Stores Ac. THE KOKO '-•A* l ~ pnc - ' ' - ""'"nM, ENG.
LOOK AT OUR PRICES !
We be* to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
Our special
No. 2.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
S SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Be. MACKENZIE'S Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Delicious.y and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmfessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes :“ I find Dr. Mackenzie s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent. This Soap
cures je AOB lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or pufhness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles,
wiliest for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. I rice 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD., $, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained whorovor
Tinned Fruit la aold.
POWDER
7 'he best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion In the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders. Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not language, but laughter, was given man
to conceal his thoughts. We mask every emotion
with a grin. Man is the laughing animal because
he has so much to hide.
A clever woman knows when modesty is the
best policy. A foolish one forgets that her dispo-
sition should match her complexion with even
nore accuracy than her dress.
“It is my firm belief that in fifty—say a
hundred —years priests and parsons, in common
with other fortune-tellers, will be prosecuted under
the Vagrancy Acts.” —“A Drama in Muslin.”
Fuzz: “How about kissing the court-
Bible ? When five of the filthiest vagrants,
before Melb. City Court lately, asked to be
allowed to 4 kiss the buke ’ and swear away their
souls, the ordinary court-Bible was gingerly handed
to them and it was kissed by the lips of the whole
gang. All in court shuddered, and those who had
not done so before (‘ me too ’) vowed to take the
Scotch oath in future, or blow out a wax-match,
or cut off a rooster’s head. To give an idea of the
loathsomeness of those five creatures, it was in
evidence that one of their number habitually used
their living-room as a —oh, well! let’s change the
subject. ,J
The Song of the Linemen.
O, it’s out in the West, on the plains so wide,
That a man is an ant on the farther side,
Where the winds are hot, and the earth is dry,
And the sunset flames in a blood-red sky ;
Where there’s never a soul on the way to be met,
And there’s drought and hunger and cold and wet
From end to end of the country-side—
That’s where the telegraph linemen ride.
O, it’s up and away while the sun’s abed,
There’s a cross or a break in the lines ahead ;
There’s a fault to find, or a leak to mend,
There’s a mate to be met at the other end ;
There are floods to brave, and there’s horses to
drown
When they pass the word that the lines are
down.
O, it’s up in the heart of the desolate North,
Where the tyrant Sun goes fiercely forth,
Where the cyclone whistles in fiendish glee,
And the floods come down like a mighty sea.
In the thick scrub-ways, where the lawyer clings,
In the dark and the damp, where the tangle springs,
Where the wild blacks lurk and the saurians hide—
That’s where the Telegraph linemen ride.
O, it’s up and away while the Sun’s abed,
There’s a cross or a break in the lines ahead,
There’s a fault to find, or a leak to mend,
There’s a mate to meet at the other end ;
There are floods to brave, and there’s horses to
drown,
When they pass the word that the lines are down.
That’s where the telegraph linemen go
From early morn till the sun is low,
Thro’ the scrubs and gullies, the hills among,
With the clinking tools in their saddles hung,
Under the wires when the great gaunt poles
Sing the sorrows of saddened souls—
Of men who strayed from the tracks and died—
That’s where the telegraph linemen ride.
O it’s up and away while the sun’s a-bed,
There’s a cross or a break in the lines ahead,
There’s a fault to find, or a leak to mend,
There’s a mate to be met at the other end ;
There are floods to brave, and there’s horses to
drown,
When they pass the word that the lines are down.
Q.
FRANCIS KENNA.
From the Siding.
When the sun has been hot on the sand,
And the day has been weary and long,
And the last load is dumped at the siding,
And the team doesn’t want any guiding—
Then the crickets chirp up with a song
And a sweetness comes over the land.
And the plover comes over the plain
With a flap and a check and a run,
While the cool, scented breath of the hollow
Seems to call to the twilight to follow,
And to whisper 44 good-bye ” to the sun;
As he dips in the west once again.
And it’s Oh ! for the turn of the track
And the next hill, but one, to our own,
Where there’s someone who waits for the rattle
Of the waggon ard harness and cattle,
And the clang of the wheel on the stone
As I pass by the way, coming back.
There’s an eye like an emu’s to gleam
With the flash and the flame of a star
When it catches a glimpse thro’ the mallee
On the opposite side of the valley,
Where the great golden wattle-trees are,
Of a man coming home with a team.
NIL.
“In Dreams They Sang.”
When stars are clear
And Night’s great kindly light is beating near,
P rom Vaulted Deep the voices leap and flood the
dreaming ear.
An airy rhyme,
The wings of Music softly beating time,
A falling sweet of fairy feet that trip to cherub
chime.
A battle-song
That rings and rolls the serried hills along,
Mid thunder-peal of giant-heel that grinds the
throat of Wrong.
A gentle theme,
From tender voice a-tune where love-lamps
gleam ...
I would to God my dreams were Life, or Life
were all a dream !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established Proyidcpt Society,
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors :—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 07 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Established 1849.
■-
y.
_ m<LUSTVE.OF ALL MEALS AMD ATTENDANCE
Australia
y K M?ore^
HoHoytr
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
(Under Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst the Fashionable Quarter.
Gloucester Road,
London, S.W.
WHITE HEATHER
whisky.
TATTEIiSALL’S HOTEL & CAEE,
[•V
;«an.rt
lllMlLlHllilllllllUmiUlllH
uan^
S£
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Electric Light.
Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF: -
Bs. per Day upwards.
"• ADAMS, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Pridr/eworli.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
King-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL -
PALACE
MELBOURNE
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. 85?" All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
• • •
A GREAT TRIUMPH
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing'
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street
and see the rworiderful new invention used with
such great success by
E - J - & D. CURRAKT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
DRINK
ES»J OVSItLXIEyJ
«• •;»*
|j.‘SPECIACf
? e sdi
f/-y.
m\
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 'is now
payable on renewal of Dohcies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between*
'Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office : 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
• , 1 ,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD..-,-.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuifies-*vith-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M. L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruck Smith.
Resident Secretary :A. Ross Miller. 1
Funds exceed £2,000,000. *
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. »PARK, A. I. A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo»' rl h.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. IriabUty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhae. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. . 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting Jixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yankee Poodle. f
The Sales of this one .Brand alone, were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cbaippioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug. ' ' ' '
CoijqCieror.
New and Old. The Working-man’s Choice. v
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)t€QQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars-
(lmported). The Club Favorite Moiiopole, Rothschilds.
Bonanza—4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 951.
SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1898.
Price, 6d.
ALL OVER THE SHOP.
LONDON, May 1, 4.25 p.m.—ln response to
the call of the President, for volunteers, no
fewer than 700,000; have offered their ser-
vices. Among them are “Bob” .Fitzsimmons,
J. L. Sullivan, and James Corbett, the cham-
pion and ex-champlon pugilists.
"Jn the illustration above John L. is seen punching
holes .with his fist in a Spanish collier—that is to say,
cruiser, dangerously near the water-line; while Cor-
bett and Fitzsimmons
are doing great things
in the boat at the /3M§f
left. / vjy
“ Can you tell me, my child, what is the
principal function of the daily press 1 ”
“ Yes, sir. It is to tell lies for pennies
and then swallow the lies ! ’’
“ Child, you are not such a fool as you
look ! ”
Loudon, Friday Afternoon.—
British and American war-cor-
respondents will follow the
American blockading squadron
everywhere in fast dispatch
boats.
And the Father of Lies will
gnash his teeth with envy as he
“ follows ” their “ reports ” from
day to day in his morning paper.
Mr. Lyne says that the Federation Bill
would bring about a civil war.
“ Hell hath no fury ” »like a politician
who finds that he has tumbled down on
the wrong side of the fence.
tHewar
Federation,
<7/ THE TICK PEST.
In consequence of the outbreak of ticks at Brisbane a pro-
clamation was issued in a supplement to the “ Government Gazette ” yesterday ab-
solutely prohibiting for a period of six months the introduction or importation by
land or sea of any cattle or horses from the following portion of the province of Queens-
land : —“ On the west by the 148th meridian ;on the north by the present quaran-
tine line, as proclaimed on February 25, 1898; on the east by the Pacific Ocean;
and on the south by the boundary dividing the provinces of New South Wales and
Queensland.”
All the same, the ticks will manage to evade the law somehow.
will ; hJ l lL Plaint l fT and f, f ndant a PP eared in person.” Such
Norton. Inade ln Ule Hbel action, Caulfield v “
on Ilcoholismr “ ’ Tw ° a authorities
THE LICENSED VICTUALLERS’
PICNIC.
“ Mr. Reid (the Premier), who was received
with loud applause, expressed the great
pleasure which he felt at being the guest of
the association. There was one matter in
which Mr. Lyne, Mr. Copeland, and himself,
although bitter political opponents, had stood
side by side, and that was the. determination
that the licensing trade of this country should
receive something like fair play. (Cheers.)
He had always been a strong opponent of -what
had been called local option.” (“Hear, hear ”)
The omnibus proprietors’ association held its first annual fiicn.V 1, at . -


Province
Revenue
handed over
to Common-
wealth.
Expenditure
taken over,
including
interest on
value of
properties
transferred.
Amount
required
to adjust
Finances.
New South Wales
Victoria
South Australia...
West Australia ...
Tasmania
£2,260,942
2,623,051
894,830
1,298,642
422,539
£1,203,181
943,462
332,273
395,727
128,017
£1,057,761
1,679,599
562,567
902,915
294,522
Total
£7,600,004
£3,002,650
£4,497,354
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A ’WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Twa Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communientions
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified ami stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendiiig MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or icash, of sufficient merit
atid interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be p'aid for same on acceptance . Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture irhich has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion oiily. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon ami Gotch, Ludgatc Circus; Street
<k Co., CornhUl.
South Africa.— 11. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiie Transvaal: -F. //.
Solomon and Co., 28 Uout st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—H\ M. Smith ,{: Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Austral in,
Westralia and Afaorlland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the. annual sub-
scription outside N.S. H ales (except (Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription-is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to' Queensland wili be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To case off in some degree the buvdeii of the unreason able
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thy nil c-
paper edition o/Tiib Bulletin is now sent to Queensland
SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1898.
The Fat Man’s Capital.
The struggle of the aggregate Fat Man of
Australia to secure the Federal capital for
his own province is one of the curious side-
issues of the Commonwealth movement. To
Fat Man, the selection of his city as the seat
of Government means much hard cash, and
the Stout Personage is pursuing, that cash
with murder in his eye and a desperate
resolve in his soul. The trouble over the
Federal city lies mostly in New South Wales,
for a number of perfectly obvious reasons.
Hobart, Perth and Adelaide were practically
out of the running from the start, none of
their provinces having sufficient influence to
stand any reasonable chance of grabbing the
coveted distinction. Then Sydney claimed
the right against Melbourne, as the older
city, and the one which smelt a shade better,
and the original capital of the original pro-
vince, and the place with the Beautiful Har-
bor, and the political centre of the State with
the largest population, and for a number of
other reasons. The fact that the Conven-
tion did not definitely locate the capital
in Sydney or its immediate vicinity
was the point at whicli the Corn-
stalk Fat Man and the Federal cause
parted company. Yet the expectation that
the Convention would definitely fix the
capital anywhere was wildly ridiculous, inas-
much as it is impossible to say, till the popu-
lar vote is taken next June, which provinces
are coming into the league and which are not,
.and if the Convention had fixed the capital
in a State which ultimately stood out of the
union, the Commonwealth would find itself
in the curious situation of having its poli-
tical centre in foreign territory. The only
possible course was the one adopted— to wait
till it was decided what States the Common-
wealth was to consist of, and be guided by
the result. But the Cornstalk capitalist
ignored everything in his eager reaching out
for the profits, and as New South Wales was
the only province which came within measur-
able distance of grabbing the coveted dis-
tinction, it is also the only one which is
bitterly disappointed at its failure.
* * * *
To the Lean Man it matters practically
nothing whether his city becomes the Federal
centre or not. But if the capital were
planted in Melbourne, or Adelaide, or
Sydney, or any existing city, the local owner
of dirt and bricks and mortar would profit
materially. The presence of the Governor-
General, and the Federal offices, and the
Federal Parliament, and the hangers-on of
all these institutions, would probably, in a
few years, mean an addition of 40,000 people
to the normal population. This would mean
that the great multitude of empty houses
would be occupied, and when the demand
for house-room once more got ahead of the
supply the Fat Man who owned the premises
would be in a position to raise the rent all
round on the Lean Man who occupied them.
With the increase of rents the value of
houses and allotments would increase also.
The capital value of lands and houses in
Sydney and its suburbs alone has gone down
no less than £22,000.000 in the last four
years—beginning with the year when the
decline of population first commenced. The
capital value of Melbourne and its suburbs
has declined about as heavily since the year
when the slump in population originally set
in. Assuming that the establishment of the
Commonwealth’s political centre in either of
these cities meant 40,000 extra population—
which, though mere guess-work, doesn’t
seem an unreasonable guess—it would re-
pair, and more than repair—the downfall in
either city. It would make the population,
and the consequent demand for houses and
allotments, bigger than it was even in the
glittersome days that preceded the deluge.
It would mean a temporary resurrection of
the boom—and the Fat Man reaches out
after it for all he is worth.
• • * •
The idea of the Fat Man of New South
Wales is to make it a hard-and-fast condi-
tion that the Federal city shall be either in
Sydney or its immediate vicinity, or, at the
very least, in some definite place in New
South Wales where lie can buy up land in
view of the rise ; and, failing that concession,
that his province should stand out. In this
r spect his position is unique. If either
South Australia, Tasmania, or Westralia
attempted to make such a condition the short
and simple answer would be that they could
stand out and be not very much missed.
Even the defection of Victoria, though a
very great disaster, would leave a compara-
tively small gap in the acreage of the Com-
monwealth. But without New South Wales,
a large province and the most populous of the
group, I ederation would be a very lame and
apologetic affair indeed. That province
comes nearer to being absolutely essential
than any other, and for that reason it
is in the best position to make terms.
It is also, by reason of the 80,000 mini-
mum vote required to assure the acceptance
of the Constitution, the one where opposi-
tion will most easily turn the scale, or again
it is in the best position to make terms.
And the Fat Man has, in Sydney alone,
£22,000,000 worth of good personal reasons
for desiring the people of New South Wales
to make these particular terms, and no
others. As he can’t well state these reasons,
the railway question and the control of
©stem rivers serve as plausible excuses ;
also all manner of Fat Men who were never
before suspected of democratic tendencies
are bitterly grieved because the Federal
Senate is based on the equal representation
of the States, and thus violates somewhat
the sacred principle (which no Fat Man was
ever troubled about before) of government
by the majority. But there is no actual
cash in any of these things, and there is
much cash in the question of locating the
Federal city in Sydney or its immediate
vicinity. And The Bulletin uncharitably
guesses that Fat Man is thinking about the
cash which he doesn’t mention a great deal
more than about the sacred democratic
principle which he does.
* • * *
If the present Bill is rejected there is
always a bare possibility of getting together
another Convention, and making the location
of the capital in Sydney or its vicinity an
absolute condition without which N.S. Wales
will not come into the union. There is also
a chance of leaving out of the next Draft
Bui that troublesome clause which declares
that the capital must not be State territory,
and which thus practically shuts out all the
existing cities from the coveted honor and
the loot. As matters are now there is no
absolute certainty that the centre of the
Commonwealth will be in New South Wales-
and if it is there must be a practically new
city built on ground tvliich belongs to the
\ ederal State, and where the State will reap
the profits-not built in the place where it
will help to enhance the value of the Fat
Man s property, and thus enable him to raise
the Lean Man’s rent. Therefore, the position
of Fat Man is perfectly intelligible. He is
sticking closely to the principles by which ho
became Fat. But why certain sections of
the Lean Man community should aid him in
this matter is wholly past understanding.
If the Federal centre was fixed in Sydney
the consequent influx of population would
boom up land values and rents to the old
magnificent figure—and the great aggregate
Lean Man would have to pay these rents? or
a great part of them. There is no guarantee,
after the first influx of population had sub-
sided, and the new capital had found its new
level, that there would be any permanent
increase of work or wages. The influx
wouldn’t be caused by increased manufac-
tures or increased foreign commerce, which
do create an active demand for labor : and
in any case, experience doesn’t that
wages are any higher or the proportion of
unemployed any less m a city of 500,000
people than m one of 400,000. The Lean
Mans share of the benefit would probably
be a half-share in the empty honor of having
the capital in his province ; the Fat Man
would get the other half of the empty honor
and practically all the cash. Therefore,
when the Fat Man calls on him to protest
because the possession of the Federal capital
isn’t assured to his particular city, his logical
answer should be that the capital isn’t his
r, i t r j i ,
funeral. In short, when the Tory who has
many milhons at stake asks the Democrat
who has no money at stake to stand by him
on purely democratic principles, the latter
should regard his sudden ally’s unwonted
anxiety about democratic principles with
grave suspicion.
Coghlan’s Federal Nightmare.
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan has issued a
definite pronouncement on the financial aspect
of the Federation Bill, and his decision is that
four States (Victoria, S.A., Tasmania and Wes-
tralia) must “ go broke ” under the proposed
system unless the alleged surplus of N.S.W. is
confiscated and divided among them. As
Coghlan himself puts it, the other States can
only “ be saved at the expense of N.S.W., who
will bear the whole burthen of Federation, and
pay for the relief of the other States from
interprovincial duties.” This gloomy prognosti-
cation has created great joy in the camp of the
Little Cornstalk Party, and has gladdened the
Cabbage-Tree Mob beyond expression. And
yet, despite Coghlan’s reputation as a man of
figures, The Bulletin has not the least hesita-
tion in saying that, in this case, his inferences
are wrong and his assumptions too thin, and
that lie arrives by way of an empty theory at a
conclusion that has nothing in it.
• • • •
The Federal financial difficulty begins with
this preliminary trouble. The federating pro-
vinces will hand over to the Commonwealth
their right to levy customs and excise, and
their postal and telegraph revenue, &c. By
this means they surrender, among them,
£7,500,004 of annual income. They will also
be relieved by the Commonwealth of expendi-
ture to the amount of £3,002,650 per annum,
and things will stand as follows (Coghlan’s
figures):
On the surface of things this looks quite simple
and easy of settlement—but it isn’t. For, in
the first place, part of the above revenue arises
from interprovincial duties, and as they are to
be abolished under Federation the States will
give up millions of revenue, but the Com-
monwealth won’t receive 7i millions. There-
fore, the Commonwealth, if it proposes to make
up the loss on interprovincial duties by extra
foreign duties, will have to pile up its tariff
very high. Secondly, the Commonwealth has
to make the tariff uniform in all the States,
and (for five years, at all events) an ac-
count is to be kept of each province’s
share of the revenue, and its correct proportion
of the expenditure, and each province is to get
back its own exact fraction of the surplus.
And if the Federal tariff is made so high that
-Tasmania, which has more than twice as large
a customs revenue per head as N.S.W., can
pay its share of the Federal expenses out of its
own customs and excise receipts, and yet get
back £294,000 a year to keep its finances
square, then N.S.W. will get back no less than
.£2,310,000 a year instead of the £1,057,000
which, so it is alleged, is all the province re-
quires. And as a further trouble, it is just
possible that no tariff which could be invented
would raise enough revenue (after the loss of
the interprovincial duties) to enable Tasmania
to pay its share of the Federal expenditure
out of customs and excise, which Cogh-
lan apparently assumes it must do, and
get back the above-mentioned £294,000. For
a oO per cent, tariff often so far reduces
imports as to yield less than a 30 per cent, one,
and a 500 per cent, tariff is apt to yield nothing
fit fill,
* * * *
Therefore Coghlan’s inference is that the
small provinces, being unable by any imagin-
able lederal tariff to raise enough (after the
loss of the interprovincial duties) to pay their
share of the Federal expenses, and to cover
their local expenses as well, must either default
°V™ ir P ublic (lebt > or else seize the alleged
JN.k.W. surplus to divide among them. And
I hr bui.LKTiN s theory is : (1) That there is no
earthly reason why the Federal expenses should
come out of customs and excise at all ; (2)
that there is no need either to default or
to confiscate the alleged N.S.W. surplus; (3)
that there is no N.S.W. surplus to confiscate,
in any case.
• * * •
Ihe N.S.W. Statistician starts by the as-
sumption, which may or may not be correct,
: 6ral Government will require
£l,/oU,OOO for its own purposes. Then he
assumes, which is altogether incorrect, that:
The Braddon clause of the Bill fixes the customs and
excise rex enue at four times the sum taken by the Govern-
wfonnmii °' v " P ur .P os ? s - FoUr times *1,760,000 are
.i(i,!)0(),000, and this is the minimum sum which the
nnirpH l ! J ajru'f raise to s?Wfe the revenue re-
qin red bj the Central Government.
As a nutter of fact, however, under the
Braddon Blot/ the customs and excise
revenue may be twice or three times or 100
times the amount taken by the Federal Govern-
ment for its own purposes. All that the famous
Blot specifies is that not more than one-fourth
of the customs and excise revenue may betaken
for Federal purposes—it may be any amount
less, however. Therefore, if the Federal ex-
penditure is £1,750,000 a year, the Federal
Government may collect £6,900,000 customs
and excise, and keep £1,750,000 and return
£5,150,000 to the States. Or it may collect
£5,000,000 by a comparatively small tariff, and
return it all, and pay its own expenses out of
direct taxation. Or it may collect £6,000,000
and keep one million, or balf-a-million, or £5,
and return the balance, and pay the rest of its
expenses by direct taxation. * In short, the
States require 4| millions returned to them out
of the customs and excise. That amount can
be returned out of a £5,000,000 tariff, and yet
leave half-a-million towards the Federal ex-
penses, the balance being raised by direct taxa-
tion. And £5,000,000 can be raised with ease,
despite the abolition of interprovincial duties.'
* * * *
( Coghlan’s next point is that the Federal
Government can’t raise money by direct taxa-
tion, for these reasons:—
That any additional direct taxation can be imposed it
would be absurd to suppose. In Tasmania, income-taxes
run from Bd. to Is. ; in Victoria, from 4d. to Is. Id. • in
-Australia, from 4J*>d. to Is. Land-taxes exist in
all the provinces save Western Australia, and their exten-
sion for Federal purposes would be impossible. With a
revenue of £7,000,000 and a surplus of £5,260,000, the
portion coming: to no province except New South Wales
would suffice for its needs, and the other four States
would inevitably come to financial ruin unless the
Federal Government face the situation and levy land, in-
come or property taxes for Federal purposes in addition
to such taxes as already exist.
This off-hand method of settling the question
isn’t evidence, however; it is only the slam-
ming down of a thin assertion which is of no
earthly account. Westralia can impose a land-
tax. Victoria can certainly stand as heavy a
land-tax as N.S.W., which allows room for a
large increase. Hie S.A. tax can likewise
bear levelling up to the N.S.W. standard, or
something near it. At present there is no beer
or tobacco excise either in Tasmania or W.A.
There is no dividend tax in S.A., Westralia
or \ ictoria, and S.A. is the only province
with either a graduated land-tax or an
absentee-tax. There is also no income-tax,
as in Britain, on interest paid to foreign bond-
holders. And Cog hi. an himself shows, in his
“ Seven Colonies,” that Maoriland contrives to
pay about ss. per head per annum more in
direct taxation than the most heavily-taxed of
the Australias, which knocks the alleged im-
possibility on the head considerably. If Vic-
toria chose to levy direct taxation on the Maori-
land basis it could raise another £300,000
a year or even more. Further, Coghlan
swells his Federal expenditure by insisting
that the Commonwealth shall immediately add
£322,000 a year to the military expenditure,
and there is no reason why it should be dead cer-
tain toadd any such sum till things improve. He
leaves out such large possibilities as a 4 percent,
totalisator-tax, a tax on foreign insurance com-
panies, and a saving of anything up to a million
per annum by the conversion of the public
debt—a conversion to even so high a rate as 3|
per cent, would save Tasmania no less than
£50,000 a year and Victoria about £300,000.
Also, he ignores the fact that the trouble all
arises through the abolition of interprovincial
duties ; even if the provinces can’t pay more
direct taxes now, which is bald assertion rest-
ing on no evidence, yet when under Federation
they pay £600,000 a year less in interpro-
vincial duties they will be able to pay
£600,000 more direct taxation with the money.
The Coghlan theory seems to be that, though
they will save a vast amount in interprovincial
duties, they won’t be able to pay anything else
with the money.
* • * »
At all events, if the other provinces, when
the readjustment comes five years after the be-
ginning of the Federal tariff, do annex N.S. W.’s
alleged surplus of £1,253,000, it will be
N.S.W.’s own fault. Only by a wholly dis-
honest system of book-keeping will there be
any such apparent surplus to seize. The pro-
vince is making its accounts square this year
by charging about £BOO,OOO of unproductive
expenditure to loans, and it has also had a
pretty regular deficit, by Coghlan’s own
figures, for a number of years. If its financiers
like to turn honest and pay their way, there
will be no surplus worth mentioning for any-
body to annex, supposing anybody should desire
to annex it. And, in any case, the difficulty is
a good seven years ahead, and seven years
hence things will almost certainly be so much
changed that Coghlan won’t know his own
bad dreams of the year ’9B. If that gentleman
likes to look at things as they were seven years
back, and build an estimate on them as to how
things ought to be but aren’t this year, the re-
sult would be rather astonishing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
That Con mission.
The Government of N.S.W.—which is mostly
either hostile or lukewarm on the Federal
movement —has appointed a commission con-
sisting of I)r. M‘Laurin, Bruce Smith, and
J. Russell French to consider what effect
Federation will have on the N.S.W. finances.
The Bulletin is anxious to help the Commis-
sion all it can, and, as the first essential is a
clear understanding of the points which have
to be considered before a decision can be arrived
at, it suggests the following questions. The
answers, when carefully thought out and
summed up, will enable the Commission to say
clearly what effect Federation will have on the
cash condit ion of N.S.W., or any other place
(1) What kind of men will form the Commonwealth
Parliament, and, being that kind of men, what kind of
tariff will they naturally produce, and how much will it
yield at first and afterwards, and also later than after-
wards ?
(2) What effect will that tariff have in increasing or
diminishing or diverting the foreign trade of the Com-
monwealth ? . .
(3) What effect will the abolition of interprovmcial
duties have on the same trade?
(4) Will the Commonwealth take over and convert the
public debt, and, if so, what rate of interest will it pa,\,
and how much will it save? When will it do the conver


sion, and will the money market be disturbed at the
time, and, if so, how much, and will the Treasurer at the
time of the conversion make a good job of it, or will he
be an incapable who doesn’t know when to come out of
the wet ?
(5) Will the Commonwealth take over the railways ; if
so, when, and on what terms, and will it also take over
the work of railway construction, and, if it does, what
policy will it follow about a uniform gauge and other
things?
(6) When will war come this way, and will the Common-
wealth win or not, and, if it wins', would the unfederated
provinces have lost, and, if it is licked, how much more
badly would they have been licked, and how much extra
would the performance have cost?
(7) How liiuih will the Federal Government cost, and
how much will be saved on the cost of the Provincial
Governments to make up for it?
(8) Where will the capital be, and what effect will its
being there have on trade and manufactures and on every-
thing else ?
(9) Will the Federal Government be Protectionist,
rreetrade, or Revenue-Tariffist ? Will it pay its own
expenses out of customs and excise, or out of some other
(and what other) form of taxation ? How fast will the
revenue from postal, telegraph and other services in-
crease, so as to help to pay the cost of the Federal
Government ? How much of the increase will be owing
to Federation? What effect will Federation have on
manufactures, agriculture, the railway revenue, land-tax,
income-tax, land revenue, etc. ?
(10) W hat kind of men will be in charge of the various
Provincial Governments, and how will they run the local
finances?
Having considered all these questions, and
answered them all correctly, and summed up
''l? 6 -, a oawers so as to show exactly where
N.S.W. will be at, say, one and five and ten
years after the beginning of Federation, the
next question naturally is :
(11) bat would have happened in the same period of
years if the provinces hadn’t federated ? How would
trade, agriculture, manufactures, and revenue and ex-
penditure have expanded or contracted? What altera-
tions would there have been in the tariffs? How much
would interest rates on the public debt have increased
or diminished? How would the deficits hare got on?
Also, how would everything have got on ?
Y\ hen Reid’s Commission has decided these
things also, and resolved exactly where N.S.
Y\ ales would be financially a certain number of
years hence if it didn't federate, and subtracted
that from where it would be if it did federate,
then it will be able to present a coherent
report. But if it can’t decide these things,
then it is out on a fool’s errand. The one thing
that is absolutely sure is that no one knows for
certain what will happen to the finances if we
do federate, and no one knows a whit better
what will happen to them if we don’t.
The Man Who Died.
James Crotty, of Melbourne, died recently
in the odour of sanctity and affluence, and
a great part of his pile goes the lamentable
way that so much good legal tender has gone.
According to the terms of his will, £lO,OOO of
t rotty’s fortune are left to pile up insensate
brieks-and-mortar at St. Patrick’s unfinished
cathedral, and about another ,£lOO,OOO goes to
the R.C. church for “ religious and charitable
purposes.” The rich man who wants to do
some good after his death, or to get a big ad-
vertisement, or to put a large fire-insurance on
his soul, generally goes this same ungrateful and
melancholy road. He either leaves his pile to
build a big, useless, desolate church for cold dog-
mas to blow through on winter nights; or he dif-
fuses the kind of higher education which consists
in teaching dead languages in a college ; or he
helps some creed to spread its particular brand
of theory about hell, and the old saints who are
dead, and the patriarchs who are dust, and the
Israelites who are very much defunct. That
same £llO,OOO would have carried the Bairns-
dale railway on to Bruthen, or taken the Hope-
toun line a good way towards Mildura, and
either undertaking would have supplied a lot of
work to people who greatly need it, and enabled
other people to find homes in what is now a
wilderness, and permanently enriched the pro-
vince. The same pile would have made 150
miles of road in some place where it is much
required, or irrigated a big stretch of the
immera desert, and thus supplied employ-
ment and enriched the country ; or it would
have lifted off a considerable fraction of the
national deficit—in fact, there are a score of
practical ways in which it might have bene-
fitted the community at large. And most of
these ways would have given the late James
Crotty a far bigger advertisement than the
stereotyped device of helping to build a church
and giving a pot of money to an already
bloated creed, because almost every rich man
goes in for endowing bloated creeds, or build-
ing churches or statues or drinking fountains,
or something equally commonplace. The
two impersonal things to which every
rich man owes a debt of gratitude are
the Church and the State. The Church
tells him about perdition during his life-
time, and as a rule he pays it for doing so.
Jhe State protects his life and his pile, and
runs down the malefactor who gets at him udth
a bad cheque, and safeguards him by police
and soldiery, and does its best by sanitary laws
to keep the fatal microbe off him. But for it
some one would promptly rend his fortune
from him, and leave him with nothing to bestow
on the Church or on anything else. He pays
the State for its services also, but the State
gives him much more tangible value for the
money and often gets less of it. Yet, while the
world is full of grateful old men who leave
their pile to the Church, the grateful millionaire
who tries to give the State a lift with his coin
when he has no more use for it himself is never
heard of. Ihe country is full of dismal churches
—tenanted mostly by the four cold w’inds, and
the moonshine, and the rats —which were built
by the rich ancient who wanted to do good and
didn’t know how. As for the b,it of railway or
the s: retch of new road or the irrigation
channel which he bequeathed to his beloved
country--well, where is it?
Byrnes’s “ Policy.”
Queensland Premier Byrnes’ statement of his
“ policy,” i i lrs recent “ great ” speech at War-
wick, reads very beautifully when summarised
by wire in the southern papers. The Ace’s
cahn, business-like report (which is quite serious,
and not the wild joke of the dog-fight reporter,
as might be supposed) reads thus :
The Cjovei'client would deal with the Queensland
National Bank in a spirit of candor, fearlessness, and jus-
tice. At the s. me time, they would afford the bank, as
now constitul d, all legitimate aid possible. Although
they were all alive to the - importance of a progressive
policy'of public works, they could not, in this stage of
the life of the present Parliament, be fairly asked to com-
mit themselves to any extensive scheme. At the same
time, when the right time arrived, no one would be more
willing than he to give his voice and vote in favor
of a steady, definite policy of expansion. The finances
of the province would be administered with caution,
prudence and economy, but without unnecessary
parsimony. Regarding Federation, he said no doubt
the movement in favor of Australian political unit3’
had considerably increased in volume and importance dur-
ing the past few years, and a definite issue on the subject
would shortly be submitted to the electors of five other
provinces ; but the attitude of Queensland must largely
depend upon the result of the forthcoming Referendum in
N.S.W. If IST. S.VV. decided against the Commonwealth
Bill it would he idle for Queensland to trouble itself fur-
ther on the question until the subject was revived again.
If, on the other hand, N.S.W. decided in favor of that
measure, then the subject of Federation must become a
real live and burning one in theprovince. And if the other
provinces decided to unite upon the lines of the Com-
monwealth Bill, the Parliament and people of Queensland
must be asked, within a reasonable time thereafter,
to express their views on the measure. Refer-
ring to the contemplated changes in the Consti-
tution, if Federation were agreed on, it would
be necessary to alter the present electoral system ; but
until the federation question was settled any proposal to
alter the constitution would be premature. On the
separation question the Government would not in any
way depart from the policy of its predecessors in regard
to the partition of the province. Still, they would view
• favorably any feasible scheme whereby there might be
some further decentralisation of administration intro-
duced into the public departments. Queensland was to
some extent committed to the system of contributing to
the Australian Auxiliary Squadron; but he did not
believe in its underlying principle, as at the end of the
period the provinces were left without either ships or
trained men in return for the money expended. The
Government would aid in placing Queensland meat on
the home, foreign and southern markets.
The meat question is the only one on which
Premier Byrnes gives a straight expression of
opinion. Otherwise his view is that the
new Government believes it ought to stand up
horizontally in a recumbent, perpendicular
attitude at an angle of 43 degrees to the hori-
zon, without in any way disagreeing with the
views of those who hold that it should be side-
ways and upside-down. Also, it feels it to be
its duty to spend large sums of money with
lavish economy, and it is resolved to stand still
with rapid velocity and be suddenly stationary
at great speed, and in the end, when it falls up
a tree and is suffocated, it intends doing its
duty just the same to the bitter end.
The Casual Person with a Gun.
“Hermes” on semi-amateur soldiery :
Apropos Yankee Consul Bull's brag about the stupend-
ous hordes of ’Murkan militia, it is interesting to note
that, according to history, volunteers and "militia gener-
ally crumple up like a bacon-rasher before trained regu-
lars in the open field.
The mighty hordes of Persia were defeated at Marathon
by a numerically insignificant army of Greek hoplites.
The universal success of the Roman meant simply discip-
line against the lack thereof, and when the Goth took
also to regular military training the Roman went under.
Norman discipline defeated the bull-dog courage of the
half-trained Saxons at Hastings and Senlac ; and so on,
right down the roll.
The wise people, however, who work hard at dollar-
making all the week, and only consider military matters
with the fag-end of their intellects, calmly remark that
as long as a man can shoot straight and ride well he is a
match for any “ regular.” And the local historian rises
to remark that ’Murkan militia drove the British out of
the States in the War of Independence ; and that French
volunteers walloped German regulars at Valmy; that
Spanish volunteers and guerillas gave the French a
bad time in the Peninsula; that more 'Murkan militia
dealt out defeat to British veterans at New Orleans, in
1814 ; also, that Boer irregulars played the devil with
Tommy Atkins at Laing’s Nek and Amajuba Hill.
But the American militia did not drive the British Lion
out of the States. That much-abused animal was hauled
out of the States, as he was at the Transvaal, by his own
Parliament, and, though the New England militia was a
first-class territorial force that had fought against the
French, and had had as much practical training as the
best German regiment of to-day, it went down smash
at Bunker’s Hill, Long Island, White Plains, Brooklyn,
and a score of other places. In short, hut for the sup-
port of the French under Rociiambeau, the ’Murkans
would probably have gone under to a mixed force of
British regulars and German mercenaries, the fighting
strength of which at no time exceeded 9000 ! Also, the
12,000 militia who repulsed Pakenham’s 0000 British at
New Orleans were impregnably posted against a force
without artillery, scaling-ladders, or fascines, and sent
forward to certain destruction. In the same war, 4500
British veterans under Ross utterly smashed up 9000
militia strongly posted at Bladenshurg, and then marched
where they liked, till 6400 more militia came along
to be walloped, and walloped they were, to some
purpose. Ross then attacked 15,000 more defending
Baltimore, and drove them into Baltimore with terrific
slaughter, getting killed himself in the process.
If, when the time comes, Australian partially-paid troops
cannot do better than these three militia bodies did it is
utterly impossible for them to do worse.
At Vaux again, previous to Valmy, 1500 Prussian
hussars gave 10,000 French levies a licking that taught
Ddmouriez to keep his raw troops behind entrenchments.
And Valmy itself was won by regiments of the old
monarchial army and National Guard levies—behind en-
trenchments.
As for the boasted Spanish guerillas, Napier, says they
were more trouble to the English then the French. The
only Spanish success was when Castanos, with a mixed
force of 30,000 Spanish regulars and volunteers, defeated
less than half the number of French, while as for Sara-
gossa it was a strong position held by 40,000 Spanish
mixed troops against only 16,500 French regulars till
three-fourths of the defenders were dead. A desperate
defence, truly, but one that again proved the superiority
of regulars over irregulars.
The Boers were seasoned men. Years of war with the
Kaffirs had made excellent hill-soldiers of them, but they
never took a fortified position from the British. At
Laing’s Nek the Boers had superior numbers in a position
of great natural strength ; and at Amajuba Hill it was
the fire of 2000 well-sheltered Boers upon 600 British in
an exposed position, without artillery and with rifles use-
less from sighted for the sea-level. A half-trained
militia force is merely a mob of well-meaning persons
who flap around, blaze away aimlessly, forget the bugle-
calls, retreat when they should advance, charge machine-
guns, and get blown to glory when they should be drink-
ing tea a few miles to the rear. The veteran regular is a
machine. Ten thousand of him hit a blow like one man ;
and work out the plan of their general just as the limbs
obey the brain of the skilful boxer.
That “ Indissoluble ” Union.
“ C.R.” writes from Melbourne in defence of
the Lyne-Want-Hancock theory that the
Federal Union, as provided in the Convention
Bill, is indissoluble :
I notice that you are in favor of “ taking the Federal
Constitution as it is and doing needful repairs after-
wards.” Will you let me point out an error into which
you have very naturally fallen as to the power of amend-
ment. You say all that is required is to amend the word
“ indissoluble” in the preamble of the Bill, and then to
have another amendment declaring the union dissolved.
Apart from other objections to such a course —objections
which would require a detailed argument—let me call
your attention to the fact that the power of amendment
does not apply to the preamble at all. For section 127,
the final section, applies merely to alterations “ of the
Constitution and “ the Constitution ” does not begin
until section IX. of the Bill “ IX. —The Constitution of
the Commonwealth shall be as follows : The Constitution.
This Constitution is divided as follows : Chapter 1. —The
Parliament,” &c. I feel sure that you will not refuse
to withdraw a statement which is calculated to mislead
many of your admirers.
The Bulletin, for one, would be very glad if
the union was indissoluble—but, unluckily,
“ C.R.’s ” theory doesn’t help the matter in any
way. The Convention Bill provides that the
Constitution can be amended by the consent of
the two Federal Houses, of a majority of the
people voting at a national referendum, and
the assent of three out of five States. If this
only applies to that part of the Bill which
begins at clause IX. and is headed “the Con-
stitution ” then the previous portion of the Bill
—the part with the “ indissoluble ” in it—is
free from these elaborate restrictions, and
becomes a common, ordinary law, which can be
amended by the Federal Parliament without
the popular vote, and the majority of States,
and the other frills. It stands on the same
plane as a provincial Act of Parliament, which
doesn’t contain any specific authority for its
own repeal, but which can be repealed, all the
same, whenever the people feel that way.
In any case, the people cannot make any
law that they cannot unmake again. “In-
dissoluble ” is only a word of 12 letters.
The people put it into the Bill. The people, if
they want to, will take it out just as quietly.
There are 3,000,000 people in the five pro-
vinces now, and there will be 30,000,000 by-
and-bye. And the idea of 30,000,000 people,
with the control of the Parliamentary machine
in their own hands, being kept in permanent
subjection by two “ i’s,” two “ s’s,” a couple of
“ l’s,” and a scattering of other letters may be
good parchment law, but it is mighty poor
human nature.
A Study in Bigamy.
An interesting bigamy case came before the
London criminal court recently. The prisoners
at the bar were a man and wife, who married
in 1884, and, finding their union a mistake,
parted three months later on friendly terms.
After a lapse of seven years they both agreed
to get married again. Experience had given
each of them a good idea as to the kind of mate
they wanted, and the new, unholy alliance
gave pleasure to all. “ Circumstances con-
nected with an inquest ” brought the 1884 mar-
riage to light, and some aggressive purist or
other sooled the police on to prosecute the
honest bigamists. Judge Hawkins, who tried
the case, practically commended the prisoners’
action in dissolving their unsuccessful partner-
ship of 14 years ago, “ when there was neither
cruelty to justify a judicial separation, nor
misconduct to warrant a divorce,” and, as
regards the prosecuton for bigamy, “it
seemed to him (Hawkins) that they might have
been left quietly alone.” The Judge declined
to punish them, and they went back to their
respective bigamies with easy minds. In these
occasional acts of unlawful charity Judges
admit the foolishness of adapting marriage laws
to religious prejudice. Bigamy is not bound to
be a worldly sin, but it is always a heinous
olfence in the eyes of a parson, and through
the influence of church superstition and hypo-
crisy it has been ruled a legal offence under
any circumstances. The same church power
that opposes a rational divorce system — i.e.,
divorce by mutual consent —insists upon a pro-
secution for bigamy in a case where the
offenders have been forced into “crime” by
their own sense of decency. The married
couple aforesaid merely divorced themselves in
a reasonable and thoroughly respectable man-
ner, and were, therefore, prohibited from any
further lawful marriage. They might have
made themselves eligible for divorce in 1884 by
one of them committing acts of drunkenness,
cruelty and adultery, and then they could have
lawfully married again. As it is, they are pun-
ished for not committing those sins ; their mar-
riages are illegal and they are for ever rendered
incapable of legitimatising their children. Even
if the adulterous husband were to formally smite
his wife with a meat-axe (which is cruelty) she
could not now sue him for divorce, seeing that
he has connived at her bigamous adultery, and
they have both been guilty of collusion. All
these difficulties are religious creations. The
Queen’s Proctor is a relic of clerical control
over the pair “ whom God has joined together,”
and though they may be a pair of atheists,
with no sort of belief in the Heaven where their
marriage is alleged to have been made, they are
still bound together by a Law that blushes to
own its submission to ancient Papal doctrines.
Ox the N.S.W. State-school-fees question
(N.S.W. is a province where the politicians
subsidise the newspapers with free postage,
but can’t afford to subsidise poor parents with
free education unless they publicly declare
themselves paupers) :
Dear Bulletin. —Re State school-teachers paying up
arrears of scholars’fees rather than risk a departmental
“ wigging ” for not collecting same. They have grown
wiser of late. (Teachers get at loggerheads with parents
quite often enough without having “ fees ” as a bone of
contention.) The cry of “ pauperdom ” raised over the
“ exemption from payment ” regulation, has lost its sting
and the number of “ exempts ” is steadily increasing.
The parent merely asks for a “ form ” and fills it up. In
a big school the teacher knows nothing of the applicant’s
circumstances, and accepts his assurance that he cannot
pay. In small places the teacher has more sense than to
offend the parent by practically calling him a liar, even
though he knows the applicant spends more than the
weekly fees in beer every day. The teacher finds, also,
that filling up a form every three months is less trouble
than rendering weekly accounts and sending in monthly
reports. In cases where the arrears mount up till a
special report is asked for the teacher has to decide
whether he will earn undying local enmity, by recom-
mending prosecution, or perjure his pitiful soul by
reporting the debtor as in indigent circumstances and
recommending that the debt be wiped off. Perjury wins.
Free education is “ granted ” now—it should be a birth-
right.—P.
+
During the recent hearing, by N.S.W. Full
Court, of a habeas corpus application, certain
circumstances came to light over which their
Honors were moved unto much extra-judicial
pronouncement. The 17-year-old girl (who ap-
peared in court “ attired in an elaborate cos-
tume ”), of whom her mother was seeking to
recover custody, turned out, upon private
examination by the Judges themselves, to be
unwilling to forsake her alleged betrayer, and,
though the horror with which their Honors
referred to the injury inflicted upon “ this
child ” was possibly a little unusual, the
seduction of the young nurse - girl by her
employer in his own house is un-
doubtedly a repulsively - gross feature of
the case. From Chief-Justice Darley’s
opinion, indeed, that a seducer under such
conditions “ ought to be in gaol ” The Bulle-
tin in nowise dissents. But when upon that
opinion is founded the dictum that the “ age of
consent” should here be raised (otherwise than
as between master and servant, or teacher and
pupil) to the English figure of 18, this paper
has once more to call attention to the fact that
the Australian 10 - year - old damsel (as the
Judges, from their criminal-court experience,
really ought to know) is, on the average, fully
as mature as the English girl of 18. Indeed,
there are strong doubts whether, if a young
woman isn’t adult enough for “consent” at
this degree of development, the statutory “age”
might not just as well be raised to 28—or to
80 ! One Australian girl may,, of course, be
more or less developed than another at any
given age, but their Honors-must be much more
“ unspotted from the world ” than said world
gives them credit for if they don’t know that
in her dealings with the other sex the ordinary
16-year Australienne is perfectly well aware how
many beans make five.
Some more voices from the parochial crowd in
N.S.W. politics :
They must bear in mind that the Federation they were
asked to enter was an indissoluble Federation.— Mac-
Laurin, M.L.C.
It is a east-iron constitution.—Jack Want, M.L.C.
He laid stress upon the fact that it was strictly pro-
vided in the Convention Bill that the principle of equal
representation in the Senate should never be amended.
It was utterly impossihle. It would be for ever out of the
power of the people to effect a change. —Blanksby,
M.L.C.
The unanimity of the M.L.C. crowd against
the Convention Bill is truly touching. Also,
its utter denseness is something pathetic. For
all of it, including the pioi James Blanky,
M.L.C., has presumably read Clause 127,
which states distinctly that the Bill may be
amended by a majority of both houses, a
majority vote of the people, and the assent of
three States out of five. Therefore the people
can, if they please, amend the word “ indis-
soluble ” out of the Constitution, and they
having that power the Constitution can’t be
indissoluble, or cast-iron, or any of the other
large, whirling adjectives. Also the Bill doesn’t
say that the principle of equal representation
in the Senate shall never be altered—that
statement is absolutely aud purely the inven-
tion or the bungle of James Blanky, M.L.C.
\\ hat it does say is that no State shall have
its proportionate representation reduced with-
out its own consent. Some day, of course, the
country may get tired of thi3 arrangement,
and decide by a majority, as described above,
to so amend the Constitution that the repre-
sentation of a State can be altered without its
consent—so even this proviso isn’t fixed for
ever. The really amazing foolishness of the
tale told by James Blanky and the other two
M’sL.C. lies in the assumption by a presumably
sane individual that anything can be fixed for
ever—that any remarks printed on a piece of
paper can bind unborn generations for all time.
Surely even so painfully ordinary a person as
Blanky, M.L.C., knows better than that!
“ Scribe ” remonstrates with The Bulletin :
Your correspondent who wrote under the title “Terewth
versus Truth ” talked through his neck about the Melb.
dailies conspiring to suppress the case of the Salvationist
recently charged with “ an abominable and unnatural
horror.” I was the reporter for one of the morning
papers when the case came before the City Court, and, on
my own responsibility, I simply neglected the ease as I
would all such cases unless under special conditions.
During the two years I have done police-court work, fully
a dozen of these cases have cropped up, yet I have only
given two even a mention. One of these two was of pub-
lic interest, because the prisoner was a man who had
made a claim to a big estate of £100,000; the other
because the P.M. ordered a discharge of the prisoner and
the arrest of two witnesses for blackmail. “ Prisoner was
found guilty, and duly sentenced for his crime, but
day’s papers were dumb about the unspeakable
iniquity of the convict.” This is utterly wrong ; all three
Melb. dailies published the case among the “ Found
Guilties ” and the sentence —cut down, of course, to the
bare statement “ William Kennedy, 29, attempted un-
natural offence, nine months imprisonment.” Regarding
the correctness of the other assertions; (1) “ The boy who
appeared in the case was one of a number held in the
Salvation reformatory.” Incorrect. The boy was a com-
plete stranger accosted in the street the night of the
offence by the prisoner. (2) “ Other Salvationist officers
appeared in court for the defence,” etc. Misleading.
Evidence of previous good character was given by one
man ; but, on the other hand, after the evidence at the
City Court, the four Salvationists who had gone bail for
Kennedy dropped him like a hot potato, and he
had to stay in gaol from committal to trial. Finally,
there were three other cases of the same sort heard
at the same sittings and all four were treated
in exactly the same manner by the dailies.
The religion of none of the offenders was published,
and there is no reason why the Salvationist should
have his religion labelled on him when he trans-
gresses any more than any other variety of believer.
Only one man in every 10,000 has the pluck to announce
himself as possessing absolutely no religion, so practically
every offender brings a certain amount of indefinite dis-
grace on some form of superstition. Yet nobody writes
long slabs to The Bulletin accusing the dailies of sup-
pression and conspiracy, and pressmen of bribery and
blackmail because they omit to say that Doolan the bur-
glar was a Roman Catholic, or M'Tavish the garotter a
Presbyterian, or Smith the sneak-thief an Anglican.
[A long and feeble effort to get away from
the point. Salvationist Kennedy was the man
appointed by a religious organisation to direct
the morals of a Boys’ Reformatory, and if his
unnatural offence wasn’t a “ special condition ”
in the eyes of “ Scribe,” it is just about time
that that “responsible” reporter took advice
from his editor re the reporting of horrors.—
Ed. B.]
Alfred Deakin got considerably wet in the
good cause of Federation, at Melbourne, last
Friday. The polite and scholarly Deakin had
just finished a Federal oration when the voice of
Maloney, M.L. A., was heard calling him a liar,
or something like that. Deakin smiled with lofty
scorn, and refused to take any notice of the
“creature,” whereupon Maloney danced with
rage, and asked Alfred to come out and be shot in
a horrid, beastly duel, and then fired a glass of
water into Deakin’s countenance. The rest of the
meeting was mostly hair and scrum and execra-
tion, and a dripping Deakin trying vainly to be
heard above the tumult, and the voice of Maloney
offering to fight him with axes or any other kind
of weapon.
Courthouses, schools, and other public
buildings in N.S. Wales, will be used for record-
ing votes at the Referendum in June. Why
should not such buildings be regularly used for all
Parliamentary elections? Thev are centrally
situated, everybody in the neighborhood knows
the way in and out of them, and they are spacious
enough. In most parts of Europe school-houses
and courthouses are used for these purposes, and
in the Swiss cantons even the churches are pressed
into service. The expense of afterwards setting
the places in order would be only a tithe of that
which the State now incurs in erecting and pulling
down ramshackle and unsatisfactory polling-
booths.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,608,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
«y?ther Life OfflTta thfw'orld T ' ES °" 6Ve,T ,t "’ da ' d of ™ llm ‘ ion LfIRGER «»» of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims)-
WILLIAM M Hon ; HENRY MORT, M.L.0.,
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. DARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.B.W. and Queensland.
SIMPLEST—MOST DURABLE-BEST.
Light
Running
auioD may
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Farts and
Fittings for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns,
Catalogues and Journals.
J. W- Johnston & Co.
746 George Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swanston Street ...
67 Queen Street
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Ben-My-Ohree.”
Royal “ A Life’of Pleasure.”
Criterion “The Idler.”
Lyceum “ The Shamrock and the Rose.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Royal Standard “ East Lynne.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ A Royal Divorce.”
Royal “The Work Girl.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Saturday Pop. Concerts.
The “ Idler,” which has been absent from
Sydney long enough to be nearly forgotten, is the
Cartwright Co.’s present effort at Sydney Cri. As
a literary effort the “ Idler ” is a work of high
rank. There is no oppressively wicked individual ;
the villain is just as wicked as any average person
would be if he had the needful inducement. He
skirmishes after his friend’s wife —just as any man
would do, if his enemy’s wife, or the wife of his
casual acquaintance, wasn’t more attractive. And
he strikes a snag which has the advantage of some
novelty. John Harding, in certain bad young
days long before the opening of the play—days
when he and others drank hard and shot liberally
in Golden Gully—had killed Simeon Strong’s
brother, and Simeon’s life is saved by Mark Cross,
and Mark Cross wants to bolt with Harding’s
young wife. Therefore when Simeon finds his
enemy he is persuaded to promise in writing that
he will bury the hatchet 100 fathoms deep by way
of repayment to the man who has saved his life ;
and Cross agrees to swap the letter of release for
Mrs. Harding’s body and soul, the same to be
personally delivered on his premises at 10 p.m.
And then, having parted with the document,
the ladys body and soul are not delivered
after all. That is where the pathos comes
in. There was an agreement that she was to
fall for value received, as the price of her hus-
band’s safety, and, with the dishonesty of her sex,
she refuses to fall after all. Miss Beatrice Lamb,
the comely, motherly lady of the co., is, possibly,
a trifle too placid in the act where she comes to
collect the price and just gets away without
delivering the goods, but in a general way she may
be said to give satisfaction. Cartwright is silent
and subdued and stony in places, but in his best
scene—the one where he persuades the bitter
Ammurikin gentleman to sell his vengeance—he
rises to the occasion just when there is a feeling
that he is going to fall into utter flatness.
Thereafter he goes strong to the end and drops
the petrified stare of the earlier scenes, but in
these early scenes he goes very slow indeed.
Arthur Styan is just a respectable, ordinary per-
son in evening dress and with his hair nicely done ;
and Charles Thursby, as Simeon Strong, calls up
recollections of Dot Boucicault, and suffers some-
what by the comparison. His American accent is
better than Boucicault’s when he has it, but he
drops it so often, and picks it up again so
irregularly, that even his remarkably good acting
Sets obliterated in the struggle at times. Miss
is a charming old lady through-
out, and Story Gofton does good work in a small
character which doesn’t matter much. So far,
the “ Idler ” seems to have brought luck to the
Cartwright co., and it should be good for a pro-
fitable season. Something more might be made
of the scene where the friend’s wife comes to hand
herself over, at 10 p.m. sharp, in exchange for the
valuable letter, but all the same it is a powerful
scene—strong enough to float even a bad play.
And the “Idler” isn’t a bad play, by many
thousand miles
»* * *
That dismal tale of ye olden tyme, “ Vir-
ginius,” didn’t eventuate at Her Majesty’s, after
all. The haggard father in the brief petticoat
who should have cursed Appius Claudius, or some-
thing like that, all down the Sacred-street, or some
such locality, stands postponed. Also the his-
toric river which any active person could throw a
dog across, if he had a dog which he didn’t want,'
still reposes in the property-room. “Hamlet’’
boomed with so much bigger a boom than was
anticipated that he was extended from night to
night, till at last the leggy Latin parent who
should have shrieked for his daughter was crowded
out altogether. Possibly he wasn’t much of a
loss, and, in any case, “ Hamlet ” is a distinct gain.
At time of writing it is understood that the Ghost
stalks on the walls of Elsinore for the last time on
Tuesday night, and the ensuing programme is a
treble bill: “The Color-Sergeant,’’ “A Clerical
Error,” and “ Chatterton.” The Bulletin looks
on all treble bills with an eye of gloom, as an
attempt to make three afternoon bun-teas do in
place of a dinner, and reckons that it might be a
lot better to keep on extending “ Hamlet.” Any-
how, “ Ben-My-Chree ” is promised for Saturday.
* * se *
Every night, at Sydney Lyceum, a big
audience bursts its weskit buttons cheering the
American admiral in the “ White Squadron,” and
its hat, which gets blown out from under the seat
by the breath of popular approval, is stamped
upon by innumerable feet in the confusion. The
American admiral amounts to very little more
than a casual figure-head in the drama, and why
the audience should roar at him in this fashion
E asses understanding. Anyhow, he seems to be
eeping the play going. The present writer tried
one night to get up a counter-demonstration in
favor of Spain—partly because it is the smaller
dog of the two—partly because the old superstition
is more picturesque than the bright new godless
dollar—partly because Spain is of the old Holy
Roman faith, and the Holy Roman faith is the
only one which ever possessed a pleasant smell of
incense, or a stained-glass window that was really
worth looking at—partly because the world owes
a debt of gratitude to the country which never
produced a patent medicine or a hair-restorer,
and where Talmage wasn’t born. But his
protest on behalf of the restful, moss-grown land
didn’t even begin to make itself heard amid the
riot, and he went down badly. Yet the country
which did its best to give the world a rest by
Talmage not being born there deserves better
treatment. And, seeing that bruisers Corbett and
Sullivan have volunteered on the American side,
and the Spaniards are doing some wretchedly bad
shooting, yet the best shooting they know how, at
Sullivan and Corbett, and seeing how highly
advisable it is that the party which is shooting at
Corbett and Sullivan should be encouraged, the
state of mind which Sydney has got into is highly
ridiculous. The “ Shamrock and the Rose ”is the
joint vegetable which is to ensue on Saturday.
** * *
“A Life of Pleasure,” which is remem-
bered in Sydney as a drama with much gas and
glitter and lost girl and pleasant sin in it, is to
appear at Sydney Royal on Saturday “ for a few
nights only.” Despite the utter irrelevance of
the great battle in Burmah, in which the nigger
lies down dead in neat brown rows as a tribute to
British valor, the “ Life of Pleasure ” has always
been a reliable stand-by, and it should be a blessed
relief after the hero in a pot hat. who comes back
and tells how the lunatic asylum was burnt in
America.
#* * *
The wonderful Hegelmanns are back at
Sydney Tivoli, and, though they seemed to have
exhausted all possibilities on their last visit, it
turns out that they have still a few feats in reserve.
The advt. states that their performance must be
seen to be believed, and, after seeing it, The Bul-
letin isn’t dead-sure that it believes all of it even
now.
** # *
A benefit concert for Edgar Straus, the
popular ’cellist, whose portrait appears in this
issue, is fixed for the 11th
inst., at Sydney Town Hall.
All Sydney concert - goers
know Straus, by ear at all
events, and all who enjoy his
acquaintance esteem him
highly. The talented and
kindly young musician is
now prostrated by illness,
and has been compelled to
give up the practice of his
profession for many months
past. Under these circum-
stances, his fellow-artists
propose to give the above-
mentioned concert for his
benefit; and they ask the
music loving public to come,
and get excellent value for
their money, and have the
soul-filling consciousness that
they are doing a kindly deed
thrown in absolutely gratis.
A very large number of seats
has already been taken.
** # *
Old wailful “East
Lynne, ’ the play which
never quite dies, and which
has been soaked with in-
numerable tears and dried
on countless handkerchiefs,
clean and Otherwise, is now
harrowitig thfe public at Syd-
ney Koyal Standard, where
it is getting better treatment
than it deserves. The writer
is glad to see that it has
got down to the smallest
theatre in Sydney, anyhow.
He hopes next to hear of it
in a barn in the remote
suburbs, and, after that, in the ash-barrel.
x* * *
The Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society,
conducted by the enthusiastic Italian, Hazon, will
play at the Town Hall next Wednesday night.
It is the only body of its kind in Australia, and
its conductor—an impulsive, talented beater of
the stick has made a fine orchestra out of Sydney
amateur talent.
.** * *
Melbourne’s musical fraternity, which is
partly sincere and largely otherwise, rallied in
some force at the Town Hall last Saturday after-
noon, to the first Marshall Hall Orchestra concert
of the season. Two Hungarian Dances (Brahms),
the overture to “The Ship of the Fiend”
(M Cunn) and Beethoven’s “ Eroica ” Symphony
made up a soulful and not too long programme,
the conductor’s own little piece of “ Alcestis ”
composition being held over. The audience, un-
less they were artful dissimulators, derived a calm,
superior joy from this hard-working and quite
admirable entertainment. Beethoven, who is apt
to provoke fits of coughing at times, kept them
perfectly quiet for an hour, and Mac’s rolling,
drumsome overture was encored for several popular
reasons. One obvious reason was its terrific
ending in a bang of cymbals that measured
three feet in diameter, or thereabouts. M‘Cunn’s
overture may not be spiritually “great” music
(the writer hasn t looked-up the question
in a musical dictionary), but it is pretty cer-
tain to appear again and get further encores.
Consequently a protest against its moral argu-
ment had better get lodged right away. “ The
bmp of the Fiend ’ is the story of a wife’s marine
elopement with a young man purporting to be her
first lover. As a matter of fiction, he is the D ... 1,
and when he has taken his victim out to sea—far
beyond the reach of scandal—he knocks a hole
through the vessel with his cloven hoof—it is
easy to stamp a hole through the bottoms
of some vessels—and the drum-artist, at the
rear of the orchestra, bangs a brazen death-
knell as aforesaid. The story is interest-
ing, but it sounds absurdly rough on the
lady, and loaves no sort of opening for the Shiels
Divorce Act to come in. What the world really
wants is a great musical representation of a divorce-
suit, with lots of co-respondents, and a fine con-
flict of evidence leading up to a three-fourths ver-
dict for the petitioner.
* * * *
In the evening, the Town Hall was packed
full of shilling-* 1 poppers,” and Phil Newbury’s
venture gave promise of continuing for many
Saturday nights hereafter. The concert co. on
this occasion included Phil Newbury, who sang
his delightful best, Madame Spada, and three
other vocalists, more or less acceptable. The
most acceptable of these three was Bonynge
Kelly, a gentle baritone, lately heard in
Maritama, at the Bijou. Also, the re-
munerative W. E. Nott knocked some respect-
able melody from the municipal organ, and
Hattenbach celloed in a fetching strain and
Benno Scherek played pianoforte accompaniments
like the that he is. Viewed from the
Shilling Pop ” standpoint the inaugural concert
was a well-deserved success. An interval of five
minutes only divided Part 1 from Part 2, and the
various “ turns ” chased one another up and down
stairs on brisk business principles. The time
when a Town Hall concert consisted mainly of
funereal silence would seem to have gone for ever.
*■ * * *
The Kellino Family arrived at Melbourne
Opera House on Saturday, when the reputation
they had brought from Sydney and foreign parts
was endorsed by their new admirers. The Craggs,
of yore, gave an astonishing show, and the Frantz
Family took Melbourne by storm. Popular taste
in acrobatics has been shaken up considerably
since the rising generation began to talk, there-
fore the Kellinos were called upon to do some-
thing very bright. They did it in all directions.
The joint and several achievements of those eight
strangers are a feast of surprises which leaves a.
EDGAR STRAUS, the well-known Sydney ’cellist, whose benefit
is fixed for Lith May, at Sydney Town Hall.
sweet taste in the month. They introduce new
effects, picturesque and humorous, and, after a
drop-scene falls on their last act, they take a
ca jl ’* n front; a further call for the author
would seem only a reasonable compliment to
somebody s brain-work. The construction of the
fvellino show is almost worthy of the performance,
and the performance is a credit to all concerned.
£f£
Babes in the Wood ” will gather up its
magnificence and rush away from the Princess’s
to-morrow (Friday) to fulfil an engagement else-
where. The demand for “Babes” is not nearly
exhausted, but the Firm can’t hold it back from
its destination any longer. On Saturday the
figure of Bonaparte will reappear on the fatal
rock and behold his sun go down upon his wrath,
and the cast of “ The Royal Divorce ” will be As
Before, says the advt. This is an opportune time
for warlike tableaux, and although the bombard-
ment of Havana is not on all-fours with the
Battle of Waterloo they have the one smell of
o U A*T> W d e i r V^k' c h makes them kin and brings
A Royal Divorce ” up to date, as it were.
3|£
Also this is the last week of “ When
London Sleeps,” at -the Royal. On Saturday the
'ucky management will produce “The Work
Cxirl, with some new people in the company, to-
gether with much new scenery. The local Sons
°' Labor are expected to come in their thousands
and hoot the sweater in his den, and the suffer-
ings of the heroine are looked forward to with
particular interest.
** * *
The Alexandra season ended on Saturday,
Professor Kennedy thinks of leaving for
Adelaide, or somewhere, at an early date, not
because he has been fined <£lo for overcrowding
f 'it eor f> e 8 Hall, but probably because his stock
of subjects ”is running low and he wants some
fresh human interiors to work upon.
** * *
The Queenslanders have risen to the
occasion in regard to their brilliant young country-
woman, Florence Schmidt. She has sung to
crowded houses at Toowoomba and Ipswich.
Horn there she went to Maryborough, to fulfil an
en l> a K e ui6nt, and sang to a packed house. Thence
Bundaberg, where there was a record house,
and she had an enthusiastic reception. Warwick
next, hundreds turned away. Here Miss Schmidt
sang nine times, and even then the audience
wouldn’t go away until she had sung “ Killarney.”
Brisbane the following night, and a packed house,
lownsvilleites were giving her a garden party at
latest dates. When she descends upon Rock-
hampton, no doubt that swampy town will rise to
the full height of its responsibilities in having
given birth to a real queen of song. Altogether,
the plucky Queenslander has reason to oongratu :
late herself, as the Continong, Paris, Mark-aisy,
operas, bouquets, dollars, bicycles, carriages and
Sairs, and perhaps princes, to say nothing of
ukes, counts, etc., are now within measureable
distanoe.
A Spanish editor : “ The Americans are a
cowardly people who deal in pigs.”
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
M ACNI VEN & CAMERON ’S ( Ltd. )ItKN<) W N E l) PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers.
Waveruey Works, Edinburgh.
At Poverty Point.
Clever S. JE. Sime pictures in Lond. Pick-Mb-Up Chas.
Fulton’s idea of Julius Caesar, as given in Beerbohm
Tree’s recent version of Shakespeare's play. Anybody of
the least acquaintance with the gentleman who overcame
the Nervii cannot doubt that at last he sees the
only genuine J.C. as he lived and walked and carried his
eagle-beak around. Note the thick lip-rim to the purse-
mouth ; the lines of thought (and other things) beneath
the eye-pouch; and the general “Well, young man?”
air of the shrewd, craning physiognomy. There is a
Hebrew financier in Sydney who always takes nine
months’ credit on an unesc-apable debt and 5 per cent,
discount for this tardy “ cash,” and knocks off the odd
pence “ to save the bank hoi her,” and makes the creditor
shout on top of all. Then when he has “borrowed” a
cigar and toddled away chuckling, he looks something
like Sime’s “Julius Caesar’ in a silk hat and black
trousers. Here is a standing pattern for Great Men.
The Mr. Robey whom Ethel Hay don has elected to
marry is a music-hall singer and song-writer, of apparently
only minor importance up to date.
A Thespian w edding, much desiderated in Australia, is
said to be held back by the prospective ma-in-law.
Nobody ever heard of an actor having a mother-in-law.
Othello’s occupation’s gone.
Perhaps the most beautiful memorial in Melb. cemetery
is that by Harwood, in prosperous days, to his first wife.
Fairy Gold !
Buffalo Bill is going to hack the Spanish Cubans, if he
doesn't got macheted. His show was one of the most
distinctive sensations ever known in London, and excited
boundless wonder in Paris and Berlin. At Rome he
pitched on the Campagna, in sight of the Coliseum. The
Pope invited his Sioux Indians up to the Sistine Chapel,
where they attended a service, with Michael Angelo’s
“Last Judgment” and ceiling frescoes looking down
upon them.
Madden, Vie. C.J. and Acting “Symbol,” has been
drivelling about the indifference of the younger genera-
tion to Shakespeare and its preference for such “ Yankee
trash ”as Bret Harte’s and Mark Twain's works. When
m Irishman is unhumorous he is too completely desti-
tute of the quality to know when he is making of himself
the worst kind of ass. However g"od Shakespeare may
ae in his way, that isn’t necessarily the only way. Beef-
steak-and-onions needn’t be bad because Perigord pie’s
good !
Dear B.—Come to think it out, the “ immortal Wil-
liams” fell on his nose when he made Hamlet talk about
“ the undiscovered country from whose bourne no
traveller returns,’’ because Hamlet had only just had
with such a traveller an interview upon which the whole
circus hinges. The old man’s ghost has scarcely had
t ime to get outside a saveloy and a pint of beer behind
the scenes ere his son assures us that ghosts never turn
up under any circumstances. It is not altogether un-
pleasant to catch William napping; in fact, I own to a
sinister delight in the conviction that if ordinary scribes
were to perpetrate some of the bosh that is lauded as
Shakespearian they wouldn’t be considered good epmigh
even for Melbourne Paunch. H’m !
Haresfoot : “ Miss Ada Reeve may have atriflingm.iev-
ance in not being starred on the bill. Sheisthe onlyper-
former I ever knew that ought to be, and wasn’t.”
Rickards hangs out the familiar private poster (illumi-
nated address) whereon the employes depose what a
“ jolly good fellow ” the boss is. The sceptic will always
suspect the spontaneity of these testimonials, and Harry,
though he seems to be a really good employer, should let
the commercial magnate continue to monopolise the
pastime.
Sidelight: “ ‘Chorus-Singer’ quotes a comic-song as a
proof of mummer immorality. Also, the sentiment of a
song sung by a man whose wife and daughter are both
‘of the stage.’ Also, he runs too fast to read aright, for
there was no ‘harping’ on the actual rottenness of the
actor, but only a remark on the etiquette of the wings.
Present writer said outside was outside. Does he know
any fellow’ C.S. who lost his boyhood’s blushes through
contact with the stage ? Thinks he that it was a stage-
girl who /irst led the guileless C.S. into the Tottie-dotted
path that leads to Folly Point ? If he thinks he knows
examples-well, he can always find an audience in the
ultramarines.”
Melb. : An In Memoriam of “ Dear Old Greville ”
appears in a morning paper 29th April, fourth anniver-
sary of his demise. The tribute is from “A Melbournite,
who loved him as a daughter.” Harwood’s departure,
and miserable funeral, punctuates it. Greville had a
good, hearty funeral. While the Boom Bust dabbed
Harwood, Coppin and Stewart on the occiputs, Greville
came out triumphant. And then he died—as the Bible
says. His name was John Rogers, but he doffed it, not
to clash with G. H.
Prior to taking to the stage, Miss Eugenie Duggan
(Holloway and Anderson’s leading girl), was a teacher in
a Melb. R.O. school. Her brother, Pat Duggan, was at
that time in Vic. Civil Service, and had he remained
there would now have been secretary to the Lands dept,
with a salary of £6OO. But Pat got badly stage-struck
through his connection with the Rosoian Shakesperian
Society, and went to America to “busk” for his living.
Marcus Valerius Claudian Superbus (with his eyes up-
turned to Heaven) : “ What is this faith ? Much would I
give to know!” A moment after, to unfortunate scene-
shifter : “ What the all-fired dashed sheol do you mean
by shifting that set like that? Dash me if you dashed
fools don’t deliberately try to ruin every dashed scene !’


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Nv. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
Sydney; 1U Currie-tit., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisb-
R, BELL & CO.’S
- - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
Aus. ) PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Reps. j Sydney ; and Wedmngton, N.Z.
“Tbe R€AL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. & Attwood, Sole Proprietors
THE
Refreshment Department
OF TUB
House of Commons
(Unsolicited)
HAVE ORDERED
SIB. JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Tasmania’s revenue for April was .£78,053,
which is £9945 better than the returns for April, 1897. In
the four months of the Tasmanian financial year that have
expired the revenue has improved £35,088, as compared
with the first four months of 1897. Of the six Australian
provinces, Raspberry Land, in proportion to its size, is
making by far the best showing in a financial sense. It
has, compared with population, the biggest surplus, and
the biggest revenue increase, and it is paying off its old
deficit faster than any other province. It must also be
remembered to Fysh’s credit that, bad as Tas. finance
still is, he has of late years greatly reduced the expendi-
ture of loan money on unproductive works, as well as the
total loan expenditure ; and if he liked to brace up and
pay for all unproductive public works out of revenue he
has now the money to do it with. Also, Fysh has brains
enough to do it—if he only has the necessary grit as well.
* * * *
The N.S.W. revenue boomed last month—total
receipts, £947,585, as against £823,030 for April, 1897, an
increase of £124,555. The month’s expenditure, however,
was £1,018,707, so the deficit increased by £71,122. Ten
months of the financial year are now gone, and, so far,
the deficit is £387,393. Still, this is £187,461 less shortage
than there was at the same date last year, and consider-
ing the large hunk of land-sale money to come in at the
end of June it begins to look as if Premier Reid might
have his first surplus this year—at least the only objection
to calling it a surplus is that about £BOO,OOO of the year’s
ordinary expenditure is charged to loans so as to keep the
visible outgoings inside the receipts, and the repairs to
the roofs of museums and such things are called “ per-
manent and reproductive works ” to keep the comforting
fiction afloat.
N.S.W. loan expenditure, for the 10 months of
the financial year that have already elapsed, is £1,387,379,
which is £154,816 more than the amount which was
blewed on the alleged “permanent and reproductive
work ”in the same period last year. That extra £154,816
charged to loans fully accounts for the fact that the ordi-
nary expenditure is 169,906 less than it was last year. In
the past 10 months the Reid Government has borrowed
£2,873,319, which is a very large and unhealthy borrow
indeed.
* * * *
Melbourne City Council contemplates buying-
out the three local electric-lighting co’s., and going in for
eleetric-lighting on a comprehensive scale as a municipal
undertaking. To do the thing properly, however, it is
necessary to get the co-operation of the other munici-
palities, for the cheapest and most effective process is to
have one big electric system covering the whole metro-
politan district, and belonging solely to the people. Alel-
bourne wants a County Council which will boss the whole
district from Brighton and Heidelberg to Braybrook and
Paseoe Vale, and absorb all the miserable little “ cities ”
into Melbourne, (and consolidate the debts, and fire-out
the superfluous mayors, and start things afresh.
• * • *
The balance-sheet of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society for 1897 runs into big figures, and the
net result is only moderately reassuring. Premiums are
£311,400, which is about £4OOO better than last year.
Total income is £397,012, which is also about £4OOO more
than last year. The amount saved and added to the funds
is £112,369, which is quite as good as could be expected.
The last six years’ results have been :
Premiums. Total Income. °
1892 .. ... £312,494 £392,609 £150,236
1893 .. .. 308,729 389,756 139,704
1894 .. _. 305,530 392,483 131,328
1895 .. ... 303,98: 393,686 130,207
1896 .. ... 307,693 392,705 117,137
1897 .. .. 311,400 397,012 112,370
These figures look remarkably prosperous, as times go,
and the funds now amount on paper to an imposing total
of £2,153,342.
Still, the Colonial Mutual’s balance-sheet bristles
with matters to which this paper desires to take excep-
tion. Expenses are a fraction over 20 per cent, on total
income and about 25J per cent, on premiums, both of
which are a shade higher than they were last year, though
they are better than the figures for 1893 or 1894. The
Colonial Alutual, this year, writes off £9129 for losses and
depreciation. This makes £22,429 written off to cover
depreciation and losses and wear and tear of property in
six years. Compared with the £79,000 written off by the
Alutual of Victoria, and the £51,206 (in five years) of the
Alutual Life Association, and the £125,000 provision made
for depreciation by the Aus. Widows’ Fund, all of which
are only about half the size of the Colonial Alutual, this
amount looks miserably inadequate. Also, of the
depreciation above referred to, £4611 is depreciation
of office property (“ office property ” is an item of about
£13,000, which presumably refers to the tables and
chairs, &c.). This leaves only £lB,OOO written in six
years (the worst six years on record) off £2,100,000
worth of property. The idea that this covers more
than a fraction of the drop in values, considering what
a unanimous drop there has been, especially in land
and buildings, where this institution is so heavily inter-
ested, passes belief. In 1895 the Colonial Alutual realised
£4 16s. per cent, on the nominal amount of its funds; in
’96 there was a great fall to £4 ss. ; in ’97 there is another
drop to £4 4s. —at least that is the office estimate,
but on the average funds it seems more like £4 Is.
The Alutual Life Association realises over £4 18s.
per cent, on its investments ; the Widows’ Fund, £4
16s. ; National Mutual, £4 17s. ; Maoriland State Life
Department, about £4 19s. ; A.M.P., about £5. The
discrepancy between these figures and those of the
Colonial Mutual is another item of presumptive
evidence that a lot of its alleged funds are merely
inflated boom-values which ought to be written
down and haven’t been. If it is assumed that assets,
when written down to their real value, should yield
£4 15s. per cent., and all the leading offices quoted
above yield more than that, then the Colonal Mutual
wants to write over £313,000 off its alleged funds to put
things on a sound basis.
The Colonial Mutual still builds its calculations
of future interest (on which calculations the solvency of
every life assurance office depends) on the assumption
that its funds will continue to yield 4 per cent., which,
seeing that the earnings are down to about £4 Is. per
cent., leaves a miserably narrow margin. The A.M.P.—
which earns about £5 per cent.—has reduced its future
estimates to ; the Mutual Life Association, which earns
£4 18s., is making reserves so as to reduce its future
estimates to 3J ; the Alaoriland State department, which
actually earns £4 195., has made reserves equal to a
reduction of its future estimates to £3 12s. 6d. per cent.
Compared with all these offices the Colonial Alutual has
an almost invisible margin of security, and even if it out
its assumed future interest down from 4 to 3 per cent, it
would still have a smaller margin than any of the three
offices mentioned above. And, so far as Tiib Bulletin
knows, not even a mention of any reduction in assumed
future interest has been made.
A rather large sum (.£17,085) of the Colonial
Mutual’s assets consist of “ rents and interests outstand-
ing and accrued.” The C.M. follows the old bad practice
of not showing separately the amount of property
acquired by foreclosure, and dumping together interest
accrued and interest in arrear. And in this matter Tub
Bulletin repeats the words it used with regard to last
year’s balance-sheet. “At the end of 1893 the Colonial
Alutual had the enormous sum of £55,743 interest and
rents outstanding and accrued. This certainly looked
as if a lot of the securities had gone bad to such an extent
that the interest was practically irrecoverable —in which
case the principal is often more or less irrecoverable also.
This was a far worse showing than that of any other large
assurance office in Australasia, and suggested that the
Colonial Alutual was in a worse state than any of
its leading contemporaries. The Bulletin drew
attention pointedly to these alarming figures,
and thereafter the item decreased so rapidly
that it . . . is only £16,178 (the latest figures are £17,085).
Then the Alildura trouble, and a small dispute withfthe
defunct Alercantile Finance, Trustees and Agency Co.
seemed to reveal, as plainly as possible, the astounding
circumstance that, on certain small advances, amounting
to only £31,000, the arrears of interest due to the Colonial
Mutual were no less than £12,750. Tiib Bulletin asked
that society (in its issues of Alay 9 and 23, 1896) if it really
meant the public to believe that, while there was £12,750
owing on £31,000 advances, the remaining £5OOO shown in
the balance-sheet covered all the rents and interest due
and accrued on the other £1,700,000 or so of investments.
This important question evoked no explanation. The
inference that many people will draw, in the absence of
explanation, is that the “ interest and rents, outstanding
and accrued,” as shown in the balance-sheet, are not the
whole of these items (the society, by the way, doesn’t say
that they are), and that the remainder are lumped in with
the advances. If that be really so, no one can tell how
much the remainder is, or how good or how bad things
maybe.”
This year J. F. Levien, M.L.A., who is pre-
sumably still the same Alildura ex-director, and the
gentleman who was in office at the time of the
advances made by the Col. Mutual on Alildura securities,
was re-elected as usual. It was alleged a year ago that in
the Colonial Alutual a proxy given by a policy-holder is
good, not merely for the election for which it was directly
given, but at all subsequent elections, and as often and as
long as the document will hold together. -It was also
alleged that when there was any serious attempt to get
in a new director, and thus get some fresh blood into the
institution, the effort could always be defeated by great
masses of new and middle-aged and old and very ancient
votes hauled out of the safe, so that the old Happy
Family could go right on without interference. Tiie
Bulletin doesn’t know about the truth of this, but it
again asks if it is true. But, somehow, most of the ques-
tions that The Bulletin asks are never answered. Per-
haps they are too beastly disrespectful. Anyhow, the
annual meeting was held the other day (there was no
time for any unpleasant comments on the balance-sheet
till it was over) and the old directors got in again as usual.
* * » *
Currently reported in Brisbane that the Queens-
land National Bank committee isn’t going to pursue the
painful subject any further. Also the loudly-advertised
prosecution of the old directorate shows no sign of com-
mencing. And it is rumored now that AlTlwraith’s
health won’t allow him to come out to Australia and chew
up his detractors after all.
* * » *
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. has a half-year’s
profit of £85,725, as compared with £85,301 and £85,473
for two previous half-years. The usual 10 per cent, divi-
dend absorbs £85,100, and the other £625, added to pre-
vious balance, leaves £89,946 at credit of profit and loss.
This is in addition to £329,012 of reserves and £1,702,000
paid-up capital, so the Colonial Sugar Refining Go. is in a
strong position, and has a decent crust to fall back upon
—if need be. The 10 per cent, dividend has now been
paid regularly for 7i years.
North Shore (Sydney) Ferry Co. half-year’s
profits to 31st Alarch, £3083; 10 per cent, dividend
absorbs £3000; small balance of £B3 to carry forward.
• * * •
The Royal Bank (Melb.) held its meeting the
other day, and the 3 per cent, dividend was declared, and
the directors proudly pointed out that the profits were
increasing so remarkably that the Royal was now earning
over 5 per cent., whereas two years ago it was only
making about 2£. They also stated that, as there was
over £4OOO at credit of profit and loss, they proposed
starting a new reserve fund. Whereupon a wild share-
holder demanded that they should divide all the profits,
and damn the future and the reserve fund, and said that
rather than bother about a reserve he would prefer to see
the Royal go into liquidation. For about a minute it
looked as if it was going to be formally moved that the
shareholders should go out and drink the whole bank on
the spot, but no one backed up the excited boomer, and
the storm subsided.
* * * »
It is alleged on apparently good authority,
that: (1) The Alaoriland board of the A.AI.P. Society con-
sists of five directors, of whom three form a quorum ; (2)
that the chairman is brother-in-law to one director and
father-in-law to another, so that this family forms the
quorum ; (3) that when a directorship falls vacant, instead
of a new man being elected by local policy-holders, he is
appointed in Sydney on the nomination of the board, and,
as the above-mentioned family really forms the board, it
naturally does the nomination. If this is true it appar-
ently has the power to carefully select the sort of director
who won’t make trouble for the Happy Family. (4) It is
also alleged that one of the auditors is an of one
of the three directors above-mentioned, and if this is true
the further inference can’t be avoided that no mere em-
ploys can afford to audit his boss too severely—in fact, it is
difficult for him to be an independent auditor at all. (5)
It is further alleged that one of the biggest advances
is a loan on mortgage to a relative of one of the
three directors abovetnentioned. The loan is probably
made on good security, but, even if it is, the Happy
Family arrangement (if the alleged Happy Family
is a reality) casts suspicion (perhaps quite undeservedly)
on the transaction.
Apropos of the above, The Bulletin is making
inquiries about an insurance society (not the A.M.P. this
time) where it has reason to believe that one of the direc-
tors is an insolvent, and the board keeps its billet partly
by proxy votes and partly by the simple process of pre-
venting anv would-be director getting a sight of the list
of policy-holders, lest he should collect proxies himself, or
circularise the people interested about the doings of the
management, or otherwise render himself obnoxious.
* • » *
Illawarra (N.S.W\) Steamship Co. has a half-
year’s profit of £2680, and the dividend of 3s. per share
(about 8i per cent.) absorbs £2489, so the profit and loss
balance is increased by £l9l. The Illawarra co. has
£58,096 paid-up capital, ‘£27,000 insurance fund, and £746
at profit and loss, so its position is strong, though the
loss of the Kameruka (the vessel of the famous pig episode)
took a good sum out of the funds.
* * * *
Subscriber : Would feel inclined, if it were our
funeral, to sell out of the shipping co. you mention. The
other looks good enough to hold.
Judge Hood, of Melbourne, delivered an
astounding decision the other day. Walter Bullock was
a clerk in the dead and disgraceful Alercantile Bank. The
Mercantile held a lot of shares with a call liability on
them, and as it couldn’t legally hold them it did so in-
directly by putting them in Bullock’s name. At the
same time it gave him a guarantee that the bank would
indemnify him against loss. Of course Bullock didn’t
want to take a risk where there was no possible profit,
but if the boom-bank clerk didn’t take such chances on
his miserable salary the boom-bank could always get
another clerk who would. The Mercantile went broke ;
Bullock lost his billet ; he, poor wretch, was made in-
solvent and had his furniture and all his other goods
seized for calls on the shares ; and the Alercantile Bank
didn’t indemnify him as promised. And Judge Hood
decided that Bullock had no cause of action—also, that
the damage was too remote. And yet if Bullock had
owed the money to the bank instead of the bank to Bul-
lock the remoteness of the damage would only have been
a reason for adding on 7 per shent. per annum interest.
And if being ruined by the bank’s breach of contract and
losing everything he possessed in the world isn’t “cause
of action,” what is ?
• * • *
Rupert Clarke to the meeting of shareholders ;
“ My grandfather and my father each held a large stake
in the Colonial Bank. It gives me great pleasure to
assure you that it is my intention to take the same active
interest in the affairs of the bank, and to do all in my
power to promote its prosperity.” There’s a noble un-
selfishness in Clarke the Third’s determination to keep an
eye upon the bank which holds his large stake. The
Bulletin will henceforth think of him as a young man
who is prepared to make great sacrifices for the protec-
tion of his property.
* • • *
Rap : “ It is not seven years ago since Crotty
(deceased), who has left, among other things, from
£lOO,OOO to £200,000 to the R.C. Church, asked the pre-
sent writer how he could raise £2OO on a thousand Mt.
Lyell shares at 50 per cent, per annum for three months.
A Hebrew to whom the matter was subsequently intro-
duced by another person declined to lend even £5O on the
security, whilst at that very moment he (the Hebrew)
was lending 75 per cent, on the market-value of scrip
(Roundhills), with which the present scribe’s study is now
metaphorically papered. No wonder Crotty didn’t leave
any of his dollars to the Synagogue.”
* • * *
Perhaps the most serious sufferer by Crotty’s
death is a poor devil who was “ under a cloud ” in Aus-
tralia, and went to England relying on Crotty’s assistance
to float a big N. S. W. venture in which he (the p. devil) was
largely interested. Crotty’s influence was about to be
used on behalf of the clouded one when C. died. It is
odds on that the loss of opportunity to retrieve his good
name will result in Crotty’s prot6g6 joining Crotty at an
early date.
• • • •
The winding up of the estate of Harrold Bros.,
the big Adelaide firm which exploded three years ago, has
now reached a final stage. Liabilities, £299,173 ss. 3d. ;
assets, £58,259 17s. lOd. ; deficiency, £240,913 7s. sd. The
winding-up proceedings have provided a nice little feast
for the lawyers, and the semi-final meeting last week
was devoted to worrying over the already-well-picked
bone. The estate, when finally wound up, will pay about
6d. in the £l.
• * » *
The much-paragraphed illegal business of selling
the return halves of N.S.W. railway-tickets does not seem
a pleasant or profitable trade. One agent was fined £l5,
the other day, and another who could not pay a fine of
£2O got three months. Other prosecutions are incubating.
* * « •
Broken Hill Block 14 has had its first serious
“ creep,” or collapse of ground. The area affected is that
adjoining the Broken Hill Proprietary, and the collapse
is probably due to the weakening of the ground through a
fall which occurred in the latter mine some time ago.
Block 14 has always, since Zeb. Lane’s days (and that was
in the very early years of the mine) replaced the ex-
tracted ore by mullock, instead of relying wholly on the
timbering, and this policy has in the past had excellent
results, and has now prevented very' serious disaster. What
any particular “ creep ” means in loss of ore and outlay of
labor nobody can estimate, even roughly, ahead ; but this
one does not seem to be very' bad. Anyhow, work goes
on as usual at the concentrating mill, except that it is
worked two shifts instead of three ; and that is ascribed
not to the fall, but to the fact that the co. has lately pur-
chased some big lots of concentrates. Hitherto its pur-
chases have been confined to crude ore.
* • • •
Another very good crushing from Mt. David,
N.S.W.—said to have made a profit of £l5OO. Aline also
reported to be looking well. Shares rose a shilling for
paids, others still unsaleable. Confidence in the future of
this show seems to have been destroyed. Another 20
heads nearly ready, but not a word as to the condition of
the mine to keep 30 heads running. If it can go continu-
ously on Joz. rock the shares are ridiculously low, but the
usual practice in N.S.W. is to have the mill ready before
the mine.
• • * •
New Bushman’s (N.S.W.) month’s run—642
tons, 3820 z. Country hard and reef small. Seems to be
just paying its way, and all hopes of divs. have vanished,
as well as chances of selling the mine, as, alas ! once might
have been done. The average N.S.W. gold-mine is a good
thing to sell.
» * * •
A great report comes from the Golconda at
Parkes, N.S.W. :—“The backs are opening up in a highly
satisfactory manner ; a new chute of stone has been found ;
the hanging-wall is beautiful working pick-and-gad
ground,” and the assurance is given that, if it continues
crushing, stuff can be got at a quick and cheap rate.
Well, stranger things have happened at Parkes, where
there is a quartz crushing and mining co. that has never
had a mill of any kind, and no quartz to crush if it had.
• * * •
Lake George United Mines, N.S.W. : Someone
in Alelb. has worked out the cost to be 3s. a ton more than
the return —total charges, £1 Bs. 3d. per ton ; total real-
ised from a ton of ore, £1 ss. 2d. The month’s production
is valued at £8495 from 6750 tons of ore, running only
1.29 per cent, copper, about ljdwt. gold, and 2|oz. silver.
Cheap mining, with a vengeance 1 The Exploration co.
are great people for low-grade mines, but they cannot
like them as low-grade as all that. Some months ago
men supposed to be well up in copper-mining said these
shares were sure to go to £lO ; they are rapidly coming
down to 10s. When they were over £3, several small co’s
were floated, and there is in the camp the pathetic spec-
tacle of mines, whose shares can be bought at a few
shillings a dozen, hopelessly looking for a 1£ per cent,
copper lode, while there are in other parts of N.S.W. old
abandoned copper-mines whose waste dumps will go far
more than that.
• • • *
Largs Bay (S.A.) outer-harbor scheme appar-
ently revives. Paragraphed that Lord Kilmorey has
formed a London syndicate with good prospects of flota-
tion. The nature of the concessions made by S.A. Govt,
has never been published, by the way, but opposition in
Parliament, particularly from the Labor-party, is certain.
* * * *
Menzie’s Barossa, S.A.’s only big gold-mine,
cleaned up, the other day, 1500 tons for 30oz. ! The
crushing (the first one) knocked Adelaide mining men
kite high, but directors attribute it to the new plates, in-
experience, and sulphate of copper. The mine had been
much boomed by Alenzie and his partner. The latter
abandoned a press billet to become a “capitalist,” but
probably realises now that there’s more money in writing
about it.
After three months’ battle and persistent pump-
ing, the water is now 100 ft. below the 500 ft. level in the
Tasmania mine, and another big 18dwt. crushing has been
got out —value, £7992.
• • • *
From the Australasian : “Tasmania is destined
to be one of the greatest mineral-producers in the world,
but in many cases the work done is not commensurate
with recent market values.” The wisdom that cometh
after the slump is wonderful.
• * • •
Industriously circulated in Tas. papers that the
flying survey of the Great Western railway route has been
satisfactorily completed, and the permanent ditto is to be
begun forthwith. In the absence of definite news re flota-
tion of the gridiron in London, it is very necessary for
the local management to wield something industriously—
and press reports are the only substitutes for picks they
have about them just at present.
» « • •
"North Mt. Lyell : —“As far as can be deter-
mined, the main ore body is 75ft. wide, and a bulk assay
of samples taken from the whole length driven—l2oft.
yields 32 per cent, copper, 4oz. silver, and over ldwt.
gold.” With all this richness, and an ascending copper-
market, the great fall in shares seems mysterious. The
entire camp is suffering the effects of a premature boom.
* * * •
The Bulletin hears that Brisbane Tram Co.
has proposed to the Railway Commissioner to run a
lOmin. tram service along the railway line from Sandgate
to Brisbane.
* • • •
The year ’9B bids fair to turn out the top Q.
output of sugar. The phenomenal rainy season that has
given Southern Queensland two or three floods in succes-
sion on the Southern rivers, has forced the cane to an un-
paralleled luxuriance, and the planters are scratching
their heads and asking themselves, in puzzled wonder,
where can the- cane possibly all get crushed. Also,
couldn’t a few hundred cheap Japanese be landed quietly
somewhere to tide over the labor difficulty. Last year
the cane crop on the Burnett was an almost total failure,
and folks said the sugar-lands were worked out. This
year the cane is so strong and plentiful that thousands of
tons must inevitably be wasted—for lack of crushing-
power.
• * • •
Reported that the Brilliant Block, C. Towers,
has cut five feet of stone in an eastern level hitherto sup-
posed to be blank country. This, if permanent, means
salvation to more than one lingering claim to the east of
the magic horseshoe.
• * • »
Ed. Bulletin. —Sir, —Re Morgan North : —(1)
The staff of the big co. is not interested in Mt. Morgan
North. (2) No battery is put up, or intended to be put
up, at present. (3) The show of unlimited stone going
Joz. might be there, but we have not seen it yet. Hope
The Bulletin is a good prophet.—Anglo-Dane.
• * * »
Norseman : —“ Estimated yield for April is
26000 z. ; for the four months of the year, 10,000 oz. The
last eight months’ yield is thus 21,0000 z. The yield for
the previous four years was only 13,000 oz.” How much
was paid away in divs., and how much received in calls ?
The public gets this information re other Australian min-
ing fields, but in W.A. it never seems to come into the cal-
culation.
* • • •
London cable : “The W.A. market is in a state
of chaos. Estimated that the difference at the fort-
nightly settlement will amount to £175,000. Several
failures are expected. Horatio Bottomley has issued a
circular stating it will be necessary to reconstruct the
W.A. Market Trust, Ltd.” A later cable says Bottomley
is confident of a recovery, more failures are reported, and
the market is still disturbed. This is as pathetic for
Bottomley as last week’s Bulletin was prophetic about
him. It was one of his schemes to bring about some sort
of an amalgamation between the Auxiliary and Southern
Associated and the well-known Associated Alines of Kal-
goorlie—mines alike in name, but very unlike in value.
In fact, the founders of the Associated group do not hesi-
tate in describing Bottomley’s mines as “cats,” and lost
no time in publishing the failure of the attempt to amal-
gamate. Notlrng is said of the fate of the Northern
“Terrors,” though the chances are they too have been
jumped on, and that the Whittaker-Wright crowd has
done some of the jumping. During the last 10 days all
men who know Kaufmann have fancied that they hear
him swearing at “ sometings."
• * • •
John Thompson, a Coolgardie mining-manager,
interviewed by the British Australasian, says he was still
a firm believer in the field’s prospects, and regretted to see
the parent district lost sight of in the glamor attending
the development of Kalgoorlie. If the B.A. talked to a
Kalgoorlie man, 10 to 1 he would remark that the camp
suffered from the poverty-stricken condition of the Cool-
gardie mines, and he would be a lot nearer the mark than
is John Thompson.
* * • •
A committee of investigation pronounced the
latest gold-rush near Albany, W.A., a rank duffer, and re-
turned much disgusted. Poor sleepy Albany has suffered
much from gold-rushes, and is beginning to ask how they
are brought about. Lots of specimens, having served
their purposes, are parted with there. Many men are
hard-up when.they reach Albany, and are forced to part
with their stock-in-trade—a few “ nice stones.” Writer
advises Albany to keep a permanent committee of in-
vestigation on tap, and to have all rush-makers leg-ironed
until it has reported.
• • • *
Londonderry, W.A. : 320 tons, 6820 z. Good—
but how many like crushings will it take to pay a decent
div. on £700,000 ?
* * * •
Bayley’s United—a mine quite close to Cool-
gardie—by cyanide : 894 tons, 808 oz. But why don’t they
crush? The silence of the mill gives the answer. In
idleness, as in work, the battery speaks the truth.
* * • *
The filter-press system of treating slimes has
been started at Lake View Consols and Brown Hill mines,
Kalgoorlie. The small experimental-plant erected at the
former mine worked successfully, but, naturally, the
keenest interest is taken in the effort now made to treat
thousands of tons monthly. As far as the writer is aware,
filter-press treatment on a big scale has never been tried
elsewhere. Slimes are a trouble all over the world. On
the Rand, enormous heaps have been allowed to accumu-
late, awaiting a process equivalent to cyanide on tailings.
There, several methods have been at work, but the slimes
have to be richer than the average to pay. By the new
method, the slimes are drained, pressed into cakes, and
cyanide-solution forced through by compressed air. Cal-
lahan, the Lake View manager, is now pushing on the
sulphide and telluride plant. Already the mine is the
best-equipped on the field, and, when this plant is finished,
it will be one of the most perfect in the world.
* * * *
H.G. : “Vie. Chief-Justice Madden might
have had something to say as to solicitors acting on be-
half of lenders, and not only receiving the mortgage fees,
but a good slice of the commission, and, occasionally, also
a share of the valuation fees. One solicitor had a stand-
ing arrangement with a valuator to do all his valuations
at £1 Is. each ; Gent One in turn charging up to £5 55.”
• • * m
The Westralian 10ft. regulation began to cut
both ways—and it remains to be seen whether the revised
version won’t, too. Thus Warden Dowley, of the Mur-
chison, dodged trouble by simply declining to recommend
new leases where there was a likelihood of occupation by
alluvial diggers.


d
i
ORIENT
CLOTffIUiS
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Man’s Suite, 365. Extra Quality Mon’s Suits, 40».
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
Wo pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
/ Opposite \
\ G.P O. )
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
By far the Best Victorian Coal.
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
1 dephone 1430. Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
Society
In an appeal last week against a breach-of-
promise verdict for =£7so (obtained by a young
domestic servant against a gilded old gent.) as
excessive in amount, N.S.W. Full Court refused
to disturb the assessment, principally on the
ground, according to Darley, C. J., that plaintiff,
with the view of becoming defendant’s wife, “ had
changed her religion, and had thus incurred the
scorn of her relatives.” But, as this change—even
assuming that the sex ever has any religion beyond
the great cult of husband-catching— was entirely
the woman s own act, performed for her own pro-
fit, it s hard to see why the man should be made
10 pay.
A FALL IN VALUES.
MR. BOOMS TER: “My decr, you r sisters were not so old as you when they married well,”
MISS B, (spitefully) : Yes, paw, dear; but remember that was in boom-time!”
At a recent big cricket-match in Brisbane
a hairy anarchist, selling the Worker, somehow
managed to get in among “ society ’’ in the grand-
stand- He wandered about grunting sepulchrally
Worker! Is Drury dead ? ” and finally leaned
over the Governor’s box shaking a paper at H.E.
and asking him if Drury were defunct. They
promptly flung him out “like dirt on a shovel,’’
as he put it, but he gathered himself up and
away in his rags croaking sepulchrally,
Worker ! W orker ! Is Drury dead? ”
* * * *
Legal battle is being done at Perth (W.A.)
over the possession of a blackboy, asserted by one
party to have been “ apprenticed to him at five
years old !■—and merely “ lent ” to the other
party, who, on his side, maintains that the boy
was “assigned to him by a justice of the
peace.” “ Apprenticed’’l— I “lent ”!—“assigned”!
Slavery? —“ oh, no, we never mention it—its name
is never heard ” !
» * • *
An employer’s liability case was heard at
Hobart Supreme Court, the other day, wherein a
*2-a-week laborer sued his boss for compensation
for the mangling of an arm between the cogs of a
wattle-bark chopping machine. It transpired, in
evidence, that the machine could not be stopped
except by shutting off steam at the engine. No
loose pulley, no guard over the rollers, and the
machine was habitually driven for all it was
worth. The Govt, inspector of machinery swore
that the machine was “fairly” safe, if the feeder
was careful; he also stated that he didn’t know
an uncertificated engineer was employed to drive
that particular engine ! The maxim of volenti non
fit injuria was held to apply, and the jury (mostly
employers) verdicted for the employer, though ad-
mitting that there was no evidence that plaintiff
had contributed to the accident by negligence.
Quote the jury’s rider :
They considered that some appliance should be con-
nected with all such machines, to minimise the risk of
accident; but, though they said that, they could not say
that this machine, without such an improvement, was
defective.
Which ought to be a record rider —even for Tas-
mania.
* • * •
The old Yic. warship Nelson (British
frigate) was sold by auction last week for =£2-100,
the purchaser being a Sydney man, who “intends
breaking her up for the timber and copper.’’
Curious ! But for the high price realised, one
might have almost expected her to go into the
coal-trade.
* * * »
The Nelson, by the way, was a highly
respectable British line-of-battle ship over 00 years
ago. Contrary to a prevalent opinion, she was
never in the command of Admiral Nelson; she
wasn t built till after that hero’s death. The Im-
perial Government presented her to Victoria in
1867. The Nelson, though built for active war
service, never fired an offensive or defensive gun
in her long life.
Adelaide Hospital was recently reinforced
by five charge nurses and two lady doctors from
other cities. The opposition medicos, it is re-
Pi? ij ' n , tent to Promptly propose marriage to
the lady-doctors as a means of further harassing
the institution. °
* * * *
A Wellington (M.L.) husband obtained a
decree am the other week on the ground that the
wife of his bosom had joined the Mormons The
married woman who elects to “ sin ” with a
Mormon is an object for sympathy. If she doesn’t
happen to be good-looking she awakens to the
awful fact that there isn’t enough sin to go round.
* * * *
The suicide, in Melbourne, of George
Kisser and his wife ought to serve as an awful
warning for. girls who gather around bicycle-tracks
and gloat upon the legs of “ all the champions.”
Kisser earned a precarious livelihood as a pace-
maker, in which capacity he won the heart of a
pretty governess and married her. They annear
to have lived for ten months upon the girl’s sav-
ings, mostly. Risser’s pacemaking career ended
when cyclist Lesna left Australia, after which he
obtained a b'Het at a French vine-merchant’s
office in Melbourne. When he had lost his billet
and exhausted his wife’s money, and pawned all
her jewellery, the able-bodied pedaller gave him-
self up to despair, and the bride, being evidently
convinced of his inability to make himself useful,
agreed to join him in a double suicide. A tale of
wheel and woe. Poor wretches !
* * # •
Two more of C.J. Griffith’s decisions upset
last Full Court in Brisbane. The appeals are
either from Griffith to Real or Real to Griffith,
either of whom with two others composes the Full
Court turn-about. The two other “ y’honors ”
don’t know enough law (comparatively speak-
mg) to come in out of the wet, so they simply
drawl out “I concur.”
* • * •
One of the most joyous conflicts on record
took place in Tasmania the other day between a
doctor and a landlady’s daughter and two dogs.
The doctor’s dog was getting the worst of it when,
as alleged at the police-court, he rushed into the
fray, caught up the daughter’s dog, whirled it
round, and slopped it hard down. Then the
daughter flew at the doctor, and the doctor re-
taliated on the daughter, and there was a most
willing go till the lady stood off, and, lowering
her head, butted the medicine-man violently in
the breadbasket. This demoralised the doctor,
and the daughter was led tiway weeping but
victorious. The magistrate fined the unfortunate
doctor £1 with £ ll9s. sd. costs. “ He kicked my
dog.”
* * » *
“ She was handed over to Mr. Manyletters
Soandso, for treatment. He diagnosed ‘ dropsy,
result of heart-disease.’ The operation of paraeen-
tiesis abdominis was performed, and about half-a-
gallon of fluid withdrawn ; after which, however,
the patient unfortunately collapsed.” Who /vas
she ! ” A fox-terrier slut! The horse reporter’s
not in it nowadays with the Sydney daily news-
paper kennel-artist.
* * * *
Any man with a few more pigs than his
neighbor is made a J.P. in Tas. Literary attain-
ments are never considered ; so the bush Jay-Pay
generally discharges a prisoner off-hand, as the
easiest way out of the difficulty. Bush Tas. J.P.
to drunk and disorderly : “Are ye hungry, my
man?” “ Yes, yeranner.” “ Are ye ther-rersty,
me poo’ fellow ? ” “Yes, yer anner.” To con-
stable : “ Take this man away, an’ put a fade into
him, and then-let him go.” Fact. And, if it was
poor law, it was at least pretty sound benevolence
on the part of the pig-owning J.P.
• » * *
The R.C.’s are getting a great hold in Fiji
(writes a Bulletin correspondent). They are
building a stone cathedral in Suva, and have
already been two years over it. It’s going to be
the cathedral of the Western Pacific. Sydney
masons superintending, but Heaven knows when
it will be finished. Catholic Polynesian house-
servants are the worst you can engage, and house-
holders are gradually getting rid of them. When
you would expect to find them pipeclaying your
shoes iif the morning, they are at mass, or some-
thing ; and if you kick one out for stealing your
kerosene, the priest will bring him round to you
next day with, “Shure, Joni has repinted, an’ ye
moight thry him agin.”
* * * *
Grif: “Re Sunday-trading pubs, with three
gates to keep out the law, I know a dozen or more
that only use one gate and have kept out the law
for years. It’s the church-gate-—their servants oil
the gate at 7 o’clock, the boss at 8, the missus at
9, and the son and daughters at 10. They oil
very church-bazaar and rattle. I heard one of
this class say that he shook more dice for more
church-swindles and sold more tickets on Sunday
than any other pub. in the district. N.B. —F'ive
beer-pullers out of six are R.C.—so are the police !
* * * *
One Eastern daily, whose beastly rival got
ahead of it with news of the Kalgoorlie “ riot,”
next day heaped on more agony, and explained
that it had not been able to come up to scratch
before, because its “local representative was badly
injured during the riots.” Printed now in gold-
fields papers that the local representative first
heard of his injuries when the great paper came to
hand.
TRUE TO TYRE.
SMITH (indicating little Pikins who has passed by
on his way to the office of Clutch and Chew,
solicitors) : “HE’LL never make a lawyer.”
JONES : “ Why?”
SMITH : “ Look at his retreatiny chin.”
JONES : “ Pooh! look at the chin of a shark.”
H. : “‘Capt.’ Robinson, of the Church
Army, has arrived in Melbourne as pioneer of that
organisation, under the auspices, and strictly
f° n m°’ of bishoi) (roe, who has ap-
pomted pastor Tress, once of Sydney and now of
TUd 'i *' IS ’ Richmond, Melb., as secretary,
, 'e Army washed, shaved, and put into
clean linen Iho Church Army has uniforms,
bands, and flags, but, according to the original
red cult of the howling drum, it has ‘no true in-
wardness —whatever that may mean.”
“O MISERIE !”
LITERARY ASPIRANT: “Oh, beg pardon; T'll— I'll
call in when you have some time to spare! ”
EDITOR (wearily) : “ Better come in now. Guess
I won’t be much good to you when I'm dead.”
Apropos a recent Bulletin remark, sug-
gested by a missionary meeting observation of
Darley, C.J., that awful horrors existed in way-
back Australia. The other day, a “ respectable ”
young woman sued a “respectable” young man
for the usual 7s. 6d. a week. The young woman,
described as a housemaid, owned up that it was
her second little trouble. She had been living
with her mother recently; her father was away,
and her mother was being “kept” by Billy
somebody. The “ respectable young man ” for
his part suggested that his “ old father ” might
be the father of the stranger; anyway, the girl
and he had gone out together. And this in a
township which is rather proud of its morals.
* * * •
The titled “ pusson ” from ’Ome is always
making discoveries. Thus Lady Lamington,
orating at the Hospital for Sick Children (B.): —
“ One thing in the province that strikes a person
from the old country is the way everybody here
gives to charity. . . It is most extraordinary and
beautiful.” Shortly to be published : “ Habits of
the Natives in the Wilds of Bananaland,” by a
Person of Quality.
• * * *
The tick (which has now entered N.S.W.)
presents some curious problems to the scientist.
At Boolburra (Centralia) ticks have been in exist-
ence for two years. Cattle have been subject to
their attacks all that time and yet there is no
fever apparent. Cattle were sent thither, for the
sake of experiment, from other parts. They were
promptly attacked. Skin became raw ; hair fell
off —but there was no fever. Then Boolburra
cattle were sent off to tick-infested Gracemere.
Within a fortnight tick-fever set in and six of
them died. Explanation ?—None.
* • * *
Touching a delicate ecclesiastical subject :
Went to a Sydney cathedral Sunday night. I don't
wear under-pants, and, in a few minutes, I was horrified
to feel 16 brigades of fleas marching up my ankles, clear-
ing the country as they went. I wriggled and rubbed and
tried to forget the torture in the majestic boom of sacred
music. No go—had to quit; and as I hurried down the
aisle a tall gent got suddenly up, rubbed his legs, and
preceded me to the door. I sympathetically queried on
the steps, “Fleas?”
The latest ap-
plication of the
phonograph and
megaphone for
daily use has
been essayed by
an eminent bot-
tle - dealer who,
finding several
employes spoil-
ing their fine
voices calling
“Bottle oh!’’all
day, has furn-
ished each with
a mach i n e,
charged by the
powerful voice
of a basso, guar-
ant e e d to be
heard for two
miles, and ar-
ranged to emit
the popular
street-cry at re-
quisiteintervals.
The only eon-
. tretemps that
nas as yet occurred arose through a machine
being supplied one day, which called “ Sydney
rock-oysters, ' instead of the proper cry, and
legal proceedings are pending over the blun-
der. The supply co. is now prepared to fur-
nish machines, set with the choicest strong
language (in three grades), carefully selected by
experts, for the use of bullock-drivers in toupfli
places. Also, Ranji will be pleased to hear the
co. is manufacturing a further supply for the use
of cricket barrackers.
* * * *
Molb. Hospital committee has elected
another lady doctor as a resident med.—Miss
Violet May Plummer. The former experiment
proved so satisfactory that the committee is now
glad to have a woman about the house.
* * * *
Melbourne is to have its regiment of
Scotchmen, Minister M'Culloch, ye yen, having
agreed to provide the necessary arms and ammuni-
tion. .The regiment is to be kilted, in spite of a
suspicion that the Scotch leg does not ripen well
in this climate. As bicycling is pretty well played
out, an 1 football now almost a full-dress function,
the manceuvrings of the braw, bare-legged, Hielan’
laddies may be quite a fashionable leg-show for a
time.


s®
["tlAvE You
__FbRGOT TEA 4
"DOSE’S CELEBRATED
" EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers— per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. iW‘ Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Ma'italasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per llalf-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, ft’land.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of tne head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Tartaric t Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Curb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and Millett).
Wholesale Only
from
CATALLARO LIQUORICE.
HY. MARKWALD
11 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY.
178 William-st.,
MELBOURNE.
14 Currie-st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
The attempt to establish the Gee-
Hing at Perth (W.A.) recalls the trouble
at Bendigo a few years ago. Though pro-
fessedly only a benefit association, the out-
side Chows loudly proclaimed the Gee-Hing
a secret society of the most dangerous
type. According to. the plebeian Mon-
golian —for Gee-Hing fnembership is con-
fined to the elite—the initiates are given
to unspeakable iniquity, and the sudden
disappearance of the constable instructed
to investigate was as suspicious as was
the fell ing with an iron bar of Bendigo
pressman Dick Jordon when looking for
Gee-Hing copy in the Chinese camp. De-
tective M‘Manamey, however, who was at
last sent up from Melb., could find nothing
in support of the outsiders’ assertions, and
reported that the Gee-Hing was a per-
fectly harmless institution.
* * * *
Many Melbourne bagnios are just
now being routed out by the police, but
no steps are taken to make the landlords
amenable for their share in the business.
Even under existing legislation, the owner
of a house used as a bagnio is liable to
prosecution but the law has never been
enforced—Fatman is too potent. The fur-
nishing ghoul still battens on his victims,
and the jewels and purple and fine linen
derived from this traffic are still flaunted
at church and conventicle and synagogue.
Miss Sutherland’s denunciation of the
pious owners of bagnio-property is pretty
well forgotten, and matters are ripe for
another kick-up. A little investigation, at
the titles-office, of the ownership of Mel-
bourne brothel - property would 1 provide
some information as interesting as it would
be startling.
» » * *
David Gaunson (loq.) : “You need
not tell me that the Chinamen are getting
all the best and prettiest girls of this
country. Everyone who isn’t an absolute
ass knows that. But if you 11 tell me how
the yellow brutes manage to get the money
to attract the white women away from the men
of our race, I’ll listen to you,”
* * * •
“ Mac.” to The Bulletin :
Patients and visitors at Melb. Hospital find the whole
place overrun with Danes, Scandinavians, and miscellane-
ous Teutons, who cannot understand three consecutive
words of English or speak one. These foreigners com-
prise the porters, and to elicit any information from most
of them is like attacking the lordly civil servant in a
departmental inquiry office. Those who are civil know
their own tongue only, and those who can speak English
are either surly or wildly excitable. How these fellows
come to be pushed into billets where intelligence and
smartness are the first essentials is incomprehensible, but
probably it is only a result of the old desire for cheapness.
[The hospital authorities, it is stated, prefer
“ Soandies ” on account of their docility, tidiness,
and reliableness. Australians or new-chums ap-
plying for the same class of work are “ bad lots,”
as a rule, looking for a few weeks’ employment to
provide them with more beer-money.—Ed. 13.]
• • • *
There is in Sydney a blind masseur who
is simply coining money. To ladies with unlovely
limbs and graceless figures he is a perfect boon,
because they naturally suppose that what the eye
doesn t see the mouth won’t wax sarcastic over.
As the unlovely ones are in a huge majority, this
consideration might be turned to profitable account
by the Blind Institute.
* * * *
Mr. L. Philip feels called upon to notify
in Sydney. D.T. that, in some recent remarks
.about Manilla, he didn’t mean to imply that the
place is priest-ridden. A Philip-pine evasion!
The islands, like every other Spanish colony, are
■dry-rotted with sacerdotalism as arrogant as it is
ignorant.
* * * *
The other day an Australian constable, in
search of a pair of embryo bushrangers, after
making fruitless enquiries at a roadside pub., pro-
ceeded to refresh himself in the bar, and got quite
chummy with two casuals who “shouted” so
liberally that the three left the pub. together
pretty mellow. Then the two strangers got talk-
ing marksmanship, and they all had a try with
the constable’s revolver; but as soon as it was
empty the men annexed not only it but the con-
stable’s watch and Her Majesty’s bracelets. Then
they lashed the unlucky trap to a telegraph-post
and left him to his reflections.
* * * •
“ Scotty the Wrinkler” :
“Munnner” and I are at one re the nigger-loving
white woman, and the fervent Hindoo or any
other darkey. I fancy General Wheeler was of the
same opinion just before and during the mutiny, likewise
the garrisons of Cawnpore and Lucknow. And I once
saw a paymaster’s daughter being mugged by a chokera.
Then, again, I myself was gone on a colonel’s sister-in-
law, who married into the Bengal cavalry, and had a
yellow baby three months afterwards. What I witnessed
in the Hotel de.l’Europe, in Suez, is known only to me and
another colonel s wife, on her way home, unless the Arab
courierisaliveorsplit beforedeath. At Woolwich, the West
Indians sent home for instruction always had nice white
girls on their arms. Even in Glasgow (although, I confess,
the Scotch lassie is not much of a black-worshipper), the
missionaries of coffee tint always went down well,
but then the Scotch are “ unco guid.” And, look at N.S.
Wales: How the squatteresses do pamper their Jap and
Indian cooks, butchers, and laundrymen ! I think that,
in this country, a woman who allows a blackfellow to wash
her linen, and then joke in the hut about it, is just fit to
live with that black; and, judging by some episodes on
the Murrumbidgee and Lachlan, these lydies are also of
my opinion. At one station, a Chinaman used to hug the
manager’s daughters. Near this place, Narandera, I
have heard jokes passed between Syrian and other tarry
hawkers and white women that would mean look-up for a
white pedlar. I should like to see Ranji’s letters from Aus-
tralienneB.”
ART IN AUSTRALIA.
EMINENT ARTIST (to intending pupil): “You think
my terms too high — why, I myself, when study-
ing, paid one-guinea a lesson."
“Yes; but, then, YOU learned from good masters! ”
The neutrality proclamation issued by
Australian Govts, in re the United States and
Spain recalls to many the similar proclamation
issued in Ireland at the opening of the Franco-
German war, and the stratagems devised to nul-
lify effect. The Paddies were 10 to lin favor
of France, and, as there was no fighting to be done
just then in Ireland, the most bellicose of the
nation determined to skip the Channel and “offer
their swords ” to Gaul. Under the neutrality
laws, ambulance parties might go from British
territory to either country, and every town and
village in Ireland accordingly started such a corps.
They drilled, collected firearms and ammunition,
and whispered slaughter, but when a spy dropped
on them they pretended to be wholly occupied
studying the way to bandage a sprained ankle or
administer tonics out of pocket-flasks. The
British Govt, shrewdly suspected that when a
corps reached France it would leave ambulance
work to others and get quickly into the thick of
the fight, but, under the neutrality laws, it was
hard to interfere. Scores of Englishmen, how-
ever, went under similar cover to Prussia.
» * ♦ *
A Brisbane threepenny meal—soup, meat,
pudding, two cups of tea, bread and potatoes. A
bed and breakfast, 4s. fid. a week.
C.R. : “In
one of your re-
cent issues there
isaseriesof three
small pictures
entitled ‘ A Cure
for Drunken-
ness.’ Well, I
came across the
following the
other day : ‘ A
Scythian writer
gave a good pre-
scription if it
were only prac-
tic a 1. When
asked how to
make men total
abstainers the
local philosopher
replied : “If the
appearance of
drunkards can
be put before
their eyes it is
as if that were
done which Ci-
cero advised in
the case of angry
man, that is to
put a looking-
glass before his
face.”’ Photo-
graphy has made
this prescription
practical. Your
artist has caught
the idea. But
how old it is!
How old every-
thing is, for that
matter ! And,
anyhow, it does-
n’t seem to be so
much of a cure,
after all. The
probability is
that if a really
Hard Case were
shown, in a sober interval, a portrait of himself
in a beastly state of ‘drunk’ he would merely
mutter, * This comes of mixing drinks ! Plain
beer for me in future.’ A genuine whole-souled
boozer never remains dry for want of excuses to
drink. His quiver is full of them.”
» * ♦ *
Yet another Sydney woman burnt to
death through her flannelette wrapper catching
light. In anything like close contact with fire,
flannelette is as dangerous as calico soaked in
kerosene.
* * * *
The Sydney police, of course, are paid
privately not to see the scores of open betting-
shops, and all tho Sunday-trading. If the police
aren’t paid, who is paid ? What a farce to have
laws that can’t be enforced by public opinion !
“ ’Twould seem,” writes F.R. to The Bul-
letin, “ that fama and fames make up a chemical
compound. The other day Gordon Coutts’ pic-
tures —some of them really adm.rable—were auc-
tioned in Sydney for a song (and a street-singer’s
song at that), and clever Lister-Lister’s sale did
little more than prove that a picture is always
worth the canvas it is painted on. And nobody
knew that the auctions were to be held. This
sets one thinking of the Painter v. Singer contro-
versy. Singers only appear to push themselves,
because their art necessitates their being literally
before the public. A painter lets his picture
strike its own chords, and will not aid it by one
single advertising tootle from his own trumpet.
This is one of the Seven Deadly Virtues. His
predecessors have placed him on a high pedestal,
and the only way to get down (that he can see) is
to fall. Doubtful though if advertising would
get him better prices, as few men think they get
50 guineas’ worth of pure enjoyment out of any
picture, whereas by the simple leverage of a shil-
ling or two they can open the floodgates of Town
Hall melody. The reason is easy to see. The
average Australian loves Art certainly, but
Reality more. Now, music alone combines the
two. A voice is real. A picture can only be
realistic. This explains why the A. A. prefers to
take his ‘ Ever-restless Sea’ from the Coogee
cliffs, and not at the Sydney Domain Daubery.”
♦ » * *
Is it a fact—as stated by Bathurst (N.S. W.)
Advocate —that on last Easter Monday a number
of Christian ladies gave a picnic at Lane Cove
River to a lot of “converted” Chinamen, and
played rounders and kiss-in-the-ring with them ?
It does not sound impossible. There is hardly any
length to which lovely woman will not go to pluck
brands from the burning.
* * • •
One-in-the-eye for the N.S. W. Cold-Water
Crowd in response to its blundering assumption
that, whereas Gov. Hampden had refused his
patronage to them, he had accorded it to the
accursed Bung-Brotherhood :
In reply, I have to say that you are in error in stating
that H.E. is a patron of the Licensed Victuallers’ Associa-
tion, his patronage being limited to the picnic of that
association. In his Excellency’s opinion, the Licensed
Victuallers are a respectable body of tradesmen, and he
sees good reason why, as the representative of the Crown,
he should support the provision of a day’s pleasure to a
hard worked body of people, and the augmentation of a
fund for relief of distressed members of the trade.
Lord Hampden, it is added, discriminates between
patronage of an association and patronage of an
entertainment therewith connected. Which—as
the wag put-in when the chairman commenced
his speech with “ Sir Gorgias and gentlemen
is “ a very proper distinction ’’!
» • • •
“ Cove,” apropos the N.S.W. Governor and
licensed victuallers:—
No possible ingenuity can twist the Bible into a teetotal
book. Its very warnings against excess prove that, as
also do its expressions of tolerance for the teetotallers,
the Rechabites, and the Nazarites. If Christ turned
wafer into wine, it was assuredly intoxicating. No
rational being can suppose that the recognised toast-
master of a city like Cana of Galilee, when teetotalism
was all but, or quite, unknown, would crack up some such
rotgut slop as the elderberry wine, huckleberry wine, and
the like, which, after 2DOO 3 - ears’experimenting, is all that
teetotallism has achieved. At the same time, Card.
Moran and Archbishop Carr are to be honored for their
total abstinence, as a measure unfortunately, and only
temporarily, needed in their position, because, through
deficient social conditions, the one vice of drunkenness
happens to be the most pronounced in their denomina-
tion. I believe Bishop Goe takes his glass of stout, and
Bishop Moorhouse said ten years ago that a little whisky
THE DIFFERENCE.
REGINALD (to barmaid) : “ Can you—aw —tell me the diffewence between wecollect and — aw—weemembah?”
BAHMAID: “Yes; I recollect lending you half-a-sovereign last ‘Tatt’s ’ meeting, but I don't remember you paying me lack.”
was a necessity of life to him, for enabling him to stand
up to his work. Thus with the late Melb. nonagenarian,
Dean Macartney. A teetotal Bible would have been in-
tensely foolish. Not only impossible for the ages in which
the Word was written, but impossible for the ages to
come, when the drink problem shall have been dealt
with, and the Bible has vet to stand—somehow.
* * * *
Apropos of Darlinghurst prison. A stipen-
diary magistrate outside and in open court cannot
inflict corporal punishment without having a
colleague on the bench, but in prison the visiting
justice—the city stipendiaries take it in turn now—
can (solus) order the “ cat ” for breaches of dis-
cipline.
♦ * * *
Queen Victoria intimated to Lord Kintore
that she would like a kangaroo instead of “ Daisy
Bell,” deceased, and also some ostriches—the good
old lady probably meant emus. Kintore sent the
hint on to Chief-Justice Way, and the result is
that Adelaide Zoo, of the board of which Way is
a member, has given animals worth more than
.£lOO.
• * • •
News via Quirindi, N.S.W. :
GAZETTE EXTRA.
WAR STARTED.—SPECIAL WIRE.
Saturday Morning.
America started hospitalities by capturing a Spanish
lumber-ship.
* • * *
“ I hate rich Victorians ; they are such
snobs—they are worse than English people,’’ once
wrote Francis Adams. Melbourne snobbery is
shortly to be responsible for the appearance of
“ The Australasian Society Blue Book,” the
object of which “will be to keep a complete re-
cord of Victorian society ” —haw ! “We use the
word ‘Australasian,’” magniloquently adds the
“ editress ” —lovely word ! “ because it is our in-
tention shortly to embrace the whole society of
the Southern Hemisphere”-—including, it is to be
presumed, the haut ton of the Hottentots and the
toffdom of Tierra del Fuego. The Bulletin also
surmises that this novel application of the term
“ blue-book ” is intended to imply special refer-
ence to “ blue blood,” and the absence from the
haughty pages of patronymics unpleasantly re-
miniscent of the till, the tap-room, and the
butcher’s-block. According to the circular, the
cost of getting your name into the thing is one
guinea.
* * * *
At Melbourne City Court the other day
lawyer Gaunson, appearing for the lady-principal
of a Lonsdale-street bagnio, wanted to know
whether it was better “ that the Magdalenic
class should be housed in the city, or in the
suburbs ? ” When the prosecuting policeman sug-
gested “the suburbs,” Gaunson drew a word-
picture of the temptation that befalls any man
journeying home, after a banquet in town, in the
same railway-carriage with a tawny-haired siren.
There’s a good deal to be said on both sides of this
improper question, but probably the lawyer was
right. Matters should be so arranged that a man
who reaches his suburban residence at an ungodly
hour may truly attribute the cause to business in
the city.
* • • *
A Northern suburb has a dog-inspector
who gathers in the mangy pup and the wander-
ing mongrel and sells or destroys the unclaimed
animals. He has also a shop in another suburb,
run by his wife, where are sold the juicy meat-pie
and succulent sausage. There is not necessarily
“ anything ” in this but a humorous coincidence.
* * * *
At the recent Postal Conference at Hobart
the paper called The Wife’s Counsellor (or
something like that) was voted against as an
indecent publication.
• * • •
Rev. M. Wilkinson (C.E.) recently stated
publicly in Sydney that N.S.W. benevolent asy-
lums are such that no inmate could be expected to
lead a human life. Mr. W. was formerly an
asylum-chaplain—and ought to know !
* * * *
Holdar M. : “A passion to attach livery
to the hireling whose business exposes him to the
general gaze develops fast in Sydney. The paper’s
'name on a blue ribbon round a tram-guard cap
now adorns many news-runners. The turnstile-
man at the ferry begins to loom large in blue and
gold, while the portly person who officiates out-
side the theatre and millinery-shop becomes more
and more elegantly equipped. The suburban
slavey, too, now seems to take more kindly to the
tell-tale trappings, and I await the capture of the
’bus-driver. Is this uniform mania a dignity
development, or what ?


BOOTS FOR WET WEATHER —
MADE OF GOOD LEATHERS
JUST A LITTLE THICKER;
JUST A LITTLE STRONGER;
BUT, Lea t her
so prepared as to give Comfort
as well as Protection to your
Feet, and you have a High-
Grade Boot the
CALLAGHAN WINTER BOOT.
Ladies ! Try Our Calf Lace Winter Boots, at 16s. 6d. and 17s. 6d.
Gentlemen 1 Try Our Calf Lace Winter Boots, at 15s. 6d. and 255., 275. 6d.
395 George ' Bt -, Sydney - CALLAGHAN & SON,
J. J. Strickland, of Breanhorne (N.S.W.),
an unusually intelligent J.P., proves himself pos-
sessed of a fine stock of commonsense patriotism.
He Las voluntarily travelled over a large portion
of Grenfell district to explain to dull electors the
value of electors’-rights in forthcoming tussles,
and to witness their signatures where necessary.
Strickland seems to know the average bushy well.
Probate of the will of George Murray,
printer and paper manufacturer, was granted in
Sydney this week, Murray died about a month
ago, and there was absolutely no newspaper refer-
ence to his demise. He was doubly connected by
marriage with Henry Parkes, having married as
his second wife a daughter of the ex-Premier,
whilst the wife of Varney Parkes, the ex-Pr«nier’s
son, is Murray’s daughter.
Wild-eyed and hairy anarchists were much
in evidence at Melb. May-Day Celebration.
Fleming, with a more or less clean red handker-
chief round his waist, a red rosette in his button-
hole, and a broom-handle with a banner of old
red flannel shirt clutched in his right hand, assured
the assembled listeners that “ unless the cry of
the masses were heeded bleeding heads would
again be impaled upon pikes as they were in the
French Revolution.” Dr. Maloney was up-
holstered in flaming red tie with rosette and
cockade of same hue, but Hancock contented
himself merely with a red flower in his button-
hole. The oratory was as lurid as the trappings,
but the 15,000 or so people who by turn listened
and meandered about didn’t take much stock in
the gore. Tillett, speaking with his usual good
sense, was probably the only man present who
said anything that could help the cause of labor.
Probably Maloney’s French education was
mainly responsible for the dramatic incident
which decorated Deakin’s Federation meeting last
Friday. Also, an incidental woman, who climbed
on the platform and left a tumbler half-full of
water on the table in front of Maloney, was partly
responsible in an indirect fashion. It was not
until Deakin and Maloney had completed the
exchange of compliments that the former, turning
towards the table, saw the tumbler. There was
no hesitation; reaching out for the glass, he
emptied its contents with neat precision in
Deakiti’s face, accompanied by a hissed challenge
to meet with pistols. The after events were also
colored by the little doctor’s affectation of French
manners. He went quietly to a room with the
sergeant of police and a few of his friends, where
he instantly flourished his cigarette-case, and
after having handed it round calmly lit a cig.
himself and awaited the result with smoke pouring
out of his nostrils. The daily paper reports of
the occurrence make Deakin act with great
dignity, which is perhaps accounted for by the
fact that he went straight from the hall to the
Age office and thence to the Argus. This may
also account for the fact that both papers state
most of the water missed its mark, which it didn’t.
Gilfillan and M‘Creery, assayers, metal-
lurgists, and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne. Complete battery cyanide
and chlorination plants for bulk tests.*
“I thought I had a Stamp.”
Many inquiries having been made at this office for
the above humorous picture by “Hop” which
appeared in The Bulletin as a coloured supple-
ment some years ago (and which has been long out
of print) Mr. Hopkins has, by special permission of
The Bulletin, executed an etching of the work,
and a limited number of signed artist’s proofs
may now be had only on application to this
office. The proofs are printed on Whatman’s
“Creswick ” drawing paper, 14 x 17£ inches ; size
of plate, x 12. As every detail has been carried
out by the artist himself (including the printing)
these proofs have all the value of an original
drawing. This will be an exceptional opportunity
to possess an example of “ Hop’s ’’ work, which is
rarely to be seen outside the pages of this paper.
On receipt of Three Guineas we will send by
post or parcel delivery to any address.
BULLETIN OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
GLOBE TEAS have N 0 E “ iial
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 3, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
Your scribe is a little melancholy this week,
and if her gloom overshadows this budget, learn
the raison d'etre and be lenient. Well, there was
a clergymen’s picnic—given by the Broughton
(clerical) Club —during the week, and I wasn’t
there, because I wasn’t asked. And there’s the
case in a nutshell—or a steam-launch, which was
theactual craft of these good picnickers. The Arch-
bishop was the peg the picnic hung upon, and the
Parramatta River was the scene of the revels, and
the Archbishop, who is just back from Europe,
said he had derived much pleasure from the enter-
tainment, and the river smiled and said nothing
at all.
And yet there is such a thing as under-doing a
parsons’ party. Once, not so very long ago, there
was a Sydney lady whose heart delighted itself in
rendering homage to young curates, and the rest
of the clergy, married and unmarried. The hom-
age generally took the form of a tea-party, and
it was noticed by the lady’s cat, which she
always had with her, that no one parson
ever came to any two tea-parties. One night
the cat learned the secret. There was a party,
and a pint of prawns stood at one end of the
table, and a pudding of astounding richness
at the other. In between, there was some butter
and some bread, and very likely a red-glass
flower-stand with pelargoniums and sweet-williams
falling about as stiffly as soldiers. And all round
the festive board sat hungry canons, and hungrier
curates. And the prawns were given in charge of
an archdeacon, who had helped many a prawn to
grace, and the lady herself took charge of the
pudding. After the blessing, which was sung
standing, the meal began, and there and then the
archdeacon disgraced himself for ever and ever.
He helped the whole dish of prawns out in two
distributions to the two old canons, who had said
“ if you please,” to his “ Prawns? ” And for all
the rest there was pudding—only pudding—and
here is where the cat got its fullest significance of
the perils of the clergy. The lady’s husband, who
was just as Scotch as she was, remarked, “ What
a reech puddin’ ye’re geein’ them to-nicht.” And
the cat turned and fled that house for ever, when
it heard the lady’s placid auswer—whispered, but
clear enough to reach the curate, who was tilling
himself on a second helping—“ The eggs was
addled, my dear."
If the end of the century has not seen all the
wonders there are to be seen, it has had a view of
some rare and strange ones. It has watched a
lady go round the world with all her travelling
equipage nursed in one little bag on her right arm,
and it has seen portmanteau after portmanteau
pass away into the silences, and bandbox struc-
tures fall into evil odour beside the sailor-hat that
never needs a bandbox. And now, even a raw
newchum like Sydney has beheld a maiden lady
gather together a party for a private expedition
into the very jaws of the South Sea Islanders,
who, by the way, have never caught the civilised
and unaccountable prejudice against unmarried
ladies.
This latest thing in explorers is Miss Hastie, a
Scotchwoman with a pile to play with as she
chooses. Her choice runs to seaweed and science,
and expeditions into the Unknown, where, in-
deed, most women like to wander, even if they
have to charter a spook instead of a vessel. But
Miss Hastie’s unknown is a tangible place, in-
habited by men with big teeth, who would never
join with Shakespeare in decrying too too solid
flesh. She has chartered and fitted-up the
schooner Sydney Belle at her own expense, and
the boat left Sydney last Tuesday for Wellington,
where the rest of the party gets in. Along with the
others goes a lady botanist, Miss Prince, and three
more or less learned females, and the trip ought
to be an uncommonly jolly one, if learning does
not overcloud the sport. The majority of the
party hail from Maoriland.
Maoriland is also responsible for Mr. Alfred Hill,
Sydney Liedertafel’s new conductor. A meek’
little young man, with a pale and boyish face, and
locks where the hair ought to be, he put an extra-
ordinary amount of energy into his waves and
passes at the first Liedertafel concert of the
season. The dreamy members woke into new life
under his baton, and, now and then, shook off for
a moment the heavy suburban atmosphere, under
which they usually pass their time, or have it
passed to them. The audience was less successful.
Suburban it came, and suburban went away. Miss
Hetty Holroyd, a new soprano, roused everyone
who was feeling a little sleepy with her brilliant
rendering of “ Ah Non Credea ” and Strelezki’s
“Dreams.” Herorgan is dramatic, penetrating, and
exquisitely clear, and much developed sinceher first
appearance in the “Sign of the Cross.” She was
the lady, you remember, who twanged the lyre to
Berenice. On the whole, although the part-sing-
ing was a little violent with its diminuendos, the
Liedertafel seems in a fair way for a revival.
That much-admired personage, “The Idler,”
came back to the Criterion on Saturday, and every-
one who was anyone at all was there to meet him.
Diamonds sparkled in the opera-boxes and swag-
ger frocks were the order of the night. Especially
on the other side of the footlights. Miss Lamb
was a well-groomed Lady Harding, but she had
one house-dress that amazed me with the tying
of its bows. The mainstay of the frock was soft
pink flowery muslin, and up the front and down
the back pink satin ribbon was knotted in the
weirdest —well, I remember once trimming a dress
in a nightmare, and I tied bows just so. The
“ just so ” is indescribable. I only know that the
ribbon has the appearance of being in one long
piece that is never cut anywhere, and every bow
seems to be tied on the far end of another bow.
In the fourth act Miss Rickards paralysed
Saturday’s audience with a red hat of the loudest
order of reds, and a blue-green frock that reflected
a sea and sky by Holman Hunt. The bodice was
barred all over with a lattice-work of narrow black
velvet, criss-crossed until it looked like a bird-
cage. And as Noni herself is not unlike a canary
the raiment was out of place among the garbing of
the featherless bipeds. Tho house uttered an
anguished “ Oh ! ” when this vision burst upon it,
and nobody heard anything for quite five minutes
after. Monday night put things right again.
The red hat disappeared, and the black one toned
the frock down half a scale, and it was then one
saw that the dress itself was very good in its way,
and would have been excellent attire after the
lady had become Mrs. Simeon Strong. Miss
Lamb wears her dresses very long in this play,
but walks gracefully in spite of the frills under her
feet, and she and Miss Stewart between them
strike several harmonious tones of colour. The
latter lady is just the sort of chaperon you would
have liked for your first season. No higher praise
can be given to any old lady.
A few days ago I had a talk with Miss Lamb,
and she truly is a rarely interesting woman—
clever, unconventional, and, strange quality for
an actress, shy. In her deep voice she discoursed
to me about this same reserve of hers, and wished
’twere otherwise with her. And thereupon I
mentally tabulated a theory that has been vaguely
floating about in search of a landing-place.
Pushed briskly to a point, this theory is that th«
two English actresses, who are starring respective
companies in Sydney to-day, fall short of
greatness for two utterly opposite reasons.
Maud Jeffries, with her fine presence, beauti-
ful face, and her attractiveness and senti-
ment, ruins herself by the looseness of her
method. Her tears rush out in oceans with one
touch of the tear-tap. Her voice quivers, trem-
bles, breaks at the slightest suggestion of emotion.
Floppety-flop all over the shop go her arms and
her head when dejection is called on. Then how
different with Miss Lamb. You want her to feel,
to weep. You admire her simple entrance and
exit, her easy speech, her clever carelessness. You
see that she can feel and yet she cannot make you
feel her feel. When the touch of emotion is
wanted something seems to bind her down. And
if Miss Jeffries’ over-quick capacity for the floridly
emotional could be kneaded up with Miss Lamb’s
overstrained restraint, what a big bright star
would flash from out the leaven ! As for
the name' of the star, I am inclined to think it
would have to be brainy Beatrice Lamb.
The discussion of problem plays is as out of date
as crinolines, but the “ Tree of Knowledge,” that
has just died down at the Criterion, has left a
provocative odour behind. Am I alone in my
ignorance or does anyone else want to know what
the problem molecule is made of ? A brief study
of the question reveals darkness and more dark-
ness and problems all along the way. Should the
problem of a problem-play concern itself entirely
with the future of a Woman with a Past, taking no
account of the past aspect of many men’s futures?
Or does the unsettled question of Hamlet’s mad-
ness send Mrs. Tanqueray and the Prince of
Denmark to sea in the same frail boat ? At the
end of all these wonderings one comes to a little
rock of belief that the dramatists have merely
been trying to make womankind appear more
“curiouser” than the real thing warrants. And,
with that rock to stand on, it is not surprising
that the problem play has failed this century.
Neither you nor I own cab-horses, so we cannot
be accused of puffing up our own when we com-
pare the stateliness of a cab-horse turning corners
and crossing streets, with the impudent freedom
of the cycling animal. The law keeps its eye on
the pace of the former, but the other beast travels
at its own free will, and last week this free will
upset two ladies at one spurt. One of the victims
was knocked up against a ’bus, and had her feet
badly-injured. The worst of it is that the
man on the bicycle can run away as easily as he
runs over, and before the victim has time to cry
out, the cycle is in another part of the town. By
the way, the cycling fever is cooling down a little
among women, and authorities reckon it will be
as dead as roller-skating in two years’ time.
This month is brisk with balls and benefits.
The long-talked-of Straus concert comes off
shortly, and ought to be the very biggest
thing of its kind. For years the name of Straus
has been on every list of musicians who were
helping other people’s charities. Among other
functions, little Miss Usher’s benefit at the Town
Hall next Saturday, and the Neutral Bay tennis
dance at the Paddington Town Hall next
Wednesday, are both likely to attract.
The French have lately annexed the word
“ snob,” and gi ven to it an entirely different sig-
nification from its English one. A French snob
is an ultra-fashionable or smart person, while the
corruption “ snobisme ” is used to denote the most
exclusive creme of Parisian society ! Last year
the boulevard word for chic was deuil (mourning),
on account of the number of high-toned families
who were placed in black through the terrible fire
at the Paris charity bazaar. To say a person was
“ tout fait deuil ” was to pay the highest com-
pliment to his or her “ form.”
Is there not something baffling to a thoughtful
person in the fact that, after more than 20 years
of higher education, the New Woman movement,
problem novels, and all the other shrieks with
which woman has proclaimed her intellectual,
moral, and spiritual equality with man, woman’s
taste in reading-matter has remained practically
in statu quo? Take, for example, the innumer-
able magazines of to-day, bearing such significant
titles as Woman’s Life, Home Chat, &c., and to
what subjects does one find them devoted ?
The sameness of their contents month after
month appalls one. There are long, grovelsome
disquisitions on the manners, customs, and appear-
ance of Europe’s upper ten thousand, and advice
on keeping nails, hair, house, and young man, in
order. Particularly the young man. He got a
whole page to himself, and the page is headed
“Lovers’Difficulties,” and if the paper doesn’t
wipe-out the difficulties, it is certainly calculated
to put an end to the love and the lover. The
most popular of these feminine productions boasts
that nearly all its contributors own a title, or
move in high society, and the noble disregard of
the rules of grammar and composition that these
contributors evince points to the truth of the
editorial statement.
One of these woman’s-magazine-writers, dis-
coursing on the [late Battenbnrg’s only daughter,
Miss Ena, remarks that when she is older she
will, probably, be her royal grandmother’s most
devoted companion. The youngster is not yet ten
years of age. How many years do they expect
that old lady to live ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There were no less than three lawyers in a
recent quarantine batch, and didn’t the men of
law talk themselves red in the face re the unlaw-
fulness of their detention ! At last fellow-martyrs,
tired of ‘ torts ’ and similar legal topics, treated
the talkers to a midnight visitation by black-clad
mourners carrying corpse-candles. Habeas corpus
humor! One quarantine victim was an expec-
tant bridegroom. On the day his wedding-bells
were to have rung he was in the hands of the
vaccinators.
“ Lots of girls regret the uncertainty as to Wil-
son Barrett s return to Melbourne. He was de-
lightful to meet at afternoon-tea, except that he
generally swore you on the bread and butter to see
his Hamlet. Even that non-theatre-going step-
sister of his, mother of a suburban ex-mayor, ven-
tured into a box during the regime of the melan-
choly Dane. Saints who habitually disapprove of
the stage, but occasionally make an exception in
favor of the ‘ Sign of the Cross ’ or sich, seem to
feel safer, somehow, fenced off in a private fold
with their own unpolluted family party. ‘We
came in a cab,’ they tell you, ‘and went straight
to our box ’ ; and there they sit with their eyes
timidly averted from the rest of the audience. All
the same, I believe they’re rather disappointed
that the acting includes no horrid scene among the
chronic habitues, something after the style of
those midnight orgies in the vicious dens of Holtian
melodrama. After protesting all your life that it’s
not ‘ the histrionic art ’ you object to, but the
‘ contaminating association of play-houses,' it is a
bit unsatisfying not to sniff so much as burnt
feathers when you hang over the Eiery Furnace.
The latest Madden photo, gleams from every
bookstall and dazzles Melb. Beauty-pictures of
the Madden daughters are common enough, but
this, the most beautiful of all, is the Madden papa
in his uniform as ‘ Commander-in-Chief-of-the-
Vietorian-land-forees ’ in a full military rig (the
turn-out cost, I believe, .£3OO !). The learned one
stands in a commanding attitude at the foot of
Govt. House steps, one hand on his sword, the
other tucked jauntily on his hip. He looks so
very like a comic-opera soldier —no man of his
‘ cut ’ should ever wear fancy-dress—that it’s a
wonder Vic.’s Chief Justice, who tried the Mer-
cantile bankers, isn’t frightened of being known
as General Boom !
“Touring Bananalanders describe their new
Minister of Railways (Murray, M.L.A.) as a
bearded, loose-limbed Scot, who, ere he attained
his present political eminence, was chiefly famous
in his ain district as an agile stepper of reels and
siccan. According to Central Queenslanders,
northern ball-goers hated the sight of Hieland
Jock in his dancing days. Local beaux and
belles would be waltzing languidly and flirting
furiously to the tumty - turn of ‘ a Highland
schottische, when suddenly the mooners would jab
elbows with this conscientious Caledonian whose
swishing beard, windmill arms and double-jointed
legs as likely as not cleft you and your partner
apart, while the enthusiast snapped all his fingers
in the air at once and skirled across country with
an eagle’s scream, repeated from time to time in
unison with certain beats of the music. The
Minister’s first wife was a daughter of Parson
Hartley, that dead-and-gone pioneer of Methodism
in Central Queensland, remembered thereabouts
as the doughtiest devil-thumper of early times.
Like most preachers, his departed reverence sank
early into anecdotage, and hearers gradually har-
dened to such thrilling chronicles as that of the
oft-quoted young lady who would go to a ball, and,
having got there, ‘ screamed, swooned and died ’ in
the midst of her sins.
“ Austral Salonites having taken the cause of
the Old Colonists to heart, undertake to express
their sympathy through the channel of a stall at
the coming Carnival. Mr. Chief-Justice Madden
is to preside at a business-meeting, at the Salon,
on May 2nd, to be attended by members and
adherents en masse, each and all to plank down
her preliminary half-crown, in token of loyal co-
operation.
“The Austral Salon is a warm-hearted, also a
level-headed, coterie when all’s said and done. It
always has a practical scheme of help ready for
any charity carnival or wind-raising hullaballoo.
Also, last meeting a young member arose and put
forward the woes of a distressed musician’s family
so forcibly that the hat went round and £5 were
collected.
“The crowded state of Melb. Town Hall on
Saturday night showed that the Newbury-Spada
combination has struck a bright and paying idea
in inaugurating shilling “ pops.” Tenor Newbury
sang many of his old and favorite songs, but
chiefly fetched his audience with that popular
chestnut, ‘The Holy City.’ Mme. Spada, in pale
blue, with sleeves that had slipped to her elbows,
was most applauded for her parts in duets, espe-
cially in the ‘ Trovatore ’ scene, in which the tenor
conscientiously concealed himself behind a red
screen ‘ off.’ Encores were so frequent that I only
hope accompanist Scherek was on piecework, and
not on time. More by token, no one knew better
than Herr Scherek how much of the applause is
often due to his careful ‘ nursing ’ of the per-
former’s voice and how much to the singer.
“ Marshall Hall thought up a morbid programme
for his Saturday orchestral concert in Melb. Town
Hall. Beethoven’s | Eroioa ’ funeral-march con-
veys the most realistic and convincing impression
of death—the grim, unadorned fact that ‘ puts
the comether’ on life yet given to the
world in music. Yet fieethoven had too
keen a sense of the ridiculous to write up to
the sordid grotesquerie of the hearse and the black
box and the nodding feathers. Ho wouldn’t be
guilty of an anti climax, although Nature sets him
the example. To tho great climax, Death, she
claps on the absurd littleness of the undertaker.
The programme’s second morbidity, death musio
for ‘ Alcestis’ (the Greek play about to be struggled
with in public by Trinity students), didn’t come off,
owing to indisposition of the vocalist, Mme.
Wiedermann ; but the audience evidently thought
that the succeeding number, ‘The Ship of the
Fiend,’ never performed before, was a little thing
of tho conductor’s own, and clapped him with
enthusiasm. The last verse of the cheerful ballad
which Hamish M‘Cunn’s descriptive music inten-
sifies runs—
He struck the mainmast wi’ his hand,
The foremast wi’ his knee ;
He split the gallant ship in twain,
And sank her in the sea.
This is the kind of pleasant Saturday afternoon
that makes an audience sadly disperse musing on
its overdue gas-bill and shabby gloves, and won-
dering where on earth it is going to raise the price
of its winter outfit.
“ Caledonian Society, now that Mayor and
Mayoress McEacharn are shedding lustre on their
fellow Macs, is doing brawly. Last week’s
meeting in the Masonic Hall on Thursday
evening was a very toney gathering, even-
ing war - paint and feathers galore. The
Mayor and his party were enthroned in the
saddle-bag furniture of honor and the songs were
all by—you know whom I mean, The Red Page
man’s b§te noir.
“ There is a capital portrait of M.L.A. Theo-
dore Fink (Vic.) by Phil May in London Punch
for March 12. It is in a sketch, the letterpress to
which represents ‘Jink ’ (i.e., Fink) saying to one
Mac Fuddle: ‘ My dear Mac Fuddle, it’s the very
thing! a charming house, lovely spot; cheap,
too; but one great drawback, you can't get any
water there.’ Mac Fuddle: ‘Oh, that doesn’t
matter.’ A few months back Phil May had in
Punch a caricature of a ball-room tenor singing a
song. The front page of his music was turned to
the reader and represented the song as being by
‘ Theodore Fink.’ Phil May had a warm fond-
ness for the chirruppy Melbourne solicitor, and
writes him delightful letters illustrated, often in
color, in the corners and margins with humorous
pictures—letters to prize.
“ One learns that Albani was highly approved
of by the Goody-Goody, for a reason quite apart
from her art. Scrap of dialogue (between an
aged lady and a clex-gyman) overheard in a rail-
way carriage. Old lady: ‘And, then, you know,
one could go and hear Albani without the dread-
ful thought that one was paying to see a—er —er—
er—wrong sort of woman, you know. I have not
heard a word of scandal about her.’ (Pause.)
‘ Have you ? ’ Clergyman : ‘I ? Well—er—no,
of course not! ’ Old lady : ‘ No, I thought not.
It’s so naice, I think. And if there had been
anything, I should have been sure to see it in the
papers. ’ The old lady’s tone betrayed a touch of
disappointment, nevertheless.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited.
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
' The Pocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £lf 4-s-
Catalogues Free.
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
875 Gbohc>b Strekt, SYDNEY;
2GO Collins Street, MELBOURNE
G 5 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lagei
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Not one ex-Governor of Tas. is now alive.
Intending vice-regals, please note.
Queensland is now without a titled minis-
its Cabinet. Even N.S.W. Cabinet has a
P .C.
The obstinate and still frisky Samuel
xomkinson, M.L.C. (S.A.), banker and stalwart
conservative completed his 82nd year on Monday,
April 23.
Paddy Hannan, pioneer of the Boulder
region, like most pioneers, “ none too flush,” has
with a couple of mates set out again on a long way-
out expedition.
• is to bring out the next Brit-
kT .-? I ? ven> How , m uch more profitable he would
be if he learnt skirt-dancing and brought out a
burlesque company !
“A- vice-regal representative is allowed
little latitud o as a speaker,” says Acting-Gov.
Madden. Fortunately, though the latitude is
small, there is no limit to the platitudes.
Gov. Buxton, when seeking a seat in the
Commons, was rejected five times running by
Bnglish constituencies. He lately expressed his
intention of making one try more when he finally
cuts himself adrift from Australia.
Sydney Daily Telegraph staff produced
two authors in one week. Mr. Tom Courtney comes
to the world with a new shorthand system of his
own, and Mr. R. L. Nash, as becomes a financial
critic, presents a stockbrokers’ vade mecum.
The late “Charley” Collins is the third
member of the present N.S.W. Leg. Assembly
removed by death, the other two being Angus
Cameron and D. C. J. Donnelly. In the same
space of time seven members of the Leg. Council
went over.”
" THE BULLETIN'S ” PORK SUPPERS.
Another bad night.
It seems idle in N.S.W., so far as direct
results are concerned, to show up the tyrannies
or follies of a Judge. Once let a man get a seat
on the bench, superior or minor, and ho can
wallow in insolence, cruelty and unreason, till the
teeth drop out of his head.
Printed in a M.L. paper that the manager
of one of the Hagey institutes, more or less re-
cently established in Australasia for the cure of
drunkenness, was charged before the local magis-
trates with being helplessly drunk, and was re-
manded for four days for medical treatment.
Obituary, Pastor Hastie, of Buninyong.
Most graphic used to be his description of Bal-
larat, before the first gold-digger arrived. A
shepherd said to Mr. Hastie, somewhere in what
is now Sturt-street: “ Sir, the stillness here is so
awful that I feel as if it would drive me mad.”
The deceased mining-speculator Crotty’s
bequest of <£loo,ooo to Archbishop Carr revives
veteran architect Warden’s hope of seeing all the
three spires of his beloved St. Patrick’s R.C.
Melb. Cathedral on. <£30,000 will do it. So that
Melb. won’t have to wait 400 years like Cologne.
Bishop Field Flowers Goe has announced
that young Australia does not laugh. The poor
bishop is understood to have arrived at this con-
clusion because an audience of young Australians
sat perfectly impassive during the delivery of one
of his lectures which he conceived to be chock-full
of rollicking humor.
The Queen of Spain presented a gold altar
flate to St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, in the old
'olding days. Senor San Just, who was then
Spanish consul in Sydney, handed over the
treasure and was in return decorated with the
badge of the St. Gregory Knighthood, being thus
the first in Australia to receive that distinction.
Jennings came next.
Rumored that Gov. Gormanston, Tas.,
will apply for leave to extend his term, which
expires in August. There is one thing about
Jenico Joe which greatly endears him to the hearts
of the majority of the Van Diemons. They never
see him and seldom hear of him, and, when the
latter, it is a pleasant intimation that lie is either
fishing in the lake or bogged on its shores.
If the local selection of Dr. Higgins,
Auxiliary Bishop of Sydney, to succeed Dr. Cani
as Bishop of Rockhampton (Q.) be confirmed by
the Pope, Dr. O’Haran (Card. Moran’s nephew)
or Monsignor O’Brien will have the way open to a
mitre in Sydney.
Australasian Pastoralists’ Review advo-
cates a conspiracy of silence against Ben Tillett.
Argument will generally burst-up everything but
the truth, and to resort to the suppress is practi-
cally to admit that the other fellow, being in the
right, is unanswerable.
Rev. J. Gr. Gell, rector of Buxted, in Sus-
sex, who has just died in England, was, years ago,
before he became a parson, a Colonial Office
official. As such he was sent out to Tasmania,
where he married a daughter of Sir John Frank-
lin. Gell was the original of that splendid charac-
ter, Old Brooke, in “ Tom Brown’s School Days,”
and seems to have been a grand type of man.
A Btoc< of Dyson’s “Rhymes from the
Mines ” was destroyed in the fire at Murray and
Co.’s, last October, together with the stereos.
This necessitates the re-setting of the whole of the
volume, and the work is now being pushed on.
The next issue of the “ Rhymes ” will be printed
from new type, and, from a mechanical point of
view, will be away ahead of the first publication.
There are some queer names among the
clergy. One Melb. suburban shepherd rejoices in
the name of Drought; another sin-shifter in a
fashionable pulpit struggles along under the awful
burden of Holyoak Rust as a cognomen. Field
Flowers Goe is the best-known example of a
weirdly-named gospel-spreader, but Rev. Godbe-
here really seems as if he had been labelled
a-purpose.
Judge Dobson, of Tasmania, some time
ago was respectfully requested by Hobart health
authorities to remove from his premises the
“nuisance” which flowed into an open rivulet
running through a populous suburb. Knowing a
little of the law and the profits, Lambert Dobson
“minimised” the trouble by digging a cess-pit
and manuring his garden therefrom. His Honor
died of typhoid fever.
Towards the middle of this month Tom
Durkin is to be given a big complimentary shivoo
by the Melb. artists. The festival is to take the
form of a musical smoke-night, with the usual
liquid accompaniments. Half-a-erown is the tariff,
and a crowded house is expected by the organisers.
As Durkin leaves for England early in June, the
corroboree on Eastern Hill will partake of the
nature of a farewell demonstration.
“hammy ” Beddome, Adelaide’s long-
time stipendiary “beak,” was, thro’a lucky pop
in Broken Hill, able to leave .£119,522 to his three
daughters and two grandchildren, sons of his late
son. One of his daughters is the wife of the
E resent “beak,” James Gordon. On the other
and, Mrs. Ware, one of the best-known and
oldest established hotel - keepers, surprised the
good city by leaving only £20,000.
P.J.M. : “lie your reference to the ’9B
heroes, does anybody know where ‘ General ’ Holt
is buried? C. S. Parnell’s shooting-lodge was
right in the centre of the country held by Holt
during the rebellion, and P. used to point out the
scene of the various engagements and dilate on
Holt’s judgment in choosing them. The fact that
the Irish mountains are all coastal was, in Par-
nell’s opinion, fatal to the chances of a successful
rising.”
Died the other day at Auckland (M.L.)
Francis Dart Fenton, lawyer, musician, linguist,
and author. Fenton, during nearly fifty years’
residence in M.L., played many parts, and most
of them creditably. He was a magistrate, dis-
trict judge, chief justice of the Native Land
Court, founder of Auckland Choral Society,
composer of an opera, a virtuoso of the violin'
wrote several standard works on Maori history,
etc., and as a Maori scholar had few compeers’.
He was greatly handicapped by deafness and a
somewhat irascible temper, but he enjoyed the es-
teem and warm friendship of such nnn as Hori
Grey and Judge Maning (“ Pakeha-Maori ”), and
his faults were chiefly on the surface. Peace to
his ashes !
Capt. Miller, the deceased father of Vic.
“ Money Miller,” a Waterloo man, always
walked as though he still wore the leather stock,
and carried his walking stick on his shoulder like
a musket. Ho had a keen eye for a pretty girl,
and would plant himself every afternoon at
“ Walch’s Corner ” in Hobart to see the girls go
by. “Ah,” he would say with an unctuous
smack of his withered lips, and a wink of his
wicked old-campaigner’s eye, “The Tasmanian
girls have no ankles, sir—no ankles 1 Why, sir,
when I served in Spain—hm !ha !—but it won’t
do to tell you youngsters,” and then old Captain
Miller would cackle himself blue in the face. He
was close in money matters, and passed that on to
his son. Whether he passed on the other weak-
ness also isn’t definitely known. At all events no
one ever found Money Miller winking publicly at.
any nice girl.
Tillett is tough, but his lung-weakness is
wearing him down (writes a Melb. pressman to
The Bulletin). He is plucky and is making a
grand fight with disease. It is pitiful to see him
after one of his lectures, when the frenzy into
which he whips himself has subsided. He is
bloodless, hollow-voiced, slow-eyed and nerveless.
This is the exhaustion of the physical man. Men
tallyhe is still active, and mental activity has begun
to deprive him of his natural rest. After a lecture-
night he rarely shows up next day till afternoon,
not having turned out till 12 o’clock. Even then
he looks haggard. A significant sign, too—his
voice grows weaker and somewhat cracked. During
the first part of his speech at the Eight-Hour Gala
luncheon he was told to “ speak up.” Pathetic !
the man with the voice that could once make itself
heard over a mass of a hundred thousand
“ dockers ” told to “speak up ” ! Tillett, by the
way, has made a big blunder in joining the
wholly-brainless, ragtail little crowd of Vic. anti-
Federalists from the Trades Hall.
N. S. Wales
item. Anticipa-
tion is the sin-
cerest form of
Slattery 1
“ WHATS IN A NAME?”—A SYDNEY
’BUS INCIDENT.
Melbourne ’Erald S. V. Winter, being on
his trave's, sends paragraphs to his paper about
the wonders he sees. Writing is, apparently, not
S. V.’s strong point. For instance, discoursing on
the Aquarium in Naples, the Literary Thunder-
blast writes—
The principal attraction at the Naples Aquarium ap-
peared to be a small octopus, whose gyrations in his tank
was decidedly gruesome.
Rev. Dr. White, of Singleton, who went
as minister to that hamlet in 1847 and has held
the fort there since, enjoys the distinction of
being the only man living for whom a Cabinet of
politicians begged a University title. The Cowper
Ministry wrote to Glasgow University soliciting
some title, even a little one, for the book-loving
parson, but the University couldn’t see it. This
riled Mr. White’s friends, and when the Sydney
University opened its doors the rev. gentleman’s
admirers assaulted that institution so vigorously
that it yielded him in rapid sequence a 8.A.,
an M.A., an LL.B. and an LL.D. Dr. White,
who is still hale and hearty at 77, was for some
years classical master in Dr. Lang’s old college in
Jamieson-street, Sydney.
“ ALRIGHT” FUN.
“ I say , Billy , here's a cop what's drunk. You
should jest hear him, squeak every time I
jump on him!”
That grand old Victorian warrior, Francis
Longmore, has been gathered to his fathers, at
the age of 72. Longmore was in Victorian poli-
tics almost from the time when Victoria first
began to have any politics, and his first appear-
ance in Parliament dated as far back as ’G4. He
and Berry were colleagues in Duffy's Cabinet of
1871-72, and he was Commissioner of something
in Berry’s 74-days’ Ministry of ’75. Also, he
held office in Berry’s second Ministry of 1577-80.
Then he lost his seat in 1883, and dis-
appeared out of politics for 11 years. He came
back to Parliament in 1894 and dropped out again
for the last time in 1597. Longmore, in his best
days was a fiery orator, a strong democrat, and an
unlucky politician, inasmuch as the great art of
sitting on a rail was not in him. When the
Coalition days came there was no room for an irre-
concileable like the old man of Dandenong, and he
had to go. In his later political days he was as brave
and as irreconcileable as ever, but physically he
was only the cinder of the bygone volcano. Also,
he was very poor, which is the latter end of most
politicians—and the sure and certain end of every
politician who is honest. Longmore’s hatred of
landlordism had a solid basis —while a boy he was
thrown out on to the roadside in the North of
Ireland with his evicted father and mother.
■' Jimmy ” Martin, ex-member of N.S.W.
Leff. Assembly, who died suddenly at Sydney on
Saturday, was, while a bit of a politician and
canny underground engineer, chiefly notable for
dog-like faith in the supreme powers of the late
Parkes. He was a Hughey Taylor No. 2. In
selecting a trustee to administer the Parliamentary
grant to Parkes’s wife and children the Govern-
ment hesitated a long time between Jimmy and
Hughey, and, in the end, picked the former
because of his comparative youth. And now
Jimmy and Hughey are both dead.
Victor Daley’s poems (nine-tenths of them
originally printed in The Bulletin) are at last
well advanced towards issue by Angus and
Robertson. The modest Daley’s newspaper con-
tribution of verse has extended over many years,
and as his bent has been almost purely literary,
he is, as compared with the writers of “ popular ”
verse, almost unknown. Even the Gyles Turners
and Alexander Sutherlands have not made men-
tion of him. But it will be found that Daley is
far and away Australia’s deftest living songsmith.
His book will be full of charming poetry and most
delicate workmanship, and The Bulletin will be
proud that it has come mainly from its pages.
When Tom joe Byrnes, new Q’sland Premier,
was in England, he lunched with Dilke at the
House of Commons, and Dilke having chatted
about Australia fora time ended with a vigorous
laudation of old Parkes. Byrnes looked on the
old man of Faulconbridgeas a humbug of the worst
kind, criminal in his raising of the Kiama ghost,
Kilitical spieler in everything. He reminded
ilke that Dilke had cruelly said of Parkes that
“ Parkes’s one virtue was his remarkaNe buoyancy,
for neither his poetry nor his debts could sink
him.” Dilke admitted the political spieler and all
the rest of it, but still defended’Enery. ‘‘Why,”
said Dilke—“his vices were on such a European
scale.”
It turns out that the young man, Vaiange,
whom Chief Justice Madden’s daughter Sylvia is
to marry, is a grandson of Melbourne’s first
Mayor, old Condell. This is the worthy person
who, on the occasion of the first Mayoral pro-
cession in ’42. arrayed himself in a Masonic robe
of crimson sdk—there being no proper Mayoral
robe then—and paraded the streets in it, looking,
as chronicler “ Garryowen ’’ remarks, “ as if clad
in the mormng dress of some obese dowager.’’ A
bullock took alarm at the red garment, and chased
one of the Corporation officers who was carrying
a banner into a deep drain full of slush, where he
was covered up to the neck.
On the mcrningof mining-swind- ;r Geane’s
releaso from prison a number of ooorlv-clad
elderly women waited outside Melb. gaol, and
every now and again called over to the-detective
office to enquire whether the pious fraud had yet
been liberated. Presumably they intended either
to salute the liberated saint in a Christian spirit,
or wallop him furiously. Geake, however, was
discharged from Geelong gaol, to which he had
been transferred some months previously. As a
lawyer, Geake has bested the Vic. authorities
badly, for they made the error of having him ex-
tradited on one charge only, instead of on the
score or so they might have made against him.
Which is why Geake, in a trifle under two years,
is again a free man. Neither is it likely that any
of his many victims will take the law into their
own hands. The only instance of personal
reprisal which resulted from the whole land-and-
bank-booni transactions was when a blacksmith
stoushed ex-Premier Munro in Collins-street.
When Sam Bennett was running the old
Empire (Sydney), Rev. Ridley had failed to turn
up with a promised leader ; so Sam sent a reporter
to Ridley’s house at Paddington for it. He re-
turned with
the copy ;
Bnnett sent
it in without
„ looking at it,
and then
went home.
The reporter
was about to
follow suit,
when the prin-
ter told him
there wassome-
thing wrong
with the
“ copy,” which
turned out to be
the MS. of a ser-
mon attacking
the errors of
Romo T n this
fix the reporter
wrote a make-
shift article tun-
ing up the Supreme
Court Judges for their
constant misdirection of
juries, and instancing a then
glaring case on the part of Al-
fred Stephen. Next day Samuel Ben-
nett was commanded to appear before their
honors, in 1* ull Court, to answer a charge of con-
tempt. He was duly lectured, bullied, and
fined, and, when he got back to the office, he
called for the reporter. “Look here, ’said he,
the next time you take upon yourself such a res-
ponsiblity, don’t attack sacred institutions. It
would have been a cheaper blunder to print Rid-
ley s attack on the Scarlet Woman than your on-
slaught upon those other old women in wigs ud
yonder.’’ B *
lie ’9S celebrities sent hitherward. Hayes
(Sir John), of Vaucluse, was not of them. He
was out here before the rebellion - sent out for
attempting the abduction of an heiress in Ireland.
Had a mortal hatred towards Curran, who prose-
cuted him. Rigged up a figure of Curran in a
shooting-gallery, and daily practised on it with
his duelling pistols. “Now then, for the little
blackguard's heart,” he would say. “Ha ! that’s
home ! ” He was mad on this point; for the rest,
a quiet, gentlemanly, and well-mformed man.
Dear B.—l heard Eleanor IMarx speak in
Ilyde Park, May Day, ’95. She wasn’t ugly at
all, but rather like a bigger and bulkier Adey
Brunei. Dr. Aveliug and she looked exactly like
a pair out of an Ibsen drama. Dr. A. couldn’t get
on with his first wife, then Miss M. took him up
and madea new man of him. Why does a woman
of L. M.’s value commit suicide when there are
so many fools walking about who won’t die?
But the useless women get into a confirmed habit
of living which they can't break themselves of.—
Ci.eo.


“ THREE G-OOD THINGS ”
. . Madh in England. . .
Holbrook’s ""“'“i'"* Shiicg
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY ‘‘PURE MALT."
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRANZ JOSEF
E»ILSBKTBR
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LASER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
Archer: “There is a bird in Tas., the
black jay, which says ‘ Want! ’ (three seconds’
pause) ‘ Anti - anti - federal ! ’ The ‘Want’ is
solemnly guttural, and the pause invariably the
same length ; the ‘ anti-anti-federal ’ rising into a
cackling shriek. It is so ridiculously plain that I
have stood for half-an-hour listening to the legend
with joy. Any Tas. bush man will corroborate
this.” But Jack Want is a white jay.
* * * •
H.F. : “The bush is not monotonous to
the native thereof. Every tree has a story.
Sleepers, girders, slabs, posts and rails —the native
sees them under their bark covering. And, look-
ing at this bark, lie knows by the scratches what
animals live in the tree : native cab, bear, silver
fur, rum per, or ring-tailed ’possum. He tracks
bees’-nests by spiders’-webs ; the dead bees hang-
ing thickly as the nest is neared. Nearly all his
sport is at nightfall ; then, sheltered by a stump
near a grassy clearing, he waits for hares to come
and play, or imitates the curlew’s cry and lures
that wary bird within gun-shot. He fishes by
moonlight, dropping moths in the waterholc for
the sluggish perch. In winter there are ’possums
to snare; and in summer, wattle-bark to strip.
The so-called monotonous bush is to him home,
friend and companion ; he has personal recognition
of every tree for miles around. He talks little,
except in that silent language heard in old cathe-
drals ; on high mountains and ocean beaches ; in
the long aisles of eucalyptus—the tongue that
binds the sympathetic soul to perpetual brother-
hood. Though the bushman never speaks of this
sylvan freemasonry, he feels it in the inmost part
of him, and returns with joy after visiting the
outer world to the sweet scents of the gum-
leaves aud the rich silence of his solitude.”
» * * *
S.S. . “ Potter’s Hector was <* venerable,
in-kneed grey, a confirmed pessimist whose only
use about the selection, so far as I could see, was
in serving as a hen-roost from sun down to sun-up.
‘ ’Member the drought of lars’ year ? ’ said Potter.
‘ The blinded crick ran dry, an’ the spring in the
ole well redooced us to just a few buckets of nus-
ture a day. O’ course we couldn't waste none o’
that on Hector, an’ he got that dry that he
creaked as he moved, like a barn-door, an’ he
pulled himself round and round all the time, look-
WINE AND WOMEN.—FAIR EXCHANGE NO ROBBERY.
KING BILLY : “ You gib it rum, it gib ’em gin! ”
m’fer drink. Well, just by chance, one evenin’
he fell clean through the coverin’ of the well inter
the water twenty foot below. We rigged a big
winless an’ got him out, but next day when he
was thusty he walked over an’ fell down that well
again ; an’, would you believe it, always after that,
till the crick began runnin’, whenever Hector was
feelin’ dry, he just stumbled enter that well-cover,
casual like, an’ pitched neck an’ crop down the
blanky hole. lie’s ’most as clever as meself, that
horse is.’ ‘ Why didn’t you put a stronger cover
on the well ? ’ Potter gnawed his thumbnail for a
moment, ‘ Now whyever didn’t I think o’ that ? ’
• * • *
The difference between the Kanaka and
Jap. is strikingly illustrated in the Torres Straits
pearl-fisheries. While the Jap. views death
as an everyday circumstance of very little ac-
count-equivalent to the breaking of a saucer,
for example—the Kanaka makes a big howl
and performs slow and solemn rites over his
dead. He doesn’t like to touch the body, ex-
cept in certain set fashions, and he is very
fastidious about being the first to put on a diving-
dress in which a man has died, or in which one
has been hauled up only to die. Not so the
Jap. He syndicates in all his boats, and when
one dies t’other comes on. He’s greedy enough
for deep-water shell and reckless enough to go for
it. His mates pull up a paralysed or suffocated
diver. No matter. The weather is fine, the tide
good, the sea quiet, plenty shell down below
under the helmet goes the head of the
brown man,” and, with a “good-bye; s’pose I
die, plenty more Japanese in Japan,” down and
down and down and down he goes.
♦ » * «
Scotus : “ The Narandera Bushman’s
Home is a doss-house, where stretcher, fuel, light,
and cooking-utensils are found for twenty-four
hours for the very reasonable sum of 6d. This
caravanserai is called Jubilee House, in twelve-inch
letters over the portal. The name has driven
many customers to the sandhill and river-bank.”
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. —Never before heard of a
wild magpie imitating sounds, and I think that
stallion-imitating bird very doubtful. So far as I
know, Australia has two mocking-birds—the
bower-bird and the lyre-bird. The former is
mostly met with on flat, scrubby country in
Western N.S.W. and N.W. Queensland ; the lyre-
bird only in mountainous fern country. The two
are the shyest birds we have, and rarely, if ever,
survive captivity. Marvellous tales are told of
the bower-bird’s powers of mimicry ; but, in my
opinion, the lyre-bird surpasses him. In Black-
warry and Currajong (South Gippsland) ranges,
L’ve often heard the latter faithfully imitate the
sounds of the fencer’s axe, the thud of the paling-
splitter’s mallet, the grating of a file on a cross-
cut, the squeaking of the pit-saw, the howl of the
dingo, the cry of the black cockatoo, the chatter-
ing of lories or rosellas, the ding-dong of the
bell-bird, and the cracking of the stockwhip-bird.
The laughing-jackass beats him, though. I’ve
heard a lyre-bird attempt the jackass’s Peacock-
smile and fail.—6 xB.
A nevv-chum English-
man recently went on to a
Yic. station, as a kind of
assistant-manager. There
was no doctor within 30
miles, and one of the func-
tions of the new-chum was
to act as surgeon and phy-
sician to the station-hands,
in cases of emergency.
This he did with the aid
of a small medicine-chest
and a cheap volume of
the “ Family Doctor ” or-
der. One night, soon after
the new-chum’s arrival at
the station, a knock came
to his bedroom door, and
he was told that one of
the hands had poisoned
himself. He hurried into
his clothes and hastened
to the scene, where he
found a young fellow
writhing on the ground,
palpably suffering from
poisoning. Ho reached
down the medical hand-
book, and read therein
that, in cases of suspected
poisoning, the best thing
to do was to administer
an emetic of warm water
and mustard. A stiff dose
of the prescription was
quickly mixed, and poured
down the throat of the
poisoned man. “But,”
said the new-chum, as he
related the story after-
wards, “ we couldn’t get
the blessed stuff to stay
down. So we mixed an-
other dose, but that came
up too. Then we mixed
a third lot, but the fellow
brought that up also. So
I said, ‘ This infernal
emetic is no good ; it won’t
stay down. We must try
something else.’ But bless
you, before we could try
anything else, the bloom-
ing fool came round all
right.”
R.M. : Witnessed recently a curious
.. A o A • . .
* trU . ggl ? between a frog and a 30-in water-snake,
“ ac * ls coded around the stem of a
small bush and the frog was hanging on to a rush
by his hind legs. Half of the frog was down the
snake’s throat, and when sometimes the rush
would bend the frog would go nearly out of sight,
Then the snake would get a fresh hitch round the
bush and the frog would come out a couple of
inches. This went on for about ten minutes
before the frog gave up and, with one spasmodic
kick, disappeared. I then despatched and opened
the snake and found froggie defunct and drawn
out to about six inches long, either by the tugging
tn } y being squeezed thin down the snake s throat.”
THE POWER BEHIND THE THROWN.
Are there any authentic instances of a
man being saved from death by an apparently
deliberate action on the part of a horse ? When
writer was a small boy one of his chums was the
rather chuckle-headed son of the local pound-
keeper. This galoot was the proud possessor of a
piebald pony that followed him about like a dog,
would frisk with him with the playfulness of a kid,
and had an intelligent affection for him that was
obvious to all. The rest is the boy’s story, and it
was firmly believed in the township. One day he
returned to his home, dripping-wet after a long
ride, and said that he had fallen into the river
and been dragged out by the pony when on the
point of drowning. The horse, he said, deliber-
ately plunged into the water, swain to him, seized
him by the arm, and dragged him back to shore,
landing him well up on the bank. Writer has
often seen the pony follow his master into the
water of a quarry-hole when the boy was bathing.
And, by the way, that pound-keeper’s son was not
a bit less brutal than boys usually are with a horse
after the novelty of ownership has worn off.
• * * •
A Waifcaki North (M.L.) farmer recently
rounded up a lot of cattle trespassing on his land,
and drove them into a pound, whereon he was
promptly sued on the ground that “nearest
pound ” meant nearest by road, and not nearest as
the crow flies. £25 damages. Later on lie rounded
up another lot of trespassers, valiantly drove them
to the pound whither the court had ruled he should
have taken the first lot, and went home, shaking
hands with himself. Sued again for damages f< r
wrongful impounding, he produced the court’s
ruling, only to be politely informed than mean-
while a Judge had ruled that “ nearest pound ”
meant nearest as the crow flies, even if it meant a
detour of 500 miles by road to get to a pound five
miles away.
* • * *
S.S. : “ Met a man from East Gippsland
the other day, who told me that the country was
so steep in the part he had just come from—
Gibbo Ranges—that the residents have to take
their horses 10 miles to have a roll. One peak
there is so high that the sun cannot go over it,
and always goes round. Natives bred in this
locality cannot walk on level ground. Further-
more, it rains so hard up there that people often
get drowned through standing out . in it.
The greatest difficulty the settlers experience
is in building fences that will keep their cattle
from falling off the selections. The snow is
troublesome too at times. Last winter a man
named Ephraim Casley fell into a drift and was
not recovered for a fortnight. He would have
been smothered had he not worn a respirator, says
the man from East Gippsland.”
« * * ♦
HEY ! THERE.
“ An empty purse and man is cursed ”
What says the Western man athirst ?
“ An empty purse is a bagtetelle ;
It’s an empty water-bag wot’s ’ell.”
KOBAR.
* * * *
O.D. (Monaro) : “ It may not be generally
known that that purely Australian quadruped, or
sextuned, ‘ the bull-dog ant,’ can use his business
end for days after decapitation, and can kill a
blowfly in one act four days after being cut in
two.”
* * * *
Nareen : “ Despite improved stock-routes
and special rates for railing starving stock, the
drought-stricken squatter of to-day is a resource-
less creature compared with the pioneer grazier.
Instance old M'Thustle, of Uiawulkey : Fought a
drought for two years, in the early ’7o’s, and never
admitted, till he had cut his last patch of scrub,
that things were beginning to look serious. Then
went off to.get men for skinning and boiling-down,
but having, at the nearest town, purchased the
effects of a recently-deceased eye-specialist, he got
a sudden inspiration, which sent him back to the
station as fast as horses could travel. Every jum-
buck was then supplied with a pair of green
goggles, with the result that it discovered fresh
fields and pastures new in what was previously a
parching wilderness. Mac. thus transformed his
staggerers into fair stores within six weeks, and,
when the drought broke, some months later, his
drafts for Flemington nicked the market at famine
prices. Mac.’s optical experiment, moreover, had
another good effect, for, whenever a crow made
an attempt on the eyes of a bogged sheep, that
bird retired sorely wounded in mind and beak ;
and hence it is that, although MThustle and his
methods have long since passed away, the sheep
on that run are immune from crow-bite even to
this day.”
• • • •
Nicky Noubray : “Re “Tomahawk’s”
‘ Aboriginalities ’ par. (26/3/98) about jackass and
eel. On the Upper Hunter River, some time ago,
I saw a jackass take out of the river a live 2ft. eel,
fly with it into a tree, kill it by dropping it to the
ground, and then fly off with it into the bush.
The water from which the eel was taken was fully
3ft. deep, but I presume the victim had been
swimming near the surface. As I had never heard
of jackasses killing fish of any kind, I was a very
interested spectator.”
Via : u Re the kanaka murdered and muti-
lated by blacks at Cardwell, N.Q. Cannibalism
was scarcely the motive, as a piece was cut out of
the thigh only. Tt is from there that the bone,
so potent in the ‘ bone-pointing ’ rites, is obtained.
This mysterious and deadly rite is common to all
Q. aboriginals. A bone pointed at a nigger by an
avenger is as sure a mark of death as if the knife
was at his throat.”
» * *
A modern judicial magistrate’s letter :
to j murphey
thairs 5 kouse of yors runnin in mi padik and if thay
aint tuk out bi fridy [me goin to set the lor goin agen yer
ime on the bensh now an ile maik it warm fer yu
m m j.p.
* * * *
When the homeward-bound Brasseys were
doing their recent visit to Sandstralia, they were
taken out into the bush to see the big Denmark
saw-mills, near Albany, and the usual thing hap-
pened. The great episode was to be the hauling
of a colossal 50-foot “ karri ” log down a steep
piece of road by the crack team and driver of the
district. The driver had been specially instructed
not to swear in the hearing of the ancient mariner
and his family, so the team and the log and Bill
came rolling steadily down the incline in a
strange atmosphere of Sabbath calm. Then the
front wheels struck a soft spot and began to sink.
A squall of sudden blasphemy and a prompt on-
slaught with the whip would have got them over
the bad place in no time, but Bill couldn’t swear lest
Brassey should hear, and he couldn't tear pieces
of hide off the team lest they should blow into the
ladies’ back-hair, so the disgraced team was bogged
and came to a stop, while the humiliated Bill
longed to go behind a jarrah-tree and there weep
tears of beer and tobacco and bush-rum and rage
and blanky. The party went away under the
impression that Brassey could have driven that
team much better himself. When it was out of
sight Bill let himself loose, and leaped eight feet
in the air, with a blood-curdling execration that
made the welkin ring, and the team got the big
log shifted in 40secs. But the show was spoiled.
* • « •
Dear Bulletin, —Mistake to think that a
snake (or, anyhow, a Kanakaland one) with a
broken back is done for. Some scrub-cutters here
left a big 16ft. carpet snake with its back broken,
but next day on going to work they saw what
they at first took to be a large rope stretched from
tree to tree. It was the snake. He had taken a
half-hitch with tail and head round two saplings
about 12ft. apart. He was left hanging and
stayed there for a month until his backbone knit,
when he departed sound and whole.— No Tozer.
« * * *
Bananaland Govt, having taken the Nor-
thern nigger under its special protection, you can’t
get King Billy to chop a bit of wood or carry a
few buckets of water unless you sign and stamp a
special aboriginal agreement form. The result of
tiiis in certain quarters has been that white resi-
dents won’t engage aboriginals at all, and the
poor nigs are on the verge of starvation. In other
localities the whites hire the blacks just the same,
and tell the officials to go-ahead. And, appar-
ently, the authorities daren’t prosecute.
* * * «
“Along the mail-road from Albany to
Perth, made by convicts in the Penal days,” writes
a Bulletin correspondent, “ are scores of old-time
settlers to whom the influx of t’othersiders to the
goldfields has brought no change. They live as
they did 20 years ago, almost unconscious of the
progress of the rest of the world. Nine out of
every ten of the young folk have never been 30
miles from home, and are just about as'un-
sophisticated as they make ’em. In some of the
settlements the kangaroo-butcher ranks next in
importance-to the beer-vendor, and hawks his
supply of marsupial with as much conceit as if he
were the firm of Bennett and Woolcock under one
hat. Kangaroo-steak was served for breakfast
during a visit the writer recently made to a
Southern hotel.”
* * * *
F.O. : “Near Ballarat, the other day,
met a man driving a starved, dilapidated hope
attached to an antiquated spring-cart containing
some blankets, a tent, an old mattrass, and some
cooking requisites. Upon these things sat the
driver, while behind walked a haggard-looking
woman and a thin, wild-eyed girl of about 12.
The man pulled up and hailed me as I approached.
‘ Got a match on yer, boss? ’ I handed him my
box. ‘Going far,’ I asked. ‘P’raps. Were
traveilin’.’ ‘No room for the women-folk up
there ? ’ I asked. ‘ They look as if they’ve had
quite enough walking exercise.’ ‘Well, yer see,
boss,’ he answered, after lighting a stumpy clay
and handing back the box, ‘ if the missus an the
gel wus to git up I’d have ter stump-it meself.
This old crock couldn’t never dror the lot of us
Git up, hoss !’”
OUTRAGED RESPECTABILITY.
KING WOK-WOK : “ Look ’ere, Missus, I never
made any objection to yer bike-riding, but
when it comes to yer ueariny that disgusting
costume, it’s about time to knock yer on the
’ead.”


S.M. Herald struck a great and charac-
teristic idea the other day, when news was
received that America and Spain had begun war.
One imagines the scene in the sanctum. Editor :
“ This is a big; thing : we ought to have something
special about it.” Sub.: “ Yes, we ought to dish
the Telegraph somehow. But how ?’’ Editor
(suddenly illuminated): “Ha ! I have it ! Send
a first-class man round to .” Sub. (eagerly):
“Military and naval heads?” Editor (indignantly):
“Great Abraham ! no ! To the leading parsons,
of course.” And the Herald did—it collected
the ignorant commonplaces of reverends of all de-
nominations, and joyously printed them—a whole
half-oolumn’s worth ! Dear old Granny !
War on Disease.
Millions have been benefited and cured by the
use of Warner’s Safe Cure during the past quarter
of a century of its existence. Hundreds of thou-
sands of homes in every continent are happy to-
day in the enjoyment of good health through its
marvellous efficacy and power over diseases of
the liver and kidneys. Hundreds of letters pour
in annually from ali over the world glowing with
heartfelt thankfulness equally as eloquent as the
following: Mr. G. Tessier, chef de cuisine, Hotel
Mecropole Sydney, Feb. 1, ’9B, says: “1 have
much pleasure in stating that I have used War-
ner’s Safe Cure, Warner’s Safe Pills, and Warner’s
Tippecanoe, the best for dyspepsia and weakness
of the nervous system, and that I almost felt im-
mediate relief from their use, and I have regained
health and energy after the use of a few bottles.”*
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
A. Shadier, whose name has been synony-
mous with the best and most wholesome bread in
Sydney and suburbs for nearly fifty years, has
still further earned the blessings of his fellow
citizens by opening a handsome and commodious
refreshment room at Manly. The new place is a
Charming resort for ladies, with its delicious
bread, confectionery, tea, &c. Shadler’s business
comprises three factories—one in Sydney, a second
in North Sydney, and a third in Ashfield ; and it
employs very close on 100 bakers in addition to a
numerous staff of men, horses and carts. At least
40,000 of Sydney’s population oat Shadler’s bread
every day, with the result that good digestion
follows appetite and health follows both.
The firm by its perseverance, punctuality,
cleanliness, and other virtues, continually
progresses ; and owns the property and
buildings of its manufacturing establishments
in Sydney and suburbs. This is an age when the
baker of bread must be a master in his business
to please his customers, and Shadlers are able to
provide suitable and nutritious bread for the
robust man, the delicate woman, and the tender
child. Dyspeptics and indigestion-sufferers should
obtain Shadlers’ special bread ; benefit follows at
once. Mr. A. Shadier, the founder of this big
firm, retired from business some two years ago,
and his son, Mi’. A. C. Shadier, the present pro-
prietor, with his well-known activity and thorough
and constant attention to business, promises a still
further 50 years of prosperity.*
EARLY TO BED
and early to rise is an excellent motto. Equally
good is “ smoke only Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes.”*
Grouzelle is a word destined to become
celebrated in every household in N.S.W.
Grouzelle signifies all that is best and newest in
the photographic art of the world. Grouzelle’s
new studios in George-street, Sydney, constitute
a revolution in competitive photography. From
the street you see a handsome staircase beauti-
fully carpeted, leading to a landing hung with the
rarest specimens of photographic skill, and re-
lieved here and there by evergreens and charming
decorations. A few steps and the great reception-
room comes into view with its unique drawing-
room furniture, its artistic effects, its superb
photographic views : while the soft light coming
through the colored windows adds beauty to the
palms, the leaves of which fall gracefully towards
the rich carpeting. A small flight of stairs leads
to the dressing-room and the studio. These
dressing-rooms have every qualification that the
most exacting could ask, and a lady-attend-
anb is employed to give the gentler sex
any assistance that may be desired ; and
throughout these dressing-rooms there is the same
conscientious and praiseworthy attention to de-
tail, the same comfort, the same adaptation
to the needs of the clients, and the same general
harmony of surrounding to soothe and chaim the
mind of the visitor. If a lady cannot make her-
self look well in these dressing-rooms, she must for
ever despair of being able to do so. The studio is
a revelation: the lighting and contrivances for
posing being equalled only by the instantaneous
and perfect working of the camera—a splendid
model imported with all its accessories from Paris.
And the operator at the camera is, compared with
others, an artist, and one who secured a unique
reputation in Melbourne before he came to
Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lcck-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. (id. everywhere. *
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SoftCaoVaS Sbirts
Madk to Mkasurk.
Post free 30/- per through'
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
*
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKK Itltoi’ll KltS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
“ Softly ” :—As to the “ cow-
ardice ”of Australian blacks. Years
ago, when Webster (I think) was in
charge of Mossgiel station, the blacks
and their dogs were annoying the
station people, and refused to go
when repeatedly ordered off. Web-
ster as a last resource took his gun
and proceeded to the camp (in hopes,
I suppose, to scare them), and or-
dered them to clear out or he would
shoot their dogs. Scotty, a kind of
leader, said, “No; we won’t go.”
“If you don’t,” said Webster in a
rage, “ I will shoot you ! ” “ All
right,” replied Scotty, coolly ; “ you
shoot; that one only kill one feller ;
then you look out.” Webster re-
turned without any scalps. More
recently, at Willandra station,
“ Whyco Tommy’s” dog had been
worrying sheep, and one of the
overseers was proceeding to the camp
to shoot it. Tommy met him and
inquired where he was going, in not
too civ ’ a tone. “To the camp to
shoot jour dog.” Tommy had a
waddy in his hand, and drew a line
on the ground and stood at the end
of it. “ Now, you walk over that
mark ! ” said he. The overseer did
not cross the line. Of course, I don’t
mean to say that there are no cow-
ards among the blacks—only that
the proportion is not greater than
amongst the whites. As to blacks’
“ thievish propensities,” I was at
Moolah about 18 years ago ; and
while at work my tent was unpro-
tected. There were over 100 blacks
there, all told, and I worked there
nearly two years and had nothing
stolen except a rug. That I found in the tent of
an alleged white man to whom I had been of con-
siderable service.
* * * *
Face : “ Met an old swagman tramping
along in the frost one morning with some yellow
Btuff oozing out of his boots. Asked what it was,
and was told that it was mustard to keep his feet
warm and that I had better try some on my
bloomin’ tongue.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Tocumwal : Quite wrong. “ The bushman’s
grave ” isn’t “in a lonely spot wher myalls wave ” to
rhyme with it. It’s in a much-frequented basket at 214
George-street, Sydney, a little way from Bridge-street
A.H.T. (Rockhampton) : If you saw the vigor of the fight
down here you would understand the uselessness of pour-
ing these few mild remarks into the scrimmage Nestor :
You say only very rich men could be elected to the
Federal Senate because each State will be one electorate.
Well, the Federal Convention was elected that way.
What about the immense wealth of Lyne, Trenwith,
Berry, Barton, Glynn, and others ! Were there ten very
rich men among the fifty ? And if, as you say, the masses
are against Federation, why did the N.S.W. Fat Men find
it necessary to put in the 80,000 minimum so as to keep
the masses from carrying it? S.R. : Considering
“Christening.” W.O.H. : Sorry not in our line
L.C. : “In Ruins” too crude Ease (Fremantle) : You
strain the sea through a commonplace intelligence and
leave it a puddle Lala : Now, you dear inconsequent
thing, what has Mark Twain’s honorable conduct to do
with his literary capacity. .A.P. : Very unstimulating.
Selrahc Werdna ; Dreadful ode on “Love or Loonesy ”
received. Don't carry out your threat and send “ several
others on difernt subjects for faverable aproval.”
E. A. B. : Another bad swaginan poem. We know the
bad swag poem afar off now by the cloud of dust it
raises on the road ...7.A. Stewart: Quite true ... The
Groom: You only want 2 pp. of pictures about your
uninteresting row with the l oss or the cook or some-
body A. B. (Euston): Yes, quite “suitable for in-
sertion in the fire. Duly inserted Backblocks :No
good for print.. Mosquito (Hughenden): Impossible to
say what any sum would amount to in 19 years with
bank interest; said interest may be 1 per cent, a few
years hence—or 6 per cent. As to the other matters it
would all depend on how the tiansaction was fixed up,
and it is very intricate. Why not spend the whole sum
in buying a u ith-profit endowment policy at the A. M. P.
office, payable to the child at age 21 or, if she dies before
then, to yourself or your next heir ? It would be far safer
and’less troublesome and would yield far better results
R.R. (Eulo.): Yes, he is still in business in Sydney, but
you would, we are sure, be greatly disappointed if you
tried to sell to a professional dealer Geene : Already
printed. A similar case was that of maiden sisters,
related to the long-lived Tasmanian Hopkins family. They
lived in London together for 90 years, and died within
three days of each other C.S. : Bulletin never said so.
It is matter of history that the Spanish 16th-century
infantry were the finest and most reliable troops in
Europe, and everybody acquainted with the Spaniard
of to-day describes him as a man who, properly led,
could go anywhere and do anything. Marryatt
was in the same key when he testified to the way in
which the conspicuous bravery of the Spanish men-o’-
wars-men was wasted under the miserable mishandling
of their officers ... Noel(Tas.): Too unlikely Tambo :
Amusing, but unprintable C.B. : All the same, for, as
the late Hugh George used to remark, everything, good
and bad, happens for the benefit of the newspapers
C. A. Nel: It was, no doubt, very simple. Waiting to
consult the wonder-worker, you probably fell into talk
with another (supposed) invalid, and when you had duly
exchanged ailment-notes the great physician’s decoy pro-
ceeded (though you didn’t see him proceeding) to the
sanctum and unloaded the information per aid of which
the charlatan afterwards astonished you with the accuracy
of his Bymptomalology. And you, discoursing afterwards
of this wonderful “gift,” send more Simple Simons
to be duly pumped and astonished and fleeced.
Think hard —to whom did you talk when (or
just before) you went to see that doctor ?
H.P.M. : Fat Orton’s claim was supported by several
people who had known the original Roger, and were
never shown to be wilful perjurers Q. : Those Austra-
lian thirsters for Cuban blood should be arrested promptly
and sentenced to six months’ hard labor at the abattoirs.
Jinda: The howl about the “well-paid” officials of
N.S.W. public service is partly cant and ignorance. The
new Blue Book shows cases of men getting £2 or £3 a
week after 10 or 20 or 25 years’ service Rapho : Held
for illustration C.B. (N.Q.) : Letter posted Jim’s
Coat: Will help to keep the corpse warm Selwyn :
Style and matter ancient. B.C. 985 is about our limit.
J.G. (Wellington) : You only repeat published matter.
All the moral of Rue Australia has been extracted long
ago ; and interest is confined to casual items telling how
Dictator Lane enjoys himself lecturing in England while
his Paraguayian subjects quarrel who shall wear the
settlement’s one pair of boots W.J.P. : Some appre-
ciation of natural beauty—ill embodied E. J.L.: “ And
where art thou, my mother dear?” Wish we knew—
there’s a loose child wants spanking L.R.B. : You’ve
left out the story Humpy : Ineffective ending
Lewis (Fremantle): To know how to draw without having
been taught might argue some capacity : you “ haven’t
THE HEIGHT OF INDIGNITY,—FROM AN EQUINE STANDPOINT.
been taught” and don’t know E.F.D.: It may be
ancient Australian, but it isn’t worth print Louis M. :
You may have meant “ for ” to rhyme with “ awe,” and
again you may not. So J.L.K. : Don’t care much
for “ Che55.”......T.M. : Effects of struggle not obvious—
IV.M.F. : “Grounded” not bright enough A.D.B. :
Moon-item not enough force or novelty... Ledoro: The
Protestant parson can’t afford to sneer at the sacerdotal
bestowal upon the Spanish troops of a supposed in-
vulnerability to the enemy’s bullets. British evangelism
does precisely the same thing when it prays for the
success of the Harmy of Hingland. Success simply means
potting t’other chap, or not being potted yourself—or
both! J. Halse: One good; others not interest
enough Vedi: Glorious muddle. Bedrock : Con-
sidering Jinda : May do .1. Russell : Neat, hut too
slight Nodrog ; “ Dick” smart, but flimsy E x O.E. :
“Egotist” well-written, but feeble at finish. Rewi :
“ Last of Them ” not up. “Near and Far”- just what
it is as regards Bulletin mark Mrs. T.S. : Too wordy
and lacks vigor J.E.H. (M.L.): Considering
N. B. : Not advisable to pay any attention to what the
gentleman thinks. He thinks highly of anyone who is
about to sing gratis at his shilling concerts A. : Many
a man mistakes for honesty the morbid vanity that in-
duces him to pay his debts. Wal.: Of course, The Bul-
letin knows that the real Cabbage-Tree Mob is a nomi-
nally extinct institution ; but its spirit (now chiefly
whisky) survives Mundic : The Bulletin makes no
pretence to severe virtue of the Iloolan order. All the
same, it cordially invites Mr. John Yahoolan (or anybody
else) to publicly catalogue its shady actions, and “lift
the screen.” ... E.L.O. : Conan Doyle himself has stated
that the original of his “Sherlock Holmes” was an
eccentric University lecturer in medicine R.E.W. :
Unavailable 6 A.: But then, after all, H. H. Champion
didn’t get the £7OOO a-year estate, handed on by his
cousin, who died in battle at Shendi. As he suspected,
when the first message arrived, stating that he had in-
herited the estate, the entail had been broken by his
battle-murdered kinsman M‘G. : Well, isn’t the fact
that the Aoe was always run at a penny a testimonial to
the acuteness of the Symes? Cigaro : One may do
Athens: Reads a bit. too fanciful and detached; “des-
troyed.” Uranium : Heaven doesn’t know why you
wrote it C. (Brisk) : Noted ; but no space to scratch
every flea-bite. Demos: Thanks for holy pamphlet
F.W.K. : Two good; two bad. ... O.C. (Q.): White girl
had half-caste Chow bantling. No yarn in that. .... S.N. :
Not bad sort, but not our sort. Mnndaring : Last time
that cookie yarn was sent us, it was localised in Australia,
and varieuated with much “ hlanky !” .. W. Cat: Pretty
fair. Jolly Boy : You make us feel t'other way. Roy
\V. :No harm in a recognised stage convention. “They
all do it.” Instance—Tubb (Thornton), Begg (Bentley),
Tomlinson (Walter Montgomery). Also, a man’s name is
practically whatever he answers to. ... Zega (or some-
thing) : What we could decipher of you wasn’t worth it.
M.M.S.: Careful finish, but lacks life and movement.
Brummagem : It’s slang now, but the original name
was Bromwicham, pronounced Brumwichatn C. Crisp :
Yes, the utter inability of all manner of big politicians
to understand that Braddon’s clause doesn't bind the
Commonwealth to pay all or even any of its ex/s
out of customs and excise, and doesn’t commit
the Commonwealth to raise any customs and excise
at all unless it wants to, is the most incredible stupidity
of the whole business Democ : Twenty-six tremendous
blue verses about the boarder who didn’t pay for his
hash ..Lie Down, Dingo : Dingo put down and stood on
as instructed Romano : As 7,8, 5 don’t make a run B
only scores two for making 31 Subscriber (Gordon and
Gotch, Brisbane) : No ; 6,5, 6 are not a run at cribbage.
H. Jackson; Poetry infamous .... Jerry : Cricket poem
bowled first ball, also stumped, and given out on the
ground of drivel before wicket. Athos: Not much
point in “Close Shave.” ... Dods : Only amounts to the
fact that two black girls rushed through the house
Neddy : Declined.
“ The Swiss call themselves free, but the
Sun gendered a knot of petty tyrants out of the
carcase of the Oppressor.”— Goethe.
C. Mitchell’s “ Newspaper Press Direc-
tory ” for 1898, just published, impresses The
Bulletin as the best book of the kind extant.
The Australasian section is particularly full and
valuable.
The English papers take from Kalgoorlie
Herald an account of the alleged horrible cruelty
with which a Maitland River black-boy was
branded all over the back with a hot iron, and
then pickled with salt fired into him from a gun.
What an all-round look-in would be the produc-
tion and exhibition of the victim ! Sympathy and
notoriety for our badly-damaged black brother;
shekels galore for his exploiters.
“ THE TEMPERED WIND."
“ That woman seems to have lots of cheek."
“ Yes: and she needs it. Don’t you sec how little
clothes she’s got?”
Other old Sydney taverns : Currency
Lass, Sir Maurice O’Connell, Governor Bourke,
Three Tuns, Dog and Duck, Native Youth, Emu
Inn, Cocked Hat, Commodore, Man o’-War, and
Country Lass. At Parramatta the Bed Cow was
celebrated from the thirties up to the sixties as
the honeymoon resort of well-to-do Sydney couples.
A tavern on the “ Rocks ” kept by Bullivant, one
time public flagellator, was probably the first
licensed house in Australia.
The next municipal difference of opinion
between Ballarats East and West is pretty certain
to produce bloodshed. Mayor Shoppee, the
Western potentate, in his manifesto re the late
Easter encampment, says: “ It has done much for
•our city, besides imbuing our youth with a proper
military and warlike enthusiasm, which will yet
add to our defence against a foreign foe, and upon
which I may justly congratulate the commandant
mid his officers and the citizens of Ballarat.” A
warlike enthusiasm for defence must presently de-
velop a furious spirit of attack. Shoppee, as every-
body in Ballarat —West or East—can testify, is
not the sort of man who, having put his hand to
the sword, will wait for an enemy to turn up.
He’s a belligerent at heart, and when the citizens
aforesaid feel ready to get bathed in blood they
will only need to ring for Shoppee. Meantime, he
is teaching the young idea how to shoot.
Tassy : “Knew a woman who cured her
husband—a bad case—of drinking. Instead of
keeping him out in the cold, and bombarding him
with boots and hairbrushes, going home to mother,
and all the rest of it, this angel kept his slippers
warm, with a night-cap if he was home in reason-
able time; went to bed if he wasn’t; and next
day fed him up with broths, occasional pick-me-
ups, and so on, and coddled him until he was
steady enough to go to work. He told me, after a
big drunk, that he felt so mean at his wife’s treat-
ment that he had sworn never to get drunk again ;
and as long as I knew him he didn’t.”
The uncertainty
as to results with
which modern
armaments sur-
round Yanko-
Spanish war-
pr< ispects is well
sampled by the
assertion of a
Sydney Ameri-
can that, if
the new Za-
linskiguus do
all that is
claimed for
them, “ nothing on earth
can stand against them. ”
The same authority’s
assertion that the Span-
iard is impatient of any
but a Hesh-carving wea-
pon is backed up by an Australian
Spaniard’s statement that during the
Spanish operations in Morocco the sol-
diers begged to be let discard their mili-
tary weapons, so that they might go at the enemy
with the more accustomed knife. Spain’s ensign
is appropriately streaked with gore !
The youth of Ballarat.
They were indolent and fat,
And n«t at all inclined to martial prattle,
Till some soldiers of the Queen
Came and camped upon the scene
And made the city famous for its Battle.
They haven’t eaten buns
Since the smell of roaring guns
Distracted their attention from the larder ;
Plum pudden lost its charms
When the trumpet call to arms
Had filled ’em up with military ardour.
They onetime would chyike
Valiant Shoppee on his bike,
Those grinning, irrepressible rapscallions.
They grin at him no more
Since the sturdy Mayor-o’-war
Went biking in command of his battalions.
Their craving, day and night,
Is for foreign foes to fight,
Each boy is a brigade of Greater Britons ;
And every lady cat,
In the town of Ballarat
Has been slaughtered whilst provisioning her kittens.
Should the local thirst for gore
Seek relief in civil war
And a list of slain be sent along as “ copy,”
’Twill be headed, let us pray,
By the hero of the day,
Then the “ Dead March ” we will play for good old
Shoppee.


lie boy stood on (bercvil wdy taxck
He he&rd the whistle squeal-
- *
TP
IEIBK\ATIOM"
P OJEM°
' 'lie engineer dot slowly down
- And Scraped hi off the wheel
AUSTRALIA’S GLORIOUS FOURTH.
The Federal Convention Bill poll will be taken in N.S.W. on 3rd June, and next day will be the Glorious Fourth. On the Glorious Fourth Toby Barton will be engaged as above.


SCOTTISH HECIMEHT
TO BE ESTABUSIg.
Jb
<&y
%>*
Sif John M‘lntyre, MX. A., said that
ammunition would, ho believed, cost about
Ills. 9d. per man per annum.
Mr. Maloney, turning to audionce ? t 0
then shouted in loud tones, ‘ The coward
who called the militia out to shoot men lown tta
like dogs calls me a creature. I tell him to rea
his face ha has not the courage to face me at
ten paces alone outside this hall. _I
7; facilities afforded for ti£~‘7uarini'‘TF
J tunes was the keynote of someVtnk^evh
: dence given by Mr. Gurner, Crown
I Smm bCt ° rC U .d U ’ ght ' S s,tt ‘ n * of lie Law
I raiwou. Rumor says,” observed that it
1 Tterl W ’ * nd , l think 11 “ correct, that!
ere is a great deal ofjury‘squaring’in eon- 1
necuo wi th tbe Cn3 ££j
and tf the practice does exist, .t seems’
of f. tb iT V,sion whicb al,ow '» copies'!' 1 '
ask C,tern * '“S'’* 1 * lh0 “ P“P |e
■
Cb„,
l a n <tl £>* ?*>■£* '» > J^Tw
* f A e fen.
C Q/)
V».|
vy
/small-pox outbreak.
A c VSKON THE ORIZABA.
P^ ngers on 'ward „r 'V
iiSftz “srs^y. a\
PortunKy raroina£H orded V
‘WSS* b - '
i "T
«?s>>>< V
4*.%%: c* \. \ %A
/vV
' < y
■kl,
I ° A V
I
' \\® lV y> .\\ e
v;
*»»*■
,'V C
*&s»£&>
<&*
‘V‘
Henn G'lbert, worl(i { Ol - a wager,
Se "' iC * to "h!cU l be j
edßoTof the ill rough
state* that he h j, c sdria that 'in leov'Ug I
South which 1 have had> «>« ar (
«**■»• into •^gg^g
[ Mansfield.— Recently a deputation from
1 the Mansfield Shire Council waited on Mr.
Best, Minister of Lands. A committee was
thcn’immediately appointed by the council
to arrange a programme in connection with
the visit, and it is as follows :—Leoture on
•‘ Federation,” at Mansfield, on the evening ,
of his arrival ; on the socond day, inspect
parishes of Boot-elite and Mcrrijig; third,
cUy» inspect parishes of Dueran and Dheran
East, and, if possible, repeat lecture on (
“Federation,” at Tolmio ; fourth day, in*
spect parish of Toombullop ; fifth day, pro.
cced via Heyfield to Merton, and catch evooy
Ing tram to Melbourne.
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


Hotels.
'■t f
Mi
J«»fv s
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
\VrMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE 6- P-0
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E tn SSk m . SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NEWCASTLE.
THE
Great northern Hotel
RE-OPENED
under entirely
New Management,
After complete renovation inside and out.
New Furniture from Attic to Basement.
R. L. THOMAS ... Proprietor
(late of Narandera).
Toronto Hotel,
Lalce
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
m
M 6
v
to
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of Bt.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Medical,
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
V
gSOG V HldNOOc/s
H 3
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
“Tbc Prettiest Sbow ii? Sydney.”
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
KING STREET
SYDNEY
Watches a Specialty.
Gent’s (full-size) Silver Hunters
Our Special Levers, 455, 60s, 80s.
WALTHAM, 47s 6d, 655, 90s.
ROTHERHAMS, 70s, 80s, 100 s.
Gent’s Solid Gold Hunters.
£5, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Hunters.
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £7 10s, £lO.
Ladies' Silver Hunters.
255, 30s, 408, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Please send tor our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
18c.
Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £6, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
6 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
9c., 13 6 pair;
15c., 27/6 pair.
20 other Pat-
terns from 10,6
pair.
18c. Gipsy.
8 fine Diamonds, £2 6s,
£3, £4.
90t., 23 6 pair; 15c.,37 6pair
Silver, 6, - pair.
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s.
iUHo
gmiaii
Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
-15 c., 18s 6d; 9c., 13s 6d.
New Gold Scroll Brooch, 9s.
A
&
English Hall-marked Alberts.
9c. GOLD SINGLE, 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. ~ „ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
SILVER „ 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
9c.' GOLD DOUBLE, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. ~ „ 110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
SILVER „ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Post Free.
18c. Marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or Sapphire,
Emerald or Torquoise
centre, £'4s 4s.
Plain
Gold.
7s 6d
pair.
Our New
Twin
with
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d.
Bird
Br joches.
Post Pree.
15c.
Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or
Sapphire, 21s.
Diamond, 85s.
NOTE Our Only Australian- Address -
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
1.
A
z
t
i
mm mmm
ARTISTE
b T PHOJOq RAPHE
PHOTOGRAPHY
(Xiate of Bde'taourtie).
THE NEW PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIOS
ARE NOW REPLETE WITH ALL THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS,
ENABLING MR. GROUZELLE TO PRODUCE
LIFELIKE AND ARTISTIC PORTRAITURE.
Address : 308 George-street, Sydney
Telephone 2761. (OVER LLOYD & COLLINS'.) Telephone 2761.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OK PIANOS >-N
Tbc Fii)«St ai>d Largest tyCiSic Warel>o(iS«
✓♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦« '
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, £35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB PECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCI 11 EDM AYE R & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC AT
NICHOLSON & CO.’S
George Street,
SYDN BY.
Public Notice 3.
Public Service Board,
60, Young-street,
Sydney, 21st April, 1898.
A COMPETITIVE Examination of Candidates foi
Junior Clerkships in the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney, and at various Country
centres, which will be fixed as far as possible to suit
the convenience of candidates, on the 27th June, and
four following days. The estimated number of appoint-
ments to be made is 50. Candidates must not be less than
16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day of exam-
ination, of good moral character, and in sound health.
Persons already employed in the General Divisions of the
Public Service will be admitted to the examination, pro-
vided their age does not exceed thirty years. The sub-
jects in which Candidates will be examined are : —Hand-
writing, English (Dictation, Composition, Precis writing,
Parsing, Analysis, and derivation of words), Arithmetic
(full course), Geometry (Euclid, first Book), Geography
(outlines of physical and political geography, and the
geography of the Australasian Colonies in moderate
detail), English History from the Middle of the Eighteen
Century to the present time, especially with reference to
the Colonies and Dependencies. Candidates will also be
allowed to take any two, but not more than two, of the
following subjects :—Mathematics, English, a prescribed
Author, viz. Tennyson’s “ Gareth and Lynette” (Mac-
Millan), Latin, French, German, Elementary Chemisty,
and Elementary Geology. Application to attend the
examination must be made on a form for the purpose,
which can be obtained at (he office of the Board, and
must reach the undersigned not later than the Ist June.
Candidates will be required to pay an examination fee of
10s., which must be lodged with a Cierk of Petty Sessions
or the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to
the Secretary of the Board with the form of application.
A list of registered candidates with centres of examination
will he published in the Government Gazette, after the
time for the receipt of applications has expired, and can-
didates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined.
The Regulations and copies of the papers set at the
last examination can he obtained at the Government
Printing Office, and the principal booksellers.
Bv order of the Board,
J. W. HOLLIMAN. Secretary.
9 a 70.
pUBLIC APOLOGY.
Perth, April 7th, 1898.
F. C. B. VOSPER, Esq., M.L.A., Perth.
Sir, —Referring to certain remarks made by me at the
fortnightly meeting of the Perth City Council, held on the
25th of March last, I think it only due to you to express
my regret that in the heat of the moment I used epithets
referring to yourself, which, in my calmer moments, I cer-
tainly should not have done. No doubt some of the
words hastily used by me bear on their face the construc-
tion that I considered you were the originator of, or a
party to, the late disgraceful riot at Kalgoorlie ; and,
therefore, to make matters clear, I desire to state that in
my opinion the riot was not caused by you personally or
at your instigation ; and I therefore withdraw the accusa-
tions I hastily made against you, and again beg to express
my regret that, in the heat of the moment, I should have
been betrayed into the expressions above referred to.
Yours faithfully 7,
T. QUINLAN.
so
pi
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Collections of 1000 varieties
complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 9 Borneo, Is. Od. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 60. Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, 6s. ;
postage, 2d. Bemit P. O. 0., P. N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
AOLINE
“ Most Refreshing’." (Kegd)
NICE ALWAYS, BUT '
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMS.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOLINE" perfume.
“ Most Refreshing.”
“AOLINE” TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
“AOLINE” TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
“AOLINE” SACHETS.
Delightful for Handkerchiefs,
Gloves, &c.
“AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
J. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THE CELEBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
“ A Charming Scent." — H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
rife
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/14, °f all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & 00., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
REAL German Hollow GROUND
rttiff 1 R*zo*
ec*
p£R
WARRANTED
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
u . nF IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADE
MA ,N BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNF, GARRETT. & CO. LONDON. V


SPt
THE
‘jpru tm. 9
Plum
G 1 ENTLEMEiN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our °® l ® b ™ fced
f Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to tie p •
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding.
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves,
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in us o
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p / Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ca»e, J •
r « e \Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, eOs.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, s. ex a.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Loiv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoi) H.SoGI &Co.,M’sp-$.
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney; and a*
Olmrcli-street, Parramatta.
9
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’S Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
flKibridge’s
UjQmgTonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull,
Sold in bottli s. at Is. 1 id., 2s. 9 d., 4s. fld.,
md 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Sto;es,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPY RIGHT.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., <1 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
POKER MACHINES.
iiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiilimimimmimiiMiuimiuiimmuii
iiHMdtt
101S3Hi. Nl oEefOWO,
i iimil Hill JTT 1
33 dJ SUVO IO
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
Best Value
in N S.W.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
r
p
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
(flick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
For
Counter
Use.
IR-O-A-TD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Poi table Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JO HN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
Y 3 Clarence Street 9 SYDNEY .
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager*
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
j> the most delicious sauce in the wored.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OP BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d„ i-, and a,'- eacli.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO, LEEOS, ENG
Sole Ajjents for New Soutli Wales:
TIIJ.OC.I Sc CO., KENT and I.IVERI’OOI, STREETS, SVDNEV.
*
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
arid unabridged, illustrated, post free Is (id.
Amours ok Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman oe Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mguret’s Sin; The Soil; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home- Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by l>r. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded,, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s (id. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s Od.
Hkitameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s (id ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking- made easy, Is (id post.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TBADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUP
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
T>OOK OF N ATI' 1* E
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s Cd ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing- all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His. Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, piost free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs. Athletics. &c., Is (id post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pb.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor<s. 2s Od.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is (id.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free ,1s 3d. Maria Monk, Is Od ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Femala
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is Oil post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer's
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
Cheap Boole Depot.
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Ei.koant and
Ekkkctivk.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Eltfin-st., MELBOURNE.
CbipS of Wisdon?
Eat Granuma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
„ For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash. Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Pkadley & Co., 324 George-st.
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA,
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Smoke
Chief
OUfl
POLITICAL
POINTS
The new Q. Ministry—Byrnes, Philp and
eo. ! 1
Over 80 per cent, of N.S.W. country
newspapers favor the Convention Bill.
Premier .Reid’s attitude to Federation—
Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike,
Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike.
— Pope.
Justice Hood’s decision in the Bulimba
Sunday-work appeal ease excludes, for the first
time by Supreme Court authority, the seaman
mass from the general body legislated for as
laborers.”
Incautious remark by Sydney D.T. :
Mr. Want and Mr. Millen, M.P., will next Tuesday'
attack Bathurst, which is popularly supposed in Sydney
to be a hotbed of Federation.
“ A straw shows ! ”
Special privileges die hard. Apropos,
Tattersall * influence in Tasmania is un-
derstood to be dead against Federation. Tas.
would lose perhaps £20,000 per annum by the
Federal abolition of the consultation person if he
is abolished.
Governor Buxton (S.A.) is going to Hing-
land to attend to “ urgent private affairs.” One
reason why we should produce our own teetotal
Governors is that they wouldn t have to rush away
to the otlmr end of the earth to look after their
brewery dividends.
The know-alls say that Premier Tomjoe
Byrnes offered a portfolio to Andy Dawson,
Labor M.L.A. for Charters Towers. Both Byrnes
and Dawson are under 40 ;of the soil; and the
smartest men in their respective parties. But
Dawson “ didn’t see his way.”
Federation has put all parties in Victoria
at sixes and sevens. Trenwith against the Trades
Hall, the latter playing speaks with the Arm ; the
Aue against its quondam love, Protectionist
Maimer ; Freetrader Max Hirsch on the same side
as Iren with - but the big men (bar one) are all on
one side.
A Melbourne paper has a yarn about a
boat-load of excursionists bursting into enthusias-
tic cheers at the sight of a star-spangled flag hung
out on an anchor' d vessel. The people thought it
was the American flag, but a sorrowful Australian
moral lies in the fact that it was really the Aus-
tralian trig.
Premier Braddon, who ought to know
something about the matter, telegraphs to the
effect that Coghlan’s alarming theori s about the
insolvency of Tasmania under the Federal Bill
* r, “ hopeless bunkum. Braddon, as a fine old
British gentleman, doesn’t say “ bunkum,” but he
plainly means it.
To-morrow (Friday) is the last day on
which the N.S.AV. citizen who is not yet on the
rolls can get his elector’s right with a view to
voting at the Federal Referendum. The voter who
doesn’t obtain his document by to-morrow may
allow his attention to wander from the contro-
versy thereafter, as he is out of the running.
The Federation fight between the Sydney
dailies is “ nuts ” to those of their staffs who have
been accustomed to Melb. press-work. Henry
Gullett, the Herald’s acting editor, long used to
the Argus-Age feud, is throwing himself into the
fray with a vim.that must make the Tory readers
of Granny rub their eyes with astonishment.
Premier Kingston (S.A.) objects to de-
partmental heads fixing up postal and other con-
ferences at which Ministers appear but as lay
figures to record the decisions of their subordin-
ates, and he affirms that directly one conference
is over the permanent officials begin to hunt round
for subjects to be discussed at another interpro-
vmciaJ meeting.
Next session of Q. Parliament will see the
proposal of several land-grant railways, notably
the Normanton-Cloncurry line—a very big thing
indeed. As there will be considerable pickings in
this, it will probably go through. The easy
passage of the ChillagOH line will be bandied about
and another slice of N.Q. will fall into the hands
of the all-powerful syndicate.
S.A. Labor-party has at last taken the
plunge, and organised an anti-Federation league.
Such famous politicians as Ebenezer Ward and
loud-voiced ex-Mayor Cohen threaten to assist.
Cohen at one time represented N. Adelaide in
S.A. Assembly, and is one of the numerous past
political failures who have temporarily revived
through the Federation boom.
Westralia’s population still mounts—a
net gain of COG 3 for the first quarter of the year.
But the female increase is still small—lB24 as
against 4581 males—though the excess of births
over deaths is for males 74 as against females 208.
The nett increase is, however, very different from
those for the corresponding quarters of ’OG and
’97 —15,870 and 14,074 respectively.
Some Q. Ministerialists who openly ex-
Sress no confidence in Premier Byrnes : Petrie,
I‘Master, Leahy, Fraser, M‘Doiiald-Paterson’
Curtis, Hamilton, Grimes, Thorn, Bell, Batters-
by and Budges. Enough dissentients to burst up
the Government if they had the courage to vote
asthe.v think. But most Bananaland politicians
are either bank-tied or easily bullied.
John Leahy, M.L.A., is the saddest man
in Leperland. He has been mentioned—with
monotonous regularity—for every Ministerial
vacancy in the past three years, and now, in the
very summer of his hopes, his expectations are
shattered by Tomjoe. Premier Byrnes, in trying
to fight down the ancient and carefully-dissemi-
nated impression that he is a R.C. first and a
Queenslander afterwards, will doubtless leave his
co-religionists severely "lone when scattering
perks and patronage.
Federated Australia's
Governor-General will, after
all, be merely a historical
resurrection. The official title
of the Governor of N.S.W.
was for many years “Governor-
General,” and Imperial ordi-
nances elaborately laid down
that he took precedence over
all provincial Governors when-
ever he entered their terri-
tories. Title, claim, prece-
dence and all, however, quietly
died out, and now Hampden in
Maoriland is officially no more
portentous than is Kanfurly in
N.S.W.
In Maoriland, a poli-
tician must be six months out
of Parliament before he can
be appointed to any perman-
ent public billet. This is in-
tended to prevent Ministers
appointing themselves to the
bench and similar pleasant
offices. The rumor goes round
that Robert Stout really left
polities so as to qualify for the
Chief Justice’s billet, when the
present occupant, who is very
old and feeble, drops off.
Judge Prendergast is 70 now ;
he has sat on the bench for
23 years, and Justice has to
roar in his ear to make him
hear anything.
A reform the need of
which becomes every day more
scandalously apparent in N.S.
W.is the prohibition from prac-
tice before stipendiary magis-
trates of any lawyer who is also
a member of Parliament. How-
ever upright an S.M. maybe,
hi-’s only human after all, and,
until he is made officially as in-
dependent of Parliament as
are the J edges, he should not
be exposed to such an obvious
temptation to partiality.
The Telegraph's financial editor, still
.weeping bitterly about the alleged surplus which
is to be such an embarrassment to N.S.W. under
Federation, suggests tl.at it would probably be
got rid of by a big increase of civil-service salaries.
Apparently not a soul except The Bulletin can
absorb the simple idea of enacting that there shall
be no more borrowing, and that the blessed sur-
plus shall be paid into a Public Works Fund in
order to built! the new line to Broken Hill—the
one that can t be built out of borrowed monev be-
cause it won’t pay the needful 3 per cent.—and to
finish the Sydney drains, and other things.
Four of the members of the Bananaland
Cabinet (Philp, Dalrymple, Chataway and Mur-
ray) have several times avowed their faith in
Separation. Did they note the following passage
in Premier Byrnes’ Warwick utterance:—
The Govt, will not in any way depart from the policy of
its predecessors in regard to the partition of the province.
Curious anomaly ! Four erstwhile professed
Separation advocates in an anti-Separation
Cabinet an actual majority for autonomy.
The pillars of Separation posing as the buttresses
of anti-Separation. What asses Northern and
Central Separationists must be to allow themselves
to be gulled by a quartette of frauds so simply
transparent!
The Dudley Flinn and Stephen
Barker party (Vic.) has raised funds
to oppose the Convention Bill. These
resources, at time of writing, consisted
of at least 30s. —mostly contributed
by Ben Tillett.
A HOPELESS CASE .
HOSPITAL NURSE (to groanful patient): “Cheer
up, thirteen: when the doctor comes he'll soon
put you right."
No. 13: “I’m afraid not—I’ve been in a lot of
hospitals afore I came here."
H. N. : “What did the doctor say was the matter
with you? ”
No. 13 (impressively): “They all said as how it
was the very worst case of malingerin' they’d
ever known."
ARTLESS.
“Please, sir, will you help the fallen?"
Queensland has at present half-a-dozen
talked-about ex-Premiers Herbert, Douglas,
Griffith, MTlwraith, Nelson, Morehead—facing
life in different parts of the world. Herbert, the
ancient of the lot, stands open for any little tem-
porary billet which may fall vacant in the repre-
sentation of Australia in England ; Douglas con-
trols a motley empire of browns, yellows and
dubious whites ; Griffith, as Q. Chief Justice, has
managed the cosiest quarters, though Nelson,
considering his constitutional lethargy, has done
very well; Morehead and MTlwraith are sick at
present, but they talk fight, and see what they
take to be victory ahead.
The Maoriland Old-Age Pension Bill is to
be re-introduced in the coming session, and if the
House of Nominees rejects it Seddon proposes to
go to the country and demand power to wipe the
floor with that institution. If Digger Dick would
try the experiment of an elective paid Council,
with no property qualification for members, chosen
by manhood and womanhood suffrage with the
whole province as one electorate, make the two
Houses dissolvable together, and adopt the joint
sitting in case of disagreement, then Maoriland
would have the most logical and democratic con-
stitution on earth, and Digger Dick would get a
huT" monument some day as the builder of it.
The vitality of the Separation ques-
tion in Queensland is largely due to the
masterful manner in which the Govt.,
standing up to its neck in Southern in-
terests, and having at the same time two
Ministerial tentacles in the Northern
hair, sells Central lands in large
areas and spends the proceeds
in general expenditure. If
Central Queensland doesn’t
get some sort of autonomy
soon, there will be very
little CQ. left unsold.
In ’BBM‘llwraith brought
in a Decentralisation Bill
under which each division
was to receive its own ter-
ritorial revenue. The Bill
passed its second
reading, but MTI-
- conveni-
ent luck made
him fall ill in time
to prevent its be-
ing carried fur-
ther. Griffith
championed the
same idea, but he
forgot to act on
hi.s convictions when
■ he got the chance. The
present Minister for
Lands, lawyer Foxt o n,
swears that he doesn’t believe
in large alienations of land, but
he continues making them all the
same. So the process of skinning
Central Queensland goes on. “ Be-
tween the upper and nether millstones ” ?
The nether stone is always the harder.
MacLaurin, M.L.C., orating in the pro-
vincialist interest at Sydney :
Oeorsre Turner, the other day, told the people in
Melbourne it was nearly certain that the seat of the
Federal Government would be in Victoria.
To which the short and simple reply is that
Premier Turner said nothing of the kind and
nothing resembling it. This new bogy is brother
to Want’s statements that N.S.W. coal is shut
out of Victoria, and that the southern delegates
‘ kicked ” the referendum out of the Federation
Bill when there was never any referendum in it;
and John Norton’s fiction about how the other
provinces are either stationary or decreasing in
population ; and Lyne’s ghost about the unchange-
ableness of the Constitution ; and Hughes’s
taradiddle about the Federal Senate being exempt
from dissolution in case of deadlocks till the other
House had been dissolved and re-elected ; and all
the other more or less premeditated inaccuracy of
the Cabbage-Tree Mob.
Melbourne tram employes are in a bad
way. The co. persists in working the men
as long as it dern pleases, despite the fact
that the Act which created its monopoly pro-
vides that the employes are to be worked on the
eight-hour system, and are to be paid specially for
overtime ; with a £5 penalty for every breach of
this particular section. A beautiful object-lesson
concerning the private control of public services.
The 00. has got a cow to milk for a certain time —
and it is going to milk that cow all day everyday.
John Murray, M.L.A., who has" just
joined Q. Ministry, is a bright sample of the con-
scienceless opportunist and tricky politician. For
some time he has emulated the Dicksonian r6le of
caustic but kindly critic of Govt. ; and a portfolio
ha,s been dropped into his mouth just as in
Dickson’s case. Addressing his constituents
lately he expressed a blazing desire for a strong
Opposition, promising to join it when formed.
His chief claims to distinction are chronic
laziness, antiquated ideas and whole-souled scorn
for Glassey and the Laborists. He attends about
six sittings of Parliament during each whole
session, and begins all his speeches with the
declaration that his valuable time is being wasted
listening to superfluous discussion. Rumour
alleges that Murray’s valuable time is mostly
spent in bed.
Premier Reid has found an excuse to
crawl down from his lofty Freetrade attitude with
regard to the sugar industry, and has half-pro-
mised to leave on a duty of £3 per ton. The
wildly irrelevant reason assigned is that Federa-
tion is coming. The Tklegkaph actually encour-
ages Reid in this awful falling away from grace,
and both Reid and his organ agree to drop all
mention of the fact that the .£3 protective duty
will bring in a good deal of revenue to the Free-
trade Treasury, and fetch a good many votes to
the Freetrade cause at next election, and probably
save Reid’s billet. Meanwhile, even if Federa-
tion and all-round Protection are coming, no one
seems to explain why N.S. W. shouldn’t enjoy the
blessing of Freetrade while it can. If the curse of
Protection is coming, why should Reid want t»
hasten it along?
S.S. (from Melb.) : “ The outbreak of the
Cuban war serves to give us an idea of the
strength of Australia’s enthusiasm for her great
cause, Federation. What has become of
Federation since the dailies hjegan to run
to large frantic headlines about America and
Spain ? You turn over the fifth page of your
morning organ of public opinion, and find the
most tremendous event in Australian history
nestling away amongst the advts., with an
apologetic headline, and an ‘ ’opes I don’t intrude ’
atmosphere all over it. I believe that if we get
federation it will be because the Australian
elector does not give a blanky, and if we don’t get
it it will be because the same tired person does not
give a blanky blank. Meanwhile, lam not sure
that David Syme, Jack Want, and the Trades
Hall are not at the bottom of this Cuban war.”
Writes “Gumleaf” :
Federation has sent the Vic. Labor-party to smash. It
has divided the sheep from the goats. The division was
sure to come one day. Brains such as Trenwith’s and
crankiness such as Dr. Maloney's could not continue long
to move along the same line ; and if they had not parted
over Federation they would over some other question
where Trenwith’s intelligence refused to give in to the
other fellow's nonsense. Maloney regards the party ai
absolutely dead, hut the more wily Hancock only admits
that it is a hit “ huniptv.” Both agree, however, that the
cause of the trouble in each case is what they are pleased
to call “ Trenwith's desertion”—which is a nice admis-
sion. There is a fearsome uncertainty as to the attitude
which the secretary of the party, Bromley, will ultimately
take up on the question. It is said that when the figures
are up he will be found on Trenwith’s side. Bromley is
now never to be seen about the Trades Hall, and rarely
attends the meetings of the council. Between him and
the dismal secretary of the Trndes Hall, ex-M.L.A. Bar-
rett, there has sprung up a deadly feud.
Sydney Telegraph, in its issue of 29th
April, announced triumphantly that Federation
was now practically dead in N.S.W., and its
corpse had been repeatedly killed to make it
deader, and “ the referendum will be a pro-
nounced, unmistakeable declaration that the bill
is impossible.” Under these circumstances the
Telegraph would probably like to call Parliament
together immediately and pass an Act abolishing
the infamous 80,000 minimum. The way things
are fixed, if the Federal party raises 79 999 votes
in favor of the Constitution, and there isn’t a
single vote against it, still the side which didn’t
get one single vote wins. If the Provincialist
crowd is the majority, as the Telegraph brags it
is, then it doesn’t need to stack the cards like
this, and annul the votes of one-third of the elec-
tors, and deliberately disfranchise an immense
proportion of the people, and abolish the sacred
principle of majority rule which it is professedly
so anxious to preserve—all in order to choke its
narrow provincial creed down the throats of the
people by a minority vote. A crowd which says
it has a majority, and yet insists on 80,000 start in
the voting, is either a liar or a glutton.


THE SCALES OF JUSTICE.
\ vio
Il|i>y Dot Buy
of the Originators
AND NOT OF THE IMITATORS ?
We Originated the Celebrated
HALF-GUINEA BOOT.
They are not of mushroom growth. They have
been before the public for years past, and have
MADE A NAME FOR THEMSELVES.
They represent Good Weight, Good Measure,
Good Shape, Good Leather.
JOHN HUNTER & SON, LTD.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
Corner of George and Market Streets, Sydney;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS IN
NEW SOUTH WALES.
r-
KS
CORNETS.
F. BESSON &. CO.’S
Celebrated “ Prototype ” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., ill 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICt LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins-st.
Melbourne—
Agent for F. BESSON &. co. throughout Australian Colonies.
HIGH ART PHOTOGRAPHY.
TN€ SWISS STUDIOS
KING ST.
LEAD THE WAY.
BETWEEN GEORGE AND
PITT STREETS
SYDNEY.
AN INSPECTION WILL SHOW WE HAVE REACHED A HIGHER STANDARD
OF EXCELLENCE THAN HAS HITHERTO BEEN ATTAINED
AND AT POPULAR PRICES.
CliilHren. a Speciality.
Hanpfuls »f Money
m
CAN BE MADE BY" THE USE
OE A
NATIONAL
- CASH -
R€<SIST€R.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, and
amounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
IF. A. LIN GUAM, General Manager .
You can Buy
at PALING’S
Catalogues post free,
i. If. Paling « Bo
Ltd.,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIC
VIOLINS
ACeORDEONS
AUTOHARPS
CORNETS
BANJOS
FLUTES
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
Mouth Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS ]
AND V
FITTINGS]
For
every In-
strument
Cheaper and better than
any other house in
Australasia.
What’s This?
Ifle Trade on no other Firm’s
Good flame!
It’s
not
necessary We have the best and original pneu-
matic tyre and the public know it.
Don’t be deluded into purchasing tyres
that purport to be on the “ Dunlop
principle ; ” they are only a poor imita-
tion of the genuine article, and are sold
by small agents with whom reputation
is a secondary consideration.
We stake our
good name
and reputation
on all
Duniopivres
Manufactured by us, they being easily
distinguished, as every
Dunlop Cover and Dunlop
Tube is embossed with this
istered Trade Mark—
None Genuine without it.
FIRST IN 1888. FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Ounlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
48G Kent-street, SYDNEY ;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Premier Kingston absolutely refused to let
either the S.A. military or naval commandant
open his lips on the subject of the war. He corn
aiders it indecent for the commanding officers in
the other provinces to be “yap-yapping” on the
subject upon their own responsibility.
When Coghlan’s Federal finance estimates
were first divulged by Premier Reid, B. R. Wise
requested, and afterwards demanded, that Mr.
Coghlan should supply the bases of his calcula-
tions. This Coghlan was willing to do, but Reid
wriggled out of giving the necessary authority.
Had Coghlan . and Wise then met on the basis
figures a national muddle might have been
avoided.
The most solemn of the arguments against
the Commonwealth Bill, addressed to the N.S.W.
public now, were addressed by the supporters of
the old irresponsible Government when the pre-
sent N.S.W. Constitution was proposed. The
people were then exhorted not to jump in the
were assured that, under the pretence
Vln £. th e . m a larger freedom, the framers of
the Constitution were cunningly forging fetters to
enslave them ; and so on.
. Premier Seddon (of Maoriland) declares
m sec terms that the proposed .£2,000,000 loan is
a thin invention of the enemy, and in view of the
*400,000 surplus he will keep on building public
works outof revenue till further notice. Also, Sed-
don doesn't propose to reduce taxation on account of
the surplus, because the surplus, and a great deal
more, is all wanted for railway-building; and to
vxn, UOe ta * ati , on wou ld only mean more loans.
W hen will there be an Australian Premier with
grit and honesty enough to talk like this?
The Yankee coal-ship Saranac, recently
captured by the Spaniards, shipped at Newcastle,
N.S.W. a orew of 1 Maorilander, 4 Yankees, 2
Germans, 1 Austrian, 1 Norwegian, 1 Swede, and
1 Russian.
The one humorous feature of Melbourne
’Erald is the weekly puff for its blood relation, as
follows: “ The country edition of The Weekly
Times was published this morning, and we have a
copy for perusal. Our up-to-date contemporary
may be congratulated on its pages of pictures this
week. ”
The virtue of the counsel, “ keep pegging
away,” was never better exemplified in the field
of politics than by Edward Knox, of the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. In season and out of season
Knox prodded Premier Reid over the N.S.W.
sugar duties, till now at last Premier Reid makes
a hole in his Freetrade policy and invites Protec-
tionist light to twinkle in.
The Federation movement has done one
good thing at least in Queensland. Bananaland
planters, the most stubbornly Conservative race
in Australia, have come at last to see and, in
many cases, openly to acknowledge, that colored
labor must soon be a thing of the past. The pro-
spect of Queensland being shut out from the
sugar-market of the other Federated, or about-to-
be Federated Australias, has brought conviction
to the hearts of even the hide-bound sugar-kings.
If Premier Byrnes and co. don’t hurry along to
fall in line with the movement for a United Aus-
tralia there'll be a bigger “ raising of cane ” even
than usual round about Mackay and Bundaberg.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to liend.
further rehuced kates.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
At rate of 4d. in the £ per month.
Large amounts as per arrangement.
PA W N BROKING DEPART MEN T.
N.SAV.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(next Metropolitan Hotel, between King & Market streets),
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability „ 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C. ; Hen.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibits, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. O. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Piuhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:-Sir J. A. You], K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
SX^'Kssmm
HEAD office
Intersection Hunter,Bughamb
Castiereach
• SYDiygY •
fa Established - LS7S.
,*W/B£ M I : AND ?RO6RtS%'
y f Office in Austral* •
Annual Income an t Invested
Funds Exceed 000 Sterlin g.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
| E. A. WEINBERG, E. M„ General Manager.
TJSE
Spooijer’s
DRESSINC
■ rUn
Shown leather
1 BOOTS & SHOES
Of M.L DESCRIPTIONS
i DIREC I lONS FOR USE
tuliuuumiunnuinn™
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and ls.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
U nri vailed. Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
F.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <(5 Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £OO,OOO 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used j.n the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 .. £0,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ;>R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq.,,Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St.- Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street. Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
J AMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
I OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION*OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 _B ishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhail Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. ..£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Colli ns-
st., Melbourne. a. WEBSTER, General Manairer.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN * WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stoc7v and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. b<)(l Tl) <£„
DICKSON &. BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burhidoe,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEb FIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5/-, 6/-, 7,6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5/-, 6/6. 8 6
GENUINE BENGALI, RAZOtRS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS,'3 sizes, J, g, J, 10/-, 12 6.
All Razors Set and. Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 3/6, 6/- 7,6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each. ’
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &e., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
iV
of
Typboii)
(registered)
FOR
Typhoid Fever.
Fialier & Co’s
_ TYPHOIN.
This is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS OF YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure
Preventive against this deadly disease. Five
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure,- and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs. . .
lo be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured. Only ly
Fisher & Company,
337 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
Shipping*
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
'-Peregrine, Saturday,* May 14, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., May 17, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., May 17, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Konoowarra, Tues., May IT, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
-Kelloe, Tuesday, May 10, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 14, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG "I
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE I
LUCINDA POINT ,
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c. J
Tyrian, Saturday, May 7, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tuesday, May 10, 5 p.
Leura, Saturday, May 14, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKRIiNT FAKES TO ALL FOISTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms. v
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.o:, Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N, Co., Brisbane.
AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TYESPATCH the following EA VO RITE PASSENGER
■ L ' STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports ;
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A- U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Vasaenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
4/V
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
Bd. per 1000.
A. GEO. KING, 33 Imperial Arcade, - Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 095
Code—Moueino & Neal, etc. Box No. 2:17, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throw/hout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS* GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.) .
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE ■
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Friday, May 13.
S.S. looamincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, May 14.
ALBANY, a
FREMANTLE, j
Transhipping at Fremantle
to V
VASSE, DONGARRA, i
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
SrS.' Wailowra (from Sydney)
1 la-idAy; May 13.
.*/ 1 •:* ~:i
S.S. iTjmamincka (fromMell>.)
Saturday, May 14.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. WoPowra (from Sydney) Friday,
May IB (transhipping- at Albany).
BRISBANE i
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE - h
And Ports North to Cairns J
at nsrr , ' .
S.S. (KHSnga, Tuesday,
UOM&fJIO.
Vs ?erf£
Best & Cheapest llonte to Goldfiehls.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd,, Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway' Offices; are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
Fpr further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
4 Principal Agent.
(Klluiraith, flpEacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND'S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
FARES From £l6 to £47 ss.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Steamer.
Tons
Stuttgart
Weimar
Karlsruhe
Oldenburg
Gera
Stuttgart
P.T.uitpold
Com-
mander.
5349 Kohlenbeck
5818 F. Mentz ...
5347|R. Ileintze
5006 Gathemann
5319 W. Meissel
5349 Kohlenbeck
6288* H. Walter
Leave
Sydney,
Noon.
May
June
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
18 May 24 May 28
15 June 21 June 25
July 19 July 23
Aug. 16 Aug. 20-
Sept. 13 Sept. 17
Oct. 11 Oct. 15
Nov. 8 Nov. 12-
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at-
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines-
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages front’
Europe, America", etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co.
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 139. —9ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£lss.
No.
"0.—15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. ;Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 ss.
P 335
No. 145.—9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
No. 102. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. 117.—Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113.—9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17 s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
No. 335. —Solid Silver Child’s
Cup, 3Ln. high, £2 10s.
No. 308.—Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8a Cd.
No. 136.— 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 201.—Set Gold Ginks.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct. Gold, £2 ss; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 134.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
an 1 Diamond,
£l l2s 6<l.
rr,
CK
F3SF.
in’o. 289.—Cut-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2}in. high, lls 6d.
No. 332.—Electro-Silver on
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3in.
high, 16s 6d.
No. 150.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies
JB4 7s. Od. ’
m
m
No 311.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish.
6Jin. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
m
No. 263.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s (id.
15-ct. Gold, 17s Cd.
- _r
ms
stM
■jL£g§i
No. 2GO. —Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. s]in. long,
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s; ditto to hold three, £2 ss.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong. llin. hi h,
£1 10s.
No. 337.—Six Solid Silver Tea Spoons
in morocco case, £llos. ’
1
i
No. 107.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
No. 190.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, ISs Cd ; 15-ct., £l lss ; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 215.
9-cfc. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s Gd.
f
No. 200.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s (Id ; Silver, 5s 6d.
m
No. 284.—Cut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 21s.
No. 330. —Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, fcl ss.
No. 280. —Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver, cabinet size, 10s 6d.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Eleetro-Silver Entrde Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.) '
No. 297.
Solid Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6d.
-16-ct. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set Pearls
and Diamonds, i’4 17s Oil.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
No. 118. —15-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Sapphires and Rubies, £ ll2s Gd.
T „ No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7. ’
•No. 31!).
Silver Hutton Hooks and Shoe Lift,
ltis 6d.
m
No. 2(i2.—Cross.
0-ct. Gold, JL'l Is ; 15-ct., £llss.
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette Rings.
2in case, 8s 6d; 4in case, l(is 6d;
6 in case, £1 5s
No.
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 261.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £1 is ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
15-ot., £1 17s 6d
NOTH
goods, any
3 r E --T he .Y. arious illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending mirehasprs ™ „ i ■.. , . .
of which will bo forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 paces) Post f ree ° V iUK exc l ulslto character of the
STEWART DAWSON & CO
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W,
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Billy M'Coombe has had more accidents upon
the cycle track than any other representative sprinter ;
but he has always come up smiling: for more. When the
wobbler has brought M'Coombe down on the cycle-track,
M'Coombe has merely arisen and placed what was left of
him in a cab and adjourned to the nearest hospital for
reconstruction. And while he has been there many
pretty girls have come and smoothed the hair on his
brow, and placed fresh beef-steak upon his eyes, and
taken his hand and pressed it, and hung flowers from the
canopy of his bed. Lately William plugged through hail
and rain and storm for records on his Dunlop-tyred
Swift; but this time the furious elements said “No 1”•
There are many whiskys on the market —
so many that a man who wants to be sure of a
good one has to think some time before choosing.
But lately an infallible guide has come to aid such
thinkers, for the representative of the British
nation—the British House of Commons—has un-
solicited ordered Sir John Power’s whiskey. When
the representative taste of 40,000,000 enlightened
people chooses Sir John Power’s whiskey, who can
ask for any other brand ? #
The recent two-volume naval-fight at
Manila was a pretty fair go as regarded aggregate
tonnage, the seven American ships totalling, like
the 14 Spanish, close on 18,000 tons. The Yankee
ships, again, were certainly superior; while, if
some of the Dons were “very” small and early,
the powerful assistance of the shore batteries made
Uncle Sam’s row a pretty hard one to hoe.
The burning of two of the Spaniards’ ships,
however, the blowing-up of another, and
the sinking and shattering of sundry more,
make it pretty evident that he kept up his
end all right. The “ intense enthusiasm at
Madrid ” at the close of fight the first seems almost
pathetic in view of the fact that the supposed
“taking refuge ’’ was very probably a prepared
part of the American scheme of operations. The
affair, after all, however, can’t count for much
more than a demonstration, since the American
squadron has neither men to occupy Manila, nor
coal to continue long in Philippine waters.
The Greatest Testimonial
Ever Given.
DR. STEVENSON MACADAM, Consulting
Chemist to the British Govt., writes as
follows :
*■ Analytical Laboratory,
“ Surgeon’s Hall,
“Edinburgh, 10th February, 1898.
“ I have made a careful chemical analysis
of a sample of “Tonic” sent me by the
Minerva Company, Manufacturing Chemists
and Food Specialists, and find such to be a
judicious combination of Iron, Phosphorus
and Alkaloidal Compounds, which will be
found highly serviceable as a tonic remedy
for the strengthening of the system, especially
in the case of invalids.
“Stevenson Macadam, Ph.D., etc.,
“ Lecturer on Chemistry and
“ Consulting Analytical Chemist.”
MINERVA TONIC is on Sale by all Chemists
throughout these colonies.
“A NIGHT CAP”
Of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“ D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
THE PRESS GANG.
Now Peterkin might know the cause
Of war’s red death and fiery vapours
We’ll answer him without a pause :
” It is to sell the penny papers ! ”
J^OW~: READY-Price 7s. 6<L '
Australasian Joint Stock Com-
panies’ Year Book,
1898.
By ROBERT LUCAS NASH,
Financial Editor “ Daily Telegraph.”
Complete Record of all Australasian and Anglo-Austral-
asian Investments.
Sydney : McCARRON, STEWART & CO., 44 Pitt-st.
Melbourne and London : McCARRON, BIRD & CO.
N.S. W. Government Railways.
Special Cbeap ExctirSioo
to and from
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
Tickets at specially low fares
will be issued at Sydney and intermediate
Suburban Stations to aU Main Line Stations,
Menangle to Albury inclusive, by the undermen-
tioned Special Train, available for return up to
and including THURSDAY, 2nd June, 1898, but
passengers can only return by the trains specified,
viz. :—From all stations beyond Goulburn by Up
Mail Train, Passengers from Stations Harden to
Yarra, inclusive, may also travel by the 4.20 a.m.
Mixed Train from Harden on MONDAYS,
WEDNESDAYS, FRIDAYS, and SATUR-
DAYS. From all Stations Goulburn to Menan-
gle, inclusive, by any train except the Up Mail
and Up Melbourne Express Trains.
THURSDAY, 19th MAY, 1898.
RETURN TICKETS at Specially Low Fares
will also be issued TO SYDNEY from All Main
Line Stations, Albury to Demondrille Junction
inclusive, by Special train leaving Albury at
5.35 a.m., and from Stations Murrumburrah to
Menangle inclusive by Special train leaving Mur-
rumburrah at 10.50 a.m on FRIDAY, 20th May.
RETURN TICKETS at 2d. per mile first-class
(minimum 10s.) and Id. pir mile second-class
(minimum 55.) will be issued from Stations on the
Main Southern Line to Stations Goulburn to
Mittagong inclusive by the Special trains from
Albury and Murrumburrah.
These Tickets will be available for return up to
and including FRIDAY, 3rd June, 1898, but pas-
sengers can only return by the trains specified —
viz., to Stations Menangle to Goulburn, inclusive,
by any train except the Melbourne Express and
9.0 p.in. Mail. To Stations South of Goulburn
by Special train leaving Sydney at 8.50 p.m. on
MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, and FRIDAYS
ONLY. Passengers for Stations between Goul-
burn and Harden 'may also travel by the 9.30
a.m. train from Sydney on MONDAYS,
WEDNESDAYS, FRIDAYS, and SATUR-
DAYS.
By order of the Commissioners.
- H. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
TNFORMATION WANTED - of NANCY M'CREADY,
a native of Tendooly, County Donegal, Ireland,
who left Ireland for Australia or New Zealand in the
year 1850 or 1858. Her father's name was Dennis
McCready ; mother’s maiden name was Rose Carr. They
died in the year 1854 or 1855. Nancy Me,Cready’s brother
James died in Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A., on the
30th day of August, 1896, leaving some property, which
Nancy or her descendants, as next of kin, are entitled to,
if they can be found.
Any information of her will be thankfully received
by ine.
MAT GREY
Administrator of the Estate of
James McCready,
Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A.
C AMUELJEFFS, the Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W. (
last heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father’s will, conditional on the
trustee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to he sent to
HILL & SCOTT,
194 Hereford-street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
BEAUTY’S CHARIOT
The [adies’
‘ Red Bird/
THEY ARE RIDDEN BY THE BETTER CLASS OF CYCLISTS, WHO MUST
HAVE THE BEST.
A pleasant half-hour mny be spent at our Cycling School, Waverley Road, Woollahra.
PURCHASERS TAUGHT TO RIDE FREE OF CHARGE.
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.,
FACTORIES- AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH-
Brantford, Canada. 64 King Street, SYDNEY.
HUMBER CYCLES (AMERICA).
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works *
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality ”
Heduoed
LADY’S
GENT’S
£
26
25
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
So Mr. Sam. Hordern, angry at the turn things
have taken with him on the turf, has decided to sell off
his racing-stock and gear—lock, stock, and barrel. Now,
it’s easy to give a man advice, when it isn’t your funeral.
Sam. Hordern likes racing—who doesn’t ? —and, unlike
999,998 men out of a million, he could afford to race
horses for mere pleasure. He should keep on racing—
for pleasure only. If The Bulletin were Sam. Hordern,
it would not sell off. It would say : “ I am a very rich
man, I love the turf, and I am going to run
my horses for the stakes only. From this day forth,
so that my enemies shall have no handle for calumny, I
shall never bet on or against any horse anything more
valuable than a bottle of wine. Every horse nominated
by me shall start when he is fit, and I shall make it my
personal endeavour to see that he runs to win. I shall
have in my employ no man who is not actuated by the
spirit of Humphrey Oxenham, in his horse-owning capa-
city. It shall be my ambition to make my colors as
popular as \V. R. Wilson’s.” If he has the heart to do it,
he could manage it in three years.
* • * *
The Sydney “Shops” are having quite a bad
time of it just now. Canterbury Park, with the object
of frustrating their little game, cut off the telegraph
connection for last week’s pony meeting; and the Full
Court upheld the magistrate’s decision that the principal
betting rendezvous, a right-of-way off Market-street, is
“ a place within the meaning of the Act.” If the police
really mean biz this should close up the tritons as well as
the minnows ; but the past history of Sydney betting
prosecutions shows that the fat men at the game bear
charmed lives.
» * • •
The principal events of the S.A. J.C. meeting,
which begins to-day (Sat.) at Morphetville, S.A., are pro-
voking great interest. The chief race to-day is the
Goodwood Handicap (6 furlongs) in w’hich Olaf and Paul
Pry figure as first favorites, but in the actual race they
may have to succumb to Staffa and Thunder Queen, and
of this pair. Thunder Queen looks very like the winner.
In Adelaide Cup, Royal Admiral is well treated with 7st.
71bs., and if he can beat Mischief, who is now very well,
he should about win.
* • * *
J.D. : “Mick Callaghan, of Ranges Bridge,
Darling Downs, the breeder of Battalion, tells me he sold
him, as a yearling, to a neighbor, who used him as a hack
for over a year, and, when the owner went shearing, he
left the horse with Mick, who won the double at Too-
woomba, and several other races, with him. Then a
Dalby trainer, convinced of the horse’s qualities, went to
Hollymount wool-shed, where the owner was shear-
ing, and offered £3O for the animal, which was accepted,
and you may guess how Mick, who was preparing the
horse for Brisbane races, felt when he got a wire to de-
liver him to the purchaser at such a price. Old Bat-
tailons, the sire, is now at stud. He is a beautiful chest-
nut, 16£ hands high, built in proportion, and resembling
an Irish hunter more than a blood horse. He is still as
frisky as a 2-year-old, though 16 years old last foaling.
* * * »
According to N.Q. Register, Merloolas, the
Sydney Cup winner, was bought from his orginal owner,
a drover, and his partner, Mr. A. J. Bray, of Hughenden,
by G. Gilbert and R. J. Blacklock, for £4O. He had
been under offer, after the loss of a race, for “ £25 and a
receipted hotel bill,” to the landlord of the Sovereign
Hotel, T. Knox, who declined to trade. The horse was ulti-
mately left with Blacklock to train, wirh a right of pur-
chase. Up to date, he has started 11 times, won six, got
placed four times, and was once unplaced.
* • • •
An Easter race-meeting at Narrewarrin (Vic.)
introduced some novelties which might prove attractive
on metropolitan racecourses. The finish of the steeple-
chase was the last fence—the horses had to be judged in
the air, and the decision was—a dead-heat! The course
included a double crossing of the railway line. A high-
jump was contested by two horses, the property of the
same owner. After clearing the bar a few times, one of
the riders announced that it had been agreed to divide
the prize. In the hurdle race four horses came at the
last jump abreast, and, as there was only one panel stand-
ing, the outside horse was forced to" clear the fallen
hurdles. He won—but was disqualified “ for not clearing
the last hurdle.”
» • * *
The youngsters bought by P. Bolger, at Rand-
wick yearling sales, indicate the keenness of the turf-
competition in W.A. between Perth and the goldfields.
Reg. Pell and A. G. Jenkins, of Coolgardie, are on top at
present, with Le Var, as champion, and Lucky Dog for
next season. Perth replies in the persons of Geo. Towton
(who covers also F. C. Monger and A. Hassall) and Tar-
quin ; L. A. Darldt, the N.VY. squatter who ran as “E.
Firebrace ” ; and, possibly Alex. Forrest, whose half-
brother to Amberite, Dryden, has broken down.
• * * *
At Warragul (Vic.) Patrick’s Day meeting,.
Orient was disqualified after winning the trot, it being
alleged he was identical with a well-known performer
called Paddy. The disqualified owner sought and found
the real Paddy in Melbourne, and now the stewards have
reversed their decision and fined the chief witnesses in
the original hearing £2O, £lO, and £6. How booky is
going to fare after parting-up over the original decision
can be guessed, but some allowance must be made for
Patrick’s Day, and a horse named Paddy.
* * • •
The humors of horse nomenclature. Some
years ago, in Maoriland, there raced a very fair performer
named Hairylegs. A gushing young society damsel, of
18 or thereabouts—her first experience on a racecourse
drew this horse in a half crown sweep, and when she
subsequently saw it canter past the post an easy winner
she attracted much scandalised attention by vociferating,
in an excess of delight accompanied by much gesticula-
tion, “ I've got Hairylegs !—l’ve got Hairylegs ! ” “ Have
you ? ” whispered her brother-in-law (an Auckland bank-
manager), “ well, don’t tell everybody about it.”
* * * *
Two M.L. telegraph-clerks got “the run” be-
cause they- won a £2OOO Tattersall prize. The depart-
mental heads had warned the clerks that anyone found
investing in sweeps would be made an example of. These
were the first two caught, and they left cheerfully.
• * • * '
The Australian Christian World is desper-
ately loose in figures. It deplores the fact that at Onka-
paringa (S.A.) races on Easter Monday £21,000 went
through the totalisator although only 16,00(i people were
present, and groans : “ A crowd that can spare more than
£lOO3 per head for gambling,” &c. A plain worldling
might figure it out at £1 6s. 3d. per head, and as likely as.
not there wasn’t over £6OOO in the gamble altogether.
For the tote pays promptly, and the money is planked on
again, and the same sinful quid gets couuted pretty fre-
quently.
• * • *
Westralia is beginning to invest largely in
blood-stock. W. Forrest, who changed his mind about
buying Essex, and let W. R. Wilson snap up the Sydney
colt, has now paid a high price for Wilson’s Ormuz, with
a view to winning W.A. Derby. Remains to be seen
whether Forrest or Wilson has formed the better judg-
ment re the future of Essex and Ormuz.
» • » *
The V.A.T.C. has added another £2OO to the
Debutant Stakes (due Oct. 8), raising it to £l2OO. The
chance of a lucky start for this half-mile rush of green
performers makes it popular with owners.
Simultaneously with the appearance of English
newspaper grumblings at the hitherto commercial selec-
tion of All England Elevens for Australian tours there
comes a statement that Ranji has definitely accepted the
Melbourne O.C. invite to bring out another team in 1900.
The chances are that the “ Indian Prince ” will be a
played-out identity before then. Anyhow, he is very
unlikely to get the free hand which Stoddart had in fix-
ing things up to suit the Australian importers, who pay
“ professionals only” just about half as much remunera-
tion as the Australian amateurs make by their boodle
expeditions. Ranji’s inane criticisms of batsmen and
bowlers on this side should disqualify him for having any
say in the selection or direction of the next visiting
eleven. As a judge of cricket he is obviously inferior to
the average “ expert,” and the average expert in any
branch of sport is a wooden-headed bigot as a rule.
> * • *
An article in current issue of Review of Re-
views, by one Admiral Ranjitsinhji, who led a band of
English buccaneers through Australia last summer, is
worth reading. Met by General Trott, Australian mili-
tary commander, Ranji and co. got several balls in the
stomach, and capitulated after making profuse explana-
tions. Ranji, now with the American force, is hurling
magazine-articles at the Spaniards with deadly effect.
* * * *
In the cable announcing that 700,000 had volun-
teered for the Yankee army, only three names are men-
tioned—Bob Fitzsimmons, Jonel Sullivan, and Jim Cor-
bett. However, their offers are not likely to be accepted,
as Jonel would need a special canteen to travel round
with ; Pompadour Jim would require a valet to part his
back hair; and Bob would be lost without his manager,
his wife, and the baby.
• * • *
■Australia, which a few years since held the box-
ing world safe at all weights, is now without a single top-
notcher, bar Fitzsimmons. Jackson, Slavin, Goddard,
Creedon, Jem Hall, Griffo, and the rest of them are all
back-numbers, and there are none coming on to take
their places. Fitzsimmons is Australia’s only hope, and,
judging from the cinematographe show of his fight with
Corbett, a meeting with Jeffries, Jackson’s conqueror,
would be none too good a thing for Fitz. The fact of
Jackson being -passi given in, Jeffries beat him in a work-
manlike fashion, and although Australia now hears of
Jeffries for the first time as a likely champion, a section
of the American press two years since picked upon him
as a coming world-beater. Jeffries, a giant, muscled like
Sandow, is as lively on his feet as Peter Jackson, and hits
like the kick of a horse. Fitz. took 14 rounds to polish
off Corbett, and then he had a lot of luck to get the win-
ning blow fairly home. The writer would give Jeffries
about half the time to beat Corbett, but, of course, that
line of argument has been proved defective as regards
fighting-men. However, Fitz. is not likely to take on
Jeffries, unless driven to it by hard times.
• * » •
Latest reports describe Jem Mace as at a low
ebb, both in health and pocket, and but for the assistance
of his son, a Plymouth Brother preacher, the old man’s
decliningyears would be hard indeed. When in Australia,
Jem was-cunning as a fox. His hands were completely
knocked up, and it was more painful for him to strike a
blow than for his opponent to receive it. Capt. Mac-
donald, then a handsome man, of soldierly bearing and
magnificent physique, was a boxing enthusiast, whose
house was a meeting-place for the fancy. Larry Foley
used to set-to with the captain, and, to humor him, would
make a good go of it, allowing his patron to get, if any-
thing, the better of the deal. Mace and Foley were at the
time showing at the circus, and, one evening, it was
arranged that Mace and Capt. Macdonald should set-to,
Mace promising Foley not to out-general his vis-a-v fs.
When the night eame, Mace made a “ holy show ” of Mac-
donald, baulking and tapping him when and where he
liked. When it was over, Foley was irate, and reminded
Mace of his promise in rather strong 1 mguage. Mace
merely laughed at him, and said, “My hoy, by the time
you’re my age, you’ll learn to make up in cunning what
you’ve lost in youth. The crowd saw you set-to with
Macdonald and get none the best of it, and, to-night, they
saw me play with him like a child, and will naturally say,
* What sort of a wonder must Mace be to get all-over a
man that comes out equal with Larry Foley 1 ’ ”
* * * •
I IThe statement circulated by a last year’s N.S.
Wales football representative that certain players had re-
ceived remuneration for their services came before
N.S.W. Rugby Football Union last week, when it was
decided, after evidence, that there was no truth in the
yarn. The voluble gentleman is to appear before the
committee and show cause, &c.
* » * *
On Saturday the series of what may be termed
“ scratch ’’-matches was continued by Sydney senior foot-
ballers preparatory to the opening of the season on 14th
May. The newly-formed Sydneys outclassed Paddington
by 22 points to 3 ; Pirates beat Wallaroo by 9 points to 3 ;
and Randwick beat Burwood by 16 points to 6.
• • • *
“ Newhaven 11. is doing good work in his
training,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent
(under date of five weeks ago), “ and Blackwell, one of
the young school of trainers, who formerly had D.
Cooper's horses, has great hopes of netting" the City
and Suburban [for which he ran second.] The last
mile and a-quarter of the Derby course is an
easy distance down hill to Tattenham Corner-the
ugly turn ; then straight home finishing up the slope
should not be too much for the Australian cham-
pion with Bst. 81b. He has acclimatised well, is now (31st
March) at 25's, and not counted by the local turfites.
Newman, reserved for the Chester" Cup, is a doubtful
starter for the C. and S., for which Chelandrv is favorite,
and Mrs. Langtry’s Brayhead next at 10’s. Ebor won the
Great Kent Steeple and £3OO stake for bis new owner,
Captain Lambton, in a wretched field. He started second
best at 7 to 4, and the 5 to 4 chance fell, so he waltzed
home by a dozen lengths. Dollery was up, who rode
Cloister to victory in the Grand National record year
with 12st. 71b."
* • • •
This “cable,” from a Westralian paper, jusfc
about takes the cake : “ Lady Merex has purchased the
picture, ‘ The Survivor,’ painted by Mr. Kelso, the Sydney
artist, and exhibited in the Australian Artists’ Gallery.”
To people who know the astute William, an artist with-
out a doubt in his own line, it is one of the funniest
things that ever appeared in print.
* * * *
The benefit-match to Ned Gregory came too
late in the season to allow of a sum being raised worthy
of the veteran. Some £l2O was the amount realised, in-
cluding 20gs. given by the N.S.W. Cricket Association.
The Combined team made a good showing, 302, of which
Pye, of Central Cumberland, scored 138. For the Pad-
dington team, Trumper, M'Kenzie and Noonan ran up
172 among them, and then a rot set in, and the innings
closed at 186 for six wickets.
• * * *
Even Sandow hardly seems to be “ in it ” with
Oscar Saxon, now exhibiting with his brothers in London.
Though only 10, he scales 15st., and can, while raising
2611 b. at arm’s-length overhead, bend down and lift with
the other hand an additional trifle of 1121 b. Lying on his
back, he can raise at arm's-length a 2611 b. bar-bell, with
over 26st. of his two brothers erected on it—in all 681 b.
over the quarter-ton.
• • • •
Michael, the celebrated cyclist, talks of desert-
ing the wheel and taking to horse-jockeying; and the
papers are discussing the matter seriously. That the fact
of a man being light, and able to ride a bike better than
other men, should make him a jockey ready to jump into
the first flight is too ridiculous to justify the serious com-
ment which Yankee and British papers are giving the
matter.
• • * *
Four hundred money-orders, payable to “ Tat-
tersall ” Adams, went down with the steamer Manawatu,
in Hobson’s Bay, last week.


It’s a Pink !
Everybody who rides it
says it is
. . . The Pink of Perfection !
A masterpiece of mechanical skill in all its details. *
The Massey - Harris Wheel.
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LID., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch S 163*169 William-st., Melbourne,
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
looßoifioan©
’if.--. sjk -s.-.rr.Tjit-fr- 1
fiffllEfflß
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TIIE CBKBCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ellis’ Kins-strcct Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
G
ENUINE
KEENER
UNS (and Rifles)
For Pigeon and
Game Shooting.
These can now be obtained from all the principal
dealers throughout Australasia, and all bear W. W.
GREENER’S NAME and MARKS, proofs positive of quality
and workmanship. All prices from 10 to 80 Guineas.
Shooting unequaled in any country. Write to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to the Vic.
Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
d~\UIBELIi’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
The last of six: tales of
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HA.LF-F'R.XCE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
ft
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANI
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
363 CLARENCE STREET, SUBNET.
CELLULAR =*?=
urderuigur
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free. „
Sole Agents :
73 & 75
David graham $ Co.
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
T*7"E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
'' We know a good wheel when we see it," and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT A. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
S3T Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnpbrocatiofy-
DR. MACKENZIE Expanding Shoulder
Brace for Men.
In bringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, ana
for clerks, accountants, and more especially cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are such a proteo-
tion to the lungs
and kidneys the
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity without the
slightest danger of
catching cold. '
'TO
Mo ir
*
Dr. MACKENZIE'S Celebrated Shoulder Brace
and Spinal Supporting Corset.
The Corset not only protects the spine, hut also the
lungs, keeps the shoulder-blades in proper position, and
prevents stooping or roundness. In a word, the wearer
unconsciously acquires a graceful and perfect carriage.
wm
r*
These Corsets can he obtained nowhere but from the
Dr. Mackenzie Corset Company, and are not sold by any-
one but ourselves, we having the patent rights of the
goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Send for Circulars to above Company. Address—Dr.
MACKENZIE, 83 YORK ST., SYDNEY; 147 b COUbINS
ST., MELBOURNE.
f\UIBBLIfB Dipped Wool wwnpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12id., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney Wool Sales.
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . .
“ Humber”
“ Swift”
“ Ariel”
. . AND
“ Singer”
CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,-
391 George-street, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
1 « *
:
>-■5
Siywww * wwrwFf *p •■ i r «••;•-
M S&. . ,/ 1 ' '
ws
Bi;§
m
m
»7*
<ki
I's
; _ . ' flc«cl)tnc «o.
' i '4§*&k i *> ' • •
SOW* to ' ■ i,\ : .»
ao&reei?
3|S 'UckN Cmaraiftcef' to be free from all unpcrfcctlcns m *atcrwi an?
m taorttnaWlnit. 10« will -miilie. flee&.nl cur Ulerfca at «m> time wulxtt one
Kite front onto of purchase mu; scfccta not cause? t't accidents. ronob nsaoc. or
neglect. ail wt» to be returned to ua (carnage bsiii)) for cinmmation, tooetber
wnri’ tW Mwmivrot tlx fßacfttne to wined tney dciona. before a«s 4*!" 1 ’*
allowed. .
Civ Greatest Care to tahen m tlx selection and ftttiaflri.'Mattiiiop.- •
fmcitmatic Cover., wbieb we otronflle recommend. mid otir guarantee runs com-
curvcntis wltb limt amen In? Ox snutloi) pneumatic Cere COmpa|MhJt,imtfcd.
wbo guarantee tbciii tor Cwoipo flDontba,
Siate of ipmicUasc
limit of Guarantee
got tbc Bifetrnt CveU Brener Its..
Oepot tbmiim


Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
hose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “ A woman is as
old as she looks,” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At the World’s
Chief Expositions.
CECOND-HAND
W AXl>
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geortre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
jPcaffyess
and HEAD
I NOISES
Relived
I Wilson’s Common
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions o( Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
.skill fails. The only Scientific
[Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
(wear, comfortable, invisible, nodan-
T, , ~ 'gerous wire or metal attachment.
Kecommended by physicians. Write for hook—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
ffitural Curly, from S/B each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lone. ye. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ye per 02.
W* are the cheapestin Aus*
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzell.
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe
Prompt atteD»ion'givsD to Country OrdMfc
Bob : “ Constable Maginnity, having re-
cently raided a Melb. public-house and arrested a
roomful of Sabbath gamblers, took away their
braces and cut off the top buttons of their pants,
to make sure that no stampede should take place.”
It is an old dodge with Parisian scrgents-de-ville
to thus necessitate the holding-on of an arrested
rough’s “ bags.” Like most things French—neat,
simple, and effective.
Croson : “ What is the attraction between
women and funerals ? An ordinary-sized cortege
in Simpson’s-road, Collingwood, the other Saturday
afternoon, attracted pretty well all the women
within cooee, and everyone passing brought
her pram and babies to a dead stop and waited
half-an-hou'r in drizzling rain to see the dead
brought out. Then she remarked that it was a
lovely funeral, and passed on to beat the grocer
out of a half-penny on the week’s provisions.”
A corpse arrived at a Q. town lately under
circumstances which made medical enquiry neces-
sary. The local doctor, when applied to, was
found to be very hiccuppy; but the corpse wouldn’t
wait, so the constable led the doctor into the room,
him to make thorough examination,
and left him alone with the body. After half-an-
hour outside bobby thought the enquiry should be
nearly over, so he cautiously opened the door and
peeped in. There was the doctor fast asleep bv
the stretcher-side, with one hand firmly'clutching
deceased’s wrist. “Arrah, now, wake yerself
doctor,” said the constable, shaking him, “an’
tell me what did it, there’s a dear ! ” The doctor
rubbed his eyes and stared owlishly at the officer.
“ Hie ! ” he said. “Hie ! allsh I can shay ish, if
he doeshn t pull through before to-morrow
morningsh I won’t ansher for hish life.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
In the very small hours of a recent morn-
ing two Carlton (Melb.) police heard shrieks of
murder from a wooden shanty in a lane, and they
promptly burst through the door, and charged
upstairs to investigate. It was the domicile of
some Indian hawkers, and two shuddery “ cops ”
afterwards related in court what they found
inside. In a small room, with a ceiling about sft.
bin. high, they discovered four Asiatics and two
white women, all drunk, and mid nodings on. In
two other small rooms there were 10 Asiatics, with
very little on. The 10 Asiatics with very little on
requested that the six people with nothing on
should be removed, as their row made it quite im-
possible for the others to sleep, and if they didn’t
get rested they couldn't go out peddling the brass
jewellery in the morning. The law sentenced one
lady to three months, and the other—who said she
had a good home with a Chow, in Little Bourke-
street—got off with one month, apparently out of
consideration for the Chow. Then the court
asked some questions about the landlord who let
the house to the swarm of heathen with so very
little on, but his name didn’t transpire. Some-
how, the name of the respectable Christian gent,
who owns the house where six naked people howl
“ murder ” in the early morning never does trans-
pire.
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fitting’s,
etc.
S. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY
THE FINEST TONIC
FERBRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all cases ofJ
anaemia, Influenza and t
general debility.
FER BRAVAIS
Highly
recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-
dren-
.LANCET “ A beautiful and interetting preparation ]
(BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. « « he; si’A
' the good effects of iron without producing consti- (
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not ]
l blacken the teeth.
| Sold by Chemists all the world over, f
Nutritive, Refreshing, Economical in use, A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Send for Price List. !£&
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage ManVg. Co is the cheapest and Best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beet and Cheapest ,
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Co.
Buyers ot Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
A Vo Ht, Smoke
5.000 Mile
brl
1
Eg-,
i
> .t
.Bf:: -f-^-viT
im
mm
Hrfx!?*
fry;
m
SSll
I .
lillliill
- ;
~±
m
.
CIGARETTES
0
fcoJH o'UU(\
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYDIXTEY
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
mm
* -
•
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT and ASSAYS.
All information regarding Rates, apply
0 TO XIXIJT.
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAVARKA”
. . BRANDS OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER, LEAD, BULLION-
THE MANAGER,
Smelting Co. Australia, etc.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD
INFANTS
m? od K sol o in
lins by Chemists, &c., everywhere
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


Herr Eassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Jllfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
OBSER-
Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsenso view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and ■ speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AiN D VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been' devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
infallible cure
is found in taking the
Alfa line Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th > Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them indoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of <
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
VVS
8
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE. VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSS€N’S Medical Page.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches—well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER EELT BETTER in their lives.
©
v.
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
t
“ HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? Shakespeare .
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaline
Fat-Reducing 1 Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
o
/f
r
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. (id.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifl?,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
. Ok
;
n
[ ,n
-1
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MITSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
A
k
il
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand.; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality JPills the
: credit for his wonderful improvement.
%
How to Obtain Free Book.
£3T When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
'-'O
r
_
K
%.
¥
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphletsentfreeandunobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal,, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all.
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ,
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,‘
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expelany
kind of Worms both in Children and Adult's, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 63. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES AT
Melbourne—lso Bouree Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
Adelaide — ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A.:
Perth —Hay Street;
Coolgardie —Bailey STRekt ;
Kalgoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street,
SEND FOR FREE BOOK;.
With Testimonials from Everywli«,Ae.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS TO
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 Greorge Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thusfor privacy sake—
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT f AIL.


Amusement*.
IJIOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
- - SATURDAY, 14th MAY . -
Grand Complimentary Benefit tendered to the
Popular .’Cellist,
Mr. Edgar Straps,
By the Citizens of Sydney, and his Brother
Artists.
Magnificent Programme.
PRICES—Ss., 35., and One Shilling. Plan
now open at Paling’s.
E. M. 'WOOLLEY I
JOHN LAURE f
Hon. Secs.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereaurh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
80th \
WEEK, f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
noth
WEEK
OUIDA’S CELEBRATED PLAY,
Under Two Flags.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverlev; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
TXER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE GREAT TRIPLE BILL.
THE COLOR SERGEANT.
THE CLERICAL ERROR.
CHATTERTON-
SATURDAY, 7th MAY BEN-MY-CHREE.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
■TIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, 7th MAY, 1898.
BLAND HOLT’S
Second Spectacular Production,
“A LIFE OF PLEASURE.”
11 Of? of the most Graphic and Realistic Military
Dramas produced in this country.”
FOR A FEW EVENINGS ONLY.
Prices—3B, 2s, and One Shilling’. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
T YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
**Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. &C. MacMahon.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of The Play of the Hour, in-
troducing material involving Spanish, Cuban, Brazilian,
American and British interests.
Tile White Squadron.
SATURDAY, 7th MAY,
Will be produced the Beautiful Play,
THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is ;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
THE SYDNEY AMATEUR ORCHESTRAL
SOCIETY
WILL GIVE ITS V
First Concert of the Present Season
—IN TIIB—
Town Hall on Wednesday Next, 11th inst.
A Fine Programme of Novelties and Old Favorite
Numbers will be rendered.
SIGNOR HAZON, Conductor.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION! BRILLIANT RECEPTION 1
| Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT \
And his Complete London Company in the Wonderfully
Successful ComedV Drama,
“ the ioler.”
SATURDAY, 7th MAY-THE MIDDLEMAN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
■¥■ I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Solo Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
Reappearance and Increased Popularity of
The 3 Hegelmanns.
AUSTIN RUDD. The HAYTORS.
The TILLERS. LEON and KIRK.
An original Grand New First Part, Eederia.
And a NEW BALLET, “ QUAKERESSES.”
AND A BRILLIANT ARRAY OF TALENT.
{\PKRA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
JOHN H XT LINUS JAMES
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BELLMAN & MOORE. Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN.
WILL WHITBURN. FRANK YORKE.
The Kellino Eamily,
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS 1
Of the Immensely Successful Drama,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
SATURDAY, 7th MAY,
The "W orlc C3-irl.
|Bg~ POPULAR PRICES 1 ... Plan at Allan’s.
■piUNCKSS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHT.I LAST NIGHT 1
Tbe DabeS ii> tbs Wood.
SATURDAY, May 7—A ROYAL DIVORCE.
PRICES AS USUAL Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day tickets at Stegmann’s, and Princess’s Cafe.
Amusements.
THE WAVERIEY BOWLING AND
x RECREATION CLUB
Assisted by the Ladies of Waverley will hold at the CLUB
GROUNDS on
Saturday, May 7,
A * GRAND * FETE
In aid of the Hospital Saturday Fund.
A SPLENDID MILITARY GYMNASTIC & NOVEL
ENTERTAINMENT:
Cutlass Drill—Bayonet Exercise—Sword v. Bayonet—
Single-Stick Contest —Scottish Dancing—Sword Dance—
Display of Gymnastics by Members of Y.M.C.A. Gymna-
sium, under the directorship of Mr. G. W. Renshaw.
Grammophone—Cinematograph— Punch and Judy Show.
Other Amusements too numerous to mention.
NAVAL ARTILLERY VOLUNTEER BRASS BAND
Have generously consented to play.
Fun for Young and Old. Refreshments on the Ground
There will also be held a GREAT SALE of
Groceries, Produce, Drapery, Fancy Goods,
generously donated by leading Sydney merchants.
Sale commences 10 a.m.—Goods will be SOLD CHEAP—
Come Early and Stay Late—Bring Plenty of Money with
you—You will get Rare Value, and Help a Good Cause at
the same time—So come along, and bring your friends 1
£3T Club Grounds, One Minute’s Walk from Tea Gardens,
Bondi Junction. Admission—Morning, 3d. ; Afternoon,
lg.; Night, 6d. Gates open 10 a.m.; Close 11 p.m.
A SILV€R WATCH FREE.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE?
T*E B*S*M**S B*B*E.
We will Present to Every Person SOLVING the above
Puzzle one of our Splendid
SILVER WATCHES,
LADY’S or GENT.’s, having
SOLID SILVER CASES, Jewelled Movements, and are
Reliable Timekeepers. List Price, 50s.
Send your answer at once, with a stamped addressed
envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE. If so, and
you purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS to
wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be sent,
securely packed, free by registered post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.’’
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I'quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John S'nclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
A stories), Is. 3d.
PIPING THE PKAISES
PATTISONS’ LIMITED,
LEITH and LONDON.
ss
Branch Office :
16 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
PATTISONS’
Morning Dew Whisky.
(//
K
Does this Interest you ?
How is it that Married Men live longer than Single Men ?
. . . They don’t, but it seems longer.
Now, to get rid of “ that tired feeling,” married men should occa-
sionally take that great tonic—
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
BXX'ST BOTTLES IKTTA.CT l
OTHERWISE, YOU MAY BE IMPOSED Uroft WITH SOME FIERY ADULTERATION.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar 3\Tozie.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theprodactionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you*
Read this letter and Try eor Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M. R. C. S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’-
Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D.: —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows:
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 216 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row's Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW L CO.,
Sydney.


MELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
• When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
suDplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
aJid BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and-most
, STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42- ia mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, JB3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
' cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-.' Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-..
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/ii. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best;to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We hive built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Jfist Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also( Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all Shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crifnping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
ive trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10,6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 6/0 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 682 George Street, Sydney.
V
Vo on Life or that Sicajet tobacco l
SMOKE -SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Throe Castles.
MARCEIL A CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
WALES OF THE CONVICI’ SYSTEM, by
1 Price Waiiunu ; Is. 3d. posted.
At the New York Morgue, where, in addi-
tion to casualty subjects, the dead of the poorer
classes are received for free interment by the
State, there is an endless procession of weeping
women bearing boxes, portmanteaux, and even
paper bags, containing dead children. This cease-
less procession is one of the world’s most heart-
breaking spectacles.
A remarkable example of the influence of
vested interests was the violent opposition of the
business people of the Place de la Roquette, Paris,
to the proposal by Government to abolish public
executions. Landlords united with tenants, shop-
keepers with cabmen, and so powerful was the
protest that the Govt.; fearing it might even
become a barricade matter, backed down before a
petition which set forth that for the past 100 years
the whole of the locality had literally lived on the
crowds of decapitation-witnesses —from the capi-
talist owner of the block opposite the scaffold down
to the man who peddled fruit amongst the crowd
and the “ poet ” who hawked about the customary
history of the crime in execrable verse.
“ Ignotus, ” on the stamp-mania :
Collecting stamps rs a queer hobby. There are cata-
logues of all existing stamps, with prices. These, how-
ever, seem to express rakrtjve, and not actual, values.
The actual values of rare stamps may be got at from the
published results of auction sales. The value of common
stamps may be guessed at from an inspection of a stand-
ing advertisement from a leading organ of the hobby, in
which you see the common current issue of English
offered at £26 per ton ! The great bulk of the stamps in
any ordinary collection have next to no value. A friend
once took his collection to a big dealer, with an idea of
doing business. The dealer picked out stamps valued in
bis own catalogue at £B, and offered in exchange stamps
from same catalogue to valueBs. The word “ Philately,”
applied to the hobby, is of doubtful derivation. I was
told as a schoolboy that the first man who started
a stamp-collectors’ magazine applied to a classi-
cal friend for a swell Greek name, and was
given “Philatelist” in derision, the meaning being
“ a lover of the fruitless.” And, so far as Liddell and
Scott help, that is what it means. Serious philatelists,
however, say that “ Ateles ” means, not merely “ ob-
jectless,” but also “ untaxed,” “ free from tax.” Hence
“ a lover of what frees from tax, or makes to go post-
free.” Very small variations in stamps make differences
in value'. A week ago I came across a lot of used Maori-
land half-pennies all perforated 11. That means they
have 11 perforations to every two centimetres. They
were priced in the received catalogues at Is. 3d. each,
and I reckoned I could sell them for at least Is. a
dozen. Unfortunately, on examining one current issue, I
found they had the same perforation. The explanation is
that the 11 perforation had been long disused in favor of
12£, but had recently been resumed. You could make a
budget of stories, true or false, about fortunes made out
of stamps. Errors are valuable, Had I known as much
as 1 do now 20 years ago. I could easily have made my
pile. Nothing would have been easier than to persuade
the printers here to strike me off a number of sheets with
an unusual perforation, or in an odd shade of color. ‘ But
a few years ago the Newfoundland Govt, issued stamps
valued £68,200, of which £B2OO represents the expense
of production and the portion used for postage. The rest
were bought by collectors, and the colony thus defrayed
more than half the interest oujthe public debt for the
year. Of course, as soon as the determined quantity was
printed the dies were destroyed. This gave them their
value. The same scheme would not answer now, as col-
lectors refuse to buy “unnecessary” issues. P.S.—I
weighed some stamps and found they went about
30,000,000 to the ton. You can weigh, say, Joz. and
verify this in office. Yet the advt. offering current
English Jd. and Id. stamps at “ £26 per ton” is from
Stamp Collectors’ Fortnightly for 5/2/’9B, and appa-
rently genuine. ’
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all.other Australian gems.*
Some people are queer luck-bringers. The
other day a Brunswick (Yip.) girl saw a white
horse grazing in a paddock near a quarry-hole.
She made the most of the omen and cried out “ A
cross ! A cross 1 A lucky white horse! ” A few
minutes afterwards the horse fell over tlje quarry-
bank, broke his leg, and had to be shot. Evil eye,
or what? Fact, anyhow, and bad luck for the
white horse.
w
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to anypart'of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. G<l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st„ Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.
Sydney.
CEB
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
TO FAT PEOPL€.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to yet, permanent relief,
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR READ'S OBEMTY
POWDERS. A Reduction of 61b. a week is guaranteed to
anyone, young or old, by their use.
PRICE, 6s. and 73. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Read,
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
9
£ R?C O MWi>
|£eiii9M.A\en
Induction
BSfIND"
Pitt
jCnAIHi l^oONOf
(oUGHS (OLPS if
[Beware or
//vmtatjomS
MELBOURNE.
«BSttr
POST FREE v^*
VlwcriES- Clocks-Jewellery-Birthday*
Weddiivlg j, ChlßisTEislirlc Presents
H'NEMVIArJ- |755177-FriZAßFrii st*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q- — ■-
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writt s a prominent man after
using the * Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makesit
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
BE. IKYING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER. KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
§EE
HIVE”
KNITTING
WOOLS
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, 1 Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softuess and durability.
% 3 '%m
t
TRADE'VaARK/’®
SEE THIS
IS ON >upnv.SKeiN.
sysgKfjSss
Trade Miu k Registered.
Estub ishedlTBs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also " Beehive "
Hosiery&Under-
wcar manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive Wools.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
I
ILU
Taaoe
jfc Distillers Com pa my IT
EDINBURGH. #M«!SfS
. PA W/.tin
*■& iU/OJ/'rt wy»/ , y"** ,
prink
moderately.
TaKe a little 'Whisky
‘ ‘ for the stomach’s sake ’ ’;
excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.
9
POWER WITHOUT GAS OH STEAfti;
THE'
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(L4ND or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Fxploslons Impossible
Alway? Ready for Use
We have one of these Engines running-fc&iur preni -
ises, where full particulars can he hail on Application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBhE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST.j SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
.gift to man— Electricity.
Okir Electric Belts will cure
an NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stapes, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, w'e give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
_ trie Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
retxirn the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), living illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical. •
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPI T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Encrany will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking. .
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,. .
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either .personally
or by letter.
Fee - J3l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBON IS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Ncn/oCiS Weakoe&S .
AND
Ccr?bro-SpiQal Piseas*&,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the 'hands' of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNiY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper v hen writing.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.


3S
Q
o
y
aOniBZZZZZStL
\
V
N
N
o
5s
ss
3S
m
v\N
<1
3
s
V)
s
s
* *
* * *
BILE
v BEAMS
-CURE-
Biliousness,
Headache,
Indigestion,
Constipation,
Debility,
Female Weakness,
Pimples,
Piles,
Influenza,
Liver Troubles-
MILLIONS
SOLP
ANNUALLY.
More Melbourne Marvels.
FOUR PEOPLE RESTORED TO HEALTH BY BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS.
MELBOURNE PEOPLE ASTOUNDED.
(Read what the Melbourne Advocate says of a prominent theatrical publisher, his wife’s, son’s,
and brother’B cure).
A most remarkable oase has been brought to our notice (says the Melb. Advocate) in that of
Mr. F. G. Salter, the well-known theatrical man, who resides at 15 Fawcett-street, Albert’Park To
let Mr. Salter speak in his own words “ For years I was a constant
sufferer from biliousness and its dreaded effects. Needless to remark,
various doctors and patent medicines were tried with the hope of
being cured, but little, if any, relief was experienced from these
sources. After an unsatisfactory night’s rest, I was wont to rise with
a nasty taste in the mouth and a feeling of intense weariness. The
throat was parched and dry, and the whole system was being gradually
undermined, from loss of appetite, one of the disastrous effects of
biliousness. Indeed, I turned away from meat, especially in the
morning, with disgust, and had to content myself with a bare collation
of a little bread and tea.
“ Such was the state of things when I happened to hear from a
friend about the efficacy of the newly discovered cure for biliousness,
Bile Beans. A first I was a little incredulous. Nevertheless, follow-
ing the motto, ‘try again,’l determined to procure a box, and put
their value to a test. Well, sir, my most sanguino anticipations have
been more than realised. The fact is that, after one or two doses, I
experienced a thorough change for the better in my system. My
former vigor began to return, the symptoms above enumerated gradu-
ally disappeared, and the whole man felt that he was in possession of
a new lease of life. More palpable evidence of restored health could
not better be seen than the fact of the return of my former healthy
appetite, to which I had been for a long time a stranger. Thanks to
the power of Bile Beans, I can now take and enjoy a hearty break-
fast. lunch and dinner. My former glow of health and lightness of
spirits have again returned. In one word, lam a new man.”
Frr
*
0 T)»
S 3
\
Subsequently Mm, Salter came into the drawing-room, and, in answer to a question from the
reporter, declared that she had experienced untold benefits from taking only a few Bile Beans, she,
like her husband, having been a sufferer from this complaint.
“ A fine three-year-old boy came bouncing into the room. ' Papa,’ cried the little chap, * give me
Bile Beans.’ Asked how his infant son was so fond of the medicine, Mr. Salter said that the little
fellow had not been well, and, finding the beans such an excellent restorative, he ventured to administer
half a one to the child. He pointed, with pardonable pride, to the bright eyes and glowing cheeks
of his erstwhile delicate boy as the soundest and most emphatic testimony of the remarkable virtue
of Bile Beans for young and old.
“After so gratifying a test of the value of this medicine, Mr. Salter sent a box to his brother,
Mr. Charles Salter, the well-known carrier and forwarding agent, of Bendigo, and a prominent member
of the Bendigo Football Club. This gentleman has written a letter to his brother in Melbourne, in
which lie cannot find,"words sufficiently strong enough to recommend Bile Beans to all who are, as he
himself once was, a sufferer from biliousness, indigestion, etc. He is fully prepared to substantiate
the remarks of Mr. F. G. Salter. If ever there was a strong case, this is one ; the whole matter may
be put in a nutshell —‘ facta non verba.’
A Valuable Discovery.
Scientists tell us that in this nineteenth century of ours about the greatest strides made in the
discovery world have been in medicine. We have to record a discovery by an American medical man
of a certain vegetable substance that lias the effect in the digestion organs of nature’s own animal-bile;
This discovery is revolutionising all the present methods of treatment for digestive ailments. The
old theory of pepsin, bismuth, starving, purging, etc., etc., is to be done away with. This great
vegetable substance is compounded witli other ingredients to facilitate the working, and to-day this
remedy can be purchased the world over and in Australia under the name of Bile Beans for Biliousness.
This great remedy possesses the peculiar properties of acting on the bowels without purging or other-
wise weakening the patient. This is because the substance that relaxes the bowels has about the same
action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are purely vegetable, and a course of them will probably suc-
cessfully oust the most chronic case of piles, indigestion, chronic headache, biliousness, rheumatism,
constipation, and a host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation, and
digestion. These Beans are placed on the market in a form that anyone can take them without
m 'dical supervision, and, as Uic price is so very low, there are few homes that cannot afford to always
h ive a box on the shelf for emergency. For sale at all chemists. Australian Depot, 19 Macquarie
f’la :e, Sydney. Victorian Agents--Hooke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders-st., Melb. ; S.A. Agents— F. H,
Faulding & Co., King William-at., Adelaide ;W. A. Agents—-F. H. Faulding & Co., Perth.
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS.


THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING. & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
H
(Trad* Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Pruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial.
„ . Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
SfcND Your okdlr to-day.
We will more that* please you*
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios„ f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Descriptioni Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, £0 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned rteds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refeience, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
Fresli.
Cooling.
Sp arltling.
VELTEN LAGER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
Best Value
In the Trade!
We have to beat the other fellow.
We do not worry about the pre-
sent Losses.
The Profits will come afterwards.
Our Motto: “Keep the Mill Going.”
If you want to BUY in the CHEAPEST MARKET, we are ready with LARGE STOCKS in
Pure, Healthy, Sanitary Bedding 1 ,
Superior Woven Wire Spring Mattresses,
PATENT COMBINATION BEDSTEADS.
1000 Bales of Best Java Kapok, in 80lb. Bales at 6d. per lb.
AMERICAN & AUSTRIAN CHAIRS. ■ \
FURNITURE, &c., &c. o
To give you just the kind of value which will enable you to offer your own Customers Bargains, and
also to largely increase your turnover.
Write for Designs. Our Prices will induce you to give us a share of your trade.
Telephone No. 60. Established 1860. t
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
Warehouse: 608 to 610 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Factories : Nos. 1,3, 6,6, 8 and 10 Union Lane (adjoining Warehouse).
p 11
\Alk\ T«A*Ot >! fl ■
W UI-OWA»ST
MARK 4
Corset
WiutoWfl'ST Corset
MARK
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LEN GTH ENS THE WA I ST.
BEAUTIFIES THE FIG U RE.
Wii*i*oWA>Sf Corset
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
Wiu-owA'ST Corset
of ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
wholesale orders taken or
F.w. LEE, Camden Buildings.
aiB. CEORfiE STREET , SYONCV.
Johnson’s Deficiency.—A Bank-
ing Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Probyn Smith, teller of the Capital and
Investment Bank at Rod way, discovered, one busy
Saturday morning, that his copper would not last
out the day. Calling the junior, he gave him five
sovereigns, and sent him over to the Great
Southern Bank for an equivalent in copper. John-
son, teller at the latter office, always obliging,
and, on this occasion, glad of the opportunity to
reduce a heavy supply of copper, readily responded.
Entering his strong-room, he picked up, as he
thought, a £5 bag of copper, which he brought
out and passed over to the messenger. What he
did take up was a bag of silver coin, of the value
of one hundred pounds.
It may be explained that a <£s bag of copper
and a bag containing £lOO worth of silver are not
distinguishable, even to the practised eye of the
bank-teller. Placed side by side, the two bags
are of equal bulk, and, tried in the hand, of equal
weight.
It happened during the messenger’s absence that
a customer of the C. and I. Bank visited the office,
and paid in an amount of copper that relieved the
teller’s necessity, and carried him through the
morning. The supposed bag of borrowed copper,
not being wanted when it arrived, was put on one
side, unopened, and eventually placed in the
strong-room, to be counted at leisure.
It was Johnson’s misfortune, in view of the
blunder he had made, that, in making up his cash
at the close of business, he followed the practice
of most tellers who keep count in their heads of
what coin they may have in reserve in the safe,
and which, to save trouble, is not brought to the
counter each day. Johnson therefore deducted,
mentally, £5 of copper, and added in a £lOO bag
of silver, which was safely reposing in the strong-
room of the Capital and Investment Bank, at the
reduced value of £5, as counted—unluckily for
Johnson—by the teller there. It was also an
additional misfortune that copper flowed freely
into the till of the C. and I. Bank the next day,
so that Probyn Smith had no call to handle the
borrowed bag of coin. This was a fatal mischance;
for Probyn Smith, being lazy, was not likely to
disturb the unlucky bag till necessity should
compel him. It wiil be seen that Fate was dead
against Johnson, and his evil star was still on his
heels.
» * * *
Twelve miles from Rodway there was another
branch of the Capital and Investment Bank, the
manager of which occasionally visited the Rodway
office on business, or otherwise, Stanford not being
particular. Sometimes his business required that
h&hjhQuld obtain cash supplies for his own branch.
Such a mission drew him to Rodway a few days
subsequent to the incident of Johnson’s lapse.
Copper was not exactly the object of his visit, and
it was only a provident mind that prompted him,
on-passing through the Rod way office on his way
out, to casually enquire of Probyn Smith, “ How
are you off for copper ? ” offering to take any sur-
plus, up to 655. ; and the latter, being selfish as
well as lazy, immediately bethought him of the
bag received from Johnson, the counting of which
wdtild be thus passed on.
“ I can give you five pounds,” he said. “ It is a
bag I got a few days ago from the ‘ Southern.’
You can take it and go through it for me. I give
it to you as I got it! ”
Stanford was agreeable, and took the bag back
to his branch, where it was thrown into a corner
of the Btrong . room) unopened, as at Rodway.
Here it lay undisturbed for more than a month.
In the meanwhile Probyn Smith died of typhoid
fever.
Some seven weeks in all went by, that is from
the day on which Johnson made his blunder. All
this time the latter had been counting into his
cash a sum of ninety-five pounds for which there
was no equivalent in his safe, and the manager, on
the occasion of his several checkings, had taken
Johnson’s word that so many bags contained sil-
ver and so many copper—a trust and confidence
that expedited the work of auditing and saved
trouble. All of which goes to show that you can
multiply your checks ad infinitum, ajid the
friendly association of two or more men will ren-
J er them void. Of course, it will be patent that
if Johnson’s manager had performed his task with
some distrust of his subordinate, or with con-
scientious regard to duty, the error, or shortage,
would have immediately come to light, and John-
son’s character been saved. But if and if, and if
.', „ * , * , ,
3 now follows. The branch-inspector of
t.he Great Southern Bank honored the branch with
a . yisif that was as unwelcome as “surprise
] n P nva f e bfe usually are.
, Without ceremony an inspector demands from
the teller his keys and his cash, and then he sets
to work searching for discrepancies, whilst the
teller stands calmly by, knowing the former will
h ave his trouble for nothing. But a bank-
inspector never loses heart, and goes through the
same drudgery at every branch with the same re-
-B}dt, for bank-clerks are honest nowadays. Some-
times the teller is called upon to assist in the work
of counting the cash which he knows to be cor-
rect. Ihis is not so good as it looks for the
teller—for he is only permitted to count silver,
which he is to spread out on the counter before
the inspector in £1 heaps. Johnson was directed
to do this, and rapidly reduced the several bags
E™? hi , m t° symmetrical rows ; then waited
whilst the inspector took tally. This done, the
la *ter added them to his own sum, and then corn-
pared the result with the entry m Johnson’s book,
The tw o Bums did not tally. Without a word the
inspector went over the silver again; then he
looked up at Johnson. “Have you more silver m
the safe ?” he enquired,
s,r - n e r e>
You are £95 short, then,
R can f “ e > sir * R was correct last night,
replied Johnson promptly and positively.
The inspector scanned the teller’s face and saw
that he was in earnest,
“ Let me see you go through it, then,” he said
quietly.
Very carefully, and with no misgiving, Johnson
went over his cash.
“ Well? ” asked the inspector when the other had
made up the total of his count,
Johnson called the amount.
“ Yes, that agrees with me,” the inspector re-
marked in a voice that requested further informa-
tion before asking for it. “You are ninety-live
pounds short. How do you account for it ? ”
Johnson, having no explanation, offered many
in his nervousness. The manager was called and
informed of the deficiency. But he could only
look to his teller for an explanation, which he
sought by the silent enquiry of his eye, and John-
son replied in the negative by the same medium '
of speech. The possibilities of the situation had
opened out to his imagination and depressed him
to a mute. The inspector’s voice recalled him to
present realities.
“ The difference must be found, or I must have
a satisfactory explanation,” the latter remarked,
addressing the manager and clerk together.
In lieu of a “ satisfactory explanation ” the
manager bustled, too, at discovering the missing
amount, which he set about by thoroughly ran-
sacking the strong-room, pulling out books from
their places, opening Gladstone-bags, looking
down the narrow space of one inch, between the
wall and safe, for a bag of silver of the amount
involved, even lifting up sheets of paper that
could not have covered a five-shilling-piece with-
out betrayal. The inspector, seeing the state of
mind to which anxiety had reduced the manager,
relieved the pressure by saying, with deadly pre-
cision and in the teller’s hearing—
“ Mr. Johnson has no explanation to offer. His
cash is short by ninety-five pounds I ”
“ I know nothing about it, sir. It was right
last evening,” interposed Johnson excitedly.
The inspector observed in a chillingly official
voice which, it will be admitted, the gravity of
the situation permitted, “I shall have to put the
office under suspension.” Then he retired to the
manager’s sanctum to indite his report of the cir-
cumstance, whilst the manager took the oppor-
tunity to approach his teller and obtain a confes-
sion which he expected to get by asking Johnson,
kindly and sympathetically, to “ try and think
how it had occurred ? ”
Johnson couldn’t account for it, and said so in
a way that convinced his interrogator that he was
speaking the truth.
“Something may turn up before the day is
out,” the other said, hopefully.
Johnson hoped so, too, for his own sake, as well
as the manager’s, for the latter was a thoroughly
good fellow and might have to share in the office
disgrace.
* * • *
For the rest of the day Johnson racked his
brain for an explanation of his shortage. That it
was an error, and not a theft in the office, he did
not doubt for a moment. There were many prob-
able causes, principally that of over-payment.
First he tried mentally to recall all the large
transactions of the past few days; then he went
through the week’s vouchers, taking them day by
day. A bank’s vouchers bear on their face a
history of the transaction in which they have
figured. Readers whose fortunate lot it may be
to visit a bank with a cheque, and not a deed, in
their hands, will observe that the teller records on
each cheque, as he pays it, the nature of such pay-
ment. Many a bank-teller has owed to this hasty
record the recovery of moneys which would other-
wise have remained in the custody of a dishonest
payee. Johnson racked his brain till he became
stupid, and had to stop. His brain, nevertheless,
continued its labors independently of the living
will. Suddenly the man received an inspiration.
The brain had done its work successfully, and de-
sired no reward. Johnson took the credit. With
a confident smile, he rushed in to the manager.
“ I have it,” he said, and related the transaction
of the bag of copper given to the messenger sent by
the late Probyn Smith. “ I remember,” Johnson
rattled on excitedly, “ his saying to me, a day or
two after, that he could have done without the
copper after all, but would keep it for future use
and count it then ; and I remember I said, * Don’t
trouble, it is all right.’ I gave him silver instead,
not a doubt about it. I had a lot of silver by me
at that time!” Johnson was almost incoherent
from excitement.
“Johnson ! that’s your ninety-five pounds,” the
manager replied, with a solemnity that nearly
upset Johnson’s decorum, much as the situation
weighed upon him. Then the other , spoilt the
bright prospect by continuing : “ But Smith is
dead, and the new fellow would be sure to have
found it out if it had been as you say. At any
rate, I’ll go across and see. There is no knowing. ”
Johnson was in as great a tremor during the
manager’s brief absence as if he had a dozen
parlor galvanic batteries toying with his nerves,
The return of the latter quickly relieved the
tension. _ )
“No good,” he said briefly, answering Johnson’s
look. “ Cullen himself (the manager of the 0.
and I. Bank) says that he counted every penny
of Smith’s cash', the day after he was taken ill,
and would have discovered any such error as
yours.” _
“That’s how I lost my ninety-five pounds!
replied Johnson, with quiet conviction.
“ And Smith is dead ! ” the other answered
grimly.
This very possible and likely solution was duly
imparted to the inspector, who admitted its pro-
bability, and nothing more. The only man who
could confirm the conjecture was dead, and —
“dead men tell no tales.” Thus left, Johnson
lost hope and resigned himself to fate,
* * * *
Act 4 sees Johnson in the head-office,
whither he had been reC alled. For a. week he re-
mained under suspension, pending inquiry and
examination into his books for the expected dis-
crepancies of a more “ ser ious nature.” .. Nothing
further turned up, which the reader will not be
surprised to hea £. btifc; being satisfied from the
discovery of the one item that a promising career
of embezzlement had been nipped in the bud, the
bank finally dealt with its luck i ess officer. Prose-
cution cou f d npt be ins tituted, because there was
no evidence of appropriation. After full con-
Oration, it was decided that Johnson’s case
would be met by the resignation of that unlucky
OU t of the banking chamber, and
, -v j- ® Lti,
stepped into Oollins-street a disgraced
the parting words of a Scotch d ! r^ t °yA n r ?' 11 ?,"
his ears, Johnson felt indeed that he 90ns der
hlmself s**; he wa f; n ° T g ,
pnson-cell. Not that any jury would convict
under the circumstances: but when a man is
d a friendly adviser reminds him that he
™ > kicking,' he is apt to . lose his self-
* V . . ?’• , .£**.• ■ .•
res P an ae is 111 m . MP P
Johnson toot an early boat for Maon-
£nd, for he was well-known n Melbourne and
his degra a ton was ing
able despatc . . / *
; * ' * . '. . ~. ,
The day on which Johnson disembarked
from the Monowai, the Rodway ;l>raßoh of the
Great Southern Bank received a visit from Stan-
ford, manager of . the twelvermile-distaht sitb-
branch of the C. and I. Bank, vyho entered the
office exhibiting great perturbation. _ His first
act was to throw a heavy bag of coin upon the
counter. .
“ There is Johnson’s ninety-five pounds,” he ex-
claimed, with fierce triumph. “ There is £lOO of
silver in that bag, and I have been counting the
d d thing as copper for the last three months
pretty well. It had your seal on it. Of course I
called at our office first, as I got it there in Smith s
time, and that is where I got to hear the facts
s.bout poor Johnson, pullen has just told me all
about it. Of course this will set him right. To
think of it! Why, I have had that bag in my
hand dozens of times, always taking it as copper,
If I had only known !” A lot more was said by


Good debating-society subject. Is it pos-
sible for a girl to be' naughty without being
pretty, or to be pretty without being naughty ?
(N.B. —The local Presbyterian parson must pre-
side—and decide.)
Under the heading “ Miscellaneous Infor-
mation and Replies to Correspondents Generally,”
Sydney Sunday Times prints this
A.M. (Bourke) : The Sunday Times initiated the Victoria
Hospital for Consumptives movement. It certainly can
fairly claim to have done more to help alleviate the dis-
tress of the destitute and suffering than all the other
papers in N.S.W. put together. .
The S. Times can also “ fairly claim ” several other
things. Among them—that its luminous example
has given to Modesty a boost which has absolutely
made that desirable virtue an 'Australian,.national
characteristic ; likewise that, but for the SUNDAY
Times, many a “mug ” would only possess half-a-
trunkfull of mining-scrip instead of six trunkfulls.
Tartans are gaining in favor with the Ladies
daily. The fashion for the season is Tartan. That goes
without saying. The best house for Tartans is Hordern’s
in Pitt-street, where most of the true Tartans now adorn-
ing the fair sex have been procured. Of Tartan belt ribbons,
Tartan military ribbons, Tartan ribbons for other pur-
poses, Tartan silks, Tartan velvets, Tartan dress stuffs,
Tartan trimmings, Hordern’s in Pitt-street have the
finest and largest collection in Sydney. Every lady who
is unable to come to town, should send for patterns and
see how we excel both in variety and price, especially in
price. HORDERN BROTHERS, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
PULVERMACHER’S
ELECTRIC
m
€4
&0.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD!
Recommended and Prescribed by
. . All the Leading Medical Men throughout the World I
Including Three Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen ; the Physicians of the Prince of Wales and the Emperor of Austria,;
and all the leading Doctors of the London Hospitals, etc. A.i
Electricity is NATURE’S Chief Restorer of Impaired Vital Energy
And is the most effectual, rational and simple method of curing most complaints, including
Rlieumatlsm,
Neuralgia,
Paralysis, Sciatica,
Epilepsy, Inaigestion
Liver Complaints,
LumTsagro,
Astnma
and especially DEBILITY and all NERVOUS DISEASES. ?
■ f
PULVERMACHER’S ELECTRIC BELT is the most convenient method of applying the galvanic current, nnd occa-
sions no inconvenience, and gives almost immediate relief and permanent benefit. s?s t
Read the Booklet GALVANISM: What it has done and is doing.
THE BOOK COSTS NOTHING, AND WE SEND FREE BY POST. f;
SEND AT ONCE —You will find from patients’ testimony we do not exaggerate; and if you suffer, Galvanism is the best remedy.
Pulvermacher’s Australian Agents
OSBORN & JERDAN (late Frost & Shipham).
438 George-atreet, SYDNEY.
Stanford, inspiretL-by the occasion, but it
need not be repeated. Its tenor can be imagined
exactly.
* » * •
Johnson was promptly communicated with
and. offered re-appointinent in the bank; and,
being a sensible fellow, accepted. Johnson is so
very careful now that he has been known to open
the one bag of coin every day for a week in dread
that it might have undergone transmutation to a
baser metal during the night.
PELICAN.
The Bush Missionary.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Twas on old M‘Carson’s station, near the finish
of the shearing,
We were seated round the table in the hut, and
playing 100 ;
An unrighteous occupation, nor particularly cheer-
ing,
When your tally’s only middling, and your luck
-is looking blue ;
But there’s nothing else to do,
So it’s poker or it’s 100,
In the afternoon of Saturday on Coolabungaroo !
Jack the Rat, who did the pressing, sat outside
the door a-smoking,
And a-telling all the rouseabouts of horses he
had “broke,”
And our sorrow grew distressing at the “ borak ”
he was poking,
When he put his head inside the hut and whis-
pered, ‘ * Holy smoke !
Here’s a sanguinary joke ! ”
And he chuckled fit to choke,
“ Here’s the lanky Scotchbyterian, the mis-.
Bionary bloke ! ”
Well, he looked to see him coming, and he “ took
him out o’-winding,”
He was long, and he was lanky; he was freckle-
some and fair,
And a hymn he was a-humming, just as if he
wasn’t minding,
And he asked if any shearer had a mind to cut
his hair /
Wo could only gape and stare,
’Cause we didn’t like to swear;
But the ringer said he’d do it, with a bucket for a
chair!
So the ringer started quickly (with the shears he
was a dandy),
But he clipped a kind of pimple and the parson
gave a bound!
Then the ringer tarred it thickly and confessed he
felt “unhandy ”
The position, for a shearer, “ rather awkward-
ish ” he found !
Then he downed him on the ground,
And he whipped his neck around,
And he “ pinked ” him like a leather-neck when
squatters paid a pound !
Now, the ringer ’d just got through this un-
accustomed operation,
When M‘Carson, who’d been mustering, arrived
upon the scene,
And die shearers they were treated to a masterly
oration
By the choleric M‘Carson, whose vocabulary
keen,
As was easy to be seen,
W as more forcible than clean —
And remarkably distasteful to the Reverend
M ‘Lean !
So the parson he suggested, as a means of recon-
ciling
(Not indeed that he objected to the way they’d
cut his hair !)
That the parties interested should agree to his
beguiling
All the station-hands and rouseabouts with ser-
vices of prayer;
Which the squatter thought was fair,
He was fond of praise and prayer !
And, the station-hands consenting, service
started then and there !
Now, the preaching it was splendid, but the
shearers jibbed at singing,
Though the squatter joined the preacher, not
another soul would sing !
Then the service was upended, and M‘Carson’s
arms went swinging,
And he raved and stamped and cursed and
swore and called us everything !
“Sing, yer blanky beggars, sing 1
Make the blanky welkin ring !
Won’t you blanky sons op blankers help
THE BLANKY MAN TO SING ! ”
We were sorry for the parson, though he was a bit
erratic,
’Cause he was an all-right preacher and a decent
fellow, too;
But, you see, he found M'Carson so ferociously
emphatic
He concluded that the services in future
wouldn’t do.
So the shearers play at 100,
And at whisky-poker, too,
And the parson is a scarcity at Coolabungaroo !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
Melb. Herald suggests that the local
police should be taught the Scandinavian method
of dealing with drunks. It it alleged that when a
drunk is arrested in Sweden, and becomes violent
in his cell, the constable in charge wheels in the
lockup-piano and starts to soothe him by singing
and playing operatic selections. This may act all
right with the Swedish boozer, but if any such
game were tried with the proud Australian drunk
he would probably do his best to smash up the
fiiano and its policeman-player. He may be
oaded up with liquor, but he has his feelings.
The local constable knows this and soothes him
with a baton —not a musical conductor’s baton.
Summer at Dawson City.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sounds of revelry have subsided -into the
occasional whoops of the belated and hilarious
digger, who is-spending his hard-won dust' in the
drinking-gambling-dancing saloons of Dawson
City, the new metropolis of the golden north. The
long, low, log cabins facing the principal street are
ablaze with torches, lamps and candles. The
wheezy strains of “fiddles” come from a half-
dozen barn-shaped edifices, bearing gaudily-
painted signs announcing that “Lucky Lew” or
“Placer Pete” dispenses “finest old whisky”,
within this “palace” or that “emporium.” In
front rolls the mighty Yukon. With her nose
buried in the mudbank, the little Bella steamboat
struggles hard to keep her head up-stream. Three
Indians and a repentant toper slowly and wearily
carry cord-wood aboard her for a wage of ss. an
hour. In the mellow light of the “ Midnight
Sun ” the flood of the Klondyke shines golden, as
it joins the darker sweep of the Yukon. The
streets are rivers of mud and moss. The rest of the
flat point of land on which this newest of cities is
located is quiet and lonely.
At midnight breaks out a chorus of baying from
the hundred dogs of Dawson City, and then, echo-
like, far away to the north —another dog-chorus,
sharper and more wolfish. Then there is a strange
sight. Over the brow of the hill, clearly outlined
in the bright northern light, appears a gaunt,
shaggy form, more like a giant wolf than anything
else, walking slowly and sedately towards us, and
followed by another and another, till sixty and
more are seen gravely stepping one behind the
other, after the manner of their Indian masters.
The town dogs meet them at the foot of the hill,
and for an hour the two sets yelp and bark and
howl, till a shot from an irate digger scatters the
lot. Then the Siwash canines file away as quietly
as they came, over the hill to the Indian village a
few miles down the river.
The Indians of the Yukon Valley are as peace-
able as they are unclean, and dirt is their strong
point in more senses than one. They are lazy
also, but fairly reliable; expert river-men and
good trappers and hunters. White men who
understand their peculiarities grow rich trading
with them, while those unaccustomed to their
ways can make no headway at all. The rule, is
pay the price they ask for their furs, moccasins,
&0., without attempting to chaffer, and in return
they will pay your prices without demur. Of
course the great profit in trading with them comes
from their childlike fondness for trifles that catch
the eye or please their fancy. One often gets a
really valuable fur for a trinket of little or no
value, yet the Indian knows as well as you the
value of that fur in dollars and cents ; but he
measures the price of the trinket by his desire
for it.
The selling of provisions, clothing, tools,. etc. ,•
was a monopoly, last summer, in the hands of two
companies which owned all the river boats, but
the coming season will see a number of rival lines,
and competition will ensure plenty of grub at fair
prices.
The moss which overlies all that region is at
once the curse and the salvation of the miner.
Very useful in filling the chinks in the log side-
walls of the houses, and for a roof-thatch. Also,
in winter it makes an even, smooth bed for the
snow, and thus greatly facilitates travel. But in
summer I You sink to your knees in it, and it
grips you like glue, and impedes travel so much
that carriage of .supplies has to be made before the
thaw in May,' or after the frost - in September.
Men of long experience in that region even prefer
winter to summer. No pen will ever be able
to do justice to the subject of the pestering
mosquitoes and flies. All ordinary precautions
fail against the Yukon skeeter. Nothing but tar
or buckskin leather will keep him off.
There was a jolly lot of journalists in Dawson
last August; men from the big dailies of the
States, armed with cheques signed in blank and
unlimited letters of credit, with instructions to
spare no expense to get news out to the world
before winter set in. A picturesque figure was
Joaquin Miller, the “ Poet of the Sierras.” Miller
is old and gray and feeble, but his spirit is un-
quenchable and his humor and gaiety are inex-
haustible.
About a year ago a theatrical troupe of four
women and two men came in over the Chilkopt
Pass. They had started for Circle City, not hav-
ing heard of Klondyke or Dawson until
well on their way. But of course they
stopped at Dawson, and they “struck it rich.”
Three of the four actresses (song - and - dance
species) married lucky miners, and the fourth
is coining money in a dance-hall, singing senti-
mental ditties, of which her audience shows its
appreciation by showering bags of gold-dust upon
her. They say she has 40,000 dollars locked up in
the A.C. Co.’s safe. Prodigality in Dawson last
summer was confined principally to wage workers;
few owners of claims on Eldorado or Bonanza did
much “shouting.” Exceptions were “Swift-
water Bill” “Nigger Pete,” and Portuguee
Manuel. Manuel paid the singing-woman men-
tioned above 100 dollars per day not to dance with
anyone but him. This bargain the girl hersplf
broke at the end of ten days, because receipts were
falling off. , ; ■ ■ _
HOMER GALLOWAY.


MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
Restored to Health by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A Grateful
Husband and Father tells the Story;
V*
I
22
i
PS
%
$
j—»>"
&
y
1
_ji' r
f wV'.y--wnmwi
“My wife has all her life long been subject to rush of blood to the
bead and fainting fits. In later years these were more frequent, and
her skin became very sallow. She had scarcely any appetite, and it was
not safe to leave her at home by herself for fear of a fainting fit. I may
state we had medical advice both in England and here in New Zealand,
but it did no good, so some months back I suggested that she take
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. She protested against it, believing it to be quackery,
but I purchased a bottle just to give it a trial, and the result was mar-
vellous. Mrs. Moul has taken five bottles, and now she is a new creature.
My daughter has also begun to use your sarsaparilla for skin
discoloration and poor appetite, with considerable success already.
I forward you their photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully,
John F. Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland, N. Z., Feb. 9,1897.
P. S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Only True Blood-Purifier.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
J Beware of Imitations Claiming to be “Just as Good,"
Scale
ti
of Aavertising
-IN— s
THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year ~ (52 insertions) ... ... „ ~ n
Specified Positions, 10s. per inch per insertion, subject to the above discount. By Paragraph
or on Heading Page, 15s. per inch per insertion, nett. On Front Cover, 10s. per inch per insertion.
6s. per inoh per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20
25
*** Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HEADACHE'
Readers of this paper should
know that Bishop’s Citrate of
Caffeine, which obtained the
highest award at the Chicago
Exhibition of 1894, is an imme-
-1 c diate cure for headache. It is
pleasant to take, and will be'
found, most refreshing after
shopping, or as a morning re-
storative. iThe Lancet com-
mends it. Of all Chemists in
twp sizes. A Booklet on Head-,
• ache sent post free on applica-
* lon to fcheir Australian Depot,’
P Connell - street, Sydney.
, Inventors and Sole Makers—
'ALFRED BISHOP,"Ltd-
fcUREDi
WHEN YOUBUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OK ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLICTT 8R03., L+.d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus On, Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Visitors to
SnouLD Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. _ First-class Board and Residence .£1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
tST- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing- virtues of these grand medicines have not jeon
recognised by thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
E.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokooyne. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
WALKS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
A Price Warung. Is. 3d.
The Snffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop that Cough!
. . . TAKE . . .
IRISH MSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids.’ Stimu-
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
I*3. Box.
OH, THE PITY OF IT!
HON. PERCY (loq.) : “What a pity BEECHAM’S PILLS were unknown in
the days of my venerable ancestor. They would have been
extremely useful to him, I am sure. They would have been
Worth a Guinea a Box in his case.”


OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.D.S , Botanist to
H.B.H. the Prince of Walei
ECZEMA \
i'ermanent Care, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3/-
OLEAC”
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THK PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
HP®Se3S!
WORLD RENOWNED
“CLYCERINE & HONEY JELLY,”
Fop allaying Irritation caused by Heat.
(t softens and improves the Hands, 1 ace, and Skin generally.
Pooling and Refreshing. Still growing in popular favour after
years’ use. Beware of Spurious Imitations. So d by all
Chemists and Stores in Metallic Tubes, 6d. and 1/-
HEAD (andßath) SOAP,” Begd.
A Pure, Refined and Perfumed Soap. Cleanses, Streng-
thens and Promotes the Growth of Hair, removing Scurf,
and producing Healthy Action of the Skin. A Kuxury for
Bath and Toilet An Excellent Shaving Soap. Price 6d.
Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER &CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen,
19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Wortljiogtoi) PGnjpigg Ei)giQ€ Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll KrOtliefS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
THAOS MAHIU
Sydney, N.S.’W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
*
What is Health?
I*he-uiurtisrn, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Ac.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA ma lt, 145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated , will greatly oblige by
inform bug the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who tvoitld pro-
bably undertake its sale.
FRESH FOOD & ICE 00.. LTD
■
•p* n the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
lOlluCriS OI 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
Milk > Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
of Sydney with Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OP
BEST in the WORLD.
AG HINTS, EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
BEST
AND
WATER
ELEVATOR
Kknowh/
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho s Baking powder _
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Guntrmkers, corner Littlo Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
_ STOCK
* Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
6 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stook, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 111) 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l.l, reduced £5 each, complete.
i Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ment''. unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesand cleaners complete. Usual price t'2l, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the. Breech-Loading Guns at 6s (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas St Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest, in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
rvunlnri Valves (10- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 6 6 Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S. A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for trade IllnrtraM Price
aaoiiics , to supply 25 per cent, cheaper thart any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to dat!,67, JBS, £», £lO, 612, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. « 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
.A.ro ■t'kxG Beat.
We have them in Stock :
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping-, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
