

The Bulletin
Yoi 19.—N0. 970.1
[Saturday, September 17, 1898.
P postered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC
WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
_ —FOR—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
TEACHER'S
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
ft V
C
WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY.
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery*
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY^ SIZE OF LOGS.
Up-to-Date Milling Machinery, Engines & Boilers,’ Steel »Wind.mills.
___ M >lls Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SP KOI FI CATIONS
sent nn application
to
William Fleming,
2i Clarence Street,
SYItN ICY.
Over22oo Hydro-Extract rs Sold rut! at worlc
vandyck
CIGARS
a riftr
fu % fjm&tMr
>SMOA£
MiUJTirWSYPNEY
lUihxLgri §!
@F 8
Is
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ■a> vm strew, SYDNEY
AEE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been
Salt, Chemicals, the
Testimonials and full
introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Ask for Colonial-made Wire letting*.
m
PROOF
And see tlia, fc you get It:
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER, than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh. Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works -Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sfe
PROOF
Ot< rY
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
IST
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI’OLK’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
liilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
EE OBA JFt T.
— 7m—
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
f.
vulZ
oo
0
PIONEER
leather
BELTING 1
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICf* SON, LTD.,
BRv^L CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
trJr rr : , Brish:ine ' Queensland ; Perth, W. Aus-
_ ana > Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
V IS JTORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
is ..n ' Im P Q i*ial Hotel
fol comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
Q. FOX, Proprietor.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
HigU.©st A.ward.a wlierover Eacliibited..
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ISWAN
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
RELIA-
BILITY.
, Have no Worthless
1 Imitations.
THE EDM l m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Branch:
Australasian
l6
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., 1.U1., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.


THE RED PAGE.
And Victor Daley states, by request, his own
impression from the book concerning which critics’
impressions were collected in last issue —
Some time ago I published in, say, the Island
of Barataria a book of verses. I imagined that
when I received the first copy 1 would take it to
bed with me and sleep with it in my arms. I also
thought that as a recruit in the Army of Authors
I would be immensely proud of my tine new uni-
form of blue and gold. Moreover, I was firmly
convinced that in some mysterious way the publi-
cation of the book would make an epoch in my
life. None of these things happened. I opened
the pages of the first copy without even a flutter
of the heart. And then, with curiously mingled
feelings of pleasure and disappointment I read the
volume through from cover to cover. “Yes,” I
thought, “it is good, but not half so good as I
might have made it. ” Then I closed the book and
memory carried me back to the time when my first
contribution appeared in real type in a real paper.
Any reader of this page who, before he learnt to
swim, has waded breast-deep into the sea will re-
memember the queer catch of the breath and queer
sensation in the pit of the stomach he felt at the
time. This is, as nearly as possible, the feeling I
had when I read—in a fresh damp copy of th<
paper, you may be sure—a set of verses, which 1
had written out of my very own head, printed in
the columns of the — , a suburban journal
with a circulation of quite 300. I would have
broken a window—a large plate-glass window for
choice —if I could have paid for it, so exuberant
was my delight. And when I went back to my
boarding-house for breakfast I felt that a great
gulf had opened between me—a writer for the
press whose writings were printed, and no mistake
about the matter—and the common herd of fellow-
boarders, ' mere clerks who worked slavishly at
desks for- their living. It amuses me now to
recollect that in those irresponsible golden days of
youth I was really more miserable than I have
ever been in after years. The misery was, of
course, mostly artificial. I felt it to be my duty
to mourn a lot over such large abstract subjects as
Life and Fate and the Hereafter. I remember,
too, at that time coming across a book in which
Miirger’s sigh—“Ah ces beaux jours quand j’etais
si malheureux ” was quoted, and actually sighing
in sympathy. And I was 20 years old at the time
Speaking in all seriousness, however, I believe
that the thoughts of youth are nearer to the grave
than the thoughts of middle age.
* * * «
The Book did not affect me in this way. The
critics were all very kind with the exception of one
malignant worm who referred to it as if it had
been a Rhyming Medical Almanac. I never was
so sure of anything as I was that that critic was a
haughty, besotted person who had read the volume
upside down. But the others were too com-
plimentary. Yet their reviews, though they
pleased me, did not make my pulse beat
quicker than usual. The postman caine for
days with paper after paper, each containing
laudatory notices of my volume. I read them,
and then, like a child who sits listening to fairy-
stories, I said, sotto voce, “Tell me another.” Yet,
somehow, it seemed to me that the stories were all
old stories. I had surely heard them before. Fol-
lowing up this train of thought, I discovered that
I had been for years telling the same stories to
myself. That was why they seemed old. On the
other hand, I knew they were too flamboyant. I
knew also that my verses were but a small Ruth’s
sheaf from the golden harvest of Boaz I had in-
tended to reap. Besides, even the most apprecia-
tive of my critics did not, amongst all the rest of
their extracts, quote from the volume the passages
that I, myself, liked best. This was another dis.
appointment, yet, at the same time, a proof of my
thesis, previously stated, re the Ineptitude oi
Language. I had meant in these passages to make
the reader one with me in thought and feeling, and
cause him to see certain things as I saw them.
The attempt was a partial failure, so far as the
critics were concerned. They would insist
upon using their own eyes and thinking with their
own brains. Then there was the haunting fear
that some ill-conditioned critic would discover the
tendon Achilles in the book, and transfix it with
a Paris-arrow.
* * * *
These were, however, merely surface-thoughts.
The grave condemnatory cogitation that worked
under them was this—“ You have gained your
measure of fame by fraudulent representation.
The other fellow who has gone over the hills and
far away, and disappeared in the sunset, is the
real person who deserves all the credit you have
taken to yourself. He wrote those belauded
verses.” To this accusation the present Ego could
make no satisfactory reply. But the present Ego
solaced itself by saying vehemently that it would
produce something better than had ever been pro-
duced by the fellow who disappeared in the sun-
set. He had carried away on his shoulders a large
swag made up of unrecallable dreams and
visions, but he had not taken the world—
the rolling, opalescent, tragic, comic, glori-
ous world—with him, for all that. The
harvest of Boaz was still waiting for the sickle.
Then I began to feel sorry for that poor devil of a
Troubadour who had departed so early and could
not wait for his laurels. To some people this may
seem far-fetched language, but any man above the
intellectual rank of a suburban councillor will
understand it and know it to be, applying it to
himself in Iris own degree, the most threadbare
kind of truth.
• » * *
Laurels, like bunches of spinach, should be
gathered while they are green. When Beckford
sat up three days and nights drinking black coffee
and writing “ Vathek ” the fame that came to him
was intoxicating because almost immediate. So,
too, with Byron. Smaller people must wait longer,
and when their fame comes to them they say—
-41 You should have come earlier. Have you brought
any money with you ? ”
■ Vieille Moustache ” writes—
Red Page of 30th July points out that ", . . a
reader may command the sense-impressions of a dozen
observers, and may receive in the result a truer and fuller
impression than any single observer received.” This is so
obvious that it seems strange people should affect incre-
dulity when they read that -Jules Verne, that traveller of
travellers, has been, all his life of 70 years, a stay-at-
home. But then Verne is blessed with the imagination
which observes through another’s description, and, haply,
far more accurately and minutely than the authority used
as a stimulant. Alphonse Karr, in his “ Round the World
in My Garden,” exemplifies this eloquently. Who has not
conjured up the mental spectacle of sun-blessed isles,
and drowsy seas, and the opal skies of Southern latitudes,
at mere sight of a bunch of bananas or a cluster of cocoa-
nuts ? What gave Gibbon his virile power of description
but this faculty for seeing with the eyes of Tacitus and
such others who observed the things they wrote about
not more accurately than he who read of them, the long
centuries afterwards.
And I can quote an Australian case. Of all men I
ever met whom the power of imagination enabled to see
beyond their physical ken, Deniehy was most remark-
able. Here was a man who had lived all his days in Aus-
tralia, yet who held the topographical information of a
guide-book regarding all the great cities of Europe. He
could take you to Vienna, Berlin, Dresden, Milan, Flor-
ence, and describe with the minute particularity
of the observant traveller, the “ sights ” of
each. When he spoke of the old cathedrals, their
histories, the movements from which they emerged, and
the traditions of which they remain the evidence, it
was hard to believe that he had never personally looked
upon the things he touched with such familiar fondness.
He could tell you where the great altar-pieces of old
masters could be found. He had the history of old-time
art at his fingers’-end—knew not only the great masters,
but the lesser art workers to whom, perhaps, the greater
were much indebted. I remember a talk when Deniehy
and Father Bleasdale discussed church art. The latter
mentioned Albert Durer’s “ Feast of the Rosary ” as
having been lost. “Not a bit of it,” cried Deniehy
eagerly ; “it is in Prague, much faded, but still
exhibiting Durer’s mastery of coloring.” “I know
Prague,” said Bleasdale, “but never heard of this.” “I
also know Prague,” said Deniehy, with twinkling eyes;
and thereupon he began to talk of its palaces and
churches, its university—the first great public school
founded in Germany—and even its strange winding
streets and terraces and old taverns and quaint markets
and shops, with the voluble ease of the “ oldest inhabi-
tant.” Bleasdale made a gesture of amazement. “Pass
the bottle, Deniehy,” said he. “If I didn't know you to
be a good Catholic, I should take you to be the devil.”
Deniehy laughed. “There have been those, Father,”
said he, “ who contended that it was quite possible to be
both.” “ Get thee behind me ! ” quoth Bleasdale.
Deniehy had certainly exceptional talents. He was an
a hriirable public speaker ; indeed, he possessed many of
the gifts of a great orator. His literary style was strong,
yet graceful—not perhaps so terse and epigrammatic as
that in favor now, but full of the lights and colors of a
picture. His contributions to the press were marked by
a breadth of thought and freedom from the tempting
sophistrips of prejudice in those days remarkable in news-
paper literature.
♦
C.W.D. : The latest vernacular for swag-carry-
ing on the Darling is “ Wearing the Jubilee robe.”
She-Oak : James Bon wick, at p. 122 of his
‘Discovery and Settlement of Port Phillip * (Ib-lliourHe,
1856) refers to the obsolete sticking-plasters— “ To
accommodate the ravenous appetites of their cus-
tomers some publicans kept a cask of herrings on their
counter. In these primitive days sticking plasters were
in vogue. . . . The plasters were certain money-
orders whioh shepherds and slmarers brought down from
tile country and placed in the *afe custody of their friends
of the tap, in whose liar they were stuck up until the
amount was said to he drunk out. When the poor intoxi-
cated simpletons had exhausted their exchequer, their
bodies were removed to some dungeon-looking out-
building denominated the dead house, whence they were
afterwards precipitated into the street to make room for-
another ‘sticking-plaster.’ ”
Grqx : To all whom it may concern, this warn-
ing not to waste good money on Le Queux’s “Scribes
and Pharisees, a story of literary London,” is addressed.
Present scribbler, hooked by the March-flv title, wasted
and grieves. ’Tis a fake—slipshod dust-and-ashes.
In Memo : Tennyson did not write, “ I hold it
truth with him who sings.” He wrote “I held it truth,”
eto. [He did ; which shows what a snare quotation-dic-
tionaries are: sinoe three consulted—Grocott’s, Web-
ster's, Wood's—give “I hold" with an air of absolute
assurance. One, Webster’s, indexes “I held ” ; but that
doesn't count against text. The wide-spread error en-
dorses the sentiment, anyway: Tennyson might have
kept on holding.]
The difference between Millais and Rossetti is
briefly this that in Rossetti we have contentment with
an ideal attained, in Millais a striving and reaching forth
to a larger world beyond. Rossetti was happy on the
placid bosom of an enchanted lake, Millais sailed forth on
the broad ocean of humanity.— The Outlook.
“Battler” writes from Longreach (Q.) that
“ doing a perish ” is only applied to the state of recovery
after “being on the booze,” and never to being hungry.
Talgalget : I have heard brumby used by blacks
on the Baloone, Paroo, and Bulloo rivers—sounded “ba-
roombie’’—and on one station in particular to distinguish
the unbroken from broken horse.
Melb. : The word-clipping habit grows. Heard
recently: “Hullo, Lizer! Goin’ to the ’op to-ni’?”
“ Over ’t ’Wood ? Ye.” “ Ri-buok. See yer corner
Hod’ and Rei’ ’bout eight.” Meaning the corner of
Hoddle and Reilly Streets, Collingwood.
Chris: Brennan sends a piece of verse untitled.
The pangs that guard the gates of joy,
the cruel sword that will be hist,
how distant seem'd they to the boy—
tohite flashes in the rosy mist !
Ah, not where tender play was screen'd
in the light heart of leafy mirth
of that obdurate might we ween'd
that shakes the sure repose of earth :
and sudden , 'tivixt a sun A sun,
the veil of dreaming is withdrawn ;
lo, our disrupt dominion
& mountains solemn in the dawn —
hard paths that chase the day spring?'s white
& gloomsrthat hold the nether heat
—0 strange, the world newborn from night !
0 dread, the life before our feet!
The Ports of Ships.
Behind him lay the gray Azores,
Behind the gates of Hercules ;
Before him not the ghost of shores
Before him only shoreless seas.
The good mate said : “ Now must we pray,
For lo ! the very stars are gone.
Brave Adm’ral, speak—what shall I say?”
“Why, say, ‘ Sail on ! Sail on ! and on ! ’ ”
“My men grow mutinous day by day :
My men grow ghastly, wan, and weak. ”
The stout mate thought of home ; a spray
Of salt wave washed his swarthy cheek.
“What shall I say, brave say,
If we sight nought but seas at dawn ? ”
“Why, you shall say, at break of day,
‘Sail on ! Sail on ! Sail on ! and on ! ’”
They sailed, and sailed, as winds might blow
Until at last the blanched mate said :
“ Why, now not even God would know
Should I and all my men fall dead.
These very winds forget their way,
For God from these dread seas is gone.
Now speak, brave Admiral; speak, and say —
He said : “ Sail on ! sail on ! and on ! ”
They sailed ! They sailed ! Then spake the mate :
“ This mad sea shows its teeth to-night;
He curls his lip, he lies in wait
With lifted teeth, as if to bite !
Brave Admiral, say but one good Word, —
What shall we do when hope is gone ? ”
The words leaped as a leaping sword :
“ Sail on ! sail on ! sail on ! and on ! ”
C. H. Miller.
The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; cloth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Faveng, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung ’, Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers) —
Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, 2s. 6d. A
few copies remain.
Australian Essays, 2s. Gd. A few copies
•remain.
B Y APPOINTMENT HXCELLENCY THE
RCBE &TEON akb CO
sellers and stationers. *’
OEORGE
BOOKS!
W ~ T ° t IIRIVK PER RM S ‘ HIMALAYA
Warden s Master Key, 2s 6d am! u , ..
Cape’s Lake of Wine/-2s 6d W..J £, (id’poi» 48 :
Hope’s Rupert of Hentzau, 2s Gd and 3s (k / ntl 4s *
Moore s The Millionaires, 2s 6d and 3s (id ’i mf "' l "', is '
Swan’s Ne’er Do Weel, 2s 6d and 3s fid Y,nl t «, “I* *» 1
Baring Gould’s Jacquetta, 2s 6d and 3s Gd !UU| , is 1
Treadwell’s Storage Batterv, 7s 6d cost fiu • an< ** •
Griffiths’ Assay ing (new edition’). ’ MU»
brough’s Polo,
2s Gd and 3s 6d, K „cu ,
and 3s Gd, post 3s and 4s
Just received :
1200 MILES ON THE RIVER MURRAY
. . . B.V A. 8. Murray, ’
With fae-sunde illustration in Colors by the Auth n .
Oblong gilt edges, cloth 425. hor ’
GEORGE CO.’S COLONIAL
Cr., Wrapper, 2s Gd, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s Gd w
, m , ABISHAG THE SHUNAMITE ’ 1
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel ami
Sesonchis, King of Egypt ’ and
By Francis Myers (“ Telemaeiius”).
IS FEDERATION OUR TRUE POLICY?
THE POLITICIAN REVEALED TO 11IMSEL
10s Gd. Post, 11s 3d.
HIMSELF.
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
n w „ ~ OPERATIONS. UK
By Wm. H. Gaze, M.D., F.B.S. Cr. Bvo. 7s Gd, post 8,.
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s Gd. ’
Now ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN ■
A Practical Manual, by J. 8. Heron
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORGS ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
The Bulletin Book Exchange.
Send stamps of any Australasian province,
or postal notes, or postal order, to “The*
Bulletin,” 214 George-street, Sydney, and
books will be forwarded by return mall
POST FREE at prices given.
BOOKS WORTH BUYING.
At Dawn and Dusk : Poems, by Victor J.
Daley ; ss.
Pictures of War, by Stephen Crane. Paper,
35.; cloth, 4s. This includes “The Red Badge
of Courage” and “ The Little Regiment and
Other Stories” work more brilliant than
Kipling’s.
The Open Boat and Other Stories, by
Stephen Crane. Paper, 35. ; cloth, 4s. This
is the author’s last book, and some of the
stories are masterpieces.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boards, 2s. Gd. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
‘BULLETIN’ PAMPHLETS.
No. I.— The Bulletin’s History of the Dean
Ca.se : A Circumstantial Accounted the
Celebrated Criminal Trial andj£s De-
velopments. Complete, with many Por-
traits and Illustrations, 7d.
No. EL— The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages, 7d.
Way-Back People far from book stores may
order any Look desired by sending pub-
lisher's pru e and postage (which may be
calculated at 2d. in the shilling). Infor-
mation as to price, &c., sent for a 2d.
stam. . Address The Bulletin Book
Exchange, 214 George St., Sydney.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable- London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, Tiie Bulletin.
READY.
Anthony Hope’s Great Novel,
“RUPERT OF HENTZAU.”
Sequel to
“ THE PRISONER OF ZENDA."
Paper Covers, 35.; Cloth, 4s. Post Free.
W. W. PEARSON, Bookseller, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
L&sa
They are alwavs voted
THE BEST
by an overwhelming majority.
WAS EVER PASSED ON


RS
FKEMAH
Sydney’s beadiny Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG- MEN.
f
L. ?
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER—A man who has lost his will-power,
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly a
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the
by continually
11 the walks of
of 20,000 men
treatment of
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you .have any of them, you
which has made both fame and
WALLACE.
require the remarkable treatment
fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
m
■ i
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your faoil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms: —
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
SPKOT
All Trams stop at the Door .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
b? «t ijC
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
ReSctigd at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTBY.
Please mention this Paper when writing. ] Coeeespondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study o f p RI y ATE NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the.
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various deceases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young- Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely -.—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ot full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie ■will
send (POST FEEE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your ease, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. G-ibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in givirlg a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in. any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—•
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
sYDnxrsY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS —Oaily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would'' KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
' TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £1 —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WFAUNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer —in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OP THE
Colonial Consultation Company, limited.
(To be Registered in Tasmania under the Companies Act.)
♦
Capital: £30,000, in 120,000 Shares of ss. each.
80,000 Shares are now offered to the Public for Subscription as follows:
. per Share on application ...
... No Further Liability to Shareholders.
Provisional Directors :
T. H. HASSALL, Esq., M.L.A., Sydney.
Major W. J. EERRIS, M.L.A., Sydney.
J. HAMILTON, Esq., J.P., M.H.A., Hobart.
J. W. TOPLIS, Esq., Hobart.
Managing Director (pro tern.) : W. J. V. ANDERSON, Esq.
Secretary (pro tern.) : HENRY DAYIS, Esq.
Bankers: THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors : CLERK, WALKER & HOARE, Collins-street, Hobart.
Head Office: COLLINS STREET, HOBART, TASMANIA.
Brokers *
ANDERSON, DAVIS & REID, Stock Exchange, Hobart;
ANDERSON, DAYIS & REID, 94 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
OBJECTS :
This Company is being formed for the purpose of carrying on the business of Consultation Promoters.
As is well-known, the Tasmanian Government have lately passed an Act legalising Consultations on the condi-
tions that the sum of 110,000 shall be deposited with the Colonial Treasurer, as security, and that the drawing of
each Consultation shall be under the supervision-of Government officials.
This Company will rigidly comply with these conditions, thereby giving to the general public who may patronise
the Consultations promoted by the' Company, an absolute confidence in the integrity and fair dealing of the pro-
The estimated profits of the Company will be based on the usual 10 per cent, deductions on all amounts received
for Consultations promoted. . ~ „ . , ~ .
Of the amount subscribed the sum of £lO,OOO will be deposited with the Tasmanian Government, and balance
(less brokerage and flotation expenses) will be placed to the credit of the Company.
This Company will be considered formed, and will be registered as soon as 50,000 Shares have been applied for.
Operations will be conunfenced immediately after formation. Consultations will be opened on all the principal
events throughout the year.
Early application for Shares is necessary, as the Share List is rapidly filling-.
Applicants for Shares are informed that they are at liberty to apply for any number of Shares, but the Directors
will not allot less than TWO to any person.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To Messrs. Anderson, Davis, and Reid.
Herewith I beg to hand you £ being application fee of ss. per Share on
Shares in the COLONIAL CONSULTATION COMPANY, and I agree to accept the same, or any
less number you may allot me, in terms of the prospectus, dated the 20th day of August, 1898.
Dated this day of 1898.
Name in full
Address
Occupation
Signature


TATTERSALLS
® © ®
Honster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS,
“ TATTERSALL,” care Greo. Adams, flobart.
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERSALL.
■Please allot me
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
Name
Shares in the above.
Adch •ess
MEL BO UR' E C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at s'.
To TATTERS A LL'
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTEESALL:
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne 0. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To bo Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me _____ —Shares in the above.
IST ame
A ddress
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Prise Reducers
‘friends of the family’
—AND—
Up to date (Derehats
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. • .
ANTHONY
HORDERN'3
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY
Mrs m Em
<LYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes—
Brougham House,
Malvern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO»
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for tlie
Hair. i'~. 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS C 0„ LTD,,
16, Bevls Marks, London, England.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. — Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of' your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am’now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The' Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. Cd. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Recognition.
Ho you remember, love, the day we met?
And how each gazed into the other’s eyes
One breathless moment, thrilled with strange
surprise ?
Nor you nor T forget!
I saw then, love, what I see now; the shine
Of gray-blue eyes, dark-seeming in the shade
Of silken lashes ; eyes whose glory made
The whole sweet face divine 1
But I saw more ! I knew you ! and my.soul
Leaped forth to greet the lost love found on.
more—
The friend and comrade of the days of yore,
In old-world joy and dole.
Wlu't- (.bough I know not in what years or
climes!
To know that one has dreamed, and know o
whom,
While yet no other rays the void illume,
Who has not waked oft-times ?
Perchance, long centuries since, I watched yoi
die;
Whispered wild, passionate words until I knew
You heard no longer ; kissed, clasped close, as you
Breathed a last faint good-bye.
Then, when speech failed us, eye sought eye !
Then heart
To heart in that last long gaze said farewell!
Until the light failed and the darkness fell,
And we were swept apart.
And when our eyes met next, behold ! that
same,
Same look of deathless love was there! unchanged,
From the far worlds through which the soul had
ranged
Each to the other came.
Have we not proved it, love ? Time and again
Some new page of the heart has been turned o’er,
In mystic cypher writ; no need to pore,
Or line by line explain !
A glance sufficed—we knew / How otherwise ?
We, who had felt like throbs of joy and woe,
Had shared like thoughts together long ago,
Like hopes and fears, smiles, sighs ?
Only because deep buried lies the root
In the dim past, this love of ours has grown
So great, has such perennial freshness known,
Brought forth such perfect fruit.
Tas.
W. H. DAWSON.
Ballade of the Waratah.
Some vaunt the lilies of fair France,
And some the Roman’s royal rose ;
Around them twines the old romance
That from each bygone year o’erflows ;
But to my heart lies ever close
The emblem of mine own countree,
An emblem generous fate bestows—
The waratah’s the flower for me.
What though it may not grace the dance,
Too sturdy bred for Romeos,
More fit to deck the blade of lance
In battle when the trumpet blows ;
It hath no charm for maids or beaux,
This sun-fed blossom bold and free,
Ensign of land ne’er smirched by foes—
The waratah’s the flower for me.
Life’s softer spirits may, perchance,
On heartsease sweet their choice repose,
And violets give countenance
To old-world chants or love’s sweet gloze ;
Let others laud them. Here we chose
Strong stock from off a nobler tree.
Give me the bloom our sail outthrows—
The waratah’s the flower for me.
Envoy :
Like that rich heart with promise glows
The federal star of destiny,
When here an Austral nation shows,
Its flower the waratah shall be.
N.S.W.
F. W. HULME.
Melb. Coroner Candler’s recent refusal to
accept the oath of a boy on the “ tell-a-lie-go-to-
hell ” basis, recalls old Coroner Youl’s grim remark
upon a similar occasion: “Swear the lad—he
knows more than we do ! ”
“S.S. ” : Unusual in the South Melbourne
municipal elections. For the first time the female
elector has been enthusiastically canvassed, and
there was quite a feminine rush to the poll. Im-
pertinent inquiries elicit the fact that the women
voted for the candidate who supplied the most
elegant conveyances.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The safest course for a fugitive criminal is
to lodge with a policeman. The burgling Colling-
wood (Melb.) night-watchman, sentenced to over
seven years on different charges, was shown, at
his trial, to have been carrying on a regular system
of robbery from the shops and houses he was paid
to protect; yet, all the time, he was a member of
a police cricket-club, and among the property
seized on his arrest was a bat bearing a silver pre-
sentation shield setting forth his virtues as a
cricketer and a man !
mrararnn
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Preity Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
■ ■ *jl # I Established 1849.
AOstraliao MtitGal p roV jd«nt Society.
n V* wSI.EOT.ABIB A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
. Sir T P ABBOTT K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HH.L, Esq., Deputy -Chairman ,
>irectors Esm ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.’; BENJAMIN SHOUT, Esq. ; J T. WALKER. Esq. ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., I.S.S.
Antiml Income .. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
AccumulatedFun'ds .. .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The GASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about &535,000.
Heacl office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
PORT. R. GAMERON. SECRETARY.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
jJ®* Send for Price List.
a. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
Positively the Best Dressing
ENE 1 !
FOR
PEES ERVING & BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet line.
“ II A IMjUN E”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson's Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2,6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W.C.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
(m
Pliotograpliic Merclrants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph
(imported) may be used in con-
junction with any ordinary
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is of
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £8 Bs.
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article of the best work-
manship. * ,
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each.
CAMERAS:
The PREMO V. HAND CAMERA, 1-plate, 255.
The DUPLEX „ plate, 255.
The POCKET VICTOR „ for plates, 21s.
The POCKET KODAK „ for films, 21s.
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. Gd. to <£so.
Send for NEW COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 7, Now Ready,
Post Free on Application.
; • •
Iltll
1 V ; :
"
* V-
i I
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall will accommodate 500 persons.
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) onl.,
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation;
Large Swimming Baths ; also, Electric and Hot Salt
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
TERMS MODERATE.
Plum
P/D
THE
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEIM who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having bad them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNIiV.
LOOK A.T OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying- from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
our Special
No. 2.
m
\y
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18.6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st. ( NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Onr Illuatrated Catalogue.


T
WASHINGTON H SOUL & C?
&
msr
S?£P,
MIS
ding Chemists
lAI SyDAIEy *
jfgfiWlTH EVERY NOVELTY^r/1
NUF 4CTurF
••s guaranty. w*- ® ct M?ffSS ssss
iSOYERS BAKING EoWHII
• &Xai 1s' Vj
Brushes
fo I LET *
■ AND
PERFUMER/
ttMEL,.
i2/6perdap&tawanft
a ALL WEALS AND ATTENDANCE
-Australia
M?ore~.
/{ano'Qr
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean j and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
Mfpsp;
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH A CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents: " "
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Messrs. Ross and Jack, 10 Custom
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
House
HELIDON SPA WATEB
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARLT
ALE.
VISITORS
to SYDNEY
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
. Tattersall’s.
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
LIFCBUOY
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
DESTROYS INFECTION, IS USEFUL and
ECONOMICAL for ALL PURPOSES.
LIFEBUOY SOAP.
A Doctor’s Opinion:
“ We cannot overrate the value of clean-
liness of person, that is, clothes and
body ... to avert sickness and main
tain the body in health, such a soap as
LIFEBUOY SOAP is beyond all
praise ; its softness and purity must
commend it to all.
“Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N.
LIFEBUOY SOAP
can be Purchased from
ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
WHOLESALE FROM
LEYER BROS., Ltd., Sydney;
BRABANT & CO., Brisbane;
WALTER REID & CO., Ltd., Rockhampton ;
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Townsville.
CHn
RiEtn
ILLH
MPA
m
22jiii^
m
Trade
Mark
CowPArffH
EDIH BURGH.
gm
t T u/n t ffiSl
A'Pii &u£jaJ J'rr»MJi'iylt vv
Drink
moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
*x) drink the very best
j you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
.C.L.’
International Mining
and Industrial
To Tie OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply G. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST - - -
CHEAPEST -
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
BOCK
BIER
IS
a Perfect
Winter Lager.
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
- - Try it
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Metzler. S ec _ x. H. Jackson.
"V
%11 VaiSfiW JO ScOMOWk mi:o
‘
” s ' " > **^^B3 e 6
’ - ‘ * Y -^fcs
•. .
"7
>* ' ? • ' '- " „ I '
' . v * v-' - * ,S! ‘
*• : ': -•• .':. x*| '* ' Pi i-SW*
••>:’
' :. v v ’ ' ' ' MI
•■ ’ I*
£ - * s"\'p l |
I i
■',,.. •.' •’ . * rCi?,/#? ;* MP' -cS
w?/ VWv >
k <' ‘ ■
: • _ -I /->, -£"■■ $ .. , ~ --s v;\' -■/>
i - gp
WVi- 1
*•« •
if


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 19.—N0. 970.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1898.
Pbicb, 6m.
It was stated m the Albury police court yea--
terday that htlfi'drcds of tramps were marching
to Albury, thinking it will be the Federal capital.
• . . -V. LONDON, September g."
!The latest ftev(-§V from the Soudan is to that
effect that 500 Auabs, on camels, are pur-<
suing tha JKhutlifa, whose, flight is so rapid|
that he has. been cd-mpelled, to abandon %
number of Iris harem. One'hundred of hia
camej« have; been captured. ..
7) " :
/'OAr/>s/S J/osstr 77 4, s Afa/7 __ 2>o»'/-
“'T'? *‘“ r
't/rf *"7 *&v, V
***** 7J22L**? *u c % f
///////ft 1
S’ / $/ .
A® / £ i- £
° &J- / i „o ■•'
y?. v O <? ®VVj/
V/A°
*/
V
** Z. y*t
/ aC^o / y j/>
* A r< -
X ° <V* ,
/
ifL ,t* f ‘ ‘£^ e \
/TtCLj/SdO* ***</>
Jef ft. Cook uni
fyW fc frrrfpre
<&uc/j /5
Sr. Hogue .■was re-elected by a majority of 456 Lv
votes* ;£. — \ 1 1U
* AAAc (fct. STT O’ C^frXll
£ - /t
"/A'# tf/tf /7-Z <?/“/*
> AfA/t /%rf> cATf-sA /“V"
HfOjio st /j’rj a (-
/> , c
*//'"
LARfaE .STOCK-f » “ NRE ? D J/£fp s °
\ yvfs /v» Af/i> - ' o'-GAf/ScXecf
N. /?/z</ Acre A. 'V // y~~
It will come as shodk ’to a number
of our first families, wlyb may have travelled
by the P. and O. Company’s steamer Brit-
annia tb . fearn that the gentleman who.
sounded the dinner trumpet on that vessel
was all the time a British aristocrat in dis-
guise. “It turns out to be,” salts a local
morning paper, “he was no less® than the,
Hon. Robert Charles Sinclair de Courcy, only*
brother of Baron Kingiake, premier barsn of,
Ireland.” Also the hon. gentleman with alf
the front names has come into "£soo "a: year.
y ctf/fA/'c A'"-
/yAm* A&scf s/reAAs j&
cCo*vn 7/deatCi/Ay Ao I /f~~\
Af ear Afr
JfAAA Astons? ' A'7/F/VAj~7\
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australitins.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The But.lettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... El 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... • 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty
added where, required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note,, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for q year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addresseu o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Hladk and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co,, Cornhill.
South Africa,— M. A. Tnompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetoivn. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added I'or postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1898.
The Financial Amendment.
This House earnestly invites further inquiry into, and a
more thorough consideration of, the financial clauses, re-
garding as evils to be avoided, if- possible, excessive
burdens of taxation, the prolonged system of book-keep-
ing, uncertainty as to the amount of surplus to be divided,
and uncertainty as to the method of distributing it among
the States.— -Last clause of Premier Reid’s proposed Fede-
ral amendments.
Up to the time of writing, New South
Wales Parliament had not even got fairly
started to consider the proposed Federal
amendments, and Australia in general is still
waiting. Until Premier Reid’s amendments,
and all the other amendments on Reid’s
amendments, are considered, and New South
Wales Parliament finally comes to the sur-
face of an ocean of debate with some kind of
definite proposal in its hand, the rest of Aus-
tralia can do nothing but wait. Meanwhile,
the above clause represents, apparently, all
that Premier Reid has to suggest as regards
the principal difficulty. The financial arrange-
ment contained in the Convention Bill, ac-
cording to Reid and the other infuriated
denouncers of that scheme, is wholly bad,
and requires to be cast into outer darkness,
there to wander in obloquy along with the
Bkaddon Blot for evermore. Premier Reid
at the Convention utterly failed to suggest
any new scheme in lieu of the one contained
in the Bill. In the campaign that followed
he first denounced the financial scheme with-
out suggesting anything to take its place ;
then he proposed that it should be amended
by the Commonwealth taking over, or partly
taking over, the debts and railways; and
then he dropped this idea and again became
a hazy denouncer who objected to the scheme
on hand, but had no substitute to offer. And
now his principal “amendment” consists
practically in the acknowledgment that he
objects to the present financial arrangement,
that he wants something else, and that he
can’t tell what that something else is. In
other words, Premier Reid’s principal finan-
cial amendment is an appeal to other people
to tell him what his principal amendment is.
* * * *
The proposed excision of the Braddon
clause doesn’t cast any light on the matter,
for things will be exactly the same when
that clause goes out as they are now
with it in. All that the Braddon clause
specifies is that three-fourths or any larger
amount of the Federal customs and excise
revenue—whether the same be large, small
or middle-sized—shall either be returned to
the States, so that they may use it to pay
interest on their public debts, or applied
directly by the Commonwealth in payment
of interest. The said three-fourths may be
15s. per annum if a Federal Foreign-trade
Ministry cuts down the customs and excise
to £l, or it may be nothing at all, or it may
be £5,000,000 or more ; the fiscal question
is left absolutely open. But, seeing that the
interest bill of the five federating provinces
runs to over £5,700,000 per annum, it natu-
rally follows that, unless the customs and
excise revenue is run up to over £7,500,000,
at least three-fourths of it mast be required
to pay interest, whether the fact is specified
in the Bill or not. The Commonwealth will
work on the Braddon" clause whether the
Braddon clause is kept in or left out, and
its excision doesn’t help the situation in the
least.
* * * *
Therefore, the real financial amendments
which Premier Reid proposes are all em-
bodied in the clause above quoted. And
that clause boils down to a handful of wildly
insane propositions. In the first place, the
New South Wales Wriggler objects to the
uncertainty as to the amount of Federal sur-
plus to be divided among the States, and
wants that surplus defined. And he knows,
unless he is an ass of the first magnitude,
that it can’t be defined. In order to define
the surplus it is necessary to know (1) what
the tariff will be ; (2) what the other
sources of revenue will be ; (3) how much
they will produce per head of the population ;
(4) how the population will increase ; (5)
how the national wealth will increase ; (6)
what the expenses of the Federal Govern-
ment will be in peace time ; (7) whether
there is going to be war to swallow up the
surplus, and when, and for how long, and
what it will cost, and what damage will be
done, and whether this CQuntry will be
licked and have to pay a big indemnity, or
w in and collect one ; (8) whether there will
be drought, pestilence, blockade, or other
disasters ; (9) also, what kind of Government
there will be in Australia for ever and ever,
amen ? When these and a lot more things ate
figured out it will be possible, within
certain limits, to get rid of the aggravating
uncertainty as to the amount of the surplus.
As regards the method of distribution it can
only be distributed according to the contri-
butions of each State ; or according to the
population of each State ; or according to
each State’s necessities ; or according to area
—which would be sheer madness ; or accord-
ing to the amount each State can grab—
which would be civil war.
* * * *
If the surplus is to be distributed accord-
ing to the contributions of each State, an
elaborate book - keeping system is neces-
sary to ascertain what these respective
contributions are. And as Premier Reid
specifically objects to the book-keeping idea
it is obvious that he is against this system.
This leaves only two alternatives—to divide
the surplus according to population (an idea
which Premier Reid carefully, avoids advo-
cating), or according to each State’s neces-
sities (which he doesn’t advocate either).
At. the Convention the same G. H.
Reid was against both these ideas. The
plain and simple device—the only one
which is compatible with the Federal
idea—of letting the Commonwealth take
over the State debts and railways and educa-
tion systems, which would leave it with no
surplus to divide, was advocated by Premier
Reid for a day or two during his recent anti-
Federal campaign, but has now been aban-
doned. Without it there is so very little
Federation left that it is just worth having,
and not much more. And, without it, the
financial problem keeps coming back to the
old spot and knocking up against the old
dead wall. Which is that all the pro-
vinces depend either largely or wholly on
their customs and excise revenue to pay
interest on their debts ; and that if they
hand over that revenue to the Federal
Government, and yet retain their debts,
they must get back a large sum of money
annually or else go broke- Also, that if the
poorest province is to get enough, and yet
the richest province not get too much, and
each one is only to get what it is fairly en-
titled to, and the amount each one is en-
titled to is to be accurately ascertained, and
yet there is to be no elaborate book-keeping,
and the country is to acquire the gift of pro-
phecy, as Premier Reid demands, and know
in advance what the surplus will be, the situ-
ation becomes one that is calculated to blast
the intellect of Solomon and blight the
seven wise men of Greece.
• * » •
The present situation, therefore, can be
compressed into these four propositions.
Premier Reid insists that he is the man who
is in charge of the Federal movement in New
South Wales. He alleges that the financial
scheme fixed up by the Convention is wholly
unsatisfactory. He had nothing better to
propose at the Convention, and he has
nothing at all to pi’opose now. Which is a
pretty abject situation for a leader and a
financial authority to be in. Also he “earn-
estly invites ” somebody else to find a way
of doing something that is impossible. As
matters stand, four provinces, including New
South Wales, gave a majority for the Bill as
it stands, only the Reid Government allowed
the New South Wales majority to be over-
ruled by Act of Parliament. Now it says
that certain amendments are necessary
to make the Bill acceptable to New
South Wales, and the least it can do is
to state what these amendments are.
When it says, in effect, as regards the most
difficult question of all, that it doesn't really
know what amendment it wants, the most
reasonable inference is either that it is only
making delays for the purpose of wrecking
Federation, or that George Reid is merely
trying to make useless and purposeless ink-
marks on the Bill, so that he may claim
afterwards that it is his Bill —and not
Barton’s. The 50 elected delegates struggled
with the financial trouble in a hundred
aspects, and, after sizing up the difficulties of
it, arrived at the best compromise they were
capable of, and the people accepted that
compromise. And the one fat incubus
who says that the scheme evolved by the
people’s delegates is all wrong should at
least be able to explain where it is wrong
and how it may be put right.
The Case for the Bookmaker.
Taking a number of anti-tote letters received
at this office—mostly, no doubt, written or
suggested by the booky, and all of them uncon-
vincing—The Bulletin will quote from two.
William Mason wrote on May 8 lamenting
the intense respectability of racing at Adelaide
as compared with meetings at Melbourne and
Sydney :
“ The arrangements were perfect,” said William, “ but
it struck me there was something wanting. All the
people seemed to be afraid to speak to each other—there
seemed a stiffness about everything, and the smiling faces
were conspicuous by their absence.”
Which means that William Mason, on a visit
from Westralia at the time, was struck by the
strange lack of howling and blasphemy in the
place where these noises used to be. Also he
missed the smiling countenance of the bookie
who skins the lamb, and of the juggins who
drowns his losses in drink. He saw only a
crowd taking its afternoon’s amusement for
just what it was worth—and its stiffness made
him sad. Now, The Bulletin is always sad-
dened by the “stiffness” of the noisy race-
course habituh who, having dropped all his
coin into the hooky’s bag, wants to borrow a
bit from his friends. That’s the sort of “stiff-
ness ” one has to contend with at Sydney and
Melbourne.
* » * *
An abusive person wrote from Adelaide—
one can almost see his hook nose and awful
diamond ring sticking out between the lines of
the letter—on June 16 :
Re your advocacy for tlie totalisator in preference to
the bookmaker at race-meetings, I am sure you don’t
understand how this huge and heartless swindle (the tote,
not Ikey Mo) is worked ; if you did you would never
(abuse and ungrammatical drivel). In Victoria and N.S.
Wales, where the bookmaker is, and the tote is not, I
contend the public have some chance to win, for the
reason that the owners of the horses, the trainers, and
the jockeys are combined to beat the books, if they can ;
the public are in with them, and they have a chance to
win. In Adelaide there are no books, the owners, the
trainers, and the jockeys are against the public, and the
public lose their money every time. At times you
chronicle the big dividends the tote pays, but who gets
these big divs. ? Not the public, but the jockeys, owners,
and trainers. When a big div. is paid it is a certainty
that the horse has heen dead for months, and the public
have been losing money on him, &0., &c.
Impudent nonsense of this sort gets a credulous
hearing from an occasional honest, uninformed
opponent of the tote, otherwise it wouldn’t call
for contradiction. To anyone conversant with
racing speculation the idea of the public being
“in with” the owner, trainer, &c., “to beat
the book ” is as ridiculous as the idea that a
tote, in place of the book, can make any differ-
ence to stable tactics, except to make them
more honest. Owmers and trainers can’t com-
mission the machine to lay against their nags
when “not on the job”; therefore, it stands
to reason that the stable is never in conspiracy
with the tote to bleed the public, whereas the
book has always got a dead ’un or two “ in the
bag.” Abolish the bookmaker, and there is an
end to the “milking” practices. Of all the
money put into the tote never a penny is paid
to a cronk owner as the reward of .hiscronk-
ness. The tote does not invite fraud, whereas
the books live to a considerable extent by con-
spiring with small owners, trainers, and
jockeys to rob the public.
• * * •
As for the statement that big dividends are
invariably drawn by artful stables and not by
the public, there is not a tittle of truth in it.
When a horse is fancied by the stable, the news
leaks out (gushes out, as a rule), and the
horse starts more-or less of a favorite with
the tote, as it does with the books where
there is no tote. When the animal is
not fancied by the stable, it starts at an
outside price wdth the tote, or with the books.
But observe the difference in the result. The
victory of an outsider at Melbourne or Sydney
means that a few stray backers win a little
money, the odds being 10 or 15 to 1, and the
books win heaps of money. The outsider’s
victory at Adelaide means that the same few
stray backers win the whole pool, less the
tote’s modest commission. The odds in this
case are 30, 50, 100, or 200 to 1, instead of
Ikey Mo’s paltry “ tens.” The tote’s odds on
an average are much higher than the books’
odds ; the ordinary punter follows his whim or
his “information,” whether he bets with the bag
or with the machine, and consequently he must
stand to benefit by substitution of the tote for
the books. This apart from all other considera-
tions which make the downfall of Ikey Mo a
thing to be devoutly wished. Big bookmakers
may suit the convenience of a few big gambling
owners, and smaller bookmakers may be useful
to the scoundrelly representatives of “ cronk ”
sport, but all bookmakers, in comparison with
the tote, are bad for the public which finds the
money to support horse-racing.
* * » *
It is an utter waste of time for Ikey Mo and
his friends to pester The Bulletin with ficti-
tious arguments and brazen lies directed
against the tote. Solid arguments and sound
truths would be acceptable if they came along,
but thusfar every angry objection to the totali-
sator has .only served to show the weakness of
the bookmaking cause.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Old Bill and the New One.
When the Reid Government submits its
Federal amendments to the people of New
South Wales—if they ever get so far as that—
then quite a lot of beautiful complications con-
nected with the case will begin to be apparent.
In the first place, it is promised that there is to
be no minimum this time ; the straight Demo-
cratic principle that the majority decides is to be
adhered to. That is to say that when Reid’s
Bill is before the public Reid proposes to enact
that a bare majority shall be sufficient to
carry it even if that majority only in-
cludes 10,000 votes; but when the Bill
drafted under Barton’s leadership was before
the country the same Reid helped to
enact that 79,999 votes and a 70,000
majority should not carry it. This shows,
among other things, what a difference there is
when it is a question of Reid being the Father
of the Commonwealth as compared with the
other case when it was a question of preventing
Barton being the Father ! At the same time,
it must be remembered that the Reid Ministry
disclaims all responsibility for the 80,000 mini-
mum. That minimum was proposed by a
private member; the Reid Government ac-
cepted it, and didn’t rally up its party-majority
against it; and, according to the explanation
tendered by one member of the Reid Cabinet,
it was bound to take this course, and to
stand by in a state of subdued approval
while Federation was carefully wrecked, out of
regard for the rights of private members. Yet
the Reid Ministry promises that this time there
will be no minimum, so it appears that if a
private member interferes now, when Reid is
posing as the Father of the Commonwealth, he
will be promptly squashed. And that gives
the lie direct to the statement that the Reid
Government had no option in the previous case;
if it can guarantee to suppress any private
member who gets in the road when G. H. Reid
is posing as the Father of the Commonwealth,
it could have done so when Barton was occu-
pying that situation only it didn’t want
to and hadn’t the honesty to say so. When
the new Bill is submitted to the people (if
it ever is submitted) with no minimum,
then it follows that if Reid’s Federal scheme
gets 500 majority it will be carried, while Bar-
ton’s Federal scheme got over 5000 majority and
wasn’t carried. Also, the Reid scheme may be
carried if it gets only 10,000 votes, while the
Barton scheme wasn’t carried with 72,000.
And these curious things are to happen because
the Reid Government passed, or connived at
the passing of, an Act stating that the Referen-
dum should be faked in this manner. And the
preamble of the Reid amendments starts by
stating that the vote of 3rd June shows that
the Federal Bill is “ not acceptable to the
electors of the colony in its present shape!”
Yet if Reid really believes that 72,000 affirma-
tive votes, and over 5000 majority in favor of
the last Bill, fairly show that it isn’t accept-
able, then he will enact, if he is an honest
politician, that his Bill must have more votes
and a bigger majority to show that it is accept-
able. And he does nothing of the kind, there-
fore the natural inference is that he either
doesn’t believe it or else he isn’t an honest poli-
tician. For that matter nobody in his senses
ever- said that G.- Reid was an honest politician.
❖
The Shylock Suppression Bill.
A Democratic barrister to The Bulletin
It is to be hoped that the bogey that usury laws limit-
ing the rate of interest have never succeeded will not
have power to prevent Australian legislatures enacting
usury laws that propose no such thing. It may be that
if 20 per cent, is fixed as the maximum limit of just in-
terest, the average rate to the needy borrower will, by
various tricks and devices, be 40 per cent, or more. If,
however, nothing at all be said about the rale of interest,
but the duty of determining whether any particular bar-
gain is a usurious one or not, be imposed on the Courts,
and they' be given a full and unfettered discretion to ad-
just, modify, or annul such bargains, we should be on the
high-road to the abolition of most usuries. Honest
and unhampered Judges, with express duties cast upon
them, can do perhaps more than legislatures to equitably
adjust the relations of man to man in private law’. The
case of “fraud” is one in point. No one can doubt the
enormous power of the Courts in checking fraud, and of
their success when it comes before them. But they would
never have gained that power had the legislature defined
what was to be considered “fraud.” The Courts them-
selves refuse to define it, for the excellent reason that
immediately they did so human ingenuity would succeed
in finding several loopholes in the definition. Everyone
knows what fraud is without definition, as everyone with
ordinary knowledge of human affairs knows what usury is,
whether an Act of Parliament fixes a rate of interest or not.
A very workable and useful usury law can be had by
giving this unfettered discretion and imposing tins duty
on the Judges, and although it runs counter to the in-
human doctrines of the Manchester School it is sincerely
to be hoped that the clause of the English Commission’s
report to this effect will find a place in every Australian
Statute Book. As a matter of fact all that is sought is an
extension of the powers already exercised by the courts
in their equitable jurisdiction in favor of reversioners
and expectant heirs -to the ordinary transactions of
ordinary men. Irish barristers have won fortune and
fame for themselves by using this Chancery machinery
against the Shylocks of Dublin, and one cannot see any
sound reason why such protection against unconscion-
able bargains cannot be had in Australia. In an import-
ant case in the House of Lords, in 1877, or thereabouts,
Lord Hatherley says :
“In ordinary cases each party to a bargain must take
care of his own interest, and it will not be presumed that
undue advantage or contrivance has been resorted to on
either side ; but, in the case of the expectant heir, or of
persons under pressure without adequate protection, and
in the case of dealing with uneducated, ignorant persons,
the burden of showing the fairness of the transaction is
thrown on the person who seeks to obtain the benefit of
the contract.”
A good usury law would simply extend the area of this
principle. In Melbourne, a few years ago, a court upset
a bank’s contract with a Chinaman’s wife on the ground
that she, being unfamiliar with the English language,
didn't realise the full meaning of what she had signed.
Why deny to a trapped necessitous borrower what was
freely accorded to this Chinese lady ? Yet that’s practi-
cally all a well-framed usury law means. Of course, it
may be urged that the law, being already so, it is useless
to legislate anew. The objectors forget that most of the
ordinary legal transactions of life come not before chan-
cery experts, but before county-court Judges and ignor-
ant justices who must see principles in a statute before
they can grasp the fact that they are applicable to the
particular case before them. To cite a well-established
principle before an ordinary justice and to support it by
an ancient chancery case in a worm-eaten book usually
means an order for the other side, with costs, and it’s


rarely worth while appealing. What is wanted is that all
courts shall administer equity in usurious contracts, and
that can only be got by a plain Anti-Usury Act.
Want of Confidence.
The alleged motion of censure which is now
filling up the time of the N.S.W. Parliament,
and wasting public money, and creating much
useless outlay of conversation and ink, and
causing the Federal question to hang up in-
definitely, is a tine example of Party Govern-
ment in its most decomposed state. To begin
with, Premier Reid proposed that the Assem-
bly should consider the advisability of recom-
mending certain alterations in the Convention
Bill. The said Reid has alleged over and over
again that Federation is not a party question,
and if it isn’t a party question then it is com-
petent for anyone to interfere in the matter
without raising party issues. When a private
member set to work to wreck Federation by
raising the late-lamented minimum to 80,000,
the Reid Government slumbered peacefully
amid the debris, and refused to interfere on
the ground that Federation was a strictly
non-party matter. A few days ago one
of its own followers proposed a radical
amendment in the Government’s new Federal
scheme, and nothing happened, for the
same good reason. Then Lyne proposed
his little amendment—which, presumably, he
had as much right to do as any other member.
The matter was a non-party one, and Lyne ex-
plained that he didn’t want his small, mild
idea to be treated as a motion of censure. All
the House had to do was to get on with the
debate on the F’ederal resolutions and the
various amendments, and try to evolve some
definite idea out of the chaos. But the N.S.W.
Premier insisted that Lyne’s amendment should
be treated as a vote of censure; therefore all
public business has to be hung up till it is
talked to death. The talk will cover every-
thing that the Government has done or left
undone since it started, and no decision will be
arrived at regarding the alleged subject of
discussion—all the row is as to whether
Reid or Lyne shall have “ hoffis.” The
province doesn’t want to discuss the barren
question of “hoffis” just now. It wants to
get on with Federation. Also, there was
nothing at all about “ hoffis” in Lyne’s amend-
ment. And if Federation is to get a decent
show it has to be considered on its merits; if
any member’s Federal proposals are to be met
with the threat that if they are carried the
'Government will resign, and there will pro-
bably be a dissolution, in the course of which
many members may lose their seats, and Free-
trade will go overboard, and all manner of
other things will happen, then it can’t be con-
sidered on its merits. Considering all the
assurances that Federation is a purely non-
party question, this raising of the old party
spectre as soon as any objection is offered t o the
Ministry’s Federal programme is a dismal pro-
ceeding. Even the biggest national interests
must needs be subordinated to the question of
“ hoffis.”
♦
State Fire Insurance.
The S.A. State Fire Insurance scheme, now
before Parliament, is the boldest thing yet
attempted in this direction. It doesn’t quite
reach the Democratic ideal, but it certainly
gets a good distance in that direction. It pro-
vides that any district may decide to make the
fire-insurance of all buildings in the State
office compulsory—apparently the insurance of
contents is optional. When Adelaide and one-
half of the other districts have adopted the
system of compulsory insurance then the pro-
cess is to apply automatically to all the rest of
the province. Probably it would be more
economical to apply- the compulsory prin-
ciple right off, but it would seem that S.A.
Govt, didn’t feel equal to this. When
the compulsory system gets afloat the premiums
will be collected like any other taxes, and
recovered by process of law, if necessary.
There will be no heavy outlay for commissions
and advertising. One manager and three
directors will boss the show, instead of the
lamentable spectacle presented by so many
private offices of a manager and a board of five
or six directors, all living on a little business
which produces barely £20,000 a-year gross
income. There is provision for accumulating
a reserve-fund of at least £250,000, and the
State guarantees payment of all losses. Unless
the scheme gets wrecked in a stormy Legisla-
ture, it should start with every promise
of success. The mournful cry of the in-
terested “ insurance - expert ” is to the
effect that State Fire Insurance must
fail because its operations are not spread over a
sufficiently large area to get a fair average, but
the expert who lives on the present system is
bound to say things like that. He is paid for
it. Most of the insurance offices which have
come to very bad grief in Australia have done
it by spreading themselves over a large area,
and getting burnt to death in remote places
where the management couldn’t keep a constant
eye on the business; and the most prosperous of
the survivors is the one which confines its busi-
ness to a single province—just as the State
office will do. At all events, State Fire Insur-
ance is obviously coming, and then the expert
whose management has burst up so many pri-
vate institutions can be judged by results.
♦
Only Two.
Two members, one of them Higgins and the
other Maloney, raised their lonesome voices
in Vic. Assembly against Premier Turner’s
scheme of borrowing £2,000,000 for public
works purposes and setting the old razzle-dazzle
going afresh. Higgins proposed as an amend-
ment that the works should be provided for by
taxation instead of by the old, easy, thriftless
borrow, a reform which The Bulletin has
advocated in a very solitary fashion for years
past ; but he and Maloney were extinguished
beneath the dead weight of the great loan
majority. Possibly if Higgins had been ready
with a definite plan for raising the money wit h-
out borrowing he might have found another
man to support him besides Maloney, but even
that is doubtful. Australia has grown so
accustomed to being a plaintive Lazarus offer-
ing its I O U at Bull’s back-door that it could
hardly stand the mental shock of beginning to
be honest and self-reliant at this late hour. Yet
there is nothing very attractive about the pre-
sent system that this country should be so
deeply attached to it. Victoria has borrowed in
all a trifle under ,£48,000,000, and in the last
15 years alone it has paid over £24,000,000
in interest and expenses. During its whole
borrowing career it has paid away something
like £50,000,000 in interest and expenses on
the £48,000,000 kindly advanced to it by Bull,
and the £48,000,000 is still owing, and before
it is repaid the interest on it will probably run
to £500,000,000 instead of fifty. If Victoria
had faced the situation from the first, and
started constructing its public works out of re-
venue in the early boom days, and kept at it
ever since, it would be all this £50,000,000
better off, and it would have no £1,800,000 a
year interest to grind out of its people, and no
£48,000,000 liability, and no 500 millions or
more of interest to find in the future, and it
wouldn’t have burst up in ’92. And it could
have raised all the money for all its public
works out of taxation without its burden being
nearly as heavy, even in the early days, before
the revenue from its railways and other
undertakings relieved the strain, as that
which many European countries carry without
a whimper. There is plenty of time to
make a fresh start even now if the people and
the politicians of Australia had the grit and
the sense—which they haven’t. If some Aus-
tralian Government would set itself to dig out
£1,000,000 a-year from the many possible
sources of revenue that have been hitherto
neglected, and invest it in public works yield-
ing even 2 per cent., and thereby add another
£20,000 every year to the national revenue, and
set money in circulation, and find work for
some 6000 or 8000 heads of families, and sware
off borrowing for evermore, it is still possible
to bring back the golden days. After 10 years
of this policy, the revenue would be £200,000
a-year more from new public works alone. The
country would be no poorer for all this taxa-
tion ; if £1,000,000 a-year is raised in the coun-
try, and spent on works in the country, it
doesn’t make the amount of money in the coun-
try one penny the less. And in 10 years the
works w'ould make the country £10,000,000
richer, while the increased land values which
they would create would probably add another
£10,000,000t0 its total wealth. Also, the increase
of employment through this expenditure would
attract population, which means more wealth ;
and the boom thus created would be a per-
manent one—not a bubble that was bound to
burst horribly when Bull got one of his
periodical panics and the loan didn’t float.
Apparently there are only two men in Vic.
Assembly with brains and courage enough to
realise these things, and Riggins and Maloney
are the pair in question. In financial matters,
the average Australian politician is partly a
fool and mostly a cow’ard, and the Turner
Government, when it came to the pinch, has
proved to be built of much the same material
as the rest. If Australia ever wants a new
name it should be re-christened Micawber.
Barring Higgins and Maloney and The Bul-
letin, everybody seems to have the Micawber
complaint in Australia.
“The Bulletin’s” Inconsistency.
J. C. Watson, M.L.A., writes again:—
Referring to your “ Plain English ” article under the
heading of “The Bulletin’s Inconsistency,” permit me
to say that I charged The Bulletin with inconsistency,
not because it refused any longer to support myself, but
because it had turned against its own teachings. The
Bulletin of old urged, inter alia, the adoption of the
Referendum; equal voting power to all, no matter of
what station or where resident; and the abolition of
Party Government. Largely because of its advocacy these
principles are to-day believed in by a great number of the
people, “ Yours truly ” being among them. In’97 the
Labor-party advocated the inclusion of some of The Bul-
letin’s ideas in the proposed Constitution, but were
defeated. In ’9B, not foolishly insisting on the whole
hog, we yet stood firm for majority'rule in the Federa-
tion. Yet The Bulletin barracked for the men who had
been against its own ideas all along, and against myself
and other Labor candidates. I suppose our fault was
that we had taken The Bulletin doctrine as
being meant literally, whereas it was really taught only
in a Pickwickian sense. You say 1 supported Dibbs in ’92.
Wrong. In ’92 I wasn't in Parliament, but out of it went
baldheaded against Dibbs, Barton, and O’Connor (par-
ticularly the two latter) over the Broken Hill arrests.
Then you say that, though you supported me in ’97, you
couldn’t do it in’9B, because I was in bad company. I
should like to know which side could be taken without
getting into “bad company”? Just run over (in cold
blood) that list of candidates you recommended a few
days before the election ! The Labor-party couldn’t sup-
port BarwN because he not only voted for the Bill (as did
Reid), but in the Convention bowed th“ knee to the
fetish of “ State Sovereignty ” to an extent that carried
him always against majority rule. Against this, Reid
voted/or it fairly consistently, as witness the last two
divisions in Melb., 10 3 ’9B. Barton’s great influence in
the Convention, properly exercised, could probably have
secured a Constitution ahead of those in existence else-
where ; as it was, he helped the provincial “State-right ”
men from the smaller colonies to uphold the power of the
minority to run the Federal show. We therefore thought
there was a better chance of getting an amended Bill
from Reid than from Barton. Finally, you say you may,
in ’99, again support me, if I “ improve.” As I have no
present intention of “jumping Jim Crow,” I expect to
struggle along with The Bulletin’s opposition until it re-
sumes its wonted place as a leader of the forward party.
Yet, according to the printed report of his
speech,thepointonwhich Mr. Watson, M.L.A.,
charged The Bulletin with inconsistency, was
that a year or two ago it urged the people to
voteforWATSON, M.L. A., whilethis timeiturged
the people not to vote for Watson, M.L.A.
For the rest, The Bulletin certainly did—and
does—support the Referendum, equal voting
power, and the abolition of Party Government,
as Watson, M.L.A., alleges. Likewise, it
supports Federation, interprovincial Freelrade,
an elective Upper House with a rrfanhood
suffrage basis, payment of both Houses
of Parliament, the abolition of all property
qualifications for members of either House, the
joint sitting as a prompt and easy means of de-
ciding deadlocks between the two Houses (this
is wanted in addition to the Referendum, which
is too slow and costly to be applied to every
trivial deadlock), and many other things. Well,
the Commonwealth Rill offered Federation, in-
terprovincial Freelrade, a Senate elected by
manhood-suffrage (no property-qualification for
senators or electors as in Victoria or Tasmania,
or government of the people by life nominees
as in N.S. W..), payment of members of both
Houses, the abolition of the plural vote, the
joint sitting, and many other Democratic re-
forms. And, though it didn’t make every man’s
vote of exactly the same value, the discrepan-
cies were a great deal less than those now ex-
isting in N.S.YF., where the ordinary elector
has just half a vote (or a vote for one-half the
Legislature), and one man’s half-vote is worth
about 2J times as much as another’s, according
to the accident of his location. J. 0.
Watson voted against a measure which em-
bodied all these Democratic ideals, and in
favor of a continuance of the old state of
things—which includes disunion, border tariffs,
a nominee Council of rich fossils, unequal
voting power, a continuation of Party Govern-
ment, no Referendum, and no provision for the
remedy of deadlocks. Of course, if Mr. Wat-
son’s vote for the old status quo , including
Party Government, no Referendum, and a
shamefully unequal distribution of voting
power, proves that he is a supporter of the
Referendum, and equal voting power, and non-
Party Government; and if his support of
Premier Reid, who says he is going to preserve
the nominee Council, proves that he is against
the nominee Council; and if his bitter opposi-
tion of Barton and O’Connor, who both de-
clared for an elective Council with a manhood
suffrage basis, shows that he favors manhood
suffrage—then there is nothing more to be said.
More about Women.
“The Baron” thus comments on “ Creeve
Roe’s ” recent sex-whoop :
Editor Bulletin. —“ In the Spring’ the young man's
fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love” —and surely
“Creeve Roe” is young and the approach of Spring, the
stir of something fresh and vital in the air, inspired the
reflections on women (or more accurately on woman in
the abstract) recorded in Tiie Bulletin of Sept. 3.
But the quality of the young man’s thinking will
depend upon his mental attitude towards the subject of
thought. And “C.R.’s” mental attitude, though too
common, is neither healthy nor pleasing. What ex-
aggerated absurdity is this anent Woman —by which he
means always the physical sex in woman —as “ the most
interesting fact of existence to man”? What kind of
erotically-diseased men are those who find in woman
“ the goal of all ambition ” ? “C.R.” himself appears to
be so dazzled and excited by a morbid sexuality that he
fails to realise the difference between recognising the
just attraction of sex in woman and attributing to it an
all-absorbing interest and importance. In a large-minded
and clean-thinking society the fleshly school of painting
and the Burne-Jones methods are neither excluded nor
over-estimated.
“Modern woman refuses to be idealised.” True in
part. But when men (and women, too) fail to discern in
woman more than “ the beauties of her body ” when
“ the delicate aroma of her body,” and her other physical
characteristics, become of dominant interest, then all
‘true and enduring Love will cease to be.
The introduction of the sex element into literature, as
it is now being handled, does not offend because it con-
ceives woman as a Being with desires and passions, but
because it discloses a tendency to see in her nothing else.
There is a mawkish and fevered desire to accentuate the
sexual in life—to write, as does “C.R.,”as though the
physical aspects of woman and of Love were of primary
interest. To think thus, to act on this hypothesis, is to
miss all that is best and richest in the relation of the
sexes. It is the craving of this neurotic and distorted
sexuality for gratification, it-knows not how, that leads
to the unnatural and diseased pruriency of the times as
evidenced in too many ways.-
Let there be no misunderstanding. The physical bear-
ing of sex-love is recognised and appropriately valued
among the most highly developed and thoughtful men
and women, but it is also seen to attain its best only
when it is the last and fullest expression of a pre-existent
inward and spiritual unity.
It is true that sex-love, with all that it involves, has
been too long under taboo in the realms of literature and
education—we have lost the balance and dignity of the
ancients in our conception of the sex-relationship. This
is largely due to the fact that men have learnt to divorce
the sexual act from love, apd so have lost sight of its
original spiritual meaning; it has'becotne inevitably a
coarse and shameful thing. And as a means of merely
animal gratification it is this, just in proportion to its
innate and original holiness when subordinated to its
proper place and consecrated to the service of a largely
and nobly-conceived companionship of the sexes.
No one with a sense of the true proportion in the com-
plex elements of life wishes to eliminate sex from it, or
from Art. The drama of human life must, have its Helens
and Brunhilds, its Guinevkres and Isolts, but the real
value of these types does not lie in their exhibition of
woman as “ the full-blooded female of her species with
appetites and passions and throbbing veins and a
secret hankering after wickedness.” In many cases
woman is all this, no doubt, but she is some-
thing more, and even in the lower stages of
development (where in the bulk she is now) she
feels dimly that she is more than this. And that is why
she resents and wearies at the typical passionate love-
poem with its one-sided appreciation of her personality
and over-emphasis of her bodily beauties.
If these thoughts are not new, they need at least to be
re-stated over and over again lest such unmixed
animalism as breathes through “Mostly About Women”
should infect our literature and hinder—for nothing we
believe will altogether arrest—the growth of saner and
cleanlier views of the sex element in life.
—«►
N.S.W. Ministry has put up its derelict
Sydney Smith, ex-Minister for Pumpkins, to
oppose Barton in Maoleay electorate, and
although Smith’s chances are hardly worth
mentioning the position is interesting. The
reasons why Barton should be in the Assembly
are that he is a big man, an enthusiastic and
able Federationist, and that he can deal
fairly with Federation because be hasn’t to be
considering his sordid portfolio all the time;
and the Government can’t. It daren’t even
let Lyne’s Federal proposals be debated on
their merits, hut had to bang the party
drum and blow the shoddy trumpet in order to
wipe him out, for fear his proposals should be
accepted instead of Reid’s, and thereby Reid
would lose prestige and his job and his salary
be endangered. There ought to he at least one
big Federalist in N.S.W. Assembly who isn’t
hampered by the fear of losing his port-
folio. And S. Smith isn’t a big man, or a
brainy man, or even a sincere Fed.erationist.
His mission in life is to look at the
suspected vegetable through a magnifying-
glass—not that he thereby does any good to the
vegetable, but because it keeps him from fall-
ing over things and breaking them. S. Smith,
dreaming over the dropsical tomatc, is harm-
less ; to that extent S. Smith is a i agricultural
authority. And that is all one can say for
S. Smith.
A stronger scion of the Orleans family than
the Due or his ridiculous brother, Henry,
would take advantage of the Dreyfus em-
broglio to bring about a coup d'etat. The
French Republic seems just ripe (i.e., rotten)
enough for its periodic fall. By the way, the
tardy agreement of French military journals
that a revision of the sentence on DreYfus is
“ obligatory ” seems to indicate some fresh
move against the prisoner of the lie du Diable
—possibly his death. But that would make a
revolution certain now that Esterhazy and his
accomplices are shown up, although unpun-
ished. It would be better to make Dreyfus
explain in Paris how he obtained large sums
for the possession of which he could give no
satisfactory reason at his trial. Most likely it
would turn out either that Dreyfus was work-
ing in with the Esterhazy crowd, or that his
money was acquired by blackmailing them —a
broad-enough motive for desiring his perman-
ent banishment.
It is well it is not another Power that is
machine-sowing the Soudan with Arabs, or
what a shriek would have gone up from an
enlightened Christian press over that incident
of the wounded dervishes slaughtered on the
field by the Soudanese allies. As it is, the
“ great dailies ” merely state in passing that
the Soudanese were sent “ to clear the way for
the British ” after the Khalifa’s forces had been
driven back, and—
This they did by slaughtering all the wounded der-
vishes who lay on the ground, in order to prevent them
from, in accordance with their custom, treacherously
attacking the British troops.
The Soudanese regiments are officered by
Britons, so it cannot be assumed that the nig-
gers were acting entirely “ on their own.” And
the fact that such precautions must be taken to
preserve the British regiments from injury at
the hands of the damaged Arabs scattered on
the field suggests the idea that particular care
is being taken of Atkins in the Soudan. Do
the black allies go ahead sweeping the track
and laying down carpets for “our army ” ?
♦
The N.S. W. Totalisator Bill, introduced by Mr.
Pilcher in the Leg. Council, contains the
usual needless apology. The club which uses
the tote is to deduct anything not exceeding 10
per cent., and one-fourth of this deduction is
to go to the State and be applied towards the
support of charitable institutions. The Trea-
sury won’t openly touch the soiled loot—it
doesn’t mind having drink as its second largest
source of revenue, but it shudders at the idea
of taking the tote revenue, so that money is to
be gathered up with the tongs and thrown
out to the beggar at the gate. The fact that
the tote revenue is to go in charity is
supposed to be some excuse for the intro-
duction of the machine, though Heaven
only knows why any such excuse should
be required when the awful bookmaker
is allowed to exist without giving per cent,
of his plunder to charity by way of moral
whitewash. And the disguise is very poor, as
well as wholly needless. If the State allows
.£50,000 or ,£lOO,OOO a year to be raised for
charities per medium of the tote, because it is
too beastly pious to seize the money openly, it
will thereby be enabled to reduce the charitable
vote, and the result will be just about the
same as if it publicly grabbed the coin
in the first place. The chief advantages
of the circuitous arrangement are that it will’
enable the charitable vote to he kept down,
whereupon the Government can say that its
jollv-and-fat policy has reduced the demand for
charity. Also, if any obtrusive member asks
why the Government, with the tote revenue
added to its resources, can’t do with a little less
borrowing, the Govt, can impale him with its
scornful eye and state that the lion, person
doesn’t know what he is talking about, and
that the Government gets no tote revenue.
♦
The cause of Labor Federation in Australia
seems to have fallen on evil days. It was first
definitely brought into existence in a still-birth
sort of fashion in Ballarat at the close of the
maritime strike. It was revived again at Vic.
Eight-Hours’ Day conference, and postponed to
Adelaide this month. Adelaide now has post-
poned it some more, despite vigorous protests
from Vic. Trades Hall delegate Billson, wiio
roundly accused Labor of insincerity in the
matter. The secret of the indifference in the
matter (a vital matter, Loo, seeing that the em-
ployers are federated) lies in the fact that trades-
federation is opposed to the interests of trades-
union-officialism. This has killed splendid
schemes up to date in England, and the fear of
their own extinction makes the average officials _
block it here.
Vic. Amending Land Act embodies Coffin’s
suggestion of registering the homestead. The
property must not exceed £lOOO in value, and
holder must be able to pay all debts, without,
aid of homestead, which then, on registration,
is protected from all future debts, except for
Govt, or municipal claims, wages, liability for
buildings subsequently erected, and fencing.
Should holder become insolvent within a year,
registration is rescinded ; and should he die
within that time the homestead vests in the
executor, and becomes liable for debts in the
ordinary course. But if death takes place more
than a year after registration, the homestead
vests in the widow till she die or re-marry. A
possible flaw in the Bill is that when the pro-
perty becomes above £lOOO in value a judgment
creditor or assignee in case of insolvency can
sell it, and all above the £lOOO can be applied
to payment of debts. Also, it holds out induce-
ment not to improve beyond £lOOO in value.
By falsely representing to a money-lending
client that he had fixed up a £250 mortgage on
said money-lender’s behalf, a Tasmanian lawyer
obtained a cheque for the amount and applied
it to his own use. The money-lender called for
and was paid £7 10s., being interest for the
first six months then due, Subsequently it
transpired that no mortgage had ever been
arranged, and the lawyer was lately charged
with larceny as a bailee. The case was heard
a few weeks ago, and the Judge directed the
jury that, if they believed that at the moment
the defendant got the cheque from his client he
was acting bond-fide, even though subsequently
he might have fallen into a dishonest course of
action, they could not convict him. Verdict of
not guilty, and the accused was discharged.
He is now pursuing the even tenor of his pro-
fessional way.
“ Viator ” : Interesting to watch the little
war between Q. Govt, and a big official, whose
billet is wanted for somebody’s relation. Hardly
a week passes without some petty , slight being
offered him, but, up to date, he keeps on, never-
minding. Last estimates show ,£lOO a-year
knocked off his screw ; but, as the balance is still
a tidy figure, chances are that the man will stick
like burrs— till they pull his chair right away from
under hir"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Fatal Card."
Her Majesty’s “La Poupee.”
Lyceum “ Queen’s Evidence.”
Criterion Mesmerist Kennedy.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Prisoner of Zenda.”
Theatre Royal “ Round the World in SO Days.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops."
Anything so long expected as “La
Poupee ” is bound to disappoint somebody, some-
where. This scribe owns to ten minutes of “ that
sinking feeling ” as the opening scene unfolded it-
self at Her Majesty’s on Saturday night. This
scene is laid in a Monastery, and for that reason
one expects some fun, not to say giddiness, in the
cloister cells. Instead, there are unexpected re-
marks about hunger and poverty, sage advice, and
several other elements you are not prepared to
meet in a Monastery. But enter La Poupee in
scene two ! and a sparkle rises suddenly, and from
then to the end the opera goes with a whizz and a
click quite worthy of its namesake. A funny,
flimsy shred of a story strings things together.
This shred winds itself round the marriage of one
Launcelot, a monk-to-be or unfinished friar, with
a life-sized doll that isn’t a doll at all, but is Dolly
Vane impersonating a doll that was made in her
image. And the reason why Launcelot weds
a doll instead of a woman is all because of a
Moneyed Uncle who will give him dollars if
he can produce a wife. And just there the real
doll’s arm gets broken, and the doll-maker’s
daughter dresses up as La Poupee, and squeaks
and creaks and makes mechanical conversation
when the button is pressed, and sings in a cracked
doll-voice “My Darling, I love you,” and finally
marries her purchaser, and tells him how she loves
him, and how she isn’t a doll at all. So he reckons
the Monastery well lost for her sake, and the cur-
tain falls just as the thinness of the play is begin-
ning to show itself. Considering the weakness of
the Monastery’s victualling department, Launce-
lot is probably well out of it.
* * * *
The whole piece hangs on the shoulders of
Dorothy Vane, and she rises up like an Atlas and
supports it without a falter. There isn’t an epithet
from A to Z too good for her impersonation.
Every movement of the doll is lifelike, so to speak.
The stiffened fingers, and automatic jerks, and
mechanical walks, and the honeymoon conver-
sation, and the swear, and the cracked songs, are
utterly doll-like, and yet subtly invested with her
own humor. Charles Kenningham, as the worthy
Launcelot, acts up to every freak of his doll bride.
His smooth round face is just the sort of innocent
full-moon countenance a baby might see when it
looked into a drop of water. And his voice and
dancing and vivacity work well for him. George
Laun, as Hilarious, the toymaker, makes all the
fuji possible out of his part, which isn’t laid on the
extra broad lines of other roles of his. Carrie
Moore gets in a clever little sketch of a boy
apprentice. P. B. Bathurst is out of sorts as
lather Maxime. Howard Vernon and George
De Lara do some giddy old boy business in cut-
away coats and with white bows on their calves,
and Mrs. Bracy and Miss Frances Adler and
others play their little parts without a murmur.
Several catchy songs are scattered through the
piece, but the music isn’t startling. Mr. Bathurst
has a fine song in the first scene with a nicely
harmonised accompaniment, and the Doll’s song,
‘lean dance and I can sing,” is a droll bit of
music, but you feel as if you had heard the other
poems before. Nor is the dialogue cuttingly witty.
In short, as hinted previously, the piece depends
entirely on the doll, and if her joints wouldn’t
work, and the squeak wasn’t forthcoming, there
would be very little left of “ La Poupee.”
** * *
The lady-gymnast who undresses herself
on the trapeze, at London Alhambra, is perhaps
more thrilling, but certainly not as humorous, as
Wamwratta, the wire-walker of yore. Wain-
wratta—he came out to Australia with Tessero’s
variety co. started his wire-walking performance
m swaggah evening dress. He was the typical
Johnnie at all points—small snub nose, large curly
moustache, hair parted down the centre, and very
self-satisfied smile. Having smoked his cigarette,
he would divest himself of his garments one by
one, and, when there were only the shirt and
pants left, he would whip off the pants and
crouch down upon the wire, clutching his
shirt-tails, as though to hide his naked-
ness. How the women gasped—and en-
joyed it; and how the men enjoyed it a great
deal more than the women, and lied about
it afterwards, saying it was highly objection-
able. There were no nets stretched under
aerial performers in those days—anyway, Wuin-
wratta took all risks—and the folks on the ground
floor gazed upwards without interruption, so to
speak. Wainwratta in his shirt went through a
dumb show of cold in the limbs and alarm at his
own temerity, and then —off went the shirt, and
the man, fully clad in pink fleshings and narrow,
velvet trunks, was as proper as proper could be!
Such “turns” are sermons on the Indecency of
Clothes. A nigger with only a cloth round his
waist is not a more shocking sight than a gymnast
m trunks, but if the nigger, after appearing in
trousers, starts to disclose his legs to the public—
well, he’s simply an offence against modesty.
* # ifc *
“ The Fatal Card,” at Sydney Theatre
Royal, is a thrill that doesn’t depend on anythin"
m particular for its effects. Ranchers, Cow-Boys”
“ Home Sweet Home,” bringing tears to the eyes
of a Colorado drinking-den, a lynching that ia
turned aside by the right arm of one brave Eng-
lishman, a proposal in the water, and a card that
is torn in two, are the mild excitements that goon
at the theatre for the next 12 nights. After
which another big London success, “Sport-
ing Life,” will be presented. Bland Holt
is cast in a character he has played so
often that you don’t know now which is
Bland and which is the character, the English
johnny with a stammer and a stare and an icy
cheek that gets colder as the dangers deepen.
Walter Baker, as Gerald Austin, sacrifices his
beauty nobly to a red beard, but is compensated
with an heroic part that touches the heart-strings
of the gods and makes them quiver till they yell.
Albert Norman and Mr. Cosgrove work elaborate
patterns of villainy over the play. Mrs. Bland
Holt plays the pretty spoilt English girl with
vivacity, and 26 other people deepen complica-
tions, and competently assist in the final unravel-
ling of all the knots that have [to be tied in an
Adelphi success.
** * *
The temporary indisposition of Ada Reeve
was about the most interesting item in the pro-
gramme at Melb. Opera last week. Miss Ada en-
joyed bad health for two nights, but she probably
took the floor again last Monday. At any rate,
Monday’s advt. of the Rickards show gave as much
space to Ada’s name as it gave to Peggy’s Pryde’s,
and this seemed calculated to make the dainty
little invalid feel much better. Peggy, in her cos-
ter-gal characters, promises to go strong for some
time, but her tendency to disguise herself in a
flaxen wig and sing painful songs re waxdolls and
Rule Britannia must be promptly suppressed, or it
will rub a lot of gilt off the reputation she brought
from Sydney.
** * *
The rival “star" ladies at Melb. Opera
House are said to not exactly adore one another.
The lady who had been on the programme before
the other lady arrived was determined not to have
her dear little nose put out of joint by the new-
comer, and the splendid reception which that first
lady received on the night of the second lady’s
debut was an earnest of the “healthy rivalry”
that has gone on increasing ever since. Opera
House audiences get the full benefit of the com-
petition. Each lady is bound to do all she knows,
and how the little ’un does work !
** * *
Nothing fresh happened in the Melbourne
show-world last Saturday, except a thunderstorm,
which was bad for business at most places. “ The
Harbor Lights” didn’t leave the Princess’s in
accordance with previous arrangements, but it
will certainly go this week. Then six perform-
ances of “Prisoner of Zenda,” introducing G’eeil
Ward and Miss Hughes as changes in the cast.
“ Under the Red Robe ” follows the revival.
** * #
At the Royal they are getting fair returns
from “Round the World in 80 Days,” and the
special pasteboard engine continues to vomit fire-
works from the funnel with much vigor. Also
the tribe of Choctaw Indians are dropping dead
for all they are worth the moment that the plump
Erenchinan (who seems to grow more plump but
less natural as the season progresses) takes aim at
their chieftain. The unanimity of the Tribe’s
decease is now something wonderful. The war-
riors don’t even get off a final yell of defiance.
They simply drop, whereupon several troops
rush from round the corner with fixed bayonets
and complete the horror of the scene by pre-
paring to jab any corpse that threatens mis-
chief. “Round the World,” as The Bulle-
tin has previously remarked, is full of cheer-
ful incident. The principals get very few oppor-
tunities for acting, but they are mostly equal
to the occasion when called upon, and the smile of
Miss Lily Titheradge, like the prayer of the
righteous, availeth much. Also, the audience is
deeply moved when the Hinglish tourist shakes
hands with the ’Murkan citizen as a token that
blood is thicker than boarding-house soup.
** * *
The Victorian Operatic Society has com-
menced to break the news that it will give some
amateur performances of “The Bohemian Girl”
at Melb. Bijou, commencing on Caulfield Cup
night. The V.O.S.’s effort will be in aid of St.
Vincent’s Hospital.
** * *
Prof. Marshall Hall, the warlike musical
bard who prays for his foes with thumb unto his
nose, will conduct his excellent orchestra at Melb.
Town Hall on the afternoon of next Saturday but
one (24th). It will be a Wagnerian occasion ; also
it will be an opportunity for any person who
loathes holy cant, and admires a good musi-
cian, to roll up and express his feelings towards the
man whom the drivelsome Argus delighted to
dishonor. Meanwhile, Phil. Newbury (whose
popular concerts seem as sounding brass and
howling madness to the bard aforesaid) still con-
trives to gather the multitude together on Satur-
day nights. Some of the new artists that he has
discovered—notably Rodda Perry, from Bendigo,
and a small boy violinist—are rich in raw material.
The material is very, very raw in Rodda’s case,
but the young man’s name can’t be improved any-
way. It is worthy of the finest vocalism on earth,
and it has the particular merit of being reversible.
Why not Perry Rodda ?
*# * *
Melb. University Council has decided that
Marshall-Hall will have to retire from the man-
agement of the University Conservatorium when
he relinquishes the Ormond Professorship on his
year’s leave of absence. Neither will he lie per-
mitted to act as lion, conductor of orchestral con-
certs during the “holiday,” although the Council
leaves him at liberty to direct Melb. Liedertafel.
If Marshall-Hall decides to stay in Melbourne under
these conditions he may be expected to devote the
whole boiling of his enthusiasm towards making
that Liedertafel hum.
“ Poverty Point ” see page 25,
Some Art and Some Artists.
If one could only say always pleasant thing’s about
charming people what a delightful world it would
be ! We should all admire each other, and with
sparkling eyes, full of the light of enthusiastic
friendship, shake hands effusively and tell each
other what very fine and clever fellows we are,
when properly understood. But nobody under-
stands any of us properly. No other fact of
existence is so pathetic and so mournful. I have
before me now the catalogue of the nineteenth
annual exhibition of the Art Society of New South
Wales, and would give anything I could atiord to
be able to candidly praise the pictures that
are exhibited in the rooms at 70 Pitt-street. But
a mendacity though never so well meant is of no
use to anybody. The show is not a thing to take
too seriously. The artists whose works hang on
the walls have evidently the best of intentions,
but there is, in almost every case, an impass-
able gulf between idea and execution. This state-
ment applies to the artists who have an idea.
There are not multitudes of them.
* * * *
To come to dry details. The picture by Charles
Hunt, numbered 77, is, as far as I could see, the
only one in the exhibition that contains a repro-
duction of natural sunlight shining on the face of
a wood in the evening. One feels warm by merely
looking at it. And the picture No. 2, by Aline
Cusack, is, I think, the sole painting in the
Gallery which truly represents liquid translucent
moving water. It has about it an atmosphere of
great gusty sea-laughter, and liberal breeze and
salty spray that is sea-spray and not crumpled
tinfoil. The curious thing in connection with this
picture and a few others is that they are the works
of comparative amateurs, and are indescribably
more artistic than the ambitious canvases of the
professional persons. In one of his books Richard
Jefferies says that a man may do a thing so often
that at last he is not able to do it at all. As
applied to painting, this remark means that an
artist, unless he is a first-flight man, is sooner or
later strangled by his own technique. Mr. W.
Lister-Lister, President of the Society, is a case
in point. His picture (229), entitled “ Entrance
to Port Jackson from South Reef,” is an excellent
illustration of the way in which a man with a pre-
sumably seeing eye in his head will, out of appar-
ently pure artistic cussedness, place upon his
canvas lights that—so far as I can make out —
never were on sea or land, or anywhere else.
• * * ♦
Mr. A. J. Hanson is another wag of the same
school. Nature is, seemingly, to these artists a
very crude colorist who does not know her own
business. It is her way to make her shadows dark
with a tone in them given by the object upon
which they are thrown. She certainly has her
purple shadows, but they are in the middle dis-
tance and beyond. Nine Australian artists out of
ten, however, at all cost of some effect lay on
purple even to the delirium of most dismal indigo.
And they lay it on anywhere. They have, for
instance, discovered the Purple Trees that grow
nowhere else but in the Sydney studios. Some of
the less audacious of these artistic brigands leave
out the purple, and paint their trees and shadows
a blue-gray, subtly suggestive of the shaven jaw
of a,n actor. But in no instance I have seen do
their shadows swim. And that is just the quality
of a shadow in the middle day. Most of the pic-
tures to which I refer are representations of scenes
painted in strong sunlight. I am, therefore,
within the limits of my argument. This English
language of ours is so deficient in color-terms that
one is at a loss how to express the dominant note
in Australian pictures. There is, consequently,
no other way out of the dilemma except to resort
to simile. The hue of a three-quarters-ripe dam-
son plum is the nearest comparison I have
at hand to describe the aforesaid dominant note.
In No. 24, “In Open Melody that Never Ends,”
Hanson’s waves do actually break, after a fashion,
and his shadows are natural. But what is to be
said of 193, “ Bell Creek, Wellington.” by Arthur
Collingridge? The drawing is unexceptionable, but
how can a shadow of.a tree have the same tone on
land as it has in water—more especially when it is
thrown upon another shadow? Color on color,
they say, is bad heraldry, but shadow upon
shadow, made rigidly distinct and separate, is
even worse. Eor some mysterious reason, our
Australian artists will not see that all lights and
shades and colors in nature melt into each other.
Every shadow has its penumbra. Your highly-
cultured artists will tell you that everything in
nature, as seen by the properly educated artistic
eye, has three shadows, or rather the shadow has
its own edge and then a fainter and a yet fainter
edge. But what is the use of talking? Australian
artists would continue laying on .their purples
even if Moses and the Lrophets came to re-
monstrate with them. Purpleism is a congenital
disease with them, and most of their pictures bear
the inevitable petit bleu birth-mark.
* * * *
After making the foregoing unpleasant remarks
it is pleasing to be able to say with a clear con-
science that Hanson’s Picture of a Young Lady
{l68 —“ Maydo”) is one of the best things of its
kind in the Exhibition. There is in the eyes of
that handsome young woman a limpid light and
vital sparkle one seldom sees in painted portraits.
But the airiest and most delicate thing of this sort
in the Exhibition is Mary Stoddard's picture of
Miss Burdekin. It has a tender grace and charm
which are curiously foreign in that gallery.
* * * *
The large pictures are all unsatisfying. Gordon
Coutts’ canvas entitled “The Cloud that comes
to all ” would have been a better picture if it had
either a sunnier or a darker background. And Mr.
Van der Velden’s picture, “Disillusioned,” for
which he asks J!l050, is about the sort of thing
that should delight the soul of Bland Holt. The
young wife, with her baby in a cradle behind her,
is sitting silent and gazing with desolate eyes into
the Past. Her look and attitude would have told
her story in quite sufficient fashion without the
melodramatic addition of the scattered cards and
broken jug in the left foreground. Why should
not an artist know that there is more potency in
suggestiveness than in hammered-out statement?
The very breath of the nostrils of all art is sug-
gestiveness. Take as a fine sample of this quality
Mahoney’s picture, “Peaceful Evening” (No.
40), for which he asks fifty-two guineas. The
treatment of the misty moon, and the dim silver-
grey scene upon which the white horse in
the foreground gazes contemplatively, are fine
to the limits of present praise. One can
almost imagine what that white horse is thinking
about. I his is emphatically a picture for artists
by an artist.
* * • •
Julian Ashton’s wreck of the “ Hereward ” is a
fine thing in its way—sombre and bleak and cold
wuh a sky breaking to rain. The ability of the
artist is unmistakable, but I do not think that an
artist has any need to make one shiver. No. 70,
“The Three Sisters,” a Blue Mountain theme, by
Mr. A. Henry Fullwood, with its swimming dia-
phanous mists rising from the gorge below the
peaks, is a picture painted by a painter. The rocks
in the foreground are simply admirable. His paint-
lng (154), “Reflections,’’is in another, and perhaps
more interesting, key than the aforementioned.
The figures in the background are, however, out
of drawing] to an inexcusable extent. The very
odd thing in this connection is that Mr. Fullwood
should not have seen this for himself. But even
the best painters are not infallible. It is only
critics who are so constructed. Ralph A. Bay-
ley s picture (136), “In a Yorkshire Fishing Vil-
lage, a Misty Morning,” with its delicate greys and
soft atmosphere, is, though small, a fine example
of what a man can do with his tools when he
knows how to use them. Mr. Bayley, lam told, is
a young English artist who has come to Australia
in quest of health. In the meantime, he paints
portraits that are portraits, and not chromo-
lithographic insults to the eye. As “Consider
the Lilies,” by Mr. Moore-Jones, is one of the
largest canvases in the show, I suppose it should be
mentioned. Very well: to me it is simply awful,
laken altogether, the Exhibition is depressing,
there is no trace, or even promise, of strong,
original work in it. It would be delightful to me
to speak differently. But that would belying.
And there are other people on the staff of this dis-
solute journal who can do all the lying that is
necessary.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Prof. Marshall Hall’s brother, who is
a leading “junior” at the English bar, was
counsel for Brassey’s son-in-law, Earl do la YVarr,
in the Hooley scandal business. When de la
Warr comes to Melbourne, followinghis wife (who
is coining along with old Tom), he is to be re-
ceived by a full band playing “ Ballyhooly.”
. Adelaide has got hold of the tired-feeling
virus. The Holy City had the national Austra-
lian malady in a particularly epidemic and viru-
lent form, the other week. Then rain fell ; where-
upon it was observed that a quantity of fine dust,
like powdered sulphur, had been precipitated.
And immediately Adelaide was attacked by a
tremendous energy. It is suggested that the
powder is the pollen of the wattle and the other
treasures of the spring poet.
Q. Premier Byrnes’s swift shut-down on
the Workman’s Lien Bill was a big relief to the
much-embarrassed “native-born.” He wants to
shed himself of his colleagues, but he doesn’t
know how to do so without relinquishing the
helm. His action with this Bill has naturally
raised the antagonistic chorus—“ What’s the use
of taking a Bill into committee if M’s.P. are not
to be permitted to amend it?” And there is no
satisfactory answer to the plaint.
Cable tells of the death of the wife of Hori
Grey, from whom the great proconsul had been
estranged for 40 years, but to whom he was recon-
ciled a year or two back. The reconciliation was
brought about by Lord Stamford, who is related
to Grey. The story goes that when Stamford
suggested to Grey that he should meet his wife
the old man did not encourage the idea, but a por-
trait of the lady was hung in his room, and he was
often observed to regard it long and wistfully.
Eventually Grey consented to meet his wifi- and
the reconciliation was brought about. The de-
ceased lady was a daughter of Admiral Spencer,
and her marriage to Grey took place GO years ago.
Premier George Reid cursing in N.S.W.
Assembly at the Federation Bill:
Mr. Wise s explanation is that the Dominion was ar-
ranged in three different parts, and an equal number of
senators given to each. But the fact is this, and tbf
effect of that explanation is that six independent pro-
vinces before the Union have only 33 senators in the
Union, and two other independent provinces before the
L nion have 48. If that makes a similar case to that which
exists in this Federation, perhaps my hon. friends will
allow't to go in. (Laughter and cheers.) To emphasise
the Canadian illustration, I will say that two provinces of
a population of 3,600,(100 souls have 48 senators, and six
other provinces with a population of 1,200,000 have 33
senators. Now, in our case two provinces with a popula-
tion of 2J millions have 12 senators, and three States with
a population of 700,000 have 18. '(Laughter.) Now how
that can be said to be a similar adjustment to the
Canadian system requires a considerable amount of ex-
planation. All I can say is, if it is the same thing, give it
to us, and there will be no more trouble about it.
And yet George Reid voted for tbis arrangement
m the Convention, and, according to his list of
amendments, lie is willing, even now, to let it
stand, and is still in favor of it. Same old George!
A great and clumsy Australian romancer
has arisen in England. This gentleman (a French-
man, De Rougemont) claims to have found quite a
number of vast sea-monsters in Torres Straits—
where the British-India steamers and multitudes
of other craft pass through regularly without drop-
ping on any of his sea-serpents and other horrors.
Ihe boss monster was a devil-fish which reached
up and yanked the pearl-fisher out of his boat.
Also he dropped on a race of giants in the same
locality. He was marooned for two and a-half
years on a sand-bank (where he presumably lived
on raw sand), and was afterwards for 30 years
chief of a cannibal tribe in northern Wes-
tralia. He was located, apparently, not very
far from the scene of Kimberley gold rush, in a
locality where the naked and penniless nig is con-
stantly harried and moved on by the W.A.
trooper, and lie solemnly swears that‘the wretched
darkies thereabouts use “pots and pans of virgin
gold.” De Rougemont’s tribe was a great mili-
tary organisation, not in the least like the
scarce and badly-scared Australian aboriginal, but
more resembling the Zulus. While pervading
these parts he found a demented white man, who
proved to be the explorer Gibson (Gibson died in
quite a different part of Australia in 72), and
rescued two white women who were captives
among the natives. De Rougemont, having evi-
dently a wild idea that Northern W.A, is a per-
fectly unexplored land, and not knowing how
the local cannibal is looked after and care-
fully run in to be flogged for his own good
in the lock-up at Roeburne, goes into strange
gyrations about the botany and geography
of the country, and, so far, Britain seems to take
him rather seriously. De Rougemont is an even
more primitive story-teller than Calvert. He
claims to know the place where the native digs
out the great slabs of virgin gold, which his pots
and pans are made of, so possibly he has in view
something in the mine-flotation way. The Bul-
letin sees it recorded that Prof. Crookes (the
illustrious radiometer-man) was somewhat cautious
in introducing M. de Rougemont as a lecturer to
the Royal Society. The pallid Crookes isn’t an
enthusiast in fish-stories.
Ihe Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the Most
Cood for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
Pojicy-Holdei-s 1 The"wcfrW, 1 and* demonstrates doubtfthat the°best^Ccmiparw
SC Fot m e> P0 n ®“ Ti&S he te,hm »'
‘‘Total Admitted Assets, $253,750, 137. GO.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,112,225 -7s. lOcl.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with th„
Manager at other of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart h the
magnitude? 011 * 1 * 68 thB Dame ° f thiS Company wUh a,,y other Company of apparently similar name but of less.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company’s Building, MARTIN PLACE, SXLNEX*
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, ... 7
.. . LAPIDARIES, ETC.,
177 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely iti Opal. Cut or repair any Stones.
Buyer—A. BEBTHOLD.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. has begun its new financial year with
good prospects. The revenue for July was £837,750, an
increase of £17,118 as compared with July 1897. For
August the N.S.W. receipts were £097,158, which is
£83,684 more than the amount received in August 1897.
Therefore the two months show an increase of £100,802 as
compared with the corresponding two months of last year.
And the expenditure for same period (£1.413,477) is
£13,429 less than that for July and August, 1897 ; also, up
to date, the State income is £121,431 ahead of the out-
goings. Which would be a splendid result if it wasn’t
arrived at by shunting more and more of the public ex-
penditure into loan-account. Under any decently honest
system of government the increased revenue would
be a reason for reducing loan expenditure, and
paying more of the national expenses out of revenue,
but the policy of the great wriggler isn’t built
that way. During the two months £99,155 was added to
the public debt, and the loan expenditure was £303,537 —
which is £65,471 more than the loan expenditure for July
and Aug., ’97. The loan expenditure helps to make a
kind of temporary artificial prosperity, and the artificial
prosperity helps to keep up the revenue, and the increase
of revenue is held as a proof of the justifiableness of more
loan expenditure—and so the game goes on.
* * * *
Queensland revenue for August, 1898, was
£288,664, an increase of £28,410 as compared with the
figures for Aug., ’97. But Queensland's alleged boom is an
even worse lie and swindle than that of N.S.W. Last
year the kanaka province made a burst of prosperity by
borrowing and spending £1,220,000, which, in proportion
to population, was twice as large a loan expenditure as
that of N.S.W., and nearly approached the worst doings
of the old Parkes days in Sydney or the Gillies riot in
Melbourne. This year it proposes to make an even bigger
burst of prosperit.y by borrowing and spending £1,536,090,
equal to about £3 ss. per inhabitant, or £l6 ss. for every
family of five. A certain amount of affluence has been
created by this wild scattering of borrowed cash, and
that borrowed affluence naturally makes the revenue look
up a little. Queensland has already, in proportion to
population, the Biggest Debt on Earth ; it owes £72 per
inhabitant, while Victoria, at the other end of the Aus-
tralasian list, owes £4O. And therein lies the whole story
of Queensland’s present little boom, and of the great
burst that will follow.
* * • •
Westralia’s August revenue was .£221,045 —a
fall of £25,428 as compared with Aug., ’97. For July and
Aug. the revenue is £42,372 less than that of July' and
Aug., ’97. If the drop continues at the present rate, the
yeaFs revenue will be fully £250,000 behind that of ’97,
and it will take much hard sacking of the miserable public
servant to make good the difference. Westralia’s takings
for the last six years have been as follows :
1892- £575,822
1893- 681,246
1894- .. .. _ „ 1,125,941
1895- « 1,858,695
1896- .. 2,842,751
1897- .. .. .. .. 2,754,746
The rise of nearly a million in 1896-7 was the last great
whoop of the boom, and now there is a fall of anywhere
between £500,000 and £1,500,000 to be faced before the
revenue reaches bottom and starts on a slow course of
improvement again. It all depends on what kind of luck
W.A. meets with in the next three years or so.
* * * *
Tasmania’s revenue for August was .£71,100, an
increase of £5944 as compared with Aug., ’97. Eight)
months of the Tas. financial year have now expired, and
the revenue is £59,716 ahead of the corresponding eight
months of ’97. Treas. Fysh reckoned an increase of
£68,256 for the 12 months, and, apparently, he should
get there with something to spare.
» * « *
The August revenue in Victoria (£534,234)
shows an increase of £34,433 as compared with August,
1897 ; and for July and Aug. the increase, as compared
with the corresponding months of last year, is £39,605.
Premier Turner reckoned that the revenue for the year
ending June, ’99, would be £20,775 better than last year’s
total, and, unless a slump sets in, he has already realised
his expected increase nearly twice over. September
starts, too, with the death of a rich man named Smith,
whose estate panned-out for £24,627 probate-duty.
* * * ♦
The National Bank of Maoriland is steadily re-
covering from the awful episode that struck it in 1885,
when £lOO,OOO of its capital disappeared, and the other
awful episode in 1891, when holders gave £2 11s. 3d. per
share to have the scrip taken off their hands, and it was
found necessary to write off £150,000 out of the remain-
ing £250,000 paid-up capital, and make a call of £150,000.
The profits for the year ended 31st March, 1898, are
£25,538, equal to t'9 2s. sd. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds, which is enormously above the pre-
sent average of banking profits. A div. of 5 per cent,
and 1 per cent, bonus absorb £15,000 ; £lO,OOO is added
to reserve, making it £40,000 ; and the other £538, with
previous balance, leaves £4195 at credit of profit and loss.
The profits of the N.B. of M.L., since it got over that un-
lucky episode in ’9l, have been as follows :
March, 1892 .. £19,335 March, 1896 .. £18,090
„ 1893 .. 10,344 „ 1897 .. 21,461
„ 1894 .. 16,997 „ 1898 .. 25,538
„ 1895 .. 16,431
Out of this £134,196, representing seven years’ profits,
the National, as already mentioned, has created a £40,000
reserve, so it has at least done something to repair the
£250,000 loss sustained by the shareholders in ’B5 and ’9l,
though it has still a good way to go before these disasters
are made good. The National has a large and steadily
increasing business. Its reserve of £431,087 cash and
£100,355 in State securities equals a shade under 20 per
cent, of all liabilities to the public—which is reasonably
good, though not by any means above the average. Alto-
gether, however, the institution is doing remarkably well.
Other things being equal, the difference between
the bank which makes large profits and the one which
doesn’t is very simple. Assuming that the assets are
perfectly sound in each case, the way to make a large
percentage of profit is to run a large business on a small
paid-up capital. As a case in point, the National Bank of
M.L. trades on £290,000 shareholders’ funds against nearly
£2,700,009 belonging to the public, and makeslarge profits.
As an example of the other kind of thing, the Royal Bank
(Melb.) trades on £150,000 of its own money and only
£320,000 belonging to the public, and its profits are com-
paratively small. In case of a great slump in values, the
advantage, so far as the safety of depositors is concerned,
is all with the class to which the Royal belongs, as it has
over four times as large a margin ; but as dividend-earn-
Ing concerns, the Royal of Melbourne, and concerns like
It, have their disadvantages.
* m • •
The Union Bank of Australia issues (very late)
Its balance-sheet for the half-year ended 2Sth February,
1898. So far as profits are concerned, it is the best half-
year, with one exception, that the bank has experienced
since August, 1893. Some recent profits of the Union are
as follows :
February,’93 .. £69,609 February,’96 .. £37,996
August, ’93 .. 60,295 August, ’96 .. 58,837
February, ’94 .. 44,132 February, ’97 .. 37,578
August,’94 .. 44,676 August,’97 .. 37,436
February, *95 .. 37,172 February,’9B .. 47,696
August, ’95 .. 36,063
The profit equals £3 16s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds (paid-up capital, £1,500,000 ; reserve,
£750,000; contimrent account, £250,000), which is rather
good as the average of bank earnings go nowadays. The
usual dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum
absorbs £37,500 ; another £lO,OOO is written off bank pre-
mises and other property ; and the remaining £196, with
previous balance, leaves £24,699 at credit of profit and loss
account. In a general way the Union looks prosperous. Cash
and liquid securities (£4,923,456) are £1,009,000 less than
they were six months ago, and the advances have in-
creased to about the same amount. The reserve of cash
and securities is still solid enough for all purposes, equal-
ling over 27 per cent, on all liabilities to the public, and
the fact that there is a million less money festering to no
good purpose in the cellar probably accounts for the large
increase in the earnings. Huge cash reserves have a
sensational aspect in the balance-sheet, but they' tend to
make business eminently unprofitable.
* * * *
H.S. (Brisbane) : The office you mention is
simply the very worst in the Seven Provinces. Keep
clear of it.
• * • •
The once great Victoria Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) is now only the ghost, of its old self, and its
balance-sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1898, is
especially solemn reading. The last six years’ record of
this co. reads as follows :
Profit. Dividend Paid.
June, 1893 .. £34,084 44} per cent. .. £22,468
„ 1894 .. 24,400 „ „ .. 22,468
„ 1895 .. 20,741 401 „ .. 20,221
„ 1896 .. 17,058 352 » .. 17,974
» 1897 .. 18,010 „ „ M 17,974
Loss.
June, 1898 ... 23,336 Nil.
Profits .. £90,957 Dividends .. £101,105
This shows that the co. has paid away (10,148 more than
its earnings during six years. And in addition to this there
is a further loss of £20,000 through depreciation of in-
vestments, so during the past six years the Victoria has
gone back over £30,000. The fact that a larg'e amount in
the way of depreciation had to be provided for was
tacitly admitted for sometime back, and, despite this fact,
the management in 1896 and 1897 paid away practi-
cally' the whole of its profits in enormous dividends,
and made no visible effort whatever to meet the difficulty.
And, though the great Melbourne fire could not be defi-
nitely' foreseen, such disasters are of periodical occur-
rence, and when a co. with a large business and compara-
tively 7 small funds blews all its earnings in 35 per cent,
dividends during good seasons it is practically inviting
disaster. The Victoria Insurance co. is now a compara-
tively small concern with £50,178 paid-up capital, £25,000
reserve, and £11,838 re-insurance fund. The income from
interest and rents has dropped from £5804 in 1893 to
£3614, and the premium-income remains much the same.
Evidently' the co. wants a lot less 35 per cent, dividend
and a lot more persistent effor,tto build up a solid reserve.
Another three years like the last would leave compara-
tively little of the old Victoria standing.
• * » *
The Victoria General Insurance and Guarantee
Co. (Melbourne), which is a species of baby relative to the
other Victoria, also presents a depressing balance-sheet
for the year ended 30th June, ’9B. Owing to the-great
Melb. fire, the year’s operations show a loss of £5Oll, and
an utterly unjustifiable 10 per cent, dividend absorbs
£2OOO, so that the co. ends the year £7Oll worse off than
it was at the beginning. The last six years’ record of this
co. is also rather interesting :
Profits. Dividends.
June, 1893 .. £6283 .. 15 per cent. = £3OOO
„ 1894 .. 6477 .. 20 „ = 4000
„ 1595 .. 5629 ..20 „ = 4000
„ 1896 .. 4957 ..25 „ = 5000
„ 1897 .. 3689 ..20 „ = 4000
Loss.
„ 1898 .. 5011 ..10 „ = 2000
Profit, £22,054 Dividends, £22,000
For three successive years the Victoria G.I. and G. Co.
has paid away more, in 10, 20 and 25 per cent, dividends,
than its entire earnings. It is a very small affair at the
best—with £20,000 paid-up capital, £9OOO reserves, and
£1494 profit and loss balance ; and if the management
continues to howl after big dividends as urgently as it has
been doing the co. is never likely to be much bigger.
Moreover, though the co. is, on paper, £54 further ahead
than it was six years ago, the probabilities are that
it is really about £4OOO behind. A memo in the balance-
sheet states that the mortgages are put in at their old
paper-value, and that losses are allowed for in the contin-
gency account, so presumably the contingency reserve of
£4OOO is now only a paper item which has been swallowed
up by losses not yet written off. The policy of keeping a
paper-reserve on one sideagainst paper-assetson the other,
instead of writing them both off, is mere stupid inflation.
The premium-income has decreased from £12,702 in 1893
(which wasn’t much) to £10,758 in 1898, and in the same
period the interest from investments has dropped from
£1854 to £1054. As the interest is only £3 Is. per cent,
per annum on the actual investments, it certainly looks
as if some of them wanted writing down very badly in-
deed, and as if the whole of the £4OOO contingency fund
would be wanted to meet the loss. Even if that £4OOO
was all written off, the investments would yield less than
31 per cent, per annum, and that certainly wouldn’t look as
if they hafl been written down any too low. Altogether,
the small Victoria looks about as cheerless this year as the
big one, and the bloated-dividend complaint seems to be
eating away the foundations of both of them.
* « * *
The old Victoria Life Insurance Co. goes on
dying slowly and respectably. It takes no new risks
nowadays, but merely sits on its pile and watches the old
assurers pegging out. When the last one pegs there
will probably be a big sum for the shareholders to divide.
Last year assurances to the amount of £12,340 fell in, and
after paying them and allotting a 12. j per cent,
dividend (£5000) to shareholders the funds are only'
about £3500 less than they were at the begin-
ning of the year. Probably in course of time the
Victoria will have only one policy-holder left and
will have £lOO,OOO or so to divide among its share-
holders when he dies. And as likely as not that last
insurer will hang on all b.y himself for 20 years, and
refuse to take his surrender value or to get out on any
terms, and the office will have to be kept open for the
sole purpose of collecting the lone veteran’s premium
once a year, and the last days of the Victoria Life Co. will
be disfigured with much cursing.
* • * #
Balmain (Sydney) New Ferry co. publishes a
rather remarkable balance-sheet. It sets forth that the
revenue for the half-year to 30th June, 1898, was £6097, as
compared with £6391 for previous half-year, and the trading
profit, after paying all working expenses and writing off
£5BB for depreciation, is £B9O, against £1306 for previous
half. No div. was paid for the six months ended 31st
Dec., ’97, owing to the disastrous fire that struck the co.’s
fleet; which leaves £2196 accumulated profit for the year.
The fire-loss absorbs £2004 of this, so the net profit for
the year is £192. Applying the insurance reserve
(£120) towards covering the fire loss, and including
previous profit and loss balance of £1512, the
amount at credit of profit and loss is £lB2l, and a half-
year’s div. at 10 per cent, per annum reduces this to
£1145. So far everything is perfectly plain. The re-
markable feature is that while the balance-sheet says that
£451 has been written off the value of the co’s steamers
it appears from the same sheet that £1144 has really
been added on to their paper-value—at least they now
stand in the balance-sheet at £15,530, whereas six months
ago they only represented £14,386. Of course it is pos-
sible that they have been so greatly improved as to be
worth the extra value put on them, but no allusion to
this very extensive writing-up is made in the report. And
any extensive writing-up of properties (the value of one
vessel rises at a jump from £2984 to £3839) is always more
or less —well, worthy of note.
m * * *
The Life Assurance Act Amending Bill now
before Yic. Upper House proposes to make the policy un-
assailable on score of misstatement of age, and so avoid
the lamentable spectacle of the widow bill-of-saleing her
furniture to fight a wealthy co. The Bill proposes to
make all present policies unchallengeable on that score,
and for the future the co’s will, of course, take care of
themselves. Big handicap to have to prove a dead per-
son’s age, as the cadaver frequently carries the knowledge
with him. Bill also makes policy up to £lOOO unseizable
by legal process ; and, on insolvency within two years of
policy’s inception, insolvent can appoint agent, who can
purchase it for not more than amount of premiums paid,
and hold it for benefit of family ; in case of death within
two years of inception, should estate be insolvent without
the £lOOO, policy would only be liable for the premiums
paid, and the balance of the thousand be available for the
family. The Bill is being a good deal bucketed by the
House of Landlords, who don’t, or won’t, know the in-
surance-agent’s pleasing little practice of verbally modify-
ing the written contract and leaving the insurer to stand
by the letter thereof.
* * * *
8.11. Prop, makes its biggest telluride ore pur-
chase to date—looo tons from the Associated. Deals on a
basis promising anything like the profits which the 8.11
Prop, people are used to seemed so hopeless that just
before this purchase was made the directors were think-
ing of abandoning a regular canvass for this business.
• * * *
Broken Hill mine-managers, who, sprinkled
with two or three thousand a-year men, constitute a very
high and mighty body, prepared themselves to give the
N.S.W. Govt. Metallurgist (Mr. Taylor) a Klondyke recep-
tion. Reason was the publication in all the dailies of a
par. that, at their request, Mr. Taylor was going up to
consult with them as to refractory-ore treatment ! And,
when you come to think that these men have been speci-
ally' trained, and have been living with this problem,
working with it, and eating with it, and sleeping with it
for years past, it was a bit “steep.” Of course they
denied at once that they had made any representations
on the subject.
* * * *
Since last week’s meeting of Great Cobar share-
holders it has leaked out that the value of the mine’s
production for the half-year was £127,441, that the chair-
man estimated the cost of production at £68,000, thus
showing a profit for the six months of £59,441. Copper
produced, 1723 tons—so the value of the bullion would be
£73 19s. 4d. per ton. That would bring the producing
cost to £39 9s. 3d. a ton. It is impossible to get at the
exact figures without the tributors’ assistance, and they'
think it suits their business to keep those figures quiet.
But as the Cobar ore is probably the simplest blast-
furnacing proposition in Australasia—not excepting Mt.
Lyell—it is unreasonable to assume that their cost of
production is the greatest, such as this estimate would
make it. As one well-known metallurgist put it :“ I
don’t call it smelting—it is simply ‘melting.’” Since
these amounts were earned the output from the mine has
much increased, as shown by' the bigger weekly sales of
copper. No doubt the mine is now working at a total
profit of £150,000 a year, which is about the total amount
it paid in upwards of 20 years, when the grade of the
ore was much higher, but when nothing was got for its
gold, when it was handicapped with heavy road carriage,
and worked the old reverberatory system. Changed
conditions have had a marvellous effect on this mine, and
probably will have on some others.
» * • »
The Gibraltar strike at Adelong has ended by
the co. giving way and taking on 60 men at the old 50s.
wage. Contracts are to be called for any work which the
selected 60 can’t tackle.
* ♦ * *
The Garden Gully United (Bendigo) has now
paid 17s. 6d. per share, all within six weeks, from the new
reef at 1440 ft., and the shares are something like 18s.
paid-up. The last dividend from the old reef was
paid on 2nd Aug., ’94, and then a common opinion was
that the grand old Garden Gully' mine was “ done.” But
the Bendigo speculator comes next to Job in the matter
of patience and dogged perseverance, and he pegged
away. A 4loz. reef and over 3000 oz. of retorted gold for
a fortnight’s work are a good reward for these four years
of ill-luck.
• • * *
Though the most.-talked-of Bendigo mines are
sweating away at 3000 ft. or so, there are scores of pro-
mising ones which have not chiselled out the gold beyond
400 ft. y'et. The other day the Prince of Wales United re-
solved to get away' down a bit faster; and, to help it on,
it has put up a new battery. What the claims yielded in
the very early' days is not known ; in the next few years
the profit was ' 80,000 ; and in modern times, under the
present co.—which had to be helped on by Govt, prospect-
ing-aid—£3l,ooo has been paid in dividends in about four
years, while three times as much has been disbursed in
other directions. And all from the stuff above the 300 ft.
level.
* • • •
For the third week in June Bendigo mines paid
£12,810 in divs—the best this decade. The Garden
Gully’s contribution was £7541; this for a fortnight’s work.
* * * *
From the report of a Mount Deddick meeting,
in Melb., it appears Tiie Bulletin’s dear old friend,
Captain Begelhole, is representing “ British investors.”
How much Bull capital does the gallant captain repre-
sent, and what part of the mountain is it invested in,
anyhow? Also, if the “Begelhole Lode,” and other
abiding places of “ mineral wealth ” in the Deddick are
foreign possessions, why should the Turner Govt, run a
railway for Bull’s credit ?
• * * •
Croydon items. Splendid mundie struck re-
cently at Grace Leigh No. 1 South, Golden Valley'. Isa-
bella reef at same place only looking so-so at latest
advices. Waratah co., at Tabletop, produced first cake
of g01d—2520z., worth £3 ss. per oz., from low-grade ore.
This is stated to be at the rate of about 7dwt. per ton,
which is payable. Stone taken from quarry face on Mt.
Morgan hill. Co. will soon have 30 head of stamps going
on stone. No. 7 N. Golden Gate exhibition ton of stone
assayed £35 per ton value, but independent prospects
from rich veins gave over lOOoz. per ton. Co. going to
treat about 500 tons, and send resulting cake, estimated
at 50000 z., to London Exhibition, but not for flotation
purposes—the No. 7 is too good for floating, the share-
holders think, at present. Reported Elmslie Limited
struck new rich development in La Reine D’Or co.’s pro-
perty, 3 and 4 West Iguana. Also reported co. going to
put a battery on the mine, when it should be a valuable
property.
Gympie output for August was 9391 tons
crushed for 12,0470 z., with 2050 z. from tailings and con-
centrates. (Output for Aug., ’97, was only 41030 z.) Croy-
don gave 24 Irioz., with 7890 z. from tailings. Mt. Morgan
returned 12,8310 z. from 17,498 tons crushed. (Tailings
and concentrates, 139V0z.) Yield per ton very different
from that of Aug., '97, when 13,160 tons gave 14,1260 z.
Clermont’s alluvial produce was 35150 z.—an increase of
about lOuOoz. on the same month of '97.
• » * *
Dear Bulletin.—ls it a fact that the Boulder
Perseverance milling contract with the Hannan’s Public
Crushing co. gives the tailings to the Crushing co. ? That
the stone crushed is mixed oxidised arid sulphide ore, and
that 2oz. go into the tailings? If so, it looks like another
Konemann deal.-—Boulder City.
• * * *
Towers dividends for Aug., £22,500. In all, 07,057
tons were treated for 39.3400 z. Of this the mills crushed
18,480 tons for 19,4780 z. ; cyanide gave 19,(>00oz. from
48,367 tons, and chlorination gave 2560 z. from 210 tons.
Day Dawn Block return was 2990 tons crushed for 29700 z.
Brilliant and St. George United, 2254 tons for 33340 z., and
Brilliant, 3120 tons for 33190 z.
* • •
Mt. Garnet, The Bulletin hears, is to be pri-
vately floated at beginning of October. Capital, £160,000
—working capital, £40,000 ; vendors take £lOO,OOO in
shares and £SOOO cash ; balance reserved.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—l wish to join the Society for
Being rather Tired of Myself and my Critics. 1 didn’t
start the talk—l merely chipped in, in refutation of the
plain ignorance and the fancy lies of the Chillagoe
damsters. Just this in final answer, and I put on a
muzzle. “ Old Miner ” says he sampled Mt. Garnet for
average of 5 per cent, before it was taken up, and pre-
sumably, therefore, his 5 per cent, average was from sur-
face. Also, he must have done the sampling 15 years ago
—because for nearly that time the mine has been a free-
hold. I state again that the 104 ft. of lode-width disclosed
by the Ml. Garnet tunnel averages 10 per cent, copper
and 20oz. silver. The S.M. Herald reporter, writing a
few days ago, puts the copper contents at from 12
to 15 per cent. I did not say that there were
20,000 tons of ore in sight on the Girofla lode. I
said there were 22,000 tons in sight in the Giro-
fla mine, and I now say it again, and, in spite of
“ R. 8.” saying it, it is true. Also Jack and Stewart and
other big men say the Garnet lode will go down to great
depths—not to the depth of the father of lies, because he
has no depth and he writes to The Bulletin as “Old
Miner.” “ Briton ” attacks iny statement re Keelbottom.
I have seen a prospectus, and what I meant by stating
that the property was not necessarily floated was merely
in allusion to the fact that a London “ registration ” does
not cover “flotation” as it does in Melbourne. I have
not seen the Keelbottom, and I’m ready to bet that
“ Briton ” hasn’t seen Chillagoe, but reputable men have
told me what I have written you of its elusive richness,
and I know several who dropped money over the mine in
past capitalisations, and who state that it was given a fair
run and will not pay. Elijah’s mantle has not fallen on
me and my own clothes are good enough. As the secre-
tary of the 5.8.1t.T., R.B. says, let the Chillagoe field talk,
and talk it can. Fifteenthly, and in conclusion, I am
“ terribly anxious to prop up the Chillagoe boom.” The
field is the biggest copper-silver country in Australia, and
boom it shall—Randolph Bedford.
Tas. battery returns for August: New Golden
Gate, 1550 tons for 21fi6ozs. Tasmania, 2720 tons for
21660z5. Ringarooma, 145 tons ISSozs. Mangana Reefs,
310 tons for 3Gozs. Golden Hill, 50 tons for 12ozs. Woody
Hill, 17 tons for 7ozs.
• » * *
Tas. dividends for August: Mt. Bischoff (7s. fid.),
£3OOO ; Tasmania (Is.), £2910 15s. ; Golden Gate (Is. 6d.),
£2400. Total, £B3lO 15s.
If Father Long's sensational announcement at
Kanowna concerning the much-doubted finding of the
“ Sickle ” nugget had been looked at in cold print there
would not have been much of a stampede out that way.
Instead of telling the crowd where it was found, all he
could say—or, anyway, all he did say—was that he
thought it came from a place (Lake Gwynne) about 4£
miles out. But the locality is so unpromising, and there
is so little local evidence in support of the find, that 24
hours after the crowd had swarmed over the gully there
were only half-a-dozen forlorn men making any pretence
at work. And the wily Father had pledged the diggers
beforehand not to ask him any more questions about the
b usiness.
* • * •
“Parley”: The Sacred Slug of Kanowna has
never looked like anything but the work of a fictionist.
There has been too much mystery, too much theatrical
flam, too much rumor, and too little evidence. Tub Bul-
letin now publishes more tangible statements. “It was
(said to have been) found by two men from Cassilis (Gipps-
land), named Brodie and Millaine.” That is candid, and
ought to bring a response. Having only the evidence of
newspaper telegrams, I doubt the Sacred Slug, and
I fear that Brodie and Millaine are myths. “The
big slug is now at Melb. Mint.” Rats 1 The big
slug weighs nearly a cwt. It was deposited with
a bank. That bank would ship it to Melb. And—why
didn’t it get a cheap and legitimate advt. by exhibiting
it, as was done with former big finds, in some jeweller’s
window? Why did the bank not hold a little levee with
special invitations to the reporters ? Simply because no
Melb. bank has received the Sacred Slug. The banks are
the only ones in the gold-escort business. “ Brodie and
Millaine ” would not employ any others as agents—and
they would not themselves lug about a clumsy cwt. of
misshapen gold. Firstly, they would have to smuggle it
out of Westralia, or else reveal it to the customs officers,
and thereby disclose their secret. Secondly, they would
fear the almost absolute certainty of having their secret
discovered on the steamer. Thirdly, there is the great
suspicion that broods in the West, arid that has separated
so many otherwise unsuspicious partners. One rich blow
was discovered by a band of good friends. After the find
they separated into distinct camps, cooking their own
food for fear of poison. This has again and again
happened Out West, and “ Brodie and Millaine ”
would probably get under the influence. Would they be
likely to cart their clumsy treasure about, only their’ two
selves knowing the secret ? Then, again, 1 have not seen
anywhere that Father Long actually said he saw the pre-
cious slug. The finders’ joint yarn’, told with much cir-
cumstance and seriousness, would quite possibly mislead
the priest. But, again, has he ever said that his own eyes
have seen the Sacred Nugget ? Lastly, why the necessity
for secresy ? Once deposited with the Union Bank, the
credit of the institution is good enough, even if a £5OOO
nugget were stolen from it. If it is not in any bank, it is
probably the delusion of sick men. If it were in a bank,
it would not be lying there idle. Escorts of parcels of
gold worth much more than this are common enough all
over Australia, including the West. My verdict is : no
nugget. Moreover, was there an application for a re-
ward claim—and if not, why not ?
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 431 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants lor bulk tests.*
* * • *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and
Machinery. *
-st., Richmond,
tons, by chlorina-
or dry crushed.
Batteries, Roast-
General Mining
The new air compressor at the Long Tunnel
mine, Walhalla, Victoria, is giving great satisfaction, and
has made a continuous run, night and day, of over
18 months, without once stopping. Manager Thomson
speaks in the highest terms of it. The plant is a 350
I.H.P. cross compound double stage air compressor, with
Corliss type air and steam valves, and reflects great credit
on the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South Mel-
bourne, who manufactured and erected it. This firm has
lately purchased the plant and stock of the old-established
Langlands Foundry co., now in liquidation, and, as it
has all the patterns, can supply duplicate parts of any
machines made by Langlands.*
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. ' Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-sfc., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem. Field.
R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
-ARE-
. . . British VestaS.
Acs. (PHILIPS St PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Rkps. ) Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND TERTH.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch. Whiskv.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harrison *= A-ttwoodl, Sole Propriotora
JJ
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Lithartre,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEE
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°/.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mbujouknb ;
11 i’Ut-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st,, Adel. ; Queen-st., Brieb■


Society
Australian art has not yet reached the Age
of Consent. At Sydney Society of Artists’ ex-
hibition there were 19 fruit and flower pretties,
and only two studies from the nude.
* * * •
The pious Chow doesn’t hide his light
under a bushel. A .Rockhampton Chinaman
afhxes following notice to his shop: —“Being a
Christian, I wish to notify to general public that
I intend to close my establishment on Sundays,
and I respectfully invite their attendance on
Saturday evenings, thus conducing to respectful
observance of Lord’s l)ay. ngned—Jimmy Bung
Lee.' ’
• • • «
Sydney boarding-house keepers are just
now called on just before meal-times by gents in
tjuest of board and lodging, who, having just
arrived by boat, have left luggage on wharf till
they have found suitable apartments. Of course
when terms have been agreed upon the new
lodger has lunch, dinner or tea, according to hour
and then departs to get luggage— not to return !
* • * »
The other day a Sydney woman told
Judge Simpson that she discovered her husband’s
lapse from virtuebylisteningtohimtalk in his sleep.
His tones were plaintive and he was earnestly
pleading to “dear Mrs. Blank” to let him
go home. This, apparently, Mrs. Blank was
unwilling to do; for, later on, it was alleged
that she took him away altogether, and the
Court smashed up the marriage. Men usually
call the women they hug by some pet-name, the
more they hug them the more absurd the name.
But this one was like Tristram Shandy’s dad,
who, even in his most delirious moments, never
failed to call the lady Mrs. Shandy.
A moral, husbands, here from life :
Remember, when inclined to rake,
The man who would deceive his wife
Must be extremely wide-awake 1
* * • *
The number of cottages in connection with
the N.S.W. Govt, poor asylums is limited and the
demand for them is keen, as life therein is much
easier than in the main buildings. A month or
two ago, a female inmate died, and, as is ous-
tomary, the surviving husband was instructed to
prepare for transfer to the men’s asylum at the
end of the week. Loth to lose his comfortable
quarters, the old fellow struck a bargain with the
aged woman who cleaned the cottages, herself an
asylum inmate, and a hasty ceremony was gone
through. The bridal couple, whose combined ages
totalled 140 years, applied for the cottage, but,
alas, the departmental head had no sense of the
romantic, and gave it to the next applicant.
• ♦ * *
At a N.Q. town recently a pretty little
Yum-yum strolled into a fashionable shop to
negotiate for a tailor-made costume. The tailor-
man, after much laborious dumb-show, got the
little lady to understand that she would have to
be measured, whereupon Yum-yurn, with a sudden
"sweep, unrolled about three fathoms of cummer-
bund, plucked deftly at a fastening or two, and,
with a single wriggle, stood before the paralysed
Snip clad in nothing but a smile of seraphic inno-
• cenoe!
The “little brown woman” Jap. lydy is per-
sistently making her way down Queensland coast
—she. is now well established in Townsville. Her
English, of course, is rudimentary, but she gets
along all right with a silvery little laugh that
adequately fills the conversational gaps. Her
linguistic education is apparently imparted on a
rigidly utilitarian plan, as she appears to under-
stand nothing of what is said to her, but simply
waits for the interviewer to pause and then chip
in—“ Me on’y sixeteen ; sem’teen neshee mont’.”
Then, next chance she gets: “ On’y one wick
here ; nichee place. You nichee gem’man: plen-
dee monee, wha’ ?—ha, ha ! ”
“ Glory ” : “ Scotty the Wrinkler ” prefers
men to women nurses ; most soldiers don’t. I was
on ship-board with a crowd of the Army Hospital
corps. One day I went on the forecastle-head,
the jib vyas lying unfurled on deck, and two of the
corps were lying in it. The sail formed a screen
from deck to stay, and I, unobserved, heard this
pleasant confab : “ You fellahs at the front will
have a show to make a bit. By the time they get
down to us, at the base, they’ll be skinned.”
“ Most of ’em’s stony—there’ll be very little for us,
if you ask me.” “Get out; they all drew a
month’s pay the day before they left, and lots of
’em have got watches and rings, and things. You
coves will be all right—l wish we were going to
the front.’’ A soldier told me that he was badly
wounded in the thigh at Majuba, and one of these
ghouls “ went through him,” and left him to bleed
to death—one of his own company found him un-
conscious, and brought him in. The stories that
soldiers who’ve seen active service tell of the male
army nurse would give a black snake the night-
mare. Besides, the ordinarily-constituted male
will get well just for the sake of trying to mash
his nurse—if she’s under 50.
* » • •
Dear Bulletin. —l do not wish to discuss
“ Breaker’s ” neatly attired nymph of the hospital,
but by same post as the B. came the accompany-
ing letter, and the subject of it was mentioned in
my irritating comment on female attendants. I
named a friend as a victim of their barbarity.
I do not say they are all so, because, like
“Breaker,” 1 was refitted in Mooroopna Hospital,
where the nurses were perfect. My old chum
says of the N.S. W. asylum to which he was sent
I am not in hospital, but turned out in the yard like
an old horse in a paddock to get better or die! On my
arrival here the doctor ordered medicine for me, and told
me to go in the yard from 6 a.m. till 6p m. They take
your flannels from you, and give you all sorts of old
clothes to wear, covered with lice. Language fails me to
give you a description of the place—looo men—4oo in
hospital and 100 in the yard like out-door patients. If I
were able to travel I would not remain one night. There
is only one doctor to all the inmates.
All this is from a manly man who, I assure you,
does not know how to lie. We thought he would
get better attention there than here, or he would
never have been allowed to go. Even in a “6x
8 ” tent I could make him more comfortable than
he is, and we shall do so ; but we must have the
matter of the cold yard and filth seen into. His
dog is here in charge of a friend.— Scotty the
Wrinkler.
Sydney is at present utterly without a
preacher capable of sensationalising his Sunday
discourse so as to enable a pumped out journalist
to make an article out of it for Monday morning’s
paper. This is grow-
ing into a big grievance,
and the Church must
look to it.
THE FAMILY RESEMBLANCE.
MINISTER: “ Thomas, remember the
devil allows no drinking in hell."
THOMAS : “ Well, I’ve heard as ’ow the parsons do
'take after him here '.”
Regard the “girls’ curriculum” fathered by-
Brisbane (Q.) Girls’ Grammar-School trustees, for
the competitive examinations for “ the Queen’s
Scholarship ” :
Inorganic chemistry, physics, geology, physiology, zoo-
logy and botany ; English, French, German,’ Latin, arith-
metic, algebra, geometry, history of Europe, ancient his-
tory, Greek, plane trigonometry, and mechanics.
Hey for the sweet girl graduate ! Not one art
subject not even drawing and painting. No
plastic art, such as sculpture and moulding. No
poetry (thank Heaven !). No music. Even his-
tory is to be ancient and European. Australian
history is, apparently, in the egg. What sort of a
“ She who must be obeyed ” is in incubation in
Alienalia ?
* * * *
Brisbane has run its course of dengue-
fever and beri-beri, and has partly climbed the
steeps of influenza, only to descend into the mala-
rial valley of measles, diphtheria, pneumonia, and
tuberculosis. Every second person you meet in
Brisbane has either had measles, or feels them
coining on ; every person whom you don't meet is
abed with them. Influenza has now stretched out
suckers Westward, and almost every family in
Roma district has at least one member low with it.
* * * *
Ail enthusiastic dog-lover angrily protests
against’the recent slaying by two Sydney subur-
ban constables of a tyke which prevented them
from investigating the condition of his master,
lying apparently insensible against a tree. “ Con-
temptible butchery of a faithful animal ! ” and so
on. The Bulletin dunno. The “ faithful
mimal ” has occasionally been known to make a
light repast off his defunct idol, and present case
recalls another instance in which a N.S.W. police-
trooper was severely censured for having shot the
guardian-dog—until it was discovered that said
guardian’s affection for hi§ master was so strong
as to have induced him to assimilate portions of
its object. The canine-fidelity legend has numer-
ous large holes in it.
* * * *
Four advts. from one issue of Melb. Age,
Sept. 1: —
/"'IOOK, Cingalese or Japanese. Early,
Hotel, Queen-st.
JAPANESE Boy wants aeneral house work. Masaki,
9 Little Marion-st., Fitzroy.
/CINGALESE Cooks. 3, £3, £2, 20s. shearers,
stations, private, hotels, city. Murray's Regis-
try, 410 Lonsdale-st.
TAPANESE wants situation as cook. Mr. Masaki,
9 Little Marion-st., Fitzroy.
The brown invasion is beginning in Vic. But
surely a first-class French chef could be obtained
for .£3 per week.
* * » »
During the hearing of an alleged criminal-
assault case in Launceston (Tas.) Supreme Court
the other day, the foreman of the jury asked that
the court might be cleared ; but the Judge replied
that he had no power to order such a thing.
Counsel Clarke then suggested that his Honor
might follow the example of the Irish Judge, who,
upon having it pointed out to him that several
women had not complied with a request to leave,
observed, loudly, “ Oh, it doesn’t matter !—all the
decent women are gone ! ” (Fact. Baron Penne-
father). Judge Dodds, however, declined the
responsibility of saying that anybody was not
“ respectable”—and nobody left the court. When
the question of the indecency of Havelock Ellis’s
“Sexual Inversion ’’-treatise was before a London
police-court, the magistrate plainly told the
stylish women present that to remain would be
gross indecency on their part, at any rate—but not
a petticoat budged.
Bargo ” : Coming home late, one cold
night recently, over Pyrmont bridge, Sydney,
found a man sound asleep ; legs dangling over the
water, hands clasping the bridge-railing. Awak-
ened him, and said he: “Yer the seventh
idiot that’s roused me ternight! Can’t
yer see I’m right over the stack of
this little steamer aside the bridge
that’s got half-steam up, and
I’m as warm as toast ? . . .
Fall in? Well, if I do fall in
it’s none of your business,
anyhow ! ” And before I
had recovered from my as-
tonishment he was snoring
again.
• • •
“Pak-Mar” : The pro-
sperity of a nation depends
upon the number of its crimi-
nals. Thus—the more crimi-
nals, the more police; the
more police, the greater the
contentment of the cooks ; the
more contented the cooks, the
better the cooking, and, through
it, the health of the nation. Health
is. both wealth and the cause of wealth.
Therefore, the more criminals, the better for
the nation.
“ Cos. ” : More re pre-natal influence.
Woman of writer’s acquaintance had a
violent altercation with a Chow fish-hawker
re the payment of his little bill. Some
months later she gave birth to a boy who
bore unmistakeable likeness to a China-
man. Sister of same woman living on
a selection was so much worried by
Hindoo hawkers that three of her chil-
dren were dark enough to elicit nasty
remarks from the neighbors. This sort
of pre-natal influence is very common in
Australia, especially around the Kanaka
districts.
Dear Bulletin.— Up
North, recently, a man
charged by. a local J.P.
with “ threatening beha-
viour” was discharged, on
the ground that the pro-
secutor’s alleged illicit in-
cy with defendant’s wife was
a gross provocation. Now, isn’t
there something indecent in the
feet that this “ unpaid ” personage
—whether blameworthy or not in
re the allegation made against him
by defendant--had been sitting in
judgment upon several cases before his
own was dealt with ?— Nulla.
He music in neuralgia and nerve-depres-
sion. In Germany the music-cure is greatly in
vogue. They say a special hospital has been es-
tablished at Munich for the systematic application
of music m these disorders. It is held that the
vibrations of. the tympanum, setup by music, pro-
duce oscillatory movements in the nerves and so
on to the brain, which is soothed by this form of
massage or vibration treatment. Music and mass-
age are thus convertible terms, and Marshall-Hall
is only a professional masseur, after all. No
wonder he was drawn to a man of like calling—to
wit, Mr. Peters, the masseur—and no marvel that
he immortalises him in the following :
To Mr. Alfred Peters, Masseur.
Some say dead Lazarus was raised,
And others sny he shammed ;
But, Peters, when you brought me to
I was both dead and damned !
It has been found that the note C major produces
vibrations which neutralise the disordered vibra-
tions in the affected nerve more readily than any
other note. Hence tunes in which C major pre-
dominates have been recommended as most effi-
cacious in the treatment of neuralgia. It has
been hinted that the experiment should not be
tried on individuals having no ear for music, lest
an induced current of rapid percussions and vibra-
tions tuned to D major should eventuate and lay
low the well-meaning experimenter.
* * * •
The Mitre, organ of the Vic. High Angli-
cans, makes editorial allusion to the Marshall-Hall
controversy, its last words being :
One point seems to be plain. So far as the public at
large have stirred in the matter, they have been aroused,
not by the indecency, but by the profanity of the Pro-
fessor’s speech and verses. The charge of indecency is
one that could scarcely have been pressed, had it stood
alone. We are unable to discover in those “poems”
specially referred to sufficient ground for declaring their
writer unworthy of his high post. But it is not the first
time that the real charge against a man is not that for
which he is condemned. Neither the Argus nor the
University Council can proceed against the Professor for
atheism. It is undesirable that they should. Yet we
recognise that forbearance has its limits, although they
are difficult to determine. The atheist who becomes
blatant and generally offensive must be checked somehow
or other. And that is what has happened in this in-
stance.
Marshall-Hall’s poems are not indecent. But they
are atheistical. The authorities could not con-
demn him for atheism. Therefore they did right
to condemn him for indecency, of which he* was
not guilty, and to say he was indecent though the
statement was not true. This is the verdict of a
religious paper.
* * * *
One of the many curious pieces of country
scenery which the Agricultural show brought to
Melbourne this year attracted much attention in
Collins-street. It consisted of two very round-
shouldered sons of the plough and furrow, with
earth-soiled moleskins, shabby tweed “ slop ”
coats, slouch hats, and the very latest style of
crook, willy-hoy walking sticks !
A Dream
Evening' treez.es Softly blow
The palm-leaves gently to and fro.
Swetf music fills cur.
AM once again cjour hand I take-
3weef onteaoain- alas! 1 wake,
jfoun sleep is sound fair.
H Griffith J
LOVE’S LOST HEAVEN.
Why so you seek me with those awful eyes,
In search of Love that withered in its birth?
You cannot in your Hell claim Paradise,
Nor seek for smiles where smiles are all a dearth.
I loved you onoe, but now that love is dead—
Night fills my heart where late devotion shone;
Flee from my sight with bowed and shaking head :
I tell you all is over—Love has gone!
HUGE R. M'CRAR.
d
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
/ Opposite \
‘ ■) A GvP.O. )
JOSfES
& COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
IP YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’
Tucker & 00.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
Harrington $ E°- Ctd.
. . . Photographic
. . . Merchants ,
66 King Street, SYDNEY
Melbourne Agents :
Messrs. CRAVEN & CO., 17D Collins-street
Brisbane Branch : 64 Queen-street
. (Agents in all the other Colonies) .
CARRY THE LARGEST AND MOST UP-TO-DATE
STOCK OF
Photographic Supplies and Novelties,
t&" New Complete Illustrated Catalogue
(No. 7) Now Ready, post free on
application.
See our advt. on page 3 for Latest Novelties. £1


AT THE CRICKET-MATGH. —A STALE SPORTING ITEM.
FOND MOTHER (to friend) : “ She is such a sharp girl. She cam, read the names
on the scoring -hoard. D-O-N-N-A-N —what does that spell, dear?
THE LITTLE DEAR: “Ranji!"
In Waverley ’bus. Time, 10 p.m. Gentle-
man on roof, lady inside. Conductor, to gentle-
man : “Fare, please.” Gentleman, handing over
a shilling : “ Take for the lady inside.” Conduc-
tor : “How far are you going, sir?” Gent. :
“ Oh, I don’t know —you’d better ask her.”
* * * *
The other morning a Q. Govt, employd of
20 years’ standing was entering his office when he
took a fit and died. The day’s pay was refused to
his necessitous widow on the ground that deceased
had not signed the attendance-book !
• * * *
At Gladstone Creek, N.Q., recently, a
woman was found with a broken jaw, a crushed
nose, and other injuries, under circumstances that
pointed to outrage and attempted murder. For-
tunately, however, for some man or men in the
vicinity, she recovered sufficiently to explain that
while driving some horses away from a tub of
water, she was kicked in the face. As the horses
were quiet draught animals, nobody would have
suspected the truth but for the victim’s own evi-
dence, and another “ horrible male outrage ”
would have been trumpeted from one end of Aus-
tralia to the other. As it was, “a posse of
police ” went post-haste to the spot.
* * * *
“ The destitute sick of Sydney who apply
for Govt, medical aid,” remarks a Bulletin cor-
respondent, “have a hard time before they get it.
The waiting accommodation for the men is a
vault below the Board of Health’s handsome
structure, and there patients in all stages of suffer-
ing have sometimes to wait shivering for hours
before they are disposed of.”
'* » * *
William * Scott, ex-lunatic, at Mackay
(N.Q.) t’other day, told a butcher’s-shop crowd
that he was going to cut his throat. Couldn’t
appropriate a butcher’s knife, so went off, re-
turned with a razor, and almost cut off his head to
a full house. It is commonly said that the man
who is going to suicide never tells anyone that he
intends doing it. Wrong, in the writer’s experi-
ence. In every one of the cases of suicide per-
sonally known to this scribe, the felo-de-sc-cr
always told of his intentions beforehand ; and, in
many of the suicides of which writer has read, the
preliminary tattle was a prominent feature.
Seems that a dramatic prologue is a fad of suicide-
maniacs, as well as an emotional epilogue in the
form of a letter to the coroner, of which letter
egotism and histrionic display are the principal
features.
* « * *
A Croydon district publican successfully
cyanided himself, on a recent Sunday. Mark
Bung’s lethal draught and his chosen day. On
the other hand, one Harding, mining engine-
driver, also of Croydon, only the other day kept
up the good old despondent digger’s custom of
blowing off his skull-dome to the Never-Never by
exploding a plug of gelignite, laid on his tongue.
And he had a second capped plug handy, in case
the first missed its mission.
A down-
south re-
ligious pa -
per stoutly
maintains
the right of
the parson
to at least
as good a re-
muneration
as the doctor '
or the law-
yer. But
neither doc-
tor nor law-
yer pretends
to do busi -
ness for the
love of God.
Let the poor
parson ad -
mit that he
is actuated
■by strictly
commercial
principles —
hang out his
list of prices,
and stand
o r fill I b y
the result.
* *
lie ini-
quity of
chur o h -
goers leav -
ing small
children at
home. A
Sydney man
and his wife,
having be-
come Bap -
tists, went
on a certain
Sabbath to
be “dip-
ped” and
found, on
retu rnin g
home, their
youngest
child horri-
bly scalded.
The “ dip -
ping” had
been a table-
t o jii c fo r
some time,
and an elder
boy had
seized the
opportunity of performing—with hot water—on
the baby !
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re Vic. Temperance-
Alliance-chairman Hunt’s recent contention that
abolition of pubs, would mean abolition of drunken-
ness, let me supplement your item about the enor-
mous number of bottles exported from Mildura
“temperance” settlement with a Melb. bottle-
merchant’s statement to me that his gatherers
best “pitch” is “Temperance Township” (near
Flemington)—the only Melb. suburb that doesn t
possess a pub.!—T.O.
• * • *
Gov. Buxton goes to England at the end of
Sept., and at the same time his A.D.C., Major
Guise, will take a missionary trip to the East.
AND SCOTLAND SCORED ONE.
THE OLD MAN : “And how did you come along after your horse threw
you and got away? ”
THE GOOD CLERGYMAN : “ Oh, I walked.”
OLD MAN : “ Oh, then ye'll no he wantin’ a horse to talc' ye hack again.
The hitter is very popular with the poor b°ys
Adel dde, among whom he has conducted Bible
and other classes.
* « * *
Quite a fashionable idea amongst Jewish
jrjils in Melb. is to work crosses, altar-cloths, &c.,
for Catholic and other tabernacles. Jewish tolera-
tion of Christianity is rather rough on the True
Faith, and it makes a Believer feel small.
Melb. police have suddenly awakened to
the fact that the sojourner in the local Botanical
Gardens in search of Sabbath calm is frequently
disturbed by sounds of gory combat arid the yet ®
of frenzied barrackers. Two offending yputh >
who had probably quarrelled over the scientin
name of some shrub, were recently hauled before
the Court, whose verdict was <£3 or 14 days.
The P.M. also remarked that their conduct was
disgraceful, as the place was set apart for reerea-
tion. And yet the two battered louts and then
backers thought they were having recreation.
One half of the world can’t recreate itself without
knocking the other half’s nose endways.
* 5. * *
Submitted to The Bulletin by a sprightly
damsel of 16 (they begin early in Australia);
SCHENK’S DISCOVERY.
Fair woman is of so far made,
Says science in her forward march ;
But I, abashed, am much afraid
’T has been converted into starch.
* * * *
The parson’s watchful eye ! “I stood out-
side one of the biggest hotels in Brisbane on Sun-
day last,” groans the Rev. D. Frank el lon ; I saw
beer taken out and placed at a corner ; I next saw
a policeman go to the corner and then come back
wiping his mouth.” The evidence is not complete.
A Sydney publican not long ago having a giudge
against a, bobby placed an empty pewter on the
outside window-sill on Sunday afternoon as a
slight amusement for onlooking friends. Bob iy,
believing it was meant in good part as of old,
surreptitiously grabbed the vessel, and a second
later, like him of Brisbane, went off wiping 11s
mouth. But the expert crowd knew that his
mouth watered because there was no beer where
the beer should be. Rev. Frackelton cries aloud :
“You can hang a man on circumstantial evidence ;
am I not justified in saying that policeman drank
that beer?” No.
*** • .
Rochester, about the tiredest of Vic. up-
country towns, has been running its legs off lately.
The earthquake that struck it and roused it to
this activity was an order from a certain steamship
co. for 2000 “ old hens age not more particularly
specified. Spring chicken isn’t going to be off
on that line for some time to come.
Chemist Grimwade
is introducing a Crema-
tion Bill into Vic. Legis-
lative Council. Judge
a’Beckett is a prominent
local advocate of dissolu-
tion into cinders. The
Bill has a fair chance of
passing as an experimen-
tal measure. It is doubt-
ful, however, whether the
prominence given in the
Bill to the cremation of
convicted persons will
tend to make the method
popular.
In Gunnedah, N.S.
Wales, electorate, and,
probably, in most of the
back-country ones, every
station owner and sta-
tion manager is a J.P.
Within 50 miles of one
small town in the elector-
ate named, there is not a
magistrate who is not
also a station owner, or
manager.
* * *
The all-round sin-
fulness of society at large
is known only to the
Telephone Girl, although
the girl at the tea-room
knows a lot. Surprising
how deftly the tea-room
girl puts two and two
together, and discovers
that the couple who come
in at three o’clock and sit
at the table nearest to
the window are husband
and wife respectively to
the couple who take the
table next to the screen
at 4.30.
* * *
“It is possible for
any Chinaman, or even
any Chinese woman, to
become a deity by paying
for the honor.” Well,
what’s the matter with
the average Australian
knight, as a deity ? And
his wife, Lady Blank ? Don’t they pay for the
alleged honor ?
Among a late importation of Japs, into
Thursday 3 Island, the pockmark-in-chief of Alien-
alia, were two little brown women one of whom
was' refused reception because she had no passport.
She smuggled herself ashore, all the same, dining
the night.
The First Australian Horse bids fair to be
as big a curse to the N.S.W. country M.P. as the
local wants in the way of roads and bridges: In
almost every one-horse township warlike residents
are holding meetings, and demanding to know
why the local member has not arranged for a
corps of the “ real Mackays ” to be formed
there. This has apparently impressed said local
member, as 25 of him rolled up in a deputation to
War Minister Brunker the other day, with the
result that “Old Sunday ” has promised, if Reid
agrees, to increase the strength of the regiment
1 o 1000.
AMONG THE AMATEURS.
HE: “ Very plain-looking chorus.”
SHE: “ You forget I was there."
HE: “Oh, no; I heard you were the best of the lot."
The folly of fighting for heavy damages
after defendant has offered a reasonable com pro-
mise, was instanced in the action of Mrs. VVu-
liams widow of Dr. Williams, against a Melbourne
chem’ist. Dr. Williams, a notorious morphia-
maniac and cocainist, was supplied by the chem-
ist’s assistant with atropine in mistake for morphia,
The negligence was admitted. Dr. Williams'
injected a dose of one of the drugs into his arm
and died—from atropine poisoning, as his widow
alleged The chemist offered her =£4oo in settle-
ment of the claim. She preferred to go for £3OOO
damages. The medical evidence was not clear as
to the cause of the drug-soddened doctor’s death,
the symptoms being consistent with cocaine poison-
ing The jury found for defendant with costs,
and the comely lady, who had eyed the jury with
fascinating expectation as she sat in court, went
sadly home to think about it.
* * * *
It is now possible to communicate by tele-
phone from one end of Europe to the other. So
far however, distant telephonic communication is
quite in its infancy throughout Australia.
« * * * *
“ C.R.” : Was in the bar of a big Melb.
hotel two or three weeks ago when three gentle-
men and two ladies walked down the passage and
out into Bourke-street. One of the gentlemen
was a straw-hatted, well-setup* youngish man who
looked as if he washed himself regularly with soap
at sixpence a cake. “Do yon know who that is,?
said the barman to me. I shook, my head.
“That’s the Duke of Manchester—don’t look much
like a duke, does he?” I replied that my
acquaintance with dukes was not sufficiently ex-
tensive to enable me to spot one at sight. Just
then a magnificent figure clad in a dark uniform
marched up the passage in the direction of
the stairs. “Who is that noble-looking poten-
tate?” I enquired. “Ishe an emperor in dis-
guise’” The barman answered with a chuckle,
“ That’s just what he is, and what we call him,
too. And you should just see him spread his tail
when we tell him that he walks like a prince.
He’s the hall-porter ! ” ;
* » * *
Is it the jolly-and-fat Reid policy, or what,
that makes the Gospel of Mantalini so popular in
Sydney ? Eive ads. appeared in a recent Sydney
daily, inserted by gentlemen who wanted “ lady
partners with means with a view to starting busi-
ness ” Most of them darkly hinted at a capacity
for love commensurate with their business abilities.
* * * *
The dapper little ex-schoohnaster who now
runs the S. A. police-department, lately, it is said,
was outraged by the sight of a constable with his
hands in his trousers pockets. .-Result—a ukase
that hereafter a copman’s pants must be.pocket-
less. ...
* » * *
“T.S.”: Why not call the Federal capital
after Pelsart or Dampier, two navigators whose
names have been forgotten in Australian nomen-
clature?
THE OLD MAID’S LAMENT.
Who calls me fairest of the fair?
Who cleans my bike with neatest care?
And in my bloomers mends the tear?
Who tucks me into bed at night?
And at my call blows out the light ?
Then does the round to see all’s right?
Who brings me, at the break of day,
My tea and toast upon a tray,
Delighted by my side to stay ?
Who from the depths of passion deep
Will summon tear-drops if I weep?
Who treads on tiptoe when I sleep?
Who cleans my shoes with polish rare ?
And brings to me an easy chair ?
Then lays my slippers ready there?
Who brings my bike, and when I start,
Will beg a kiss, or, ere we part,
Who hugs me tightly to his heart ?
Who? Nobody!
E.J.W.
fe/ V
'4^
AVE You
ForOOT te^
~Trr/^Xu,.THFM,? n
s®
’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURI BIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout' Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- P er Saif-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
3&OSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Oitronella, Caustic Soria,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow, '
CREAM OP TARTAR
Glucose, Garb. Ammonia.’ Canary Seed.
__ , ~ 178 William-st., ..Melbourne
Hv. Markwald, 11 Pitt-strc-et, Sydney ;
J 68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 13, IS9B.
Mr Dear Myee—
This brief, bright week’s glitter began in earnest
at Randwick on Saturday. The races that run in
the spring bloom many tones brighter than races
at any other time of year, and this year every blue
is turned turquoise, and every green has rubbed
against a pistachio-nut, and the pink that couldn’t
go red at a moment’s notice is out of the world
entirely. To put the fashions briefly, as fore-
shadowed by Race modes, muslin lawn-cleaners in
every hue, lifted occasionally to show fiery silk
petticoats, lead by yards of draggled tail. These
are topped with hats that could lose themselves in
the heavens of Holman Hunt, or with earthier
creations of rosy straw and ruddy feathers. Cream
and dust-colored voiles made over silk, and chased
with true-lovers’ knots in narrow ribbon and nar-
rower lace, or steel sequins, follow at a brief inter-
val and every woman who didn’t wear one of
these on Saturday wore the other.
With the exception of some twelve or twenty.
A replica of Lady Rupert Clarke couldn’t be ex-
cepted. She was like nothing outside a fairy-tale
A princess robe of declamatory green fitted like a
skin as far as her knees. There it ended, briefly
alarmingly. And a skimpy white skirt took up
the parable, and insinuated that an accident
had happened. From what the skirt said, I
inferred that the gown came from Paris and
the remainder of it had got lost on the’way.
Bulrushes m cream ribbon waved up and
down what there was of this dress, and two
huge pearl earrings were kept in countenance
by ropes of pearls round the neck. A pink
hat and peach-colored feathers were the only indi-
cations that it wasn’t the frock of a mermaid out
on a holiday.
By the way, Mrs. Prendergast’s ball the night,
before wasn’t altogether kind to the pink hat
people. IS o ! A peach-hat was never meant for
the day after a ball. The blush that isn’t cast
into sallowness by a glow overhead must have
its pink-and-white decisively defined. In fact,
black hair and colorless skin are the only legiti-
mate adjuncts for rosy head-gear.
. Another peach-blossom was Mrs. W. B. Mitchell
in rose brocade, with an apron skirt and a black
chiffon sash. The billows of pink that waved
from her hand were more like a fallen sunlit cloud
than an earthy sunshade. The fat parasol has
driven out the thin one this year.
The Melbourne bride was in a simple muslin,
-^* SS Madden wore a conspicuous green
gla.ce frilled to the knees, with a shaped train like
a lizard’s tail, and the usual embroidered design.
Cupid, who doesn’t usually trouble much
about this sort of thing, is having a big
finger in frocks this year. The trail of the
true-lover s-knot is . embroidered, or stamped
or ruched, or braided on to every gown
worth owing for. The worst of it is these things
don t last. Love in society will be as dead next
month as the flowers of last year’s spring—sartori-
alfy speaking, of course.
,! n the vice-regal box, the prettiest dress was
Miss Dolly Brand’s cream voile, its.revers outlined
with ruchings of bright cherry ribbon. Lady
Hampden and Lady Gormanston were well dressed
m a way you wouldn’t notice, and the aide in a
red and white striped shirt is going to have an in-
fluence on male modes shortly.
I presume “Trelawny of the Wells” inspired
the innumerable ’6O skirts and “gardener’s-
daughter ” hats, which latter, I may say, shouldn’t
be encouraged by anyone whose profile won’t bear
silhouetting. The woman whose nose was lost
when she turned her head side-face, ought to have
known better,
I heard ghastly rumors of broken trysts on
Saturday, 1’ ive balls and four race-ineetings taxed
Sydney milliners beyond their possibilities. It
iuVi'n H la * suburbs didn’t get their race-frocks
till 10 that night. All dresses over seven guineas
were delii vered in time, but under seven the heart-
burning began.
At night, the froth of the course found its way
to La Poupee” ; long before the curtain lifted
every step was taken, and a double row of standers
encircled the back of the d.c. “La Poupee ” '
Let me say, quickly, that Dolly Vane is the doll
°F a b aby s dream and a grown-up’s most capri-
cious fancy, all in one. But why isn’t the doll
more like Dolly ? The doll that was.really a doll
didn t deceive anybody, but the house gazed for
several minutes at Dolly Vane before her flesh and
blood asserted itself. And now I understand
those jerky movements of hers in other
operas. She used to sit down with a snap
and get up with a click, and had a habit of making
her eyes stare vacantly. These tricks are La
loupees. Ido hope there will be no “sympa-
thetic imitation of Miss Doll’s queer ways. Just
fancy if society took to staring vacantly—at you
among other people. Hence, horrible thought!
The frocks are radiant harmonies that melt
without mischief into each other’s tints. I don’t
say that this is the best-dressed opera ever pre-
sented, but lots of lovely clothes walk in and out
particularly in the wedding-scene. Dolly Vane’s
doll’s-frock is a truly toy-like conception. Every
woman was aged six once more as she gazed at the
green silk petticoat, embroidered in stiff little up-
running sprays of flowers, with a pink-draped
over-skirt, and a white hat with pink and white
feathers (ten-and-six at the Civet Cat, I remem-
ber, and sixpence extra for the box).
• Ugo Biondi, at the Tivoli, is the latest craze.
A short, sleek, black-haired man, with a straight
nose and nonchalant manner, he comes out in his
little black satin trousers, looks all round the
house, says he can’t speak English, appears to
search hard for a word, and winds up with a care-
tul enunciation of “ awfully obliged. ” That
brings down the house before he has done a thing,
-then the little games begin. His play “ Dis-
covered is acted by a husband, a wife, a lover
and an old servant. You could about swear they
are all on the stage together. The lover gets
under the table, the husband walks in through the
door, the wife screams out in the other room, the
old servant enters drowsily to discover what the
noise is, and a wild confusion follows, which it is
almost impossible to believe is created by one
man, Ugo Biondi. J
1 hey say he has four dressers waiting for him at
brnw ent > X ' tS ' He £ oes under the table in a
bum n suit and a straw hat, and a fair-haired
m a . b !, u f; sat i n & ow n rushes in through the
far door. All the time every character is talking
owrl ,l )a ’' t - Tlle lover sings in the gar-
andco vJ Wl - e sta ,? ds at the window and listens
-. Iff Glracion ! as the song goes on. Ugo
is the lover singing in the garden and the wife at
the window exclaiming “Graeion.” Then the
a erf n umps through the window in a light suit
and a straw hat, and hears the wife playing and
singing about him behind the curtain and mur-
Wn’» IC fu girl ! . w hat you think? Not too
All Ugo 0t ler quamt observations as she sings.
d H C L Urim f er and curi °user ” are his lightning-
sketches of musicians. Up comes grey old Suppe
conducting the “Poet and Peasant ” with a fiery
vigor that nearly flmgs him over the side of the
vi°ni an i d brushing Donizetti has ap-
peared with black whiskers tied under his chin and
nuS™ , Tt im \ onl y the marvellous
acted f K he f bang6S V but evel 'y character is
* , and through. A fine change is the
one that brings up Liszt, with his shining nut-
gait and peculiar shaking
ovement of his hand. Mascagni is a red-hot
picture of the handsome Italian, no moustache or
beard to help either. Grey-beard Gounod with a
dandy manner and Sir Arthur Sullivan, are two
more gems. I here isn’t time to pick up a pin
between each change. 1 1
But it is necessary to perform heroic acts before
you can hear Biondi. You have to sit for a whole
hour possibly on the steps—through the saddest
B;! 11 nd; ,Je ° 1 i’ 1 ?i eVer ' n T\ ted - . The contrast between
nd * b ® res * of tbe Tivoli programme is too
keen. A fat blackie, with a little tuft on his chin
sings a tender love-song about waiting by the case-
ment, darling : two gold-wigged beings slap cadi
other m the face, and throw kisses to the gallery •
and more black-faced beings with big mouths tell
mUat flm n y r r ,* eS of - Adam and Methuselah.
Miss Neva Carr-Glynn, in a white frock and sim-
ply-dressed hair, doesn’t fit in with the golden
pates and gorgeous get-ups of the other ladies.
dittv SI 8 i the tw «ity-stoner always allotted a
ditty that declares she doesn’t know what to say
when she is asked ? J
“ The Fatal Card,” now running at the Theatre
Boyal, isn t a play that gives frocks much chance
Frances Ross, in white muslin and
p nk ribbons, is too tall and stately for such severe
simplicity It is all very well to walk like a
du ° bess h ®, n tber . e are fch rce yards of train follow-
oiaf ra p efU i lj i’ nd t , lara and aigrettes crown the
stately head, but a skimpy muslin with a pink sash
is a different thing. On behalf of people who
MGs tr ; uns , ' u i d tiaras - I Put in a plea that
Miss Boss should leave muslins to them. This
same lady s White Heather ” creations are still
talked about. A fashionable draper is advertising
them as from his hands, while a fashionable dress-
maker has written private letters to people, claim-
“f fT her work. All the same, it wasn’t so
worn th fr ° cks aS the air Wlth w hich they were
Miss Watson, as the bar-girl in the Cow-Bov
saloon, casts off those overshadowing hats of hers
and snows her face to more advantage without*
A red flower m her hair and a bright skirt worn
ith a cling peculiar to all her gowns, suit her
better than a dull hat on her nose. Bright Mrs.
Bland changes her dark hair becomingly to gold"
and frisks about in a pretty white and mauve
frock, with an apron skirt over mauve frills But
surely the butler’s light-brown trousers are a
Ktaa" , The'co“.i" “ 1! “ Sl “ h
I want to advise you to be careful with your
bird-trimmed hats A society girl had a horrible
accident the other day. She went to lunch with a
a TV eft f h , er bat on a cbair - An hour later
, ? found it on the floor, in the arms of the staid
old family cat, who was clawing it with frenzy
Ihe trimming was shattered, the brim broken
the birds eyes gouged out, and feathers and fluff
flew all round I hat fat, motionless bird had
proved too cruel a lure for puss, who thought she
was getting a juicy prize when she hauled the hat
off the chair.
Th ® Amy Sherwin concerts dropped their prices
to a shilling on Saturday, and filled the houiim
mediately. All the week the audiences were thin
to sickness, and the matinee concerts had a record
attendance—as far as smallness goes. I heard the
JN lghtmgale in her new song, “Abide With Me ”
one afternoon, and fell at once under the charm of
her sweet earnestness. A pink chiffon frock and
big white hat accentuated her rosy hair and fair
white skin ; and one could not but regret that the
fresh flutmess was fading out of those once deli-
cious tones. However, “Abide With Me ”is iust
f?f^ S ° r ni° f l U| ! lfted , tb T e th at Madame Sherwin
hfts still higher. As far as the song goes the
setting isn t strikingly unique. But Amy^ Sherwin
assumes the expression of an angel, and seems to
feel celestial ground beneath her feet.
They say that the gifted Adela Verne is as youth-
fid m her ways as Mark Hambourg. Mark was
frightened to sleep by himself, and loved to play
with his knife and fork at the table. Adela adores
practical jokes and laughs like a child at her own
•fio , Com 'l'B' over 011 the evening ferry-boat
with Sydney Moss, she and- her sister look like two
little woolly bears. They cover their evening
frocks with loose grey jackets to their ankles, draw
thick white wool gloves with undefined fingers
over their hands, and let their shaggy hair shake
“ e fi £vervone gapes at them, but the cabins
ot the JNorth Shore boats are not as crowded as
home bydney MoSS was takin g Mark Hambourg
Ihe latest news of another young musician,
Stanley Moses, settles him on the Continent, with
a thousand a year for violin-playing alone. Just
now he is playing first violin with the orchestra at
the Ostend Casino.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
Conductors may come and conductors (like
ThS OC V[ UhI,S H< ; rz) B°. but the Metropolitan
-Luedertafel seemingly goes on for ever. Its 191st
concert, which happened t’other night (Sept. sth)
was a very placid function compared to the rival
club s last Town Hall shivoo, with Marshall-Hall
rending the whole fabric of religion ’ as prin-
cipal item. 1
“By the way, it seems that, after that Outrage,
everyone who had ever heard of the promoters and
officials of the implicated association sought them
out to say that, for weeks before the concert,
every child had known that the hon. conductor
was spoiling for a fight, and had deliberately re-
solved to tread on the audience’s coat-tail on the
night m question.’ So it was premeditated vio-
lence, you see.
M back to the Melbourne Liedertafel,
Maggie Stirling, m pink, was a brightish spot on a
dull programme. Newbury, in that Beethoven
love-song, warbled and shook his curls at the audi-
ence with the condescending air of the man who
doesn t mind admitting he loves his ‘ Adelaida ’
next best to himself. A poll-tax on every woman
m the audience wearing a Spanish comb that night
would have totted up to a snug little bit. Another
madly-prevalent mode of the moment is the white
C r.w < : am neck-scarf. Last season the top-notchers
.Jr r e ? e ies death. Since, they’ve been got
nd of cheap, so that at present yards of muslin
and lace dangle from neck to knee of every she-
suburbanite. Earrings, I suppose, will be a re-
ligion in the rear-rank of fashion two years from
now. I lie reigning Lady Clarke is wearing a long,
heavy pair just now-pearl-pendants, which make
ner look older and more imposing.
“ Crbic , s 1 have be en pointing out the faults of our
lown Hall as a concert-room. At the Liedertafel
affair a sickening odor of burnt cooking-gas from
the Coffee Palace next door forced itself into
notice as another thorn to the rose.
I he course of true love, or otherwise, runs no
smoother now than heretofore. One hears of a
Jacob of to-day who waited for his Rachael seven
years His bride-elect’s feverish headache on the
eve of the wedding he mentally put down to ex-
citement, but when the mother was fastening up her
child s white frock on the morning of the marriage
the measles were out on the poor girl’s shoulders T ’
Then there s that local heroine, who always
swore she wouldn’t be married in May because a
girl friend, who had been rash enough to do so was
tossed by a cow on the first day of the honeymoon
got her nose all skinned and the sweetest hat in
her trousseau torn to smithereens.
~ “Accordingly,' our superstitious friend named
the day in April. The happy man travelled hun-
dreds and hundreds of miles to find his Precious
laid low with influenza. All April she was more
or less ill, and he couldn’t stay away from his
business all May, waiting for auspicious June, so
the y just had to take the risks of the ominous
month and eat their wedding-cake with cold chills
running down their backs.
“ Looking back to the last nights of ‘ Harbor
Bights, the wildest Jingo in the audience, judging
by his enjoyment of Gilbert’s song, was a Chink
m the stalls decked out in broadcloth, fine linen
and silver-headed umbrella'. Mrs. ‘ John, ’ a very
pretty girl (white) with a cerise chiffon toque, was
palpably cross as two sticks, and tried to look as
if she didn t belong. Quite sad to see so much
good starch,, hair-oil and John Bull enthusiasm
wasted m a hopeless endeavor to look alleesame
lngliseeman.
“ To gi ve a spice of variety to photos of The wed-
ding, which still adorn Collins-street, some of the
photographers exhibit twopenny-colored pictures
instead of the original penny-plain groups. But
even these are chestnntty now and blockites yawn
at them. With no new sensation photo, to gaze
at, with Biondi an absentee and Julius a back-
number, there s an aching void in the suburban
girl s afternoon just now. The other day the
queerest figure on the block was a draggled old
person with curls dating from the sixties, a bat-
tered bonnet and a train. She was attracted by
the gleam of Aide Campbell’s red coat in one of
the abovementioned tinted horrors depicting the
whole sacrificial group. ‘What’s that?’ the bat-
tered person asked, craning her neck over a by-
stander s shoulder ‘ Salvation Army ? ’ ‘No ’
replied a civil spectator, ‘lt’s Chief Justice Madden
and his daughters.’ ‘What, all his? Oh lor’’’
she replied in horror-stricken commiseration, and
shaking her head sympathetically, drifted away. ’
Most-travelled R. S. S. complains bitterly of
the slump m prnna-donnas, and laments that when
last at Cine hunting big game there was no big
game to stalk. ‘Not a celebrity to be had,’he
mourns, ‘except Nansen, and he wouldn’t come.’
“ About the most sensible suggestion for raisin?
the wind made on behalf of the Children’s Hospi-
tal is. that .State School children should rattle their
pennies into the plate. It would help to give them
a sense of responsibility in the hospital as belonging
to them and not to some vague ‘kind ladies and
gentlemen ’ who love to aid little sufferers. The
abuse of hospitals is that those who use them do
nothing to support. The canvass should be
widened.
it.- Vaile, who writes about sassiety and
things for the Herald, has brought forth a third
edition of her ‘ Cottage Cookery ’ book in an en-
laigeu form, the enlargement being due to commer-
eial causes. This latest reproduction suggests the
charge of the Light Brigade, for advertisers on all
sides of the yarn do volley and thunder. Indomi-
table Kit a (a Maorilandress by persuasion) must
? rrv,n §f a little fortune from her timely spec
and her ‘ sister penwomen ’ discuss the matter with
many wailings, like cats in the stilly night. Why
didn t they think to remind Victorian kitchen
slaves that meat cooked on the gridiron is more
wholesome than if cooked in the frying pan ’
and fish, flesh, game, fowl, and vegetables
can all be curried? ’ Why didn’t they make a
nest-egg stand to their credit- at the bank by
simp y cracking one end, instead of leaving a
female Columbus to do the trick’ Vid echo
answers-Rats! _ The demand for ‘Cottage
Cookery grew with each chapter as ‘Rita’ slipped
it into print, and perhaps the book owes a little of
its success to her business management of press-
notices. It is written: ‘For the best kind of
paste puff paste—use pound for pound butter
and flour. .
ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Ifc is an open secret that the N.S.W.
Govt, party relies on beating Barton for the
blasting’s and Macleay seat, in N.S.W. Assembly
by raising the miserable sectarian cry. What
earthly connection there can reasonably be be-
tween the loathsome squabbles of long ago and
the great question of a United Australian nation
it is hard to say. But certain it is that the
Yellow Pup is now being worked for all it is
worth in the hope that thereby a political cypher
like ojdney Smith may be the means of exclud-
ing from the House the man who, above all
others, should be there at the present momentous
time.
The daring and once-beautiful Empress of
Austria, stabbed to the heart with a file, last
week, by an Italian anarchist, was a sister of
Bavaria s mad King Ludwig. Her last years
were embittered by the tragic death of her son
who got mixed up with the inevitable woman’;
also, she had found out, in the course of along
experience, that in her husband Francis Joseph
there was more of the Francis than of the Joseph.
Present writer, as a child, well remembers the
assassinated Empress hunting with the hounds in
the Lnglish Midlands, in the late 70’s. The Em-
press rented Cotteshrooke Hall, a house belonging
to a country squire, who has since attained
notoriety in the London courts. She was a mag-
nificent rider, and a grand judge of a horse, but
her hunters never looked smart. They were
selected rather for strength than for style. She
introduced a new feature into the hunting-field—
that of carrying a fan as well as a whip. The
i ytchley horse-women used to smile at it, and
the fan newer became fashionable for Dianas
though an Empress used it. The sight of a tall
handsome woman vigorously fanning herself while
m full flight across a ploughed field after a yelping
pack sticks in the memory.
The eternal feminine looms large in M L
politics at present. The country is convulsed over
a demand for the admission of women reporters
to the Parliamentary Press Gallery. By a majority
of over two to one the mere men who now occupy
the gallery have resolved to beg the Speaker to
keep the fair ones to the Ladies’ Gallery, where
our of their number have for some time been at
work as recording angels.” Reviewing the
situation, a Liberal bard chortles :
Ungallant scribes ! who will not squeeze
Four girls in, more or less,
Denying thus—excuse the wheeze—
The freedom of the press!
And, in reply, an Opposition minstrel snortles:—
Rats ! Let those Peris at the gate
Of Heaven stand, disconsolate—
They shan’t invade our gallery 1
Think of the freedom we should lose
Cerulean yarn, and smoke and booze—
(And something from our salary !)
GOING BAREFOOT
5U?™t < r~ ab,e to wearing ILL-
FIT ll\ G BOOTS, and the
wonder is that so many
people CONTINUE to wear
them. .
The reason CAN only be
that those who do so DO
NOT KNOW the sterling 1
merits of
THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
CALLAGHAN BOOTS are
always carefully fitted to
the Feet (not the feet to
the Boots) by Salesmen
and Saleswomen who are
EXPERIENCED in the art
of fitting boots and shoes.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LET YOUR
NEXT PAIR
BE THE
CALLAGHAN
FIT.
2nm
All Drapers Everywhere.
Worried to Death.
Not long since, a business man of this city died
from worry. The strain on his brain and constant
anxiety brought on numerous complaints, which
ultimately led to his death. Nor is an occurrence
of this kind so uncommon as people suppose.
Business men are very often martyrs to constipa-
tion and kindred ills, and, though an absolute
and speedy remedy is to be found in Bile Beans
for Liliousness, every one does not appear to
recognise that fact. What is the direct cause of
constipation is hard to say. It is mostly the
effect of disobedience to the laws of nature,
irregularity of habit, and is often caused by an
overstrain on various organs of the system.
Constipation may also be caused by eating indi-
gestible foods, or eating too much or too fast.
Insufficient liver action, also, is often the cause,
and the reason for this is that it is one of the
duties of the liver to furnish for purposes of diges-
tion a fluid called bile. An insufficient quantity
of this fluid interferes with the digestion, and
constipation is among the results. In curing con-
stipation two things are necessary—first, to do
away with the existing trouble, and then to pre-
vent further occurrences of the same ailment from
the same cause. The first may be effectually
bi ought about by taking Bile Beans as directed.
After that, strict regularity must be observed.
Don t let business worries interfere with regularity,
as it is an extremely dangerous practice.*
GLOBE TO have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


N.S.W. Premier Reid is studying French.
Every Agent-General should speak French.
The only Australasian Premiers who left
England as steerage emigrants were Seddon and
Parkes.
The fact that N.S.W. Minister of Educa-
tion Hogue is the happy father of 15 children will
probably weigh with him in legislating for the
removal of State-school fees.
Thomas Dyebell (aged 99) of Taree Estate,
the Manning, rode seven miles to Taree at last
N.S.W. general elections, recorded his vote, and
“ rode home again in high spirits.”
A swagman admitted recently to Bendigo
Hospital handed the matron 2s. 4d. as all the
money he had in the world. He died two days
afterwards, and .£897 in securities was found in his
possession.
With one exception, all the Q.C.’s prac-
tising at N.S.W. Bar—seven in number—are
natives of the mother province, and Australian
“studies.” The exception, J. E. Salomons, is
almost a native.
Westralia evidently looms big in the eye
of the Afghan at home. Anyhow, the Ameer has
been placing a saddlery order there—including a
couple of gorgeous riding saddles for his peppery
majesty’s personal use.
The fondest dream of Bayldon, the Q.
poetical swimmer or swimming poet, is to swim the
Hellespont ala Byron. And the dreamer leaves
the impression that, in the rivalry between the
two, this is Byron’s only advantage.
Another “oldest inhabitant” has gone
over Mrs. Brid ret Blake, at Moree. She
arrived in N.S.W. in 1820, and had a clear
remembrance of “ old Macquarie.” She lived at
Singleton for 66 years, and was 96 at her death.
Henniker Heaton sent a cablegram to
N.S. Wales some 12 months ago which cost him
.£3200. This is said to be. the highesGpriced single
message on record. Reuter’s description of the
trial of Deeming, also a single message, cost
<£l6oo.
Names repeated on N.S. Wales Supreme
Court Bench since the foundation of the province:
John, Alfred, and Mathew Steuhem(sire, son, and
grandson); Win. Manning and C. J. Manning
(uncle and nephew) ; G. B. and A. H. Simpson
not relatives).
W. E. Phillipson, whom the late Thomas
Elder “ discovered,” and who for years past has
been Peter Waite’s lieutenant in the successful
management of the Elder-Waite and Beltana dry-
country squattages, has died in Adelaide, aged
just over the half-century. Tt was Phillipson
more even than Thomas Elder who saw the possi-
bilities of the camel in the back-country ; and the
establishment of the now thriving herds at Bel tana,
S.A., ami Mom bar (outside Wilcannia, N.S. W.)
rvas his special care.
National Biogbap&y, vol. 55, just out,
has Stuart, Sturt, Sullivan, and Syme for Austra-
lian readers. The author does not know
whether Stuart was e er married; “appa-
rently never.” The actor’s real name was
Thomas Barry Sullivan. Born in Bir-
mingham, of Irish parents. Early re-
moved to Cork. Acted first as an
amateur, then with the Irish co. engi-
neered by Frank Seymour, known as
Frank Schemer. Sullivan was at least
71 at death, probably older. There
is a beautiful statue of him, as
Hamlet, over his grave. Ebenezer
Syme was eldest son of Rev. George
Syme, and brother of David and
George. Ebenezer was educated as
a clergyman, but could not accept
orthodox theology. Labored a* an
evangelist preacher in Scotland be-
fore coming to Melbourne. Died
in 1860, aged 34. First wrote for
the Argus.
The recent “ shivoo ” at the
grave of Marcus Clarke recalls that
the same commonplace quptat ion
adorns both his tomb and that of
“The Vagabond,” a few yards
away. Mrs. Clarke originally
picked out the line : “Those whom
the gods love die young,” but the
wooden - headed people compos-
ing the Melb. General Cemetery
Committee saw rank paganism in
the word “gods” and interdicted
the line. Pity some well-disposed
persons can’t form a society for the
propagation of common - sense
among the public bodies of the
southern capital ! China does not
cry for the gospel half so pitously.
Fame ! A Sydney bookseller
cently exhibited a large pile of poor
Mannington Caffyn’s “Poppy’s
Tears,” labelled “by the husband,.of the author
of ‘The Yellow Aster.’” Yet what charming
stories Mannington Caffyn used to write !
“Jack” Want and Donaldson, the new
member for Tumut (N.S. W.), were discussing a
certain old Tumut elector, a champion at rounding
up voters to the poll. “What has become of
him?” asked King Cabbage - tree. “Dead,”
answered Donaldson. “ Poor old chap ! ” said
Jack, sorrowfully. “ We’ll never see his like
again. On Judgment-day, if they put a Heavenly
electors’-roll in his hand, and let him loose in that
cemetery, the angel Gabriel will be a fool to him.”
John A. Wallace, mining millionaire, de-
fendant in the Melb. family money dispute, was
30 years ago known in Vic. N.E. district as “ Six
Stars Wallace,” being proprietor of a “ Star
Hotel” in Beechworth, Rutherglen, Chiltern,
Yackatidandah, Bright, and Stanley. At latter
place he also ran a general store and butcher’s
shop, and would often give a newly-arrived digger
a complete mining rig-out on tick. Being a good
judge of human nature, too, he nearly always got
paid.
John Matthew Smith, an old-time Melb.
solicitor, recently deceased, left by will .£246,277,
on which probate-duty to the amount of £21,627
has just been paid. Tiie testator was the Tulking-
horne of Melbourne, much “quiet business ” pass-
ing through his hands.
The demise of Rev. Coles Child, who died
the other day at Petersham, Sydney, aged 81,
releases the State from an aid-to religion pension.
He was one of the C.E. band who, on the aboli-
tion of State aid to the churches, claimed and
drew a pension to t>e end. He was ordained by
Bishop Tyrell in 1849.
Only two Chaffeys now remain in Mildura
to recall the big smash—W. B. Chaffev and
nephew Ben. For the rest, George Chatfey, son
Andrew, and Waddingham with his large family
returned to America. Oldham is in W.A., and
M‘Laren in Melb. A scattering of the tribes in-
deed—and they boasted a few Bible names, too !
The proposed removal of N.S.W. Statist
Coghlan to the Auditor-Generalship—the present
Auditor-General is nearly 80 years old —is, it is
rumored, part of a scheme under which room will
be made for Edward Pulsford in the Statistical
Department. Pulsford’s Federal financial criti-
cisms were admitted even by opponents to be able.
Edward Flood, whose estate is now before
N.S.W. Equity Court, was, from a money stand-
point, the staunchest of the late Henry Parkes’
friends. But for an accidental omission to sign a
document, Parkes’ last years would have been
free from pecuniary trouble. Flood and Parkes,
though dissimilar in most things, reciprocated
each other’s goodwill.
Kitchener, “Sirdar” of the Soudan, has
had a younger brother in Melbourne for the last
18 months, and yet only a handful of the Naicest
knew it. He is a pallid youth, not in the least
ferocious-looking, but he nevertheless became en-
gaged to the daughter of one of the biggest soft-
goods houses in Flinders-lane, ere starting on a
trip to Ceylon the other day.
A certain Australian M.P., although he
swears freely himself, dismisses any station-hand
whom he hears expressing himself at all forcibly.
Recently one of his sons went to church for the
first time. “ I say, father,” he said, on his return,
“if you’d been at church you would have sacked
that blanky parson. He was singing out ‘damn ’
and ‘ hell ’ all the blanky time.”
G. H. Reid, in his pre-paY
li mentary days, tried to
get to England with
the intention of set-
tlingthereif hecould.
He almost obtained
an appointment as
secretary to a N.S.
Wales Minister then
going to London,
but at the last min-
ute negotiations fell
through.
JOHN-NIE WAL-LACE, M.L.C. (Wal-lace
Fam-i-lee Trus-tee).
THE BETTER HALF.
OLD WHALER: “I hear, Bill, yer going to get married? How are
yer going to manage —yer can’t keep yerself yet? ”
BILL: “ I can almost', and it ’d be very hard if she couldn't
help a little an’ do the rest.”
Ramsay Smith, one of Adelaide’s imported
and boycotted hospital doctors, breaks out, like
the other (Leith Napier) had already done, as a
public lecturer. And his subject, “ Medical
Fashions —Ancient and Modern,” gave the open-
ing to say some delightful tilings.
A brother of “ Tiger ’’ Inglis, once N.S.W.
Minister of Education, has made a gift of a build-
ing valued at £30,000 to his native village in Scot-
land. “Tiger,” who spasmodically determines to
re-enter politics, is keeping his voice in tune by
lecturing in schools and churches in and around
Sydney.
Bollard, M.H.R. for Eden (M.L.), who is
the duplicate of Premier Seddon, got off a good
wheeze recently at Digger Dick’s expense. He
asked the House of Reps, to supply him with
police protection, as, owing to Seddon’s conduct,
he (Bollard) was liable to be murdered by mistake
at any moment.
Tom Playford’s old friends are agape at.
the metamorphosis. In the old days his
clothes fitted him where they touched, but now
black frock co it and pants measured by a Master ;
bell-topper shinv as a looking glass ; beard
trimmed. All the same, Toni is ’umble, and
doesn’t seem spoilt, but surely this beautifully-
tailored man won’t go back to the market garden !
And they say he will. Abe Lined n-cum-Cinein-
natus !
“ Melb.” : Judge Hartley Williams keeps
on Pleasant Sunday Afternooning with talk about
crimes, prisoners, gaols, floggings, solitaries, and
what not, and indeed there is a gruesome appetite
in your Sabbath Afternooner, who must either
enjoy his Antoinette Sterling or his Hartley
Bilious. If Williams would but head a crusade
in favor of jury-sentences he might be trenchant,
but this would mean a lessening of his own im-
portance.
Cap’n Hancock, for over a-third of a
century grand panjandrum of Moonta (S. A.) cop-
per mines, has handed ever the reins to his son,
who won’t find the work very fresh to him. The
old gentleman, who, for some years past, has
worried more over the jigging of silver-lead sul-
phides than over copper, retires in ill-health to the
S.A. Mountains —locally “the hills.’: A good,
old-fashioned Cornish mining man was Cap’n
Hancock, nightly at class-meetin’ and at prayer ;
wherefore during his long reign Methodism
flourished exceedingly at “Munta.”
Again a lyric effort which The Bulletin
would not willingly let die ; and which, if not the
work of a distinguished politician, is at all events
alleged (in Christchurch Pkess) to be much
favored of M.L. Premier Seddon, as a modest
little addendum to his own celebrated rendering
of the “ Wearin’ of the Green ” :
Of the men sentenced in
N.S.W. for ructions in connec-
tion with the last shearers’
strike, only two now remain
inside gaol, a batch of five
having had substantial chips
taken off etheir sn fences during
the last few months. The still-
imprisoned pair—Bonnor and
Murphy—don’t seem to have
been any worse than the rest
of them ; and a petition is
coming along from the back
country asking for their libera-
tion, too. The grounds relied
upon are that the sentences
were passed at a time of great
public excitement, and that
since then the class to which
they belonged have by their
conduct shown that they now
look another way for the re-
dress of grievances.
Queensland Under-Secre-
tary for Mines Sellheim has
been hardened and weather-
beaten by years of rough work
on the first Q. goldfields. He
swore off white bread years
ago, and hasn’t touched a
crumb since. About the only
thing which has not become
acclimatised about P.F.S. is
bis German accent. He used
to call geologist' Skertehley
“ Shikertchley.” In the early
days of the Palmer, when .Sell-
heim was warden, he used
often to sleep on thousands of
ounces of gold for weeks,
awaiting the escort, but he
was known as a dead shot and
slept with one eye on the
dust. Once the escort-horses
badly needed shoeing, and
horse-nails were so scarce that
Sellheim could only get what
were needed by offering 2s. fid.
apiece for them. Some months
later there was not a storekeeper on the held
who would sell a pound of tea or flour unless the
purchasers’took also a pound of horse-nails !
Noteworthy that no Victorian Judge, dead
or alive, has any descendant at the Bar of that
province, while in N.S. W. the names of Stephen,
Wise, Manning, Windeyer, Innes, Foster, Owen,
and Simpson are much in evidence. In Victoria,
Justice Molesworth left a son on the County
Court Bench, and County Court Judge Wrixon
left a son who is now too beastly rich to practise,
but no Vic. Jud' e has left a practising barrister
behind him.
Recently Cchled that R. Elliot Smith,
M.D., Ch.M., of Sydney, has been awarded a
valuable scholarship'by the British Medical As-
sociation for researches into diseased conditions of
the brain. Dr. Smith is a graduate of the Sydney
University—the first locally-trained man to pro-
ceed to the M.D. degree of Sydney. Most Sydney
medicals stop at M.B. He was always strong on
brain-conditions : gained the Sydney gold medal
for his thesis on the brain of the platypus, and has
since won kudos for similar theses in Ireland and
London. The scholarship for advanced research
which he held from Sydney University expired m
May last, so that the new success comes at a good
time for him.
EQUAL TO THE OCCASION.
GUEST: “ Waiter, a pan-cake.”
WAITER: “Yessir!”
G.: “ Will it be long?”
W.: “No sir; it will be round! ”
One night as old Jack Robertson (then.
N.S.W. Premier) was riding home to CloveTly
after the Assembly had risen, a footpad under-
took to stick him up on Rose Bay road. Old Jack
knocked him over with his hunting-crop. Speak-
ing of the matter next day he said that “it
was hard upon the poor devil. If he had gone
through me,” said the old warrior, “he would
have got but half-a-sovereign for ms pains, and!
that wouldn’t have hurt me. I borrowed it from,
Tom Garrett just before I started for home.”
Messrs. W. B. and J. B. Dailey, sons of
the late “ Plain Bill ” Dailey, Q.C., have passed!
for the Bar in England and will be admitted when
they have eaten the prescribed dinners. They
have lately been on a visit to Sydney. Mr.
Dailey’s third son, Mr. C. B. Dailey, thinks of
entering the Imperial army. Mr. Charles Martin,,
a stalwart son of the late N.S.W. Chief Justice,
has also qualified for the English Bar and may
shortly return to Australia to, as he puts, it,,
“ personally conduct criminals to the gallows.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ I hope, my noble Richard,”
The Queen to Dick did say,
“ May your life be a pleasure
Wliile in England you stay.
You are now classed with royalty
Through your natural life.
An I may the Lord guide you
And your loving wife.”
Chorvs—Oh, and your loving wife !
Through this world of strife
May the Lord guide you
And your loving wife.
And now he is “ Right Honorable,”
There isn’t any doubt;
He'd got ahead of him
I mean Sir Robert Stout.
And well he deserves it,
For loyal he has been ;
He has stuck to the poor man,
And knelt before the Queen.
Chorus—Oh, and knelt before the Queen I
It seems like a dream
To stick to the poor man,
And kneel before the Queen !
And now it’s all over—
The Jubilee, I mean—
We shall soon have our Dick back
That knelt before the Queen.
And w< lcorne we will make him,
With this loyal shout:
“ God bless our noble Dick—
He’s higher than Bob Stout! ”
Chorus Oh, he’s higher than Bob Stout,
There isn’t any doubt;
He’s not to call a lawyer,
But he knows what he’s about.
And now our Premier’s landed back,
And welcome to his home ;
On his tour through Italy
He saw the Pope of Rome.
He’s been to many places,
Grand sights he has seen ;
He’s not left a stone unturned
Since to the Pope he has been.
Chorus—Oh, to the Pope he has been,
As well as to the Queen !
He’s not another stone to turn
Since to the Pope h° has been.
It does seem ;i bit “like a dream or, say, a
nightmare ’
SDVLOKB
THREE CASTLES
CaWes
rts
m,
THHtt ,1
CIGARETTES
Good Health Without Drugs.
4.-MOTHERS AND CHILDREN.
Mothers who would keep their children in good
health should give them, morning and evening,
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa made with hot milk. Deli-
cate men and women who have weak lungs, to be
hale, robust, and healthy should use Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa morning and evening, and all men who
have to be exposed to the bleak uncertainty of our
trying climate should fortify themselves before
they face their daily toil with Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa and they can then brave the fury of the ele-
ments with equanimity. The writer speaks from
personal experience and from observation of bene-
ficial effects on others. Tea opens the pores and
temporarily excites, coffee stimulates the action of
the heart,' whilst Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa gives
strength, stamina, and builds up and strengthens
the lung tissues. It is indeed a wonderful food
beverage. Nothing has ever been discovered that
can approach it in giving lightness of heart, joy of
life, fleetness of foot, and that general feeling of
comfort which only comes from a full capacity to
enjoy every pleasure, moral, intellectual, and
physical. . ~
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores,-or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 209 George-street, Sydney. _
Merit, and merit and alone, is what we claim
for Dr. Tibbies' Vi-Cocoa, and we are prepared to
sent to any reader (a postcard will do) who names
The Bulletin a dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa. *
The Famous Fre icli
Chocolate.
EHBEEWIEBIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
Wm. Cameron <£• Co,,
210 Ceorye-st., Sydney..


Aboriginalities.
Waipin : Pig yarn, just as I heard it.
“ Yis, Barney is a great pig, God bless him. ’Tis
herself thinks a dale of him. Foive year ago I
caught him in the bush, a bit of a bonnuv as big
as me fisht. Herself was like a mother to him,
an’ he grew at a great rate, wid no ind of atin’
an’ wid tushks on him loike an elephant. Well,
two year back I was in town to the Cup, an’ a
lump of a shwagger comes up to the dure, an’ sees
herself alone. After some yarning, says he —‘ I
want a shakedown for the night.’ ‘Go else-
where,’ says herself; but the divil a move was an
him, an’ by and by in he shteps, not seein’ Barney
in front af the fire. ‘ Sool him, Barney,’ says her-
Belf, an’ Barney goes for him, an’ me blagyard
bolts up the laddher on to the sthack. An’ there
he had to shtop, wid Barney shepherding him,
till meself comes home. ‘ Come down ! ’ says I.
‘ls it for a woild boar to ait me?’ says he.
So up I goes an’ gives him the father ov a
batin . Thin, whin 1 let aff him, he looks around
haf-croyin’, an’, says he, ‘ I’m betune a woild
hairy-toothed mahn an’ his pig, an’, be jabers ! I’ll
chance the blanky pig.’ An’ he meks a lep, an’
aff wid Barney at his heels. There’s his ould
dhrum in the shed beyant, and here’s Barney to
welkim him back whin he comes for it.”
• * • •
“ Leoro ” tells of “ a bad three minutes ” :
I was working at the Surprise mine, at Charters Towers,
and had just returned from a six months' spell, having
been down to Melbourne to get married. The first night
I got back I was over at the camp of a great pal of mine.
George Cooper, when a man came rushing up with a
white face and staring eyes to say there had been a
fall of stone in the Morning Star, and that help was
wanted as there were two men buried. George and I
jumped up to make for the mine, when the chap who had
brought the news said a 70ft. rope was wanted. George
said to me, “ There’s a rope in the 60ft. level of the Sur-
prise ; ” so we two set off as hard as we could lick for
the mine, which was about a quarter of a mile away.
When we reached it, as there were no ladders in, Jack
swung himself onto the rope and I lowered him, and, as
bad luck would have it, knocked the peg of the windlass
down the shaft. It didn't take long to get the rope on
top, and then I set to work to haul George up. He was
a big man, but I never doubted I could do now what
I had often done before. However, when I had
got him up about 30ft. I began to feel the strain
something awful. During the next ten feet all
the strength seemed to go out of me. I couldn’t
understand it at first, and then it flashed on me what was
. the matter—l had been away on a long spell without
doing a tap of work, and had got out of condition. By
THE BONE TRADE IN THE COUNTRY.
"’Elio, Go’anna, still ’ere? Whachyer waitin’ for with all the bags? ”
“ Ole Dwyer down at the store’s yivin’ a ha’penny a pound more for bones.
So I’m jest stoppin’ till ’is moke pegs out; he ain’t got
far ter go—and there’s a reg’lar gold-mine in ’im !”
Heaven, it gave me a turn when I saw what I waa in for
I got him up another few feet, slower and slower, cursing
and praying, and then could do no more, so just held on
and cried out in a regular agony “George, old man, I’m
done!" I'll never forget his voice as he shouted back,
“ For God’s sake, Jack, don’t 1< t me go 1” I tried again
with an awful fear upon me -the fear of killing a mate,
and got him up a few feet more. Then my head swam
and I knew I could haul no more, nor lower him either,
but must just let go and be wiped out by the windlass-
handle. I tried to shout for help, but couldn’t, and any-
way it would have been useless. Just as I was going to
let go, George kind of screamed out, “Don’t kill me, Jack!
You —— cur, stick to it! ” Then I heaved again with
my hands and arms on fire and my brain bursting, and I
don’t rightly remember anything more, but when I
dropped, after an eternity, and was falling down the
shaft, George was there to catch me. He gave me a hand
along the tunnel and left me sitting on the tip blubbering
hk e a kid while he went off with the rope to the Morning
* - * * •
“W.”: He cats, rabbits, and bush-liars.
In 8., 6/8/’9B, you say, “Oats are notorious
rabbit-killers in Britain, often taking’ to a wild
life in a warren in order to feed on the inhabitants
thereof.” Ditto in Australia and Maoriland.
Let me add that where rabbits are abundant the
cat becomes an epicure—kills young rabbits only
and eats nothing but the head, leaving the rest to
hawks, native-cats, and other gross feeders. As a
lad I lived in a slab-hut m a rabbit district. The
family cat when suckling kittens was a mighty
nocturnal hunter. When the kitten was old
enough to crawl, quail, rail, ground-lark, or young
rabbit was brought in every hour or two, and
always alive. Once, when puss was snoodling the
solitary survivor of a newly-dropped litter, I
brought home a nest of young rabbits just able to
run about. Thrown into her basket, they were
not killed, but adopted and suckled for several
weeks. I suspected that puss was reserving them
for nights of sport and instruction, but not so. In
due time kitten and bunnies ran about the floor
together, and the old cat brought home game as
usual: often a young rabbit as before, and the
strange thing is that none of the fosterlings were
ever killed in mistake. But when my father
heard of the phenomenon, he pronounced it a
the*lot unna *' thing,” and promptly squashed
* * • *
De S. :At Broken Hill, the other day, a
young wallaby was thrown in with a cat and young
kittens. Cat took to the strange animal after
halt-an-hour s investigation, and suckled it with
her natural youngsters.
* * • *
“ Flong” writes : I have been in the bush
all my life, and for last 18 months have been walk-
mg two miles to a neighbor’s place four nights in
the week. I always carry back a bottle of milk,
inn °, n dark nights, I have gone astrav from
100 to 4Qoyds.—sometimes to the right, ofte’ner to
the left—l have often found that the direction
defended upon which hand I carried the milk in.
If in the right, Igo to the right ; if in the left, I
go to the left. Even when I have a pound of
butter m the other hand, I am bound to go with
the hand that carries the milk—perhaps because
the milk is the heavier. [Suppose you were
carrying a bottle of whisky ?]
• * * »
“ Nea ” : While travelling once came upon
a man in a tent who was very anxious for me to
stay to dinner. Said he would have a damper
cooked in a jiffy; pulled off his shirt, poured
some flour on it, and started to mix. Have
myself used a corner of a tent, and even a saddle-
cloth, when nothing better was to be had ; but
that shirt made me suddenly remember that I was
in a great hurry.
* • • «
“Stockspur”: Best way of keeping the
feet warm, whilst in the saddle, is to wear socks
outside boots.
“ Y.A.”: Re queer
flocks. Returning to
Shanghai in a house-
boat from a shooting-
trip on Tahu Lake, met
one of the many annual
flocks of ducks, num-
bering several thou-
sands. The individual
ducklings are hatched
artificially, and start in
infancy for the city a
hundred miles away,
supporting themselves
en route on waterweeds
and tadpoles with an
occasional dole of
paddy, and camping on
the creek - banks by
night. The owner and
his family follow them
in a “sampan,” and
occasionally hurry them
up with long bamboos.
By the time the city is
reached they are plump
and ready for market,
at from 8 cents (2d.) a-
piece. The majority
are “corned,”and when
duly split up the back
' and squashed flat, re-
semble nothing so much
as a tennis-bat. Once
ventured to empty a
duck-gun into a detach-
ment, paid each
for dead and wounded,
and sickened my friends
with duck-meat for a
month.
One resalt of a phenomenally good season
in parts of “ Sturt’s desert,” which takes in a good
patch of far-western N.3.W., is such a growth of
the gorgeous Sturt pea as has not been known for
10 or 12 years. And, as Broken Hill is set in the
midst of one of the most favored patches, the
crowds of flower-gardeners have made some inter-
esting discoveries. Among the millions of the
common crimson and black blooms are rare white,
white and pink, pink and heliotrope, and other
distinct sorts, all, however, pretty much alike in
shape.
* * * .
“Old Timer”: John Horrocka’ death in
the Land of the Crocodile occurred thus : He had
punished his camel—a brute with an extra-ugly
temper -and shortly after, as Horrocks was draw-
ing a charge from his gun, the camel struck at
him with a forefoot, caught back the hammer, and
exploded the piece. The ramrod was shot through
Horrocks’jaws, pinning them together. Paralysis
set in, and he implored his men to shoot him.
Jemmy Green, his black boy, travelled night and
day to a station 150 miles away, and brought out
assistance. Horrocks was still alive, and able to
give some instructions, one being that the camel
should be shot on his grave. I had the story from
Jemmy Green himself, weeping bitterly as he told
it. Horrocks had taken Jemmy to England,
where he was presented to Queen Victoria.
» • • •
They were talking of dust and dust-storms
Out West. “See that coat-of-arms up there?”
continued Simpson, pointing to the lion and
unicorn above the entrance to the post-office;
“moulded out of the dust left on the walls after
one storm. Same storm, I wanted to light my
pipe. Had a stick and bunch of Sturt pea in my
hand. Wind blowing, needed both hands. Stuck
the stick into a cloud of dust that stood bv, hung*
the dowers on it, lit my pipe. Station I worked
on, boss tried to run a garden. Never troubled
to plough. When he saw a storm coming, he’d
send me out to scatter seed over the paddock, and
then let the dust cover it. Tell you what. Saw
a man go out once in white suit. Dust-storm.
Suit chocolate-brown. Then rain. Dust so thick
not wash off. Hot sun followed, caked it on him.
Had to carve clothes off with picks and cold
chisels.
* * » ,
“ Face” : Recently saw a farmer, after
fire, thistles, and language had failed to shift his
jibbing plough-horse, fasten his teeth in the nag’s
top lip and pull back like a terrier. The horse
went with him all right and kept going. Then
the farmer spat out the lip and went back to the
plough-handles.
SKETCH ON THE SELECTION.
A Little relaxation.
O.P.S. office in
W.A. north back-blocks. y
Mahomet drags a brother camel-
puncher into office and charges him with
assault. O.P.S. : “ Fine you 30s. 1” and
pockets money. Regular biz.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin.— Be light-haired blacks.
About 18 months ago three fair-haired, brown-
skinned aboriginals, two men and a woman, came
to Kanowna, W.A. The men were well-built
fellows, very different from the miserable local
niggers of the district; the woman, too, was a
fine specimen, and wore her long hair don© up in
a knob on the back of her neck. When asked
where they came from they pointed north-east.-
E.P.E,
* • * •
“ Tin-lip ” : Called in at a Q. selection the
other day for a drink, and saw the proprietor, who
told me, mournfully, that he had 28 children—
twins five times, triplets once. “Yes, sir,” he
said, pointing to his wife, drawing water at the
well, “she has em reg’lar onst a year, and some-
times a litter of ’em. ’Tis hard on a poor man.
Protection and black labor don’t seem to be doin’
much good to the colony; a man with a large
family don’t get a chance.”
* * • *
In Geraldton (Q.) district lately a black-
boy captured a fair-sized turkey, and, not wishing
to kill it, fastened it by the leg to a vine. In the
morning the bird had vanished, and in its place
was a carpet-snake with a yard or two of vine
down its throat. The wrath of the astonished
blaokboy was only appeased when he had des-
patched the snake. A post-mortem revealed the
turkey, which the blackboy afterwards cooked
and devoured.
» • • •
“C.H.R.”: The ingratitude of the com-
mon tramp is a distressful thing. Writer knows
a farmer (a hatter) to whom one day came a long,
lean, hungry-eyed swaggie looking for work. He
was put on, and for the first few days proved a
first-rate farm hand —docile, obliging, and even
respectful in his manner. But how he did feed !
A leg of mutton at one sitting was nothing to
him. However, the boss didn’t begrudge the
tucker so long as the man kept up his big
average of work. Soon a change came o’er the
scene. The tramp began to feel himself. He got
full of good mutton, and he began to swell; and
the more he swelled the flasher he became. He
reared up behind, and pawed out in front, and
curvetted around vvith arched neck and bulgy
eyes; and the more he pranced the less he
worked ; and one day he sat down on a log and
told the boss to wheel the blessed barrer himself;
and when the latter expostulated, the stall-fed
stranger threatened to “ pull the nose off of his
face.” Ultimately, the local bobby had to remove
him from the hut, where he was found reading
the Protestant Standard.
• * # «
“ Mirracrinya ” on a phase of way-back
Queensland life :
Re the lately-passed Q. Aboriginal Protection Act. If
Meston were to trip out to the Wilson, Bulloo.and Cooper’s
Creek he would find some eye-openers. Downs, for
instance, which is better known by another name on
account of the number of mernonge.rs (men who habitu-
ally cohabit with black gins) that usually make their home
there. In nearly every instance the blacks’ camps at the
stations in the S.W. corner of Queensland are simply
huge brothels—owners, managers, and knockabout hands
all have their “ fancy ” gins, and woe betide the stranger
caught making love thereto. Meston will find that, if he
wants to improve the blacks’ morals out that w ay, it is
not the casual man who carries a gin about the country
that he will need to tackle—his trouble will be with the per-
manent hands on the cattle-stations, who look upon the gins
as their personal property. As for the half-castes, he won’t
be troubled much with them, for nearly every gin on giv-
ing birth to a half-caste turns it over to the old camp
gins to be killed. Sometimes, if there are whites about
when the half-caste is born, they prevent its destruction,
but, as a rule, nobody bothers. You see, it is a bit awk-
ward having half-caste children, with strong family like-
nesses, about a place. On Downs, there is a
large camp of blacks, but very few half-caste children,
yet every man on that station at one time lived openly
with the gins; and it is the same on other squat-
tages. Whether the Act lately passed will alter the con-
dition of the aboriginals much is a very open question.
It is perfectly certain that these big cattle-stations, with
many blacks on them, will not pay the nigs, any reason-
able wages. At present, they get no wages, with a few
exceptions ; and they are more-or-less fed by travellers.
On some holdings, the condition of the blacks is down*
right slavery. A resident of the district, camped close to
one station, saw a big stockman ride up to it jingling a
pair of handcuffs, and inquire if anything had been seen
of a strange blackfellovv, as one had run away from the
station he belonged to. He W'as told no, when, all at
once, he cried, “Why, there he is!” pointing to a six-
year-old piccaninny, playing under the verandah with the
overseer s children. Imagine bringing the darbies along
for such an infant! No wonder the station he belonged to
is considered an absolute slave-holding concern. Follow-
ing- is the only instance so far, out there, of the Aboriginal
Act being put in force. A white man from one station
took a 12-year-old half-caste lad out of the blacks’ campon
another station,with a view to better the boy’s condition
by clothing him properly and so on, but the No. 2 station-
people promptly sent a constable to bring the boy back
to the blacks’ camp. Man asked boy in constable’s pre-
sence if he wanted to return, and, on the boy replying in
the negative, defied the constable to take him away. Re-
sult : Summons tmder the Aboriginal Act, to compel sur-
render of the boy to barbarism again. Will Mr. Meston
inquire into this'/ The Act, in short, will be a dead
letter as regards squatters, though it will probably be en-
forced against any poor devil who has no influence behind
him.
* » » *
“ Mirracrinya ” : Teller of blacks’-grave
yarn in Bulletin, 13/8/’9B, is a bit at sea, Facts :
Jack Kennedy got into camp late one night close
to Nocalunga Station, fossicked about in the dark
and saw a big heap of dry wood close to camp.
Used it for firewood, and in the morning found he
was camped amongst blackfellows’ graves. Blacks’
camp was handy, and when they caught sight of
him they came over and said, “ You all the same
wokkaratchie (crow)—sit down longa deadfellow.”
The name stuck, and Kennedy is still well known
in this district by it; but as for the blacks giving
him afterwards a wide berth, he is a great favorite
with them, and whenever he is camped about
here you will always find the nigs, yarning with
him. Don’t think these S.W. Queensland blacks
would care a rap about having the wood taken off
their dead brethren. They are more scared about
white people’s graves than their own. Instance :
A man fencing in the cemetery here borrowed a
nigger of mine to help him for a day, and when
the darkey came home he wolfed his supper in
such a way that I asked him if the man hadn’t
gi ven him anything to eat. “ Walya mine eat
him,” he answered, “that fellow bin put him on
deadfellow’s grave.” I found out afterwards that
the whitefellow had hung the tucker-bag on a
grave-fence, and the blackfellow considered the
tucker defiled. Must have meant it, too, for a
blackfellow is always ready for a gorge, hungry
or not.
* * • •
“Tassy”:The “wallaby” feats of your
correspondents, “ Lazarus” (Sydney to Melb. on
6d.) and “ Cosmos,” are small potatoes indeed in
comparison with the feat of the Westralian—still
alive and now one of the wealthiest men in W. A.
—who, after escaping from Fremantle prison, was
captured near Adelaide, S.A. Overland cyclists
Denning and White can tell what the country is
like between those two places.
• • • •
“V.K.”: “Raspberry” appeals for a
yokeless collar for the working bullock. In parts
of Europe the bullock pulls with his head ; the
shoulders are absolutely free. A cushioned cres-
cent is the medium of leverage, and it seems to m<-
the most rational way of exploiting the animal's
strength, which lies mainly in the neck. Abe,
this arrangement is cheaper, lighter, and easier P
handle than the yoke.
“ BUSKIN"—A Sydney Street Sketch.
“Bauhinia”: lie bower-bird’s mimicry
powers. At a C.Q. survey-camp, once, was suffer-
ing from a short, hacking cough, and our camp-
keeper insisted one night that I had returned tc
camp during the day, as he had heard me cough-
ing. Next day and the day after same assertion
on C.K.’s part, and denial upon mine, and on
Saturday morning the C.K. declared “ he’d be
hanged if he’d stop by himself any longer, for the
camp was haunted.” Looked as if we were going
to lose our excellent culinary artist; but on Sun-
day morning, as we were lounging in bed an hour
or so later than usual, my cough started clear and
distinct from an adjacent clump of gidya. In
rushed cookie, blazing with excitement. “ There ;
what did I tell you ? Now tell me I’m mad! ”
Out we all bundled, and found the feathered
mimic in full cough, spluttering away fit to break
his little neck.
AMERICA’S FAMILY REMEDY
. . . FOR ...
NEARLY A CENTURY.
IT STOPS BLEEDING.
An Immediate Cure for
Sore Throat, Sore Eyes, Sprains,
Insect Bites, Toothache, Strains,
AND
ALL INFLAMMATION.
What the Superintendent of the Civil Ambulance
Brigade of N.S.W. says :
“ Pond's Extract is absolutely the most reliable
preparation I have ever used for reducing all
inflammation, and in quieting pain its effect
is wonderful.”
6oz. Bottle. IS. 6d. 6oz. Bottle.
Book of directions for all complaints with each
Bottle.
M. Moss & Co., Sydney and, Melbourne .
FRP UIRtTED COCOA.
<s
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt


Hiram ” : “ M.” does
not read his Bulletin. The
inaugurator of cat-r.-rabbit
importation was “ Are you a
sheewah ? now dead, eye-
glass and all ; but a gentle-
man ! I once advised him :
“ Muster and count the rab-
bits, and put one cat per rab-
bit on the run. That’ll fix
them.’ When will people
understand that, given scope
and natural conditions, no
one pest can destroy another?
Again, a rabbit lasts a cat a
long time, and puss prefers
stalking a dickwinter, or a
redbreast, to chewing 50 rab-
bits. I have seen the house-
cat (especially when it had
kittens) bring back a full-
grown rabbit dozens of times.
Where I am camped now
there are at least a dozen cats
about, living on rabbits,
birds, and fish. The water-
holes are getting dry, and
the cats snaffle the finny-ones
out like a leister. Cats will
live and breed in the same
burrows as rabbits ! Rab-
bits climb trees. Have seen
’em 10ft. up a sapling—with
a smooth stem, too ! But,
let n.e admit that this was in
a rabbiters’ killing-yard, 18ft.
sq., into which we had run
1800 bunnies Two ladies
were gutting, and the heap
of live, dead, and dying rab-
bits round the sapling was
7ft. high, reaching the lowest
fork. Bless the rabbits 1 I
say vou can’t get rid of them,
thank God ! Still, poor peo-
ple won’t eat them. Re-
quires a status in society to
get rid of the slur of living
on gratis food. Bush liars !
—“ M.”—-come outside !
* * •
“ Dareel ” : The amal-
gamation of stations under
one managership has been
much practised by financial
cos. since the ’93 bank
troubles. Some eight years ago a
now-famous co. tried the plan in the
mirage section of N.S.W., and the
experiment proved too costly to be
repeated. Taking over one of several
hard-hit properties, they sent up a
manager to lick things into shape
ere clearing out the pioneer owners
of adjacent runs. The manager
started by sacking all old hands.
“ Know "the country ! Of course
they do. Know it well enough to
dodge me on hot days,” he said, when
someone doubted the wisdom of work-
ing with a new staff. With a South-
ern experience of swift-rising-and-
falling rivers, he under-estimated the
dangers of the lignum-country floods.
Said a bush-fire might reach him 40
miles back from the creeks, but for
flood-water to come along the rnts
they called “ warrambools ” —well,
he’d guarantee if it did come so far,
he could block it with one plough-
furrow. “ Fact is,” he told one of
the hands, “you old ’64-ers have
flood-water on the brain !’’ The
old hands bided their time, and
one morning when the manager had
ridden in towards the frontage and
struck a scalded plain where there
were usually only plain-turkeys, lie
saw wild swans, and, not much
alarmed at seeing water so far out
that side, hurried the stock back to-
wards the Murilla ridges—only to be
met en route by the flood spreading
out from the despised ruts ; and in
48 hours occurred possibly the heavi-
est single loss of sheep in Austral-
asia. When the big financial bugs
got on to : that run, two months
later, they saw thousands of skele-
tons piled against .fences, trees and
scrub—a fitting monument to the
folly of running big interests by ava-
rice and arrogance. * So overboard
went the amalgamation plan, and
with it the manager. How the
co. pai’tly squared the loss by buying
from the adjacent runs sheep at
nominal values and crediting the
bereft property with stock rating at
after-flood prices is a story written
in their ledgers, and in the hearts
of the poor devds who had hoped
that the results of their foresight
and experience might be credited to their over-
drafts.
* • • *
Some men take a lot of killing. A miner
fell down 90ft. of winze at the Markey claim, Cas-
silis, the other day. It dees not usually need a
long winze to batter the life out of a miner, but
this one arrived at the bottom in fairly good con-
dition, ai d started to climb out again after a spell.
He got half way up, and slipped and went rattling
to the bottom once more. The battered digger
was discovered eventually and hauled out. This
happened on a Tuesday, and on the following
Sunday night the miner went to work as usiiaj.
But writer knew a faceman who was twice buried
in, once fell down a 150 ft. prospecting shaft, and
once into a bob-pit, and after all lived to be killed
by a cab-horse at Gcelona. Third? of the indignity
of being killed by a Geelong cab-horse !
* * * •
There was a fire in a marine-store shed in
Adelaide, the other day ; and among the other
wrecks wiped out was Fitzpatrick, a bottle-
gatherer—a poor beggar of whom Fortune had
made a cockshy for years. Well-educated, but
restless, Fitzpatrick became a “rusher,” and
finished up that career at Kimberley. He was
fairly lucky there ; but, coming back, thieves
cleaned him and his mate out, killed the latter,
and so battered Fitzpatrick that after the police
found him he was for 11 months in hospital.
“LA POUPEE ” AT HER MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY. Photos., Talma, .Melbourne.
Miss VANE and Mr. KENNINGHAM as La Poupee and Lancelot. Miss LOROTHY VANE, as La Poupee.
Miss CARRIE MOORE, as Henri, in “La Poupee,"
When discharged he was a totally deaf-and-dumb
wreck. Four years after that a jolt in a cart sud
denly opened his ears again ; but he was by this
time utterly broken up, and hung out for the rest
of his days in the bottle-gatherer’s shed.
* * * *
“F.H.”: More dog and eagle. Was
once walking with a young lady when an eagle
grabbed her Skye-terrier and carried it up about
30ft., when the dog fell- with its back broken.
Shot two eagles the other day—one fixed on to a
sheep with its claws and the other darting at its
face.
* ♦ * *
The other day, during a Tas. sou’-wester,
a man had the whole of the buttons taken off his
waistcoat by the limb of a tree, and never got a
scratch. Fortunately he had a snub-nose.
* • * •
“ J.8.C.” : A mate of mine, travelling up
North, struck a cookie’s house one stormy night,
and was asked if he was looking for work. “ I
have a few trees I want grubbing, and I’ll giveyez
seven bob a week and ait you—that’s if you suit.”
Wife chips in : “ Yez’ll have to be up airly in the
morrnin’. While Pat and me would be laying in
our bed, long before the day was broke, we’d hear
the last young man whop, whop, whop at the
threes. And, phvvat’s more, he didn’t ait much,
and Pat was only giving him 6s. a week. Oh, he
was a nice young man ; the few shillings he had
FRANCES ADLER, as Marie , in “La Poupde"
cornin’ to him whin he wint away he guv to the
childer ! ” They found my friend was an earlier
riser still, but he wasn’t there to breakfast 1
• * * *
“ Nea ” : Knew an old station-holder up
North who employed only black boys and lived
entirely on salt-junk and damper. Once asked
him why he didn’t get some cows for milk and
butter. “ Eh, mon,” he said, “ butter is just fair
cruel on the flour-bag.”
* • • *
“Geolay”: Was waiting to be ferried
across the Murray at Euston. A seven-or-eight-
year-old nipper strolled over from the shanty, and,
telling a long yarn about a flood, wound up with :
“ But th,at was before I was got.” Truly the trail
of the horse is over us all.
Since 1842 there have
been 90 males and three fe-
males hanged at Melb. gaol,
and 38 males and three fe-
males are recorded as buried
within its walls. Prior to
1865 no record of such inter-
ments was kept, and as exe-
cuted persons were not in-
variably quicklimed in the
prison precincts in the early
days, exact statistics on the
subject do not exist.
Millionaire Angas was
complaining to S.A. Lands
Minister O’Loughlin, the
other day, that the Crown
tenants near one of his runs
allowed their cattle out on
the roads, and that the
beasts have the impudence
to put their heads through
his fences and eat his grass.
“ You had better sell us the
estate for closer-settlement
purposes,” suggested
O’Loughlin; but the great
man did not think he could
spare any of the country just
at present. Not many years
ago, he sold the Willowie
run, and the syndicate who
bought it, after paying
,£lBO,OOO in principal and in-
terest,. had to forfeit the land
because they could not com-
plete the stipulated pay-
ments.
An old Melb. reader of
The Bulletin, who has been
in the' habit of posting the
paper to friends in Edin-
burgh, protests vigorously
against the new parochial
postal law by which all
newspapers printed outside
of Victoria are books, subject
to the charge of Id. per 2oz.
when mailed from that “ loy-
al” province to the beloved
mother country. It seems a
monstrously unfederal thing
that the bulky Australasian
should be carried from Mel-
bourne to Great Britain for
3d., whereas to send a copy of The Bulletin by
the same post costs 4d. And if a Bulletin and
an Australasian be packed together the post-
office demands book rate on the parcel. The
“ beastly foreign ” element is reckoned to leaven
the whole lump.
A Chinese, at Melb. city police-court, re-
cently, answered the name “ Hung Up.” .
Died on the Murchison, manager Tansey,
one of the most-travelled mining men in Wes-
tralia. Dropped off rather suddenly, from a
recurrence of fever and ague, contracted in- the
Straits, where he was tin-mining.
The Bulletin forgot'to attach the sacred
name of “ Talma ” to the group of photos repre-
senting Biondi as 13 musical conductors. The
portraits were taken in Melb. a few weeks: ago.
Talma, who had Biondi at his studio, and criti-
cised the various “half-mask ” faces in cold blood,
was much impressed by the mimic’s cleverness in
assisting the delusion.
The Yic. Government has decided to buy
Longstaff’s fine picture, “ A Bush Fire in Gipps-
land,” for the Melb. National Gallery. The
Govt., it seems, enquired of sundry representative
persons—Mayor M'Eacharn and others as to
whether the picture was really an “ all right ” pro-
duction, and, strange to say, these magnates
unanimously approved of it notwithstanding the
awfully inartistic influence of their frock-coats and
bell-toppers.
B. : Re the man who killed himself over a
fowl. Some years ago a Sydneyite accompanied an
expedition as artist through the wildest parts of
New Guinea. After successfully • negotiating
perils of sea and land, cannibals, fever, &c., for
nearly a year, he was. going up Pitt-street a few
days after/his return, ( aird, not' observing the
G.P.O.J. -talked slap intolt. • Result, 1 a fractured
knee-Cap and months’ sick bed.
For the first time for many years the re-
nowned English chess-player, Blackburne, has
failed in an important tourney to gain a place in
the prize-list. Originally a waiter at a-chess
resort in London, the game which attracted so
many customers seemed to Mr. B. so excessively
simple that he did not see why others should not
wait on him, and learning the moves he speedily
became a “master.” Especially a§ a blindfold
player he has stood at the head of English chess
for many years. > v-
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him.. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
How to Remain Young.
FEED THE HARD-WORKING ORGANS
OF YOUR BODY
WITH JIJST WHAT THEY REQUIRE.
Here are some important truths expressed by a
well-known professor of a New York Medical
College:—
“All Nature ever needs, or ever asks for, is a
little help. She becomes overworked—is it any
wonder sne needs help ? ”
“The heart beats night and day, and never
stops. The lungs are always working away like a
pair of bellows. The stomach is constantly oc-
cupied-; so are the kidneys and the liver. You
cannot give them a vacation, but you can help
them-immensely. Those great organs—the kid-
neys and liver—are willing to work, but they need
food, and you can give it to them.”
“ Ydu dan easily feed these organs, and you will
be. surprised how much better you will feel if you
do so. There is a discovery which is an actual
food for, the kidneys. It is known to scientists
and,-the world as Warner’s Safe Cure. By all
means try it. A little of this remarkable medicine
taken three times a day will produce a most happy
effect. Instead of being tired, fagged out, des-
pondent, and with little ambition, you will grow
bright, hopeful, and happy. Women, especially,
need a good friend of this kind, and I know of
scores of ladies who would not think of being
without this grand remedy to help them when
they specially need it.”*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU. AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MQIJNTCASTIE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BIiISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
K Soft Car) VaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30- per -dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. I'l H K IiKO I'II Kits,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.


LYNE'S AT TITUDE.
HE "DOES NOT WANT OFFICE."
MORE OR LESS ALLEGORICAL.


BOSPTT.-ir.rTY TO CBRTSTIAtJ
BN I) EA VOREES.
to the editoh of the aOb.
Sir,—The Christian Endcnvor Convention
of Australasia Is 10 be held In MelSourne
from Tuesday, 13th September, until Tues-
day, the 20th. We are expecting from the
different colonies, and-from various parts of
this colony, about 2000 visitors. When the
Endeavorers of Victoria have attended con-
ventions in the leading cities of other colo-
nies they have been most hospitably accom-
modated. Now-It,is our turn to receive the
convention we desire to be able to do to
others as they have done to us, and ns presl-
dent for Australasia I crave permission
through your columns to ask any who can
and will give accommodation to communi-
cate with me, stat.ing,whether they can take
a married couple or a young man or a young
woman, or more than one.-Yours, &e„
SAMUEL C. KENT
ChrlsHan Endearor Office,. 272 Little Col-
ItuS-street, 29t1) August.
the clothing board.
As soon as th© nwiutc3 bad been read on©
of the representatives of the manufacturers
said lie wished to draw attention to the fact
that were strangers present.”
“May I ask who you represent?” aslcecf
the chairman, to which the “stranger” re-
he was present in the interests
ot *lhe Argus.
Mrs. Muir was against' the press being
allowed to remain.
Mr. Barker suggested that the represen- j
talives of certain interests “might find ft |
necessary to sit with closed doors,” but so i
far as those whom he represented were con- jj
; cerned, they feared no publicity; on the e
contrary, they courted it. (Hoar, hear.) r
motion was then-proposed'by one of B
the manufacturers’ representatives that £
the press be excluded.
Five hands were held up in favour, and £
the motion was declared carried? - B
\ n
z
Jse Jjulle ffp " 2frdezyor<s-?s
qgp?p2r~~ yesffjizj'iy- yZ&p fi^rfect’SffS^Cr^'.
\ PECULIAR DIVORCE CASE
jA “Sleep taISV by a husband.
SYDNEY. Monday.
| A story was told in the Divorce Court to-. ,
|da.., in which the habit of a husband talking /
In his sleep aroused his wife's suspicions,/
‘•which led to investigations, and finally to nn/J
application for divorce. 71
/'fe7£> hfife fhfcfas ieej? r&z,d/yo£bsz*h
/fapec<J;\rfrYorce (asg : —J^y e /
fa>~rK rjpt& cjeere -fbrSujy&er’
ferp fafa 2 2>eey tfajfihqrfife hours *&&!
hefasTfr r fs e h'fefbp /
Ov?y S'p&'T'es -** /
3
te<3 to eie oie; °” Eposes to".
" H r Jrjooi °y K£*v>e.
■ |L C cloljjwr<Botr(L~
(i>i Ty
.., *
fA>a f ;./<* thr te? tr* 9 U *
s*
TTe °fy
y i Kely 1o c°J?yiyce/eb,l
MARfifcujß A .
• sin there were *>„ .at
U «w an open ],c *nsed elrr*?** - rat ed 6n
acf woulrf £ n ani ,gynieQ - TW
Srti&issftts£ssifig
1° enter info rm Bers °iw » e i?> ln * scan-
- IS"SSip;i^p-
ffi’A’
•y' J ??-&**& J’2>*tf~S&!"
/Jesf ty Y '}
13
MELBOURNIANA.


Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
J. Love ; Quite probable that if a strong leader
stumped N.S.W. in the interests of Unification as against
Federation he would “return to Sydney” with a big
majority. But N.S.W. can’t unify by herself, and things
would be no further advanced. Unification suits the big
province which would boss the show, and it can be easily
converted. But start by converting the small ones
D.F.D. : Before condemning Marshall Hall for appear-
ing to cave-in, it were well to remember that it is not
impossible to count heads beforehand in Vic. University
Council debates and divisions, and that few professors of
■music in the world could afford to bear the stigma of
even an illegal dismissal on grounds some of which had
reference to immorality ... W.H.R. (Rushworth): (1)
Difficulties in the way. (2) Victoria has a bank-note cir-
culation of about £i,000,000, and if the Govt, chose to
replace this with State notes it could undoubtedly keep
that amount of legal tender paper afloat without any
trouble. But if it shoved (say) £3,000,000 of legal tender
paper on the country, the £l-note would be at a dis-
count. If you keep more legal-tender paper afloat than
the country requires it always depreciates Back
Blocker : “ Yesno-Yesno” sounds well as a name for the
Federal capital Mona R. 0.: The drowning, of young
Bill is well written, but the incident is hardly large
enough Anitalp : Sunday Times sort of matter
A. W.K. : The Aboriginalities column is the haunt of the
lyre-bird .... R.C.C. : Many thanks John de B. (or L.)
something or other : Three closely written—and we can’t
even read your signature 6xB: Do please write twice
as large and at thrice the line-distance . Dederang :
Ditto—or prompt “basket!”.... Nell'Cook : To hand.
Yesl Echo : Re alleged seizure of newspaper’s plant,
pending libel-suit, such action could only legally be
taken under warrant upon reason to believe that the
plant was unregistered. The dodge has been worked
before .... .Wallaroo : Pig-humor laborious .A.J.B. :
“ Bartonia” too suggestive of Barataria .... A.N.R. : Not
enough in it B. : Yes—chestnut! A. M. Brown :
Your argument doesn’t alter case. Doesn’t follow that,
because a man naturally shrinks from marrying an ostra-
cised woman, he agrees with the ostracism. Also, only a
fine talent for misapprehension could read want of sym-
pathy into the par. you refer to ... H.P. : All those flash
money marriages, and what not, with the slaver of the
Social press, only go to deepen the public conviction that.
Labor is Dishonorable, and Work Disgraceful Zoon :
The fact remains that the pig is susceptible of “ educa-
tion” to an extent only bettered by the elephant and
the dog. When we make a pile and haven’t to read any
more such hideous scrawls as yours, we are going to get a
pet pig and lavish upon it any affection we may have left.
In fact, we believe so firmly in the intelligence of pigs
that we are going to train some to run The Bulletin
Bernardine : Will print it as a change, though that sort
of tranquil, Australasian-y thing hardly suits these
columns Wrong: Biondi preceded Fregoii outside of
Italy J.P.: Double-event betting is an old English in-
stitution, anyhow. The sample of betting that you quote
“ ss. on Fly-by-Night : if you win all on Keepsake ” —is
not a “double-event” transaction in the orthodox sense
of the term. It’s an “accumulator” bet—likewise, an
early British means of losing money to the man with the
hook-nose. . H. : Paterson (of Paterson, Lainc and Bruce)
had retired from the firm before he went to Westralia.
Disgusted : You are suspiciously excited over this little
matter. Are you one of the disappointed applicants for
the billet? Leah: If we were asked, we’d say that a
mixture of Jewish and Irish blood was an excellent cross.
C.W.A. : But, then, so many of those poor old men
in asylums are such liars. It’s an awful thing to be old,
and in an asylum. -You make no friends when you are
old. There, every one is for himself; selfishness and sus-
picion rule. The average old man in an asylum wouldn't
sacrifice a chew of tobacco to save the life, or the soul, of
the other old man in the next bed. Brutal —but true as
gospel .... E.A. : But the “ Marriage with aD.W.S.” Bill
hasn’t been passed by the House of Lords Meo : Af
soon as a Labor-man gets into Pailiament every agency is
afoot to corrupt him, and they s. ldom fail, more or less.
He is like Chas. Kingsley, who fancied “Yeast” and
“Alton Locke” were mistakes when he was appointed
select preacher to Queen Victoria. When the Labor M.P.
starts knocking about the billiard-balls with the cunning
Fat-man’s nominees, he finds they are grand chaps, and
when introduced to their women at a garden-party, it is
Heaven. How different from the corned beef and cabbage
at ’Ome, with a wife whose face is like a washing-board.,..
The Bungarra (W A.) : What a lot of veteran stories !
E.W.A. : Professional hypnotic “ subjects” should keep
their mouths shut. That’s ail H.G : It. is against
public policy to show people easy means of suicide
P.P.O. : Nothing in it. Why waste such nice, thick
paper? Tickler: You are interesting but too scrappy
and indefinite ; also, you send libels galore. Try again.
Korero : Tired of the Chillagoe hummers; “ let the
field talk for itself.” Jack-Shay : Oh, then, yov are the
man who plagiarised our hat the other day? .... E.R.P. :
Will print “Shoots.” W.G. : The whip-snake would
drink milk, but not milk to which a single drop of water
had been added. Then every town family should keep a
whip-snake to face-up the milkman Quandong : You
see, we only encourage the plausible variety of liar .:...
Bona-fide : Tattersall’s sweep is drawn semi-publicly
under the strictest Tas. official supervision. You can’t
throw any stones at its fairness. The English ticket-
holder has just as good a show as the man in the room.
Boiling Billy : What has become of you? .. . F.G.B. : To
hand F.E.R. : Thanks, but photo, so indefinite as to
be irreproducible J.J. M‘G. : From the spiteful annals
of Little Pedlington P. : Which Governor’s daughter,
which noble lord, and which prima-donna ? We don’t
print mysteries... Lillian (M.): We are not deeply in-
terested in the rural herbalist who charges one shilling
for a consultation and doesn’t clean his nails . Scot :
The cable would surely have told us if Earl De La Warr
were a parson Corinda : Thanks ; but the Shakespeare
ball was a harmless failure and is quite forgotten
now 81. : A couple of outside Melb. jobbers defaulted
lately. One of them had some considerable capital to
start with, and his failure gave one broker a nasty knock.
That’s all Flea Yarn : But then they don’t dip the in-
fant; it is only sprinkled. That spoils the flea-dip idea-
...:..Lex : Be comforted ; we will talk presently V.K. :
Review unusable; returned. F.L.W. ; The “dirge”
sang its own, and the “ dream ” too Amy (Tas.) : The
familiar weak feminine yearning-—nothing more John
(Broadford): There’s some vigor in that parody of
Boake’s “Dead Men.” You ought to make the author
show you the original Shipwreck : Also a land-wreck,
an office-wreck, a basket-wreck C.H.K. (M.L.) : Like
Babylon and Nineveh—they were Harkaway : You
beat the favorite, and we beat you .... Meg: “Why is
Death with bloody hand left victor on the plain ?” ’Pon
honor, we don’t know. Perhaps the other fellow went to
ask Reid if he was the chap to save Federation ?
W.H. (Ad.): You're quite right. Sketch unusable
0. Deakin : Pinch for stale news. Coal to Newcastle !
Pyro : Four chestnuts right away D.B. : More cata-
logue than poetry Robert M. : Received S.R.T :
Declined. Sorosis : Declined with gladness H.F.
(Syd.): Some melody and ingenuity ; too weak and un-
equal W.C.C. : Don’t go .... Secoro : Fact appears to
be that bank-clerks, on being appointed to up-country
branches, receive an increase of salary totally inadequate
to meet increased cost of living. Being looked upon as
aristocrats in the country, they are led into corresponding-
extravagances, so it requires a youth with a stiff upper-
lip to get through an up-country experience unscathed....
Anxious Investor : Well, the promoters give their ser-
vices in floating the co. whatever they are worth. If ss.
per share (£13,750) is called up on the 55,000 contributing
shares the promoters’ 5000 fully paid shares give them a
hold on rather more than one-fourth of the profits.
Which isn’t bad Vexatious Delay : Can’t advise with-
out a vast amount more information. Better see a solici-
tor P.K. (Mackay, Q.) : No definite information, but
fancy the local co’s property is mortgaged to the other
concern ...R.E.T. (Waihi) : No, he isn’t Vegetarian :
No use. The missionary is dead to all sense of logic
Jack-Shay : The fact that most men of genius are mori
or less sick doesn’t prove that every sick man is a genius.
The Federal leader you propose is simply a cold-blooded
old rail-sitter without enthusiasms or genuine beliefs of
any kind, and with a weak spot in him that makes him
backdown to anybody who tackles him in real earnest..
O.E. : That true story of Tottie and the detective reads
'ike a labored fiction ... Jin : You are either a dupe, or a
"A PARSON'S LIFE IS NOT A HARP Y ONE. ”
THE WIFE OF HIS BOSOM : “Henry, dear, give
those rude boys a bun each, and explain to
them, kindly but firmly, that this is a Sunday-
school picnic, and not a circus. ”
principal in a “put-up Job.” Pupil: Nothing in par-
ticular heard of Tasca since she left Australia Mac. :
Nobody who knows the ladies would listen to such a yarn.
Probably an expression of spite in return for a snub
Scribe : If Sam Winter really told that yarn about a free
railway pass, discovered amidst the ruins of Pompeii-
well, The Bulletin'will try not to think unkindly of him.
S.W. : The pressmen who “ fight shy” of that thea-
trical manager are pressmen who have no claim to a free
admission. He knows his business better than most
managers .... J.E. : Bulletin has no prejudices. You
mustn’t measure it up by the standard of youi- own petty
malevolence. To be interesting is the passport. This
paper would buy copy from Judas Iscariot if it liked that
copy, and reject copy from W. dhakespere if it thought
he maundered. It is ready to print, and pay for, interest-
ing abuse of itself from its most deadly personal enemies
would buy matter with equal readiness from a saintly
archbishop and a murderer under life-sentence R.H. ;
Weak jingle, and the chorus of “tol-101-lol” throws no
new light on the subject Mining Expert: Nothing un-
usual about it. Just as ordinary as a tram-car or a
public-house John W. G. : Send along that ledger
Double F. : But, isn’t it the English Brighton ?.../.Mud-
looimba : Too tamely told W.B. : Not class enough
Terence : Not surprising—when editors survive the morai
effects of some of the MSS. they have to wrestle with—
that any disease-germs thus conveyed are bluffed
Gecko : Trifling merit Alrasohid :' Not finish enough.
Also, story already in “ B.’s” possession turning on same
incident Balder : Cheerful as a funeral on a wet day.
H. J. Wills : Too prosy W.K. : Feeble hand
A A.N. : Not ungraceful, but inclined to Lyttonish
mouthing G. de H.S. : Spirited enough, but lyrically
very shaky in places Albany : The Swindling Stranger
has been written to death ! Willie P. : Romantic as a
round of beef! .... Mip : Not enough clothes on it; try
the W.C.T.U. Marie S. : Sorry neither gets there.......
Selim : Refreshing innocence?—or malice aforethought?
F.N.C. : “ Did we receive it with acceptation ? ” No ;
we rejected it with refusal Mattie : The writer is a
lady, though the name is not her real one ... Bunny:
Should have remained in your hole W.E.C. : To query
-yes. Yarn, passably well-done ; but the change-of-room
motive is hackneyed Ruperto : You say nothing with
great skill ..“Lazy Bess: Not too lazy to write, unfor-
tunately F.W.C. : To hand .... J.F.D. :Youare confus-
ing the right to use any number of names with the official
necessity for adherence to one. Also, the name a man is
born-to will in law be an alias if he has habitually used
another F.S.H. : Too much for fact and not enough for
a lie Cuddingwarra : Items too malodorous— On-
looker : As you say, N.S.W. wants “better legislation.”
But kindly define your particular brand of better legisla
tion.
Cable news of the British-Egyptian victory
in the Soudan suggests that Sir Herbert Kitchener
might have captured the Khalifa but for giving
his army a two hours’ rest before entering
Omdurman. “ The Khalifa, with his harem,
escaped by another gate at the very moment that
the British w T ere entering the city.” Two hours
earlier they would at least have bagged the harem.
And that would have been “better than nothing
at all.”
Learn and be Wise. —Federation is in the air ;
so are the measles. We don’t wish to block Federation,
but can lay you on how to prevent your baby, your
brother, your sister, or your aunt, or even the old man,
from taking the measles. Just drop into M'LEAN
BEOS & RIGG’S Ironmongery establishments in Mel-
bourne or Sydney, buy a few tins or bottles of their
specially-prepared disinfectants, and your house is as
safe against the malady as the cause of Federation is in
the hands of the present Parliament. The reader in-
wardly resolves to buy, preferring to spend a few shillings
to having the measles. Wise man.*
A correspondent of the Outlook (Eng.) :
Whilst public opinion is still occupied with regard to
Piper Findlater, may I venture to state that he is not the
only soldier who has found in the bronze of his Victoria
Cross a medium for extracting gold? A well-known
gallant cavalry officer, who had obtained the decoration,
retired from the army and devoted himself to the study
of sewage. In the course of this interesting pursuit he
invented a fertiliser. Every bag containing this manure
was marked with the Cross, which he used as a trade-
mark. I believe it proved an excellent form of advertise-
ment !! 1
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/(i,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior,.chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
“Melb.'’: Indignation over trees being
cut down in the Exhibition Gardens, formerly
Carlton. The identity clings to familiar trees,
while the new generation quite rightfully sees no
beauty in them, for indeed a good old Australian
town-tree is as gnarly as an octogenarian swagster.
Not till the typical O’Callaghan had followed
O’Brallaghan and Shanaghan to the sinnnetry did
Archbishop Carr manage to extract the hideous
dead gum-tree alongside St. Francis’s, Melb. The
wicked vandalism that robbed the historic One-
Tree Hill, Bendigo, is another matter.
HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely-
blended whishy of excellent flavour, which, while
maintaining all the due stimulating properties of
the spirit has been mellowoed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
The clocks of Ayrshire Downs (Q.) station
went astray, and the men couldn’t tell the time of
day, except by averaging the time of all the
watches, each of which worked at a different rate.
The manager started regulating the working
hours by the sun. The next man swore he'd fix
things. He boiled the watches of six shearers,
and then drenched them with kerosene. Ayrshire
Downs still works “ by the sun.”
Sugar, pure Silver-plated, 22s 6dL
With covers, 30s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 265.
15c. Gold ~ „ 465.
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain,
Gold, 8s 6d.
ijrj!
“sr
A. Saunders.
2-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12s.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, diamond, 4 Kubiesand 4 Pearls, £8 ss.
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Bed, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6a.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2los,
§in. wide.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18a Gold, Pure Double
Cut Diamond, £5 6s;
Larger, £6 6s, £7los,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 265; 18c.,
265, 30s, 365, £2.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s fid.
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,15/-, 20/-
A. Saunders.
S, nt l5 e ,P is . heB ’ P ure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
678 6d (4 pieces). Other houses charge £4 4s same articles.
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE MAKERS.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, 1:3, £3 10s,
±'4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send 4pw
Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
m fc
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Kifigs and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Redstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price
Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. POST FREE.
■s^
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
AMV
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d; Extra Strong, 10s;
16c. Gold, 15s. ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Q_
A. Saunders.
160. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
r
Child’s Cups, 10s 6d,
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s (id and 20s
are in Silk Cases.
‘shmmvs 'v
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.


80 YEARS OF AGE, - -
40 YEAES A SUFFERER.
... CURED BY ...
S FOR BHHDSIISS
Adelaide People Dumbfounded.
Miraculous Cure of an Octo-
genarian.
BILE BEANS ACHIEVE A WONDERFUL
VICTORY.
CORROBORATION BY THREE
NEIGHBORS.
A STATUTORY DECLARATION BEFORE
A J.P.
REMARKABLE CASE, AS PUBLISHED IN
THE ADELAIDE “ADVERTISER.”
Many wonderful cures have been placed to the
credit of Bile Beans for Biliousness, and we have
now to chronicle the marvellous case of an old
lady of eighty summers, who has suffered the most
excruciating agony for the past forty years, and has
been discharged from a hospital as incurable. Mrs.
Bridget M'Arney, the lady in question, resides at
Gibson-street, Bowden, Adelaide, where a re-
porter of the Adelaide Advertiser interviewed
her a short time since. Mrs. M'Arney is a
typical daughter of the “Emerald Isle.” She has
lived at her present address for nearly nine years,
and in the district for seventeen years, and is very
widely known. “Tell you the story of my ill-
ness ? ” she said, in response to a preliminary ques-
tion. “ Certainly I will, with pleasure'.
“About forty years ago I became very ill. I
suffered from severe pains in the head, chest, and
stomach, and used to have bad fits of retching,
and always, on getting up in the morning, had a
bad taste in my mouth. I could not enjoy my
food, and at last became so bad that I had to call
in a doctor. He prescribed for me, and I con-
tinued taking his medicine, but it did me no
good. I then called in another doctor, who told
me that I was suffering from a disordered
liver, and advised me a change of climate as the
only remedy. I tried other medicines, which did
1
<nycj««
A
r®*
s.
r
NS
0
w
w
mm
me no good,
so I resolved
to try the
change of cli-
mate, and
came out to
South Austra-
lia. My health
however, did
not improve ;
but, on the
other hand, I
gradually be-
came worse,
and often,
when ventur-
ing a few
yards from
my house to
get a little
fresh air, fell
down in the
street, and
had to be
assisted to
my home. I
gradually be-
came worse,
and my
friends took
me to the hos-
pital, but after
the doctors had nearly physicked me to death
they discharged me as incurable. When I left
that institution I was so weak that my daughter
had to assist almost carry —me from the
door to the tram, a distance of only a few
yards. The doctors also told my daughter
that I was not to be left alone, as I might be
called away from this world at any moment.”
“ To look at you now, Mrs. M‘Arney,” said the
reporter, “ no one would think you had suffered
a pain in your life ! ” “ That is just how I feel,”
replied the old lady, cheerfully, “ and it is all
through Rile Beans.” “What induced you to
try Bile Beans, after the best of doctors had
failed ? ” “ Well, I will tell you. I saw a report
in the paper of a person who had been cured by
them, and resolved to try them myself. I ob-
tained a box, and, in about a week, .my health
began to improve. I continued taking them
until I had finished the first box, and then ob-
tained two more, and, before I had finished the
third, all pain had left me, my appetite had re-
turned, and I was able to sleep well, and alto-
gether felt in splendid health.” “Did you take
any other kind of medicine during that time,
Mrs. M‘Arney?” “I took nothing whatever
but the Bile Beans, and that is why I
know they alone cured me.” “I must say
you look well enough now,” said the reporter.
" Yes, and I feel well, too 1 ” observed the old
lady, “ and, instead of dying, as I was expected to
do, I can now walk into Adelaide, a distance of
about two miles—and, after a short rest, return
f)
■ i
ft
P
n
l\
\
2
without feeling any the worse for it; and, what
is more, I am now living by myself, and doing
all my own work ! All my relatives and many
of the neighbors know—and will tell you—how-
bad I was before I took Bile Beans. If it had not
“She was taken to a hospital in Adelaide, and
after being there for some time was discharged,
looking quite as bad as when she went there. I
have seen her many times during the past few
weeks, and on each occasion have noticed a great
improvement in her health —in fact, she is so
well now that she does her work quite easily, and,
what is more, takes a good long walk occasionally
without feeling any the worse for it. Her re-
covery has astonished me, as when I saw_ her a
day or two after she left the hospital I, did not
think she would live to see the week out.’*
Mrs. 0. J. Gliddon, of Gilbert-street, Bowden,
states that she has known Mrs. M'Arney for oyer
five years, and knows well how she suffered during
the whole of that time. She says:—
“ I was present when she was taken to a hospi-
tal at Adelaide, more dead than alive, and saw
her immediately after she was discharged from
the above institution as incurable. I know that
she was advised as a last resource to try Bile
Beans, and that after taking a few boxes she was
completely cured. She tells me that she has not
felt so well and strong for 30 years."
Mrs. Mary Ann Rimes, of Gibson-street, Bow-
den, says:—“l have known Mrs. M‘Arney for
about six years. I knew of her severe illness —
that she was regularly attended by a doctor for
over two years—and I was present when she was
removed to the hospital.
“ The poor old lady was so bad that I certainly
did not expect to see her come out alive. I know
that she has been taking Bile Beans for some
weeks, and am astonished at the remarkable effect
are*
*3
vVH
i
m
LA
W
Wiv
MRS. M‘ARNEY, 80 YEARS OF AGE,
CURED BY BILE BEANS.
been for this wonderful medicine I am quite sure
I would not be alive to-day to talk to you ! I can
assure you I shall never be without a supply of
those wonderful Bile Beans.” As the reporter
wished the hale old lady good-bye, it was im-
possible not to feel that the cure was indeed a
marvellous one.
Testimony of Several Friends.
Margaret Carter, of Bth street, Bowden, has
known Mrs. M'Arney for several years, during
the whole of which time, until a few weeks ago,
she has known her to be a great sufferer. She
says:—
that medicine has had upon her health. She
certainly seems quite well now.”
Statutory Declaration.
“ I, Bridget M'Arney, of Gibson-street, Bowden,
in the province of South Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that the statement made by
me to the representative of the Advertiser re
Bile Beans and my illness and recovery are per-
fectly true.
“ And I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be tjrae, and,
by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and
passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late
LE
EflfiS
FOI\
lUOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weak-
ness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples,
Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspep-
sia, Influenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn,
and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Store-
keepers generally; Australian Dep6t of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Roeke, Tompsitt, and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S.A.
agents, F. H. Fauldinsr and Co., King William-st., Adelaide ;
W.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queensland
agents. S. Hoffnung and Co.. Brisbane.
Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled 'An
Act to repeal an Act of the present session of
Parliament, intituled an Act for the more effec-
tual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in various department of the State, and
to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the more entire suppression of voluntary and
extra judicial oaths and affidavits, and to make
other provisions for the abolition of unnecessary
oaths.’
“(Signed) BRIDGET M‘ARNEY.”
Declared and subscribed at Hindmarsh, in the
province of South Australia, this ninth day of
August, 1898, before me. -
(Signed) H. HUN WICK, J.P.
Indigestion.
Indigestion is an ailment which may develop
into a most severe disease if not properly attended
to. Acute chronic indigestion is by no means a
slight affair. Attacksof indigestion in a more orless
mild form are too common to dwell upon for any
length of time. As its name implies, this disorder
is an insufficient action of the various digestive
organs, which prevents the food being properly
dissolved. In cases of this kind the effect is two-
fold : First, the waste part of the food is kept
in the stomach and becomes sour instead of
being carried off; and, secondly, the blood making,
or useful part of the food, is kept from perform-
ing its offices. The causes of indigestion are
many : Insufficient liver action, over-eating, eating
too fast, and partaking of rich and indigestible
foods, etc., etc. Constant worry or mental strain,
or lack of regularity, may also cause an attack.
The first thing necessary to cure an indisposition
of this sort is a thorough opening of the bowels
and a complete clearing out of the whole digestive
organism; then the liver should be stimulated to
action, and regularity observed in everything.
Bile Beans will do the first two of these, the
patient must attend to the third. Chronic indi-
gestion of course needs longer treatment than a
temporary attack. It is well to bear in mind
that headaches, face pimples, listlessness, and a
host of minor ailments arise from indigestion or
some other form of digestive disorder.
+
Piles.
Anyone who has ever suffered from Piles knows
well what a painful and troublesome ailment they
are. There are two kinds of Piles the Blind
and the Bleeding Piles. The former is the most
common, and also more painful. The complaint
is much more common among women than men,
and is often caused by constipation. Inflammation
is generally the first symptom, and costive-
ness always accompanies the ailment. Piles are
composed of small particles of various sizes, form-
ing singly or in bunches, and extending upwards
into the bowels. They cause excruciating pain,
and cause the sufferer to be in a constant state of
misery. The Bleeding Piles are caused by a
swelling of the hemorrhoid veins which compose
the tissue wall of the bowels. While not so pain-
ful as Blind Piles, they are more dangerous, as a
great loss of blood may result. A false delicacy
exists in mentioning this disease, which causes
much trouble. . In all cases of Piles a remedy
should be applied at once, as otherwise violent in-
flammation may ensue, and serious results follow.
Bile Beans cause the bowels to act freely, thus
softening the walls thereof and affording instant
relief. _ No remedy will act so quickly or effect a
cure with so little pain in cases of this kind as
Bile Beans.
Influenza and Colds.
Influenza is not generally understood by the
greater part of those who suffer from it. It is in
reality an aggravated form of cold, supplemented
by a general weakness of the whole system. Ordi-
nary colds, it is well-known, are caused by the
congestion of the blood, which, as a rule, is most
prominent in the head or throat. Influenza can be
traced to the same cause, and irregular or insuf-
ficient liver action is, in most cases, responsible for
both. When the liver, through any derangement
of the digestive organism, ceases to act in the
proper manner, a certain amount of bile finds its
way into the blood, and, at the same time, the
blood created from food consumed is of a de-
cidedly poor quality. In this manner, the blood
becomes congested, the circulation sluggish, and
a cold results. The circulation of the blood now
being much slower than usual, the entire system
is affected. The nervous organism becomes un-
strung, the appetite poor, and the rest disturbed.
The body is extremely susceptible to chills, and the
slightest draught causes a violent attack of cough-
ing or sneezing. Many so-called cures for influ-
enza fail to get at the root of the trouble, and only
afford temporary relief. A medicine that will
keep the liver in thorough and regular working
order, and the digestion right, will, without
doubt, prove the most effective preventive and
cure for influenza and colds. This is what Bile
BeanB for Biliousness will do, and we maintain
that no better remedy can be found for these
ailments.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Kingston (S.A.) makes no s.ecret
of his belief that Australian Federation will soon
be an accomplished fact.
Joey Bell, the cultyah’d but notover-gilded
Q. “coming” politician, has just received a solid
Govt, brief in a big land case. Tomjoe is looking
after the election-expenses of the faithful.
N.S.W. National Ass is dead. It died
of the rift in its ranks caused by the Federation
controversy. Its secretary, the energetic Epps,
now directs the operations of Sydney safe-deposit.
Q. Labor-leader Glassey’s speech, announc-
ing his election as leader of the constitutional
Opposition, was the most effective he ever de-
livered. It occupied just three minutes. Good
omen.
Q. Assembly asked Premier Byrnes if he
would explain the estimates-item of Governor’s
“contingencies.” Byrnes: “No!” Why should
a hired, servant’s contingent expenses, to be paid
for by his paymasters, not be given in detail?
Copeland, M.P., in N.S.W. Assembly, the
other night, scored off Premier Reid with an
assertion that the Gladly Adipose One was only
leading the House in the sense that a fox led a
pack of hounds, which were in full cry after him.
Premier Braddon’s announcement that he
will not appoint a regular Agent-General for Tas-
mania pending the present efforts to achieve
Federation is the first real assurance given by any
Premier of his belief in the nearness of Federal
union.
Alfred Deakin in his middle age strives
hard to restrain his natural rapidity of utterance,
whereas the young A.N.A. politicians who get
into Vic. Parliament all try to imitate Deakin’s
fault. Hume Cook, Watt, and Salmon are
instances.
Q. Barrister Edwin Lilley, who has his
share of contumaciousness, is determined to con-
test Oxley electorate, thus making it a three-
cornered affair and a certainty for sitting-member
Grimes—the dreary M.L.A.' who, at an agricul-
tural banquet, gave “God Save” as a solo.
It is amusing. The Czar proposes a gene-
ral European disarmament. French newspapers
declare that the thing is impossible as long as
Great Britain controls Egypt. The German Em-
peror congratulates General Kitchener on his con-
quest of the Soudan. And the British Lion wags
his tail.
Mr. FRANCIS CLARK, M.L.A., who resigns
to make room for Federal leader Barton in N.S. W.
Legislalire Assembly.
Photo.. Collins.
Consider what a two-edged compliment is
the playing of “God Save the Queen” at the
Governor’s appearance in Parliament. It looks as
though the band cast its cold, critical eye over
H.M.’s agent, and then, in hopeless despair of
human instruments, called on the Deity to succor
so badly-represented a sovereign.
John Haynes’ Bill for the Abolition of
Capital Punishment in N.S.W. was unlucky in
being called on a few hours after the George-street
tragedy. Members ref used to have anything to do
with it until Copeland suggested that the words
“in certain cases ” be inserted, which Haynes
accepted, and the first reading was agreed to.
Pitiful the aids which institutions for the
benefit of organised labor have to invoke. The
generally-excellent weekly organ of the S.A.
party has to promote its circulation by means of
a bicycle offer; and the Broken Hill Trades Hall
is getting its roof put on with the takings at a
series of tugs-of-war and comic-singing competi-
tions.
Big political changes loom in England.
Hardly was Gladstone cold in his grave than there
were rumors that Home Rule was to be dropped
by the Liberals. And now they forecast a Whig-
Unionist party under Rosebery and Chamberlain,
and possibly Asquith. Significant, too, that
direct Radical candidates are now being run
against Liberals and Tories at bye-elections.
The objection to mutilation as a punish-
ment is the same as that to indiscriminate hanging
—juries will refuse to convict obviously guilty men
on account of the disproportionate consequences
of conviction. Someone in S. A. proposed a similar
penalty a few years ago, but it was hurried as
unceremoniously out of the House as Bailes’s pro-
position will probably be out of Vic. Assembly.
N. S. W. Leg.
Council stands at
present nominally at
58 members. Two
O’Connors, Sammy
Lees and Barton re-
tired voluntarily at
close of last Parlia-
ment. Half-a-dozen
others are practically
non sunt. Reid is,
therefore, gently tap-
ping eligibles.
Premier Reid
stated, the other day
in N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, that Col.-Sec.
Brunker had “satis-
factorily explained ”
to him how he came
to state, at a public
meeting, for the pur-
pose of blasting the
Federation Bill, that
a 27 per cent, tariff
meant that every-
body would have to
pay £27 out of every
£lOO income. Weli,
what is the satisfac-
tory explanation ?
And if it is satis-
factory, why is it
necessary to keep it
dark? Any other
man’s simple expla-
nation in such a case
would be that he had
been drinking, but
poor old Brunker doesn't drink. And that leaves
him with no visible excuse except ignorance and
general cowheaded ness.
The threat to rei inpose the £4O deposit on
candidates for N.S.W. Leg. Assembly should be
stoutly resisted for sake of the principle involved.
No number of Hogue-Jones farces should be
allowed to renew what was, and was intended to
be, a disability on the moneyless politician. An
increase in the number of nominators might be
desirable were there grounds for fearing an epi-
demic of Joneses.
N.S.W. Leg. Council negatived on the
voices Trickett’s proposal to exempt wearing ap-
parel, bedstead and bedding to the value of <£s
from distraint for rent ! In England up to £5
worth of such goods are exempted, and landlords
there, though they cried out when the Act was
passed, now admit that the exemption works well.
N.S.W. Councillors, however, rejected the propo-
sal “ on the voices ”
Premier Reid boasts that all the motions
of censure (about four in four years) brought
against him have been “ ignominiously defeated.”
Well, he brought 13 motions of censure against
Dibbs in three years, and every one of them
was “ ignominiously defeated.” In those days the
reison why Dibbs couldn’t get on with public
business was that he had to stop at least once
every month and wipe up the floor with Reid.
S.A. Premier Kingston brought in an
Early Closing Bill as an Eight-Hour Day present
to unions. Kingston proposes that his Bill, if it
passes (and it ought to about scramble through),
shall be immediately operative in the metropolitan
district, and (for some inexplicable reason) optional
in the country. The idea for city and suburbs is
that shops shall close at 6 o’clock on four nights of
the week, at 9 o’clock on Fridays, and at 1 o’clock
on Saturdays.
The coldness between Premier Kingston
and his old Labor friends, which began with the
Federation question, has apparently toned down,
as the Premier had a great reception at the recent
Adelaide Labor Conference. Awhile ago the
Laborites threatened to oppose him in his W.
Adelaide constituency, a decision which, if per-
sisted in, would have hopelessly divided the
Democratic party. And, with Federation still
unsettled, there may be fresh trouble yet.
A Perth paper makes courteous remarks
about Premier Forrest:—
FORREST the FINANCIER has had seven years of
Divine Providence, and he never gave God any credit—
seven years of howling luck in which he has hopelessly
muddled things, and prostituted the Government and
ruined the country for which he professes such an ardent
affection that the mere mention of the beloved name dis-
solves the unwieldy mass of blubber into tears. . . . The
man who couldn’t keep the country straight, with all the
luck the Forrest crowd has had, is not fit to walk behind
a night-cart and make remarks about the atmosphere.
English trades-unionists have short
memories, too. Just after the dockers’ upheaval,
the Congresses were saturated with Socialism.
Then that fell into unpopularity almost as rapidly
as it had grown in favor, and resolutions were
adopted designed to shut out the Burneses and the
Manns. But now, after the Engineers’defeat and
the Welsh coalminers’ protracted agony, the Con-
gress (this year at Bristol) shouts for Socialism
again ; and quite new men seem to be leading the
shooters.
Maoriland Parliamentary civilities during
recent “Financial” debate: “O you miserable
coward!” “The hon. gentleman’s father was a
notorious drunkard, and got seven days in gaol
for stealing beer from a public-house.” “The
Consul of a foreign Power disgraced himself by
getting drunk at the Governor’s table, the other
day.” “ That man with the muck-rake! Look
at his personal appearance. Did you ever see
such a head and face on a man before?” “I
never robbed the widow and orphan! I never
rubbed noses with Lottie Sparks! ” “ The
honorable member is drunk ! ”
S.A. Oppositionists, since the failure of
their attempt to oust the. Kingston Govt., have
reverted to their old game of talking against
time, and many important measures, long ago
affirmed by the people, will have to be abandoned
again this year, the Early Closing and House-
hold Suffrage ideas probably included. Opposi-
tionists, by the way, are still divided as to the
rival claims to leadership of Downer and Glynn.
Maoriland Tory Opposition is now trying
to kill the Seddon Govt, by persistently stone-
walling all business, so that it may go to the
country and ask, with a loud yell of scorn, why
Seddon hasn’t done anything during the session.
Sixty-six hours of terrific jaw were gone through
on a formal motion that the House should begin
to consider the estimates, and the stonewall only
collapsed when the legs of both parties gave way
beneath them.
"THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN BIGHT."
Crowder, Westralian M.P., makes the
legal members of the Assembly snort by an
amendment proposed in the Juries Bill that if a
Judge certifies that there was no reasonable ground
for resisting an action, the attorney responsible
shall be personally liable for all taxed costs if the
defendant does not pay up within a month.
South Australia some years ago ceased the
compilation of official law-reports—partly, it is
said, through official parsimony, and partly
through some members of the bench being
afflicted with that tired feeling. But now there
is a rumpus, and people outside the courts begin
to ask why the judgments of the courts interpret-
ing the law straggle more or less haphazard
through the daily papers, to the great financial
loss of litigants.
Dear Bulletin. — Re recent pars, on Edwin
Lilley. That much-talked-of alleged Q. Democrat
wants severely roasting. He is hanging back from
the rough work of politics in the hope that—Byrnes-
like—he may drop in just in time for the feast.
He regards himself as a sure thing for the Attorney-
Generalship in the Democratic* Ministry, when-
ever it arrives, and is leaving all the uphill,
unpopular and unprofitable struggle to grafters
like Dr ike, Glassey and Powers. It will serve
him right if he is “ left.”*— Caledonia.
Apropos of Premier Turner’s Woman
Suffrage Bill, Victoria had woman suffrage to a
limited extent about 30 or 4'» years ago, and
abandoned it. In those days it was simply enac-
ted that any “ ratepayer ” had a vote at Parlia-
mentary elections, so the male and female rate-
payer stood on the same level. It was done by
pure accident, however; the hair of Vic. Parlia-
ment stood up wilh horror at the innovation, and
Attorney-General Higinbotham abolished the
female elector sometime in the early 60’s.
Premier Byrnes, in Q. Assembly the other
day, stated that “My colleague, Mr. Philp, after
the (Papuan land-grab) agreement was signed, was
informally shown it, but the matter was one that
did not attraot his particular attention ” Philn
though understood to be no longer an actual paa-
ner in Burns, Philp and co., is still connected with
those trade-bosses of British Papua ; and that such
a matter as the considerable infringement of the
firm’s virtual monopoly in the possession should
not have attracted his attention is—well, queer !
Barton’s relation to the Hastings and
Macleay constituency will be unique, if he wins
the seat, as it is certain he will do. Barton will,
by the arrangement entered into —that the retiring
member shall attend to all local affairs —hold the
seat as a qualification for taking part in Parlia-
mentary affairs, but will represent the constituency
only under the direction of ex-member Clarke.
That leaves Barton in a political state as
nearly Federal as can be conceived in a provincial
Parliament. It also leaves Clarke’s grip on the
constituency as firm as before.
The Age, which was so hopelessly left at
the post in the recent Federal fight, seems deter-
mined to be in the running now that the
question is again on the cards. The “Liberals”
are being whipped up to a full recognition
of the “ cardinal defect ” of equal representation,
and the “financial question was left in such an
unsatisfactory condition ” that the “ whole ques-
tion of Federation will need to be re-opened.”
But the numbers are up as far as Victoria is con-
cerned ; and David comes galloping up now
that “ the race is all over bar shouting.”
In 1872 the Victorian railways yielded an
annual revenue of =£2388 per mile. Now the
revenue is <£B32 per mile. The Gillies boom,
during which Central Victoria was so crowded
with useless railways that it is now difficult to
walk five miles without falling over one, is the
main cause of this great downfall. The only
visible way out is to build more lines in the empty
regions of the east and west, where there is still
room for profitable extension, so that there may
be a bigger mileage of payable railway to carry
the dead weight of Duncan’s hopelessly unprofit-
able eockspurs.
Queensland Labor members are, unfor-
tunately, rather long-winded. The Courier pon-
derously suggests that it would be well if the
Laborites would stick up the famous forty-plank
platform on a I'lackboard in a conspicuous part of
the House, and save time and jaw-labor by simply
announcing, apropos of every discussion : “ Well,
these are our sentiments ! ” The gibe is not ill-
deserved, but if the followers of Tomjoe Byrnes
would stick up a similar blackboard with nothing
at all on it, and reply in similar spirit, “ Well,
these are our sentiments ! ” the thing would be
simply complete and beautiful.
Q. Labor-party is indeed a happy family.
The leader is openly jeered at by five or six of his
followers. Three-fourths of the party won’t rub
shoulders with the new member, Maughan ; Daw-
son and Hoolan hate one another with enthu-
siasm ; there is war to the death between Cross
and Worker Higgs; Sim has just seceded on a
flimsy pretext; Fitzgerald lately announced in the
House that there is “no man I would sooner fol-
low than Premier Byrnes if ” ; Jackson violates
the platform by voting for private railway bills;
and the majority, who five years ago wouldn’t use
the same spittoon as a Ministerialist, now join
their foes on roads-and-bridges deputations, jun-
kets, and intrigues. The parky is “ broadening ”
—in the wrong direction.
The private - enterprise gentleman who
wants to build the North Sydney bridge, and the
other man who. wants to connect Sydney and
North Sydney by a tunnel, are both to be heard
of again in N.S.W. Parliament this session. In
the end, it is probable that one or other of these
schemes will get through, and the bridge or
tunnel will be constructed at about twice as much
as the State could build it for (promoters’ ex-
panses, company-flotation ex.’s, directors’ fees, the
plunder of first, second and third robbers, and the
fact that the co. will probably have to pay 5 per
cent, for its borrowed money, whereas the State
could get it for 3, will make all the difference).
Then, after a year or two’s experience of the
private syndicate and its ways, there will arise an
irresistible demand for State ownership, and Govt,
will buy the enterprise at £200,000 or so more than
the necessary cost.
By a majority of 32 co 24 Queensland
Assembly has fixed Tozer’s salary as Agent-
General at <£lsoo a year. In debate it was re-
vealed that at the shuffle of the cards which sent
Nelson to the Council and opened the door of the
Premiership to Byrnes, Tozer’s appointment to the
Agency-General at the advanced rate of £l5OO a
year for three years was signed and sealed. Practi-
cally the three patriots, with the connivance of each
other but on the blind side of the public, worked
the oracle thus : Tozer and Byrnes sent Nelson to
the Council on a salary for life; Nelson and
Byrnes sent Tozer on an improved salary to Lon-
don for three years, and Tozer and Nelson opened
a path for Byrnes to the Premiership, to hold as
CHURCH NOTE.-THE START FOR THE
STEEPLE...
long as he can. Lovvles and Vine naturally felt
at home while negotiating with Queensland
patriots, and will have reason to be surprised if
their New Guinea adventure be not ratified in the
Queensland Assembly by another vote of 32 to 24.
According to the Australian Pastojral-
ists’ Review, Maoriland “boasts the most respect-
able and best-educated population in all the
colonies.”
The daily press spreads itself about the
“ gloriousness ” of the recent Soudan battle, in
which were slain a trifle of 12,000 dusky fanatics,
as against 46 Britishers. Battle? Battue!
Old London story. Policeman, after vain
attempts to get a clue as to his home, etc., from a
very little strayed boy (loq.): “ Where does your
mother get her beer ? ” Youngster : “At the Blue
Bell.” The wisdom of Solomon.
A Melb. ad. for a newspaper-canvasser
brought one reply in which applicant stated that,
although he had never done any canvassing for
advts., he thought he would suit, “as he used to
obtain orders for a butcher ” ! Rump-steak by
the inch on a 12 months’ contract!
TIME ! ! ! TIME ! ! !
WHAT TIME? HIGH TIME—to BUY the BEST !
BREAKFAST TIME—
GRANUMA, King of Porridge
Foods.
LUNCH TIME—
GOLDENIA, Best Ceylon Tea in
the World.
DINNER TIME—A Wee Drappie o’t
White Heather Whisky.
Pure, Mellow, and Matured. "
ALL THE TIME—
BILLY TEA is BEST!
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Sydney & Brisbane
Sole Agents and Proprietors. Wholesale Only.
Kuppers Elberfeld La
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY » CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.


LATEST LONDON DESIGNS.
Gold BELL and CHAIN BROOCH. 12s 6d
qillllililllllllllllil!
Real Ruby or Sapphire BROOCH,
15c., 18s 6d ; 9c., 13s 6d.
Our GOLD NOVELTY BROOCH, 20s.
With Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
GOLD 2-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
9c., 10s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d.
Gold HEART and CHAIN BROOCH, 9s 6d
Gold BUCKLE 2-BAR BROOCH, Pearls and
Red or Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
Gold and Amethyst SHAMROCK,
Lucky Wishbone Brooch, 20s.
Gold Name or Motto RROOCIJ, Ss 6d
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
Luckv 4-Leaf
SHAMKOOK
pendant,
Solid Gold Mount,
10s ench.
Real Amethyst
H HA Lt'l'
PENDANT,
2/6 each.
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK
Very Pretty and'
Useful.
Ss 6d each.
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hope and Charitv
PENDANT, 5s each.
With Pin and Chain, 8/0
GOLD AMETHYSi. HEART BROOCH,
13s 6d.
16c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.;
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
u)
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set with Red and
Blue Stones, 12s.
.jap
113
Gold 3-Bar PEARL BROOCH.
9c., 15s ; 15c., 22s 6d.
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s fid.
rani
aiiiitoiMiwiiir
©ii
Pearl and Ruby or Sapphires.
9c., 19. s fid ; 15c., 21s.
New Rustic Bar, Ivy and Gold Pearl Set
BIRD BROOCH, 13s 6d.
' 1-
Gold IVY BAR BROOCH, io s fid
With Looped Chain to Heart”
Please send for our Illustrated Slips of Very Latest London Novelties-POST FREE.
note—Our ONLY Australian Address— QQ KING STREET SYDN
U
I
Mti' IV
&C 3
sans
>74*s^
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear, : “ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There's a couple of men cominsr
oyer there! ” »>
First Bear : “ Have they got guns ?”
Second Bear : “No ! Kodaks! ”
Australian Depots
—FOR—
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER $ ROUSE
proprietary LIMITED.
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Keep Yo(ir Bftsipess ip YoOr Owp Hapds.
° NLY W&S* l^S^B B Y XrS T I g| SS U» N SYSTEM
The Storekeepers’ Coupon
m
REGISTER.
JTCONCETO™ your CASH BUSI-
NESS by giving special inducements to your
Customers to REGULARLY Purchase at your
Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and NUMBERED
PRINTED COUPON with every transaction,
which is a SIATEMENT of the transaction, a
RECEIPT for the MONEY PAID, and which
at the same time bears your Advertisement.
Full Particulars on application to
The national Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 2976. W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager. P.O. BOX, 1035.
(?e
n
4
*
»
*
i**
»
*
ft
Vv.'s
m
«
*
\. l?W
«
n
wvu
ft
a
I
!g
ft
All
MM
iU !
\ IN B OA R
kin
BOULESTIN BRANpy.
The finest Trench Brandy imported into Australia.
Maybe had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the leading Hotels and Wine
and Spirit Merchants.
ASK FOR BOULESTIN.
sn
<w
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETs of 12 Cuba, 9(1. ; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 Porto Rico, Gd.;s Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. Cd.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, Cd.
set 9 Borneo, Is. Cd. ; set 10 Brazil, Cd.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ
ent, Cd. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. Cd. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
102 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SECOND-HAND
AND
TWTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully oO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
Telephonelo23 (3 d ° OM paSt Hunter - st -), SYDNEY.
No Repairs
The Dunlop Tyre Co. guarantee
all Australian and English made
Roadster
DuNifip Tyres
a
for 12 Months.
To ensure this guarantee, the Cover
and Tube must bear this
GIVEN AWAY . . .
to anyone who sends or
cads, a copy of our artis-
tic booklet, “ All about
Dunlop Tyres for ’9B-9.”
Contains 35 pages of in-
teresting and instructive
reading matter.
TRADE
MARK.
FIRST IN 188&
FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
,d at 486 Kent Street, Sydney;
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
n.S J. IDont is piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
taA CA3TLEREAGH ST.,
« * SYDNEY ■
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Paivnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
fbr month.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Vv a BOFFI Cfif ?:;•
INTERSECTION HUNTER, BU GH anb
Castiereagh
•SYDNEY • •
fc, ' Esta a us*ko - 1873,
OFFKE *
Annual Income and Invested
Funds ExceedjgOO.OQO Sterling J
Hauls of 'New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET} SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund. . .. m .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. » m .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office —Old Broad Street.
tVith Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
wool * ifiGßcy company
Of QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
Capital: £60.000 in £1 Shares.
Payable 2/6 per Share on Application and 2/6 on
Allotment.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. W. ALLAN, M.L.C.
1)E BURGH PERSSE, Esq. (Director Royal
Bank of Queensland Ltd.)
A. J. CARTER, Esq. (President Brisbane Cham-
ber of Cammerce)
A. C. SANDEMAN, Esq. (Aplin Brown and
Crawshay Ltd.)
•U. NEWTON, Esq. (R. Newton and Co.)
OBJECTS:
Sale of Wool and Produce, &c.,in
Queensland.
Prospectus on Application to
S. L Alt Alt D, Secretary,
Courier Buildings, BRISBANE-
|avid Iraham m Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SPRING SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
AT
REFORM
PRICES
LADIES’ -
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
AT REFORM
PRICES !
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrGstccs, €*€cGtor£,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ... ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per. cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capil al payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital ». .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsc/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
'Haymarket, Gosford (with aarency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
i Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liabilty..
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Mbeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Faiiquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA' LIMITED.
DIRECTORS Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; VV. Cain, Esq., J.P. ■ M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.O. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
' Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne.
9
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/h. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlted up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzcll,
110 William Street,
rorner of Palmer-street,
syi>ni;y.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention ven to Country Prism,
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND /
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 17, 2 p.m.
-Buninyomr, Wed., Sept. 21, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong Wed., Sept. 21,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
Konoowarra, Tues., Oct. 4, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 17,2 p.m.
Konoowaria, Tues., Sept. 20,5 p. m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
OAIRNS. &c.
)
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 17, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWISBT CIIKICI'INT I'M It US TO til POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUT It).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND J Atj
—VIA-
QUEENSLAND POETS a*d POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND <8 IT ST RADIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply ,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code — Moreino & Neat., etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
A D E L AID E,
—AND—
KALGOOIfLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliotts
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market.
SEASON 1898-9
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNES-
DAY, and THURSDAY during the Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under :
TOBACCO LEAF
LEATHER
BARK
FUR SKINS
HAIR. HORNS & BONKS
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
HIDES
.. MONDAY
.. TUESDAY
.. TUESDAY
.. WEDNESDAY
.. THURSDAY
.. FRIDAY
.. FRIDAY
.. FRIDAY
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
H|lJ, eiack.arid.DjDl ---■■■
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency 00., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and 00.
J. 0. Young and 00.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Innamincka, Friday, Sept. 16.
'S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Early.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innamincka, Friday,
September 16.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Early.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Saturday,
September 17.
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
September 24.
Rest & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., I /I'D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY!
The Royal Mai’ Ste i uships of the above Company will
be despatched as iollows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBA RT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows.
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
HPlluraith, [fl‘EacharnB fo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'ilwraitli, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can he prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccomtnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE -British, India and Queensland Agency
Cloy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Go
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s Od;
16-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137.
9-cfc. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
No. 201.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ;
15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, Os 6d.
No. 139.
9ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d ;
15-ct., £110s;
Silver, 4s.
No. E864.— 9-cfc. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6d.
No. 111.—New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 582.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, Horseshoe
and Whip, Ivy Leaves, £llos.
No. E 550. — 9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6d.
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s 6di
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
S fine Diamonds,
18-ct. Gold, £4 l7s 6d.
No. 141.
ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d
No. 233.
15-cfc.,
set Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubiea
18-ct. Gold,
No. 215.
9-cfc. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6cL
-4 *
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 F:.
No. 398.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork,
7in. long, 9s 6cL
ITo 245.—Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s,
-Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long,
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
IK
.
was
No. 285.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
, Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, dBl 7s 6d.
No. 361.—-Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bQttle Bamboo Dinner Cruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish. 3Ain. long-
10s 6d.
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £1 10s ; 15-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
No. 380. —Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6d.
No. 402.—Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to Jtl Is.
tar/
mmmm
No. 4X4. —Elegant Clock,
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, Bjin. high, £1 Is.
H
■MB I
No. 369.
Elegant “Queen Anne” Electro-Silver Afternoon ea
Service, 3 pieces, ij 2 10s.
IBBi!
□EE
ECng
EBQES
PQQ
No. 364.—Very Handsome Electro-Sil\ er
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £S.
No. 84721
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, jE2
NOTE. — The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may lely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Perfect spring weather brought together some
15,0t)0 people at, Randwick on Derby-day. Mr. “Jack"
Samuels pulled off the Hurdle Race with Mentone, and
as he started at 7 to 1 J.S., no doubt, got back some of
the money the horse has lost for him. War God, a Melb.
Cup candidate, started favorite for the Trial Stakes, but
was unable to run into a place, the winner turning up in
Blair, a horse lately well-known on the suburban courses.
Cocos, at 5 to 4, went out favorite for the A. J.C. Derby,
but the public planked it freely on Picture—as usual ex-
pecting a straight run from anything hailing from the
Oxenham stables. They were not disappointed, as Picture
cleared out by herself at the distance and won easily from
Lee-Metford. Picture is by the imported Russley, from
Queen’s Head. 4 to 1 was the best price about Oban for
the Epsom Handicap, and, as Humphrey Oxenham had
made no secret of his good chances with Alemene, the
Gozo mare was backed by the crowd down to 7 to 1.
Alemene took command into the straight, and was never
headed, winning by a length from Influenza. Mr. Oxen-
ham backed the mare for a good stake, and, as he never
lays his own horses, his win must have been a solid one.
The Spring Stakes running was a big surprise. Amberite
was favorite at 7 to 4 on, whilst Merloolas was at 4 to l.
At the utile Merloolas went to the front and held it to
the finish, beating the favorite by four lengths. The
public picked upon the correct pea in Tubal Cain 11. for
the Kensington Handicap, but W. Delaney, who had the
mount, very nearly made a mess of it, as A. Delaney, on
Fitzroy, caught him napping, and Tubal scraped home
with only a nose to the good.
* * * •
Whenever Oxenham has a horse in a big race at
Randwick, cute punters on the flat watch the balcony’ of
his house overlooking the course. If a party appears
there to watch the race it is a good thing, but should the
balcony be deserted it is best to have your bit on some-
thing else.
• * * •
In the Hurdle Race at Randwick on Saturday
Zoroaster lost his rider first time round, but kept going
and put in the next round with the leaders, jumping
beautifully ; he eventually finished with a good run in
the straight and passed the post second. In future Zoro-
aster’s owner should tie his weight on in a sack and start
him without a boy.
• * * *
Nowhere in N.S.W. has there been such a
decay of equine glories as up at the “ Oxberry "—the dis-
trict once so celebrated for its good sportsmen and game
racehorses, where old Jorrocks used to run his three-mile
heats, and where Veno romped home after hard tussles
with his compeers. The other day, the course at Claren-
don vyas as fine a bog as you’d find in Ireland. Never a
favorite got home ; the only chance of picking a winner
was to put all the starters’ names in a hat, turn round
three times, draw one, and go and back him. Knowledge
and judgment counted for nothing ; a punter had to trust
to luck —and there was none about. In the old days, the
Hawkesbury races meant a prolonged carnival for Wind-
sor and Richmond, the hotels were full-up for weeks pre-
vious, and a general spree was indulged in by the corn-
fed population. Now, however, these meetings are merely
attended by a batch of Sydney horse-owners and a squad
of hard-faced, leather-lunged “ bookies.” Even the cater-
ing was done by a Sydneyite. Horse-racing, as a sport,
in the Hawkesbury is as dead as the present writer’s good
resolutions of 12 months ago.
* * • •
• Morris’s Fairfield once more won in the high-
jump at Royal Show, Melb., with 6ft. 2in. By the way,
what became of Lubra, who knocked ’em alffive years
ago with 6ft. lOin. ? —Jin. better than Spondulix's record.
• • * *
Fairfield changed hands at 200sovs. after win-
ning the high-jump at Melb. show. The beautiful chest-
nut has won £2OOO in show prizes.
* * * •
In the case of Hawkesbury Racing Clnb and
Warwick Farm, the A.J.C. has lowered the minimum of
added money to £3OO, which hardly seems fair to some of
the other clubs.
* * • •
No fewer than 181 jockeys and 120 trainers have
been granted licenses by the A.J.C., and, of the lot, how
few are proficient in their profession ! With regard to
the majority of the trainers, their system is such a rule-
of-thumb that only castiron animals are able to stand
one of their “thorough preparations.” As for the
majority of the so-called jockeys, they deem race-riding
nothing but flogging and spurring their wretched mounts
from start to finish. And yet owners are found callous
enough to entrust valuable animals to the oare of such as
these 1
» * * *
Geelong Racing Club has decided to hold its
summer meeting Feb. 1 instead of Jan. 18, the alteration
being by arrangement with “Tatt.” who undertook to
work a Geelong Cup sweep for the later date.
* * • *
“Tattersall ” is to have competition right at his
door, from a co. formed on co-operative lines. The new
co. is to he floated in 120,000 shares of ss. each, and the
intention of the promoters is to allot small shares to as
many people as possible throughout Australasia, in order
to secure a constituency of supporters. The new co will
begin in a small way—with a 5000 consultation at 10s. on
the coming Melb. Cup, and the argument is that to risk
10s. for £lOOO in a 5000 sweep is just as good a business
risk as it is to risk 10s. for £lO,OOO in a 50,000 sweep.
* * * •
Is “ Tatt.” in favor of the tote ?
* * * •
Ikey Mo must have beamed the other day when
a couple of pretty, bad mistakes were made by the new-
chums working the tote at Kanowna (W.A.) meeting.
In the Trial Stakes they paid out a £1 18s. instead of”a
£2 ss. div., some 10s. tickets being counted as pound
tickets; and in the Flying, where there was a dead-heat,
the beautifully simple plan was adopted of lumping the
tickets, dividing by two, and paying.accordingly, instead
of paying two divs. in accordance with’the numbers on the
respective horses. The club lost £6u and the public £lO
—and, of course, it was impossible to trace ticket-
holders.
• * * •
On 7th Sept, a man was brought up at Adelaide,
charged with obtaining money under false pretences by
selling No. 3 tote-tickets on the Steeplechase which he
had thumbed into No. 8. The tickets were sold to a
dealer who bought at a small discount front lucky in-
vestors reluctant to face the crush at pay-window of
totalisator. Man committed. Evidently—nay, undoubt-
edly—suggested by a recent “ Sporting Notions " par.
* • » »
Both at the Boulder and Kalgoorlie green grass
covers the racing-track all around, which seems nothing
short of a revelation there. In fact, it is said that in the
first races some horses stopped to have a feed, while the
others, not having seen grass for so long a time, shied off.
* * • *
“Teddy” O’Rurke, son of the Maoriland
Speaker, who married a semi-millionaire Maori half-
caste, is making a reputation in England as a crack polo-
player. Years ago, young O’Rorke was regarded as one
of the straightest riders to hounds in the province, and he
was also the crack amateur jock.
« * * * •
The odd thing is that English Derby-winner
Jeddah should have started such a very red-hot favorite
(5 to 2 on) for the Leger. There was nothing strange
about the defeat of the “pot.” London Referee, in
June, speaking of Jeddah’s performances before and after
the Derby, remarked that he was two different horses,
and nobody knew which of him to expect. In the Leger
race, where he was the wrong Jeddah, the “ books ” pro-
bably gambled against him. Ikey Mo makes a golden
rule of expecting an uncertain horse to get beaten every
time, whereas the punters expect the animal to run “up
to form”—best “form.”
• * • *
J. J. Miller’s “ Australian Racing Chronicle ”
for 1897-8 contains reports of nearly 1500 race-meetings,
or about 800 more than are recorded in the rival “Turf
Register.” Yet the “ Register," being an old Tory insti-
tution at double the price of the “ Chronicle," has pro-
bably a larger sale, and Miller is rapidly growing dis-
gusted with the “sports” who thusfar have not appre-
ciated his ss. half-yearly publication at its proper value.
The “Chronicle” can be obtained from Gordon and
Gotch anywhere.
• * • •
A day’s tote takings at Kanowna (W.A.) last
month, £17,000. They must back something.
The coming Port Jackson sailing season pro-
mises to be lively. Sam Williams, who built the crack
18-footer Australian, has just finished a 22-footer for Mr.
Taylor, late owner of the Latona, and, if looks go for
anything, she should prove a heeler. The Donnelly boat
built for Mr. Sam Hordern is a noble-looking craft, if any-
thing on the big side, and should do best in calm water,
but in a blow and lumpy weather writer will not be sur-
prised to see her go under to the Williams boat, which is
to be sailed by clever George Ellis.
* ♦ * *
“Alec” Sloane, stroke of the last Vic. eight
and prominent Fitzroy footballer, was sculling up the
Yarra last week when he ran into a corpse. The body was
carried to the morgue, and Sloane was notified that he
would have to give evidence at the inquest the following
Saturday afternoon. Then an awful gloom settled on the
community, and a cold chill came out on its brow, for
on the Saturday aforesaid the Fitzroys were to battle
against Essendon for the football premiership, and what
were they to do without their trusty Sloane? Business
in Fitzroy was almost at a standstill, but eventually
Minister Best, the local member, and naturally the presi-
dent of the club, was found to interview the coroner and
get the inquest a day earlier. Trouble was thus averted,
but, had the difficulty occurred half-a-dozen years back,
Melbourne would have surely been plungedinto a red
revolution, which even the unconditional surrender of the
coroner would not have sufficed to quell. A man who
could so far forget himself as to call a leading footballer
as a witness on the day of a big match would have had to
resign, or blood would have flowed in the gutters.
Coroner Candler may congratulate himself that he does
not live in the bygone golden age of football.
* • • *
The picked team sent by W.A. Lacrosse Asso-
ciation to show the goldfields men hovvit’s done, got a big
surprise. CoMgardie beat them by 2 goals to 1 ; and,
though they beat Kalgoorlie by 2 to nil, they were downed
by a combined goldfields team by 4 to nil.' The visitors,
who relied chiefly on individual efforts, were beaten by
the grand combined play of the goldfields forwards. At a
social after the big match, the visitors’ captain magnani-
mously admitted that, although they had come up hoping
to teach the local ’crossites something, they had them-
selves learnt a lot.
• * * *
A _ former Australian cycling champion now
navvies on Menzies railway.
• • • •
The Bulletin recorded recently that Jack
Hamilton, M.L.A., winner of the Q. revolver champion-
ship for seven years running, refrained from competing.
It now learns that he did so in order to give the next-best
man a chance. Likewise the revolver with which Ser-
geant-Major Savage won the Q. championship of ’9B was
presented to him by “Jack," who swears that Savage won
because his revolver “knew” the targets, and could not
send missiles amiss.
* * * .
Young Stewart, of Sydney Grammar School,
added a few more good performances to his already long
list at the Great Public Schools sports on Saturday, when
he won the 100, 220, and 440vds., and long-jump schools’
championships. A record that will take much beating.
Q. Attorney-General (Premier) Byrnes has
sanctioned an Eight Hours’ Art Union for sth May, ’99.
There is no gambling in Q.
• » * •
The Irish broad-jumping wonder, Newburn,
eclipsed even himself, for at Mullingar he cleared the
phenomenal distance of 24ft. 6Jin., thus beating his
former record by over 6in. Such a record should be good
enough to stand for years, when it is considered the
length of time that “ leppers” have been vainly trying to
attain the 24ft.
* * * *
“ F.” : “ Stonewall Jackson,” the old-time Aus-
tralian pug., is not dead; he is very much alive. His
present occupation is kangarooing and pig-charming on
the Bogan.
* • * *
At Kalgoorlie, the other Sunday night, when
baited by a crowd the Salvationist fighting member, in
red, gave forth that any bloke what would put up a
tenner against his was welcome to knock ’im out. No
takers.
* * • *
Fitzsimmons is giving Corbett a surfeit of the
medicine the latter ladled out so plentifully in the old
days. Fitz recently put up a deposit of (5000 for a
match with Jeffries, whereupon Corbett’s manager
covered Fitz's deposit with the object of a match. Fitz’s
reply was that he was only going to tackle men he had
not beaten previously, but added that if Corbett met
and beat either Jeffries or Sharkey then he would talk to
him. Jeffries has since broken his hand, and is laid up
for repairs, whilst Sharkey is not the sort of fish
Corbett is likely to be anxious to catch. Whatever the
other pugs may be doing, thousands seem to be plentiful
with Fitz and Corbett—unless, perish the thought, the
deposits were in the form of a cheque.
Robert Alexander, who died at Milton
(Brisbane suburb, Q.) t’other day, first came to
Australia in ’4O and started squatting in New
England (N.S.W.), in partnership with Robert
Lawson. _ The two Bobs took their sheep to Bur-
nett district (Q.), and were first owners of Boon-
doomba and Proston stations. In the fifties, they
dissolved partnership, Alexander taking Proston.
In the sixties, he bought Bovinia, and went North
in ’62 to explore the Flinders country (Gulf), after-
wards trying to travel up 10,000 ewes, but
droughts and poison killed off 8000 of them.
Going under in squatting in ’75 he became P.M.
at Thargomindah in ’77, following on at Beenleigh
and Taroom. Four years ago he retired from the
Govt, service, and thereafter resided in or near
Brisbane. He married a daughter of the late 0.
Sheriff Halloran.
Gory ructions may be expected at next
meeting of Melb. Presbyterian Assembly conse-
quent upon the sale of Chalmers Church for
ill,ooo to the St. Vincent’s R.C. Hospital. In
the days of Chalmers himself, the old man used
to drop his eyes when he left the church by the
back way for fear of seeing the heretics emerg-
ing from St. Pat’s on t’other side of the
road ; and, after it was decided to shut up and
. sell the edifice, the Orange crowd waved the
tomato shirt so extensively in the Presbyterian
Assembly that an auction was tabooed for fear the
“ Cartholics ” might get hold of the fane. Pri-
vate sale, it was agreed, was the only way to
effectually prevent the desecration of the good old
building by the Scarlet Woman, and accordingly
it was sold to a duly-qualified Protestant person
(to wit Colonel Waddell, of Sydney), who took a
profit of .£lOOO, or over, on his deal and traded it
off to St. Vincent’s Hospital. Dr. Morrison, of
the Scotch College next door, who has long been
looking forward to getting the extra slice of
ground, is now blocked. When all’s said and
done, nobody, not even the Scotch or the Jews,
can beat the Pope and co. at a bargain.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The Atacama Case.
This case, in which The Bcllettn is charged
with having libelled Mr. M. C. Cowlishaw by
publishing on March 26 last an article dealing
with the loss of the Atacama, of which Mr.
Cowlishaw was registered owner, has to-day
(Sept. 13) reached its 11th day; and stiil
continues before Chief Justice Darley and a
special jury of twelve. The plaintiff called 20
witnesses, and The Bulletin will probably call
even more, so that the trial will spin out to a
length and expense unprecedented in N.S.W.
£2OO0 nal anim l s - Pkuntiff’s damages are laid at
Pinkerton’s account of Pelsart’s voyage
contains the following :
It has appeared very strange to some verv able judges
f r°- v^ es tllat the Dutch should make so great account
of the southern countries as to cause the map of them to
he laid down in the pavement of the Stadt House at
Amsterdam, and yet publish no descriptions of them.
Is there any accessible fac-simile of this surely
interesting map?
“Widg ee ” : Be record price for flour
(B. 20/8/’9B). In the early days of Cobar, N.S.W.,
*lO per bag was no uncommon price. A drover
once bought the only two bags of flour on the field
for *2O; and my father has seen 2s. 6d. per lb.
refused for flour on the same field not 17 vears
ago.
British aristocrats earning a humble, but
more or less honest livelihood :—Earl of Harring-
ton, small fruit-shop at Charing Cross ; Earl of
Wmchelsea, agricultural store in Long Acre;
Lord Rayleigh, milk-shop near British Museum ;
Lord Rosslyn, perfumer in North London ; Hon.
Roland Leigh, laundry in Romford-road ; Lord
Windsor, pub. at St. Fagans.
A few days after Sydney Smith, N.S.W.
Minister for Pumpkins, was rejected for
Bathurst, his friends resolved to apply a plaster
to his lacerated feelings in the shape of a testi-
monial. Accordingly, the hat was sent round,
and was kept on circuit for several weeks. Last
week, at the local School of Arts, the ex-Minister
was given a purse of sovs. The presentation was
made with loud ostentation, tempered with deep
gloom—said gloom caused, no doubt, by the
“ timber-yard ’' appearance of the hall, but more
particularly owing to the distressing fact that the
purse contained less than 50 gold pieces. Four-
teen of these came from Upper-House Webb and
connections (local storekeepers); 20 were sub-
scribed by Smith’s political opponents, and the
balance (somewhere about £l4 18s. 6d.) by the
large body of his loyal and liberal supporters.
The funereal function concluded with the late
Minister for Vegetables returning emotional
thanks for the gigantic offering.
Dear Bulletin. —Just a little room to con-
firm the views of “Herodias” in re artistic inep-
titude. As he truly says, “ the public is sane ”
—eminently so; likewise commonplace and unima-
ginative, as is proper to sanity. Grass? I should
smile. Green every time—no, sometimes brown ;
depends on climate. And isn’t the sky (look
at it, not through it) very much like an in-
verted blue enamelled saucepan? As for the
sea, that huge salt pond—what price edible fish ?
Bo on. The “looney ” artist somehow misses the
aspect of things. He hardly sees the grass for the
sunlight that floods it, infinite depths of azure are
above him, while before him gleams the sea like a
liquid sapphire. Poor, harmless crank, drunk with
the wine of beauty, besotted with riotous revelling
in the palace of truth, mad with the frenzied en-
thusiasm of the dreamer ! No wonder the sane
public sniggers as it jams its way into the music-
hall and rushes the bookstall for Marie Corelli,
while framed oleographs decorate its home. Feel-
ing hopelessly out of it, the poor artist is forced
to content himself with Shakespeare, with Bee-
thoven and with—well, say, Streeton. “ Give
us ‘ toons ’ and legs,” yells the public. Sane ?
You bet. Good old Public !— Aletes.
Revised version : “ All things come to him
who hustles while the other fellow waits.’’
Said that “Education” Dalrymple has his
eyes on the Q. Premiership, and secretly dislikes
Tomjoe Byrnes.
A six-tooth crossbred Lincoln, lately killed
at Purnim (Vic.) went—body 2201 b., pelt 91b.,
offal 331 b., fat 401 b. ; total 3021 b. The Federal
“destroying angel ” had a lot to say about Vic.
wolves ; he might now say something nice about
their sheep. Also, is he now willing to federate?
The recent cabled dropping by Tummy
Wales’s nephew of £3OOO at baccarat seems to
show that it runs in the blood. Not directly,
however, for the young fellow’s “ plunge ” will go
near to breaking the heart of his father, Alfredin-
burgh the Stingy.
Vic. Justice Williams on Crown Prose-
cutors :
Good men, of clear intellect, who knew their profession
well, should be employed. There was one who was the
best Crown Prosecutor who had ever come within his ex-
perience. His calmness of mind, judicial attitude in re-
lation to prisoners, perspicacity and common-sense he
envied ; and that Crown Prosecutor would make a beau-
ideal Judge for the Criminal Court, if the Govt, appointed
a Judge solely for that Court.
The Law Commission is likely to recommend such
an appointment, but Finlayson, the man indicated,
will probably be passed over in favor of a politician.
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co.
Ltd., are now going round wearing the following
telegram in their hat—“ We authorise you to pub-
lish ; we entirely disapprove of steps taken against
you by few buyers ; you may rely on our support:
Marquiset, Joncquel, Laine, Hercuez, Vandamme,
Lamerand, Nutte, Gaillet, Lhoest, Betz, Reichenecker,
Zeroux, Duvillier, Layeock, Vettleton.”
This telegram to the Co-operative Co. from these
French, German, and English buyers, means the
burst-up of the recent boycott. So. on 22nd inst.,
the woolgrowers’ champions will hold a sale of
3000 bales in Sydney Chamber of Commerce.*
About the only excitement the way-out
Westralian camps have in these boomless days is
the capture and almost inevitable subsequent
escape of bad niggers. Thus Mt. Margaret has
been entertained lately by Stone Soak Jimmy—a
mostly-naked gentleman with a turn for thieving.
Captured once, he escaped, but was collared along
with “ another desperado,” named Micky ; again
escaped, “though he was chained round the
neck,” but was run down a third time. “Bar
accidents,” a local man pathetically \\ rites, “we
hope to get rid of him for at least two years.”
Messrs. Plummer, Love and co. have made
a sensation in the Australian liquor trade with
Teacher’s Highland cream whisky. This whisky
they placed on the market some eight months ago,
but the demand for it soon used up the available
stock. A new stock has come to hand, and, as
more is on the way hither, Messrs. Plummer,
Love have no fear of another famine in their
choice brand. Considering the competition there
is in whiskies now, Teacher’s Highland cream
whisky has scored a remarkable success.*
Melb. Tocsin on “ Immoral Sydney ” :
Human passion seems to have thrown off all the re-
straints of religion ; divine laws and ordinances are
treated with contempt. Crime stalks unabashed and un-
molested through the city. The streets are teeming with
painted temptresses, and thronged with unpunished
criminals and impenitent felons. Commercial and politi-
cal integrity is almost unknown, and the very founts of
justice are polluted at their source. Merciful Heaven, is
this a Christian city ? Christ’s weeping over Jerusalem
could be as nothing to the anguish He would experience
if He came in the flesh to Sydney and witnessed the
failure of His religion in this mammon-worshipping,
crime-stained, and sin-polluted city—this city which is
pre-eminent among the cities of the world as the home
of juvenile prostitutes—this city in which is rampant that
class of crime which a pure heart may not conceive, nor
a chaste lip utter.
Hum ! Smellbourne is evidently jealous.
The Parkes Bursary Committee can only
offer a prize for 1898. The money is not coming
in according to anticipations. In fact, there is
little hope now that Bursary proportions will ever
be reached. The prize for ’9B will go for the most
deserving pass at the Technical College examina-
tions.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
WERE You Ever Told
why many so-called HIGH-GRADE
CYCLES excel all others ? We third
not. HERE IS ONE POINT of RED BIRD SUPERIORITY:
u
This shows the BALLS as they are
placed in the Bearings of other Wheels.
IN OTHER WHEELS, the balls are placed
in a cup on the shaft, and are allowed to
find their own positions during the period
of momentum. IN CONSEQUENCE, they
are .jammed one upon the other, causing
friction and wear.
This shows the BALLS as they are
placed in the Bearings of the RED BIRD
SPECIAL. With Red Bird Special Bear-
ings, every ball runs in a separate cage,
never coming in contact with its fellows.
The RESULT is an entire absence of friction
and an ease of propulsion impossible with
hearings that have the balls all jammed in
together.
The IMPROVED BEARINGS is but one of the many important features of the swell
RED BIRD SPECIAL —the world’s most carefully-constructed Wheel.
The Goold Bicycle Co., Limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
Agents in Town and Country . ’LI H lit 3.13. ‘Vpil 'T
USE THE H m _
“ New sunlight ” Incandescent
Homes.
urner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners,
Complete, 6s. 6d.


At Poverty Point.
An interesting point in theatrical law cropped up at
Ferth (W.A.) last week. Martyn Hagan and lively Lucy
Fraser, his wife, sued Rickards for their return fares to
Melb. The Rickards reply was that Mr. and Mrs. H. had
forfeited their right to the return fares by staying in
W.A., after the termination of their engagement, and
giving performances “on their own 1 ” Case dismissed.
“ J.P.” : Seeing Kennedy’s mesmeric show the other
night recalled to me Madame Sibley, the old-time mesmer-
iste. She was once performing in Twowharves, a small
town on Richmond River, and, during interval between
first and second parts, she carried round among the spec-
tators a phenomenally small infant on an ordinary
saucer. The mite was alive and gruesome to behold.
“ What do you think of it ? ” Madame asked a hardfaced
old cockie. “Well,” was the hoarse reply, “it looks to
me like a machine-made kid 1 ” Some of these river
cockies have seen a lot.
When Harry Hodgson was stage-managing at Bendigo
(Vic.) for Milne, the American tragedian, he took great
pains once to explain to the supers, the story of
Casar’s assassination. After shouting himself hoarse
with the speeches of Brutus and Antony, a hand was
held up at the back, and a voice asked,* “ Please, Mr.
’Odson, can I wear my fireman’s uniform in this ’ere
scene to-night?”
The young Duke of Manchester is a very stage-struck
person, like his father before him. The late Duke was
commonly known as “ Uncle ” among the ballets and
choruses of Great Britain and Ireland.
A highly promising dancer is the damsel (Miss Syl-
vester) who plays the boy in that pretty little ballet at
Melbourne Royal. She is said to be “well connected,”
apart from her figure, and “not more than 15 or 16,” in
which case Miss S. is every inch a daisy for her age.
Several people must have smiled when Newbury started
his first number at Melb. Town Hall “pop” concert last
Saturday. It was the air from “La Favorita,” which
Biondi’s orchestra plays under the direction of Donizetti.
“ Dar- dar-de-dar,” the sugary music goes, and the con-
ductor, with half-closed eyes and a deeply sentimental
turn of his giddy old head, endeavors to look twice as
tender as a spring chicken. Donizetti is the gem of
Biondi’s repertoire.
A recent Brisbane sight was George V. Rignold wobbling
along on a bike larding the lean earth from every pore.
Even the points of his moustache drooped.
“Paradis”: Biondi recalls to me Greville in a panto-
mime of “Jack Sheppard.” Acting Jonathan Wild, he
appeared in a multiplicity of disguises, and at last flab-
bergasted everyone by springing on the stage as con-
ductor of the orchestra.
“ Haresfoot ” : Miss Appleton graces “ Round the
World in Eighty Days,” a vivid reminder of her popular
mother, who, as Miss Jenny Bryce, was a pantomime
star, with the three Stewarts—Nellie, Docy, and Maggie.
“ A.V.G.” : My first recollection of Peggy Pryde is as a
herald in a Manchester panto., announcing in a rather
reedy, juvenile voice the various countries in a grand
procession of nations, “ France, Germany, Rooshia,” &e.,
the pronunciation of the last-named being given with
special gusto. It was about the time but perhaps it is
hardly fair to Miss Peggy to mention dates. At any rate,
she was very young then.
“Theorbo” : Exit Julius Herz to the land of eternal
melody. Julius might have made his little mark as a
German composer if he hadn’t come to Melb. some 30
odd years back. In ’72 he helped to organise Melb.
Metropolitan Licdertafel, and reigned as conductor
thereof for 20 years. In ’92 the happy-go-lucky musician
severed his connection with Melbourne and went to
Westralia under the patronage of Gov. Bill Robinson.
There he was in clover for a time, but the time didn’t
last. The vice-regal troubadour went back to England
and died, and Herz, returning to Melb., found himself
out in the cold. His old Liedertafel billet had passed
into the keeping of Ernest Wood. He resumed practice
as a music-teacher, a smaller man than of yore, and was
beginning to be almost forgotten when his name appeared
among the obituary notices in the newspapers. The Met.
Liedertafelers talk of raising a subscription for widow
Herz, nee Miss Freyberger, a* lady who, prior to marriage,
gave promise of achieving distinction as a singer.
Florence Sohmidt went away to make her fortune in
Europe with over £lOOO in her pocket. Her three-months'
farewell tour in Queensland panned out a clear profit of
£940, and her Sydney ben. must have netted her at least
£2OO.
Since Madame Phillippini left for England, danseuse
Minnie Everitt has been running the ballet for the Firm.
She contrived the pretty little country dance which fol-
lows Bert Gilbert’s song‘in “ Harbor Lights."
George Darrell, the indefatigable, has contrived to stage
“ The Sunny South ”in London once again. And at the
Surrey Theatre, too. The Surrey can’t boast of much
‘I class,” but its audiences are not disposed to swallow
“ tripe ” unless it is pretty well done. George’s greatest
drammer, when you come to remember it, is not a bad
dish of tripe.
Dear Bulletin. —“ H.” is wrong in saying that the
expose of the Davenport Brothers’ “ spiritualistic ” busi-
ness occurred at Liverpool. It was brought off at the
Trades Hall, Manchester, by Henry Irving, in conjunction
with our very old friends, Fred. Maccabe and Phil. Day.
The affair caused so much excitement that the three
actors gave a special “ stance ” for the benefit of Man-
chester charities, and their exposure of the precious
Davenport show was so complete that the brothers never
boomed again.—N.
Fred. B. Norton writes from Melbourne : “As an old
friend of Billy Ashcroft, and an ex-manager of the
Alhambra Music-hall, Belfast, whereof Billy is now pro-
prietor, I would like to remark that the Scarecrow Dance
of Johnny Coleman was new to ‘ yours truly ’ in Aus-
tralia. I have seen Harry Sefton do some scarecrow
business, but jt was not nearly as humorous as Coleman's
dance. As for the statement that Billy Ashcroft per-
formed the same dance in England 20 years ago, I can
give it an unquestionable contradiction. Between '74
and ’BB I fulfilled many engagements—more than a dozen
perhaps—at various halls where Billy was a popular
favorite, and it so happened that I generally had to fol-
low his ‘ turn,’ which meant standing at the wing and
watching him knock the audience. I’ve played under his
management at the Alhambra aforesaid, and when I
visited the town with My (large M, if you please) drama-
tic co. I have seen his turn from the front of the house.
Ashcroft was the ‘Solid Man’ and ‘Mr. John M'Gee’
(two different songs) all this time, but he never danced
the ‘ Scarecrow.’ Neither was the short, thick-set Irish
comedian said to have done anything so unlike himself in
America, from which country he had departed long be-
fore Coleman’s time. Coleman was a boy in the days I’m
speaking of. Now lam but an ‘ advertising expert,’ but
then I was a comique, and I think I remember patting
little Johnny Coleman’s head.
“T.D.” : In bygone days, at Rockhampton, departed
Florence Schmidt was known as the “ singing girl,” and
was always in great request for a song or so at picnics and
such diversions. I went to Steffarii’s concert t'other
night with a Northerner (latterly of W.A.). When Miss
Schmidt made her bow, he startled everybody near with
the loud ejaculation: “ The singing girl ! Well, I’m
darned 1 ”
Cecil Ward stays on in Adelaide fora “Silver King”
and “Harbor Lights” season with W. and M., while
Pattie Brown takes the “ Little Minister ” through Maori-
land.
Horace Poussard, violinist, a notable figure in Sydney
musical circles for the last 12 years, died suddenly from
brain-hemorrhage on Sept. 12, aged 71 vears. He was
teaching almost to the last hour of his life. Born
in France, he early became a brilliant musician,
toured the world, and visited Australia in the sixties
with Douay, the ’celloist. In ’B2 he settled in
Sydney ; and his spare figure, eager face, and flowing
locks have been earnest of a musical treat on many a
platform since. As a teacher, he made his mark on many
clever young Australians. Australia loses a true artist in
old Horace Poussard.
Carlyle Smythe, the Much-Travelled’s son,
has given up the editorship of the English paper
in Brussels, and is now in Paris. He is expected
back in Melbourne at the end of the year. C.S.
has written an account of Mark Twain, as he
knew him privately, and the yarn is to appear in
next Pall Mall Magazine.
A GENTLEMAN’S SMOKE.
Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes cannot be im-
proved, they cannot be equalled, the choicest of
all Cigarettes.*
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factor}- Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
66 DOWKLDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
W. W. GREENER’S
Renowned
Guns & Rifles
Can now be obtained through all principal dealers in
Australia. BEFORE BUYING A GUN, LOOK AT THE
NAME, and save trouble with all Life Insurance offices.
Address enquiries —W. W. GRJEENER, Box 526
G.P.0., Sydney ; or to C. YV. BUOKLaNL 1 , 10 Curral-
road, Elsternwick, Meiboirrne (Vie, Rep.).
Paixiles9 Dentistry.
THE .. ..
[ondon Dental
Institute,
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHEJR, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry In all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble.. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY.
Over Hollingdule and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE <KHS(H\T,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
** Kll>n’ King-street t'oH'ee Enlace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TYTE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
* ' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. ISS4. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
£2T Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“BARGAINS IN BICYCLES^
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. t3t Everything fancy but the price.
English In American B cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-cla. s Makers.
SA NSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEA.RWELL
MACK TAN
HENLEY
GRI3I LEY
QUALE AN',
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
203 CL A HENCE STREET, SUBNET.
V'i.'AV
VI I •
i-i-
-i-iVni
j. % i .».•'•
V,'v
ift
soil AGENTS* THE-
AUSTRAL-CYCLE-AG-
ENCY-LTD-HELBOURKE
SYDNEY- ADELAIDE"
■SWIFT
DUNLOP
TYRES.
CYCLES
Latest EOropeap
Successes:
..CUCA CUP..
WON BY
JACK GREEN.
24 Hours’ Road Record
(428 Miles)
Won by GOODWIN.
MOUNTED on DUNLOP TYPES.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth. 301 George Street, Sydney;


Poop Stood
Nervous Prostration
Tested and tried for 35 years in
all parts of the world.
Such is (he testimony of Mrs. E. B. Chop-
pelL, of Stawell,Victoria, Australia. She says:
“It is with great pleasure that I record
mv experience as a nurse for thirty-five
years with the wonderful curative effects of
AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
and Dr. Ayer’s Pills. Both of these I have
used in differents parts of the world, includ-
ing Australia, for myself and my patients,
in cases of nervous prostration, poor blood,
skin diseases and all complaints from weak-
ness peculiar to women. 1 most heartily re-
commend these preparations to all sufferers
from any of the above named distressing
complaints.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A'S IST ANT < Engaged for the Country.
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
The popular notion that a stomach is
necessary to the physical economy has been upset
by a Swiss professor, who months ago, in order to
save a woman’s life, removed her stomach. She
has since got along all right without it, has gained
flesh, has an excellent appetite, and doesn’t seem
to miss anything in particular. The daring opera-
tor merely ‘ joined the intestines to the digestive
tube.”
This quarter’s N.S.W. “ Postal Guide ” :
Queen bees, and live but harmless entomological speci-
mens, will be transmitted by post within the Australasian
colonies or to any other part of the world where admitted
bv local regulations.
All live specimens must be secured in strong, safe, and
properly-ventilated boxes or cages of wood or metal.
Specimens enclosed in cardbox or other fragile material
will not be forwarded.
“Strong, safe cages of wood or metal.” The idea
of a scatter-bug or a “ forty-legs ” escaping from
his cage and ferociously attacking one of Varney
Parkes’ officials is too horrible to contemplate.
This writer once accompanied N.S.W,
Premier Cowper and some others on an official
visit to Gladesvilie Asylum. W hen the inspection
was over the scribe went down to the launch at
the jetty and there found a decent-looking old
man fishing, and conversing with the water-police
in the launch. His talk was bright and attractive.
He said he lived in the neighborhood and took a
keen interest in the welfare of the poor lunatics—
half of whom, he contended, were infinitely more
sane than those who kept them there. Presently
some of the other visitors came along, arid with
them Dr. Manning. When the old chap saw' the
doctor he gathered up his lines and cried : “ And
that man is the maddest here. Don’t provoke
him. Humor him and get away quietly.” Then
he slunk off himself. He was the champion crank
of the asylum.
A holy and uninviting N.S.W. spinster
thinks she has a youthful local parson hooked ;
but, hearing with horror that he has become en-
gaged to a certain nice-looking girl, who put the
noses of the feminine community out of joint
and had been freely scandalised in consequence,
writes to inquire, and receives following truly
remarkable epistle :
Dear Miss .—Your letter to hand. I summarise
its contents as a request for mv reason, in preferring my
betrothed to yourself. You are doubtless aware that I
am under vow t-> devote my life to the salvation of souls ;
and, even in choosing a life-partner, to make sacrifices
for this object. From your own lips I heard how neces-
sary were my services in the case of the lady about to
take my name, and my few months’ acquaintance with
her have led to the conclusion that I must resort to
extreme measures to bring her to the fold. As I had
made no proposal to you, and believed that our union
would not tend to increase the flock —you being already
a member of it—l besieged the stronghold of Satan in
the person of Miss ; and I feel assured that, after
this explanation, you will rejoice with me at snatching a
brand from the burning.—J.B.
What a fearsome thing logically-carried-out
religion would be!
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to £3 3s.
"• THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOyLE’SPRINTS me FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress .
A/MLTH/iM
IKwatchV
[( \t»l
tag
i
.
m
iSX
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the
Sale of WAETHAM WATCHES, and also give the Australian people
at the same time a PERFECT WATCH for the same money they have been
paving for a poor make, we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES!
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft.
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 5 years £2 7 6
l ie. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar.lo years 3 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, Syr. guarantee 0 8 9
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 15 years 315 0
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’or Gents’, with the “America” movement 10 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee 0 15 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, syr. guarantee 0 8 9
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
Imperial Arcade, Sydney. J. Landes, Manager.
DAVID STORER 4 SONS’
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers.
Sl)?€p Brai><!iOg Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
T>OOK OF NATURE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s Cd ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by Be Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is Cd.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s ; The Soil ; Bream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About tiie Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Br. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2,6; post 3/-
HOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. TIIE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages'. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor<s. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is Od. Nigger Jokes. Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art' of Lcvw, Is 9<l post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Tate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Bools Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SY3DKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
»if; r 1
■
:
■
m wean
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd. DAPTO NS W
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
SIS
Benger’s Food is sold in various
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere,
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“'Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


H< rr RaSSn)(iSSei}’S Alfalioe Herbal RenjcdicS
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived .great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving, of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussf.n. —Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
w-rites that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth GreciouS', stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Altaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —In the .year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider .you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in-
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pilis completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of m.v friends, w’ho have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMO SSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
. REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing'
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
show'll us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fide s of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, w'e are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—" Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen. . .
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles." I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot, express m.v thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as'several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
pssion in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration'the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seenat the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Bass-
Herbs anywhere.
m
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Hate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEH,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Hegiste r e d.).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Diver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEH’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeiI, ====^==^===l
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HclllS RaSSHPU-SSeil,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus ® ox
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
ADVICE FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long- standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from (he Skin.'
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Coßtiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes,6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Golds, ( onsumption, bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l»owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders—Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
EwStSmTS
Ey^ght.lmp.;OT ln g th.M^,.»^».» ft a^J»^ihn^d^,,r..« < .ll B AD?ICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassiiiussen’s Head Office: - 547 Street, Sydney.
A-KTTI TIWPfiTt.TAW T BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:


Amusements.
N ROUTE.”
The Monarchs of All!
MHTOmiHDDCnS
AND
Royal Menagerie of Wild Animals.
The Largest and Most Complete Circus (Bar
None) ever visited the interior of Victoria
and New South Wales.
The Same Great Show
That electrified Melbourne 7 weeks ; Bris-
bane 5 weeks; Adelaide 8 weeks; Sydney
5 weeks.
70 PICKED ARTISTS 70
Culled l'rom American and European Circuses.
The Most SUPERB STUD OF HORSES ever
attached to any travelling circus establishment.
The Great Show will Exhibit at
YOUNG Sept. 13, 14, 15.
COWRA Sept. I<s.
ORANGE ... ... Sept. 17, 19.
BATHURST ... Sept. 30, 31.
PARRAMATTA ... Skpt. 33.
Sails for New Zealand by special steamer
from Sydney Sept. 24.
Mrs. HARMSTON LOVE ... Proprietress.
ROBT. LOVE .. ... Sole Manager.
Col. CHAS. B. HICKS (only one) Representative.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
sth WEEK! and Continued Success of the Royal
Comic Opera Company.
THIS EVENING, at 8. Wednesday Matinees, at 2.
“LA POUP€€.”
Comic Opera in 2 Acts and 4 Tableaux.
Plan, Nicholson’s. JEST" PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
T HEAT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
BLAND HOLT’S
Successful Adephi Drama,
THE FATAL CARD.
“THE FATAL CARD."
Positively only EIGHT more Performances.
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING (at 8.15) EVERY EVENING
The SECOND WEEK of
Professor T. A. KENNEDY
Hypnotist, King' Lauglimaker,
Sees larger audiences than ever. A perfect furore of-
enthusiasm on Saturday night.
Dress Circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 2s. ; Family Circle, Is. ;
Gallery, Sixpence. Seats may he reserved at Nicholson’s.
FRED. HENNING HAM, Business Manager.
TITVOU TIIEA T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE SUCCESS of ALL SUCCESSES!
Signor TTgo Biondi.
The most astounding Quick-change Artist in the world.
Continued Phenomenal Success of
THE POLUSKIS. GOVELL SISTERS.
GEORGE REA UCHAMP, GEO. 11. WOOD,
LOU HE RES FORD, ALTCE SUMMONS, NETTIE
WAITE, ,T. W. WINTON,
And our DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part o
the World.
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss Ada Reeve
JULEENE AND D'ALCORN. .
THE SISTERS TERRY. D. 11. CASTON.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
Foreman & Fannan.
VST PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
P
RINCESS THEATRE, MELHOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Slusgrove.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
“ THE HARBOR LIGHTS.”
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as LIEUT. KINGSLEY
Miss ADA FERRAR as LINA NELSON.
SATURDAY, Sept, 17-THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.
For Positively Six Nights Only.
Box Plan at ALLAN'S and MEMZIES’.
nfIOWN HALT,, MELBOURNE.
* SATURDAYS 17th, and 24th September.
“ POPS.”
“ POPS.”
SHILLING
“ POPS.”
“ POPS.”
NEIVB Ult Y-SBA DA COY.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
Special engagement of the Society Sketch Artists,
Mr. ALFRED BELLMAN and Miss LOTTIE MOORE
and THE BlOGRAPHE—Gladstone’s Funeral.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
3rd WEEK ! CONTINUED GIGANTIC SUCCESS !
The Trip Round the World
In 80 Days.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. Charles Maurice
and the Brilliant Dramatic Company.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
jg LtlS BANE. THEATRE ROYAL.
Redecorated, New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc.,' Mr. WALTER BENTLEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
lu nd J* EAD Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
t° the ears as glasses are to the
Invisible. Comfortable,
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per*
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., EKC.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Deiicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delirious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
Implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and caurecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent m the preparation ofa good Cits 1 ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each.'
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED S
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Dr. TARRANT,
E.KC.S.H, L.R.C.P.E., L.R.0.5.X., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
PBS
m
■
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales G-overnment
Medical Board. Pounder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, ma3‘ be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. 1 may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destro3 T ed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances ace sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
. . , acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint. ’
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
S3’stem is deranged.
UNTo WEan. or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions
Illustrations and Pictures; it will enable you to understand and describe vour case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
orisrin, traced iheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-s~trained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore Sunken
or Dark-circled Eyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels : Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep vour Thoughts off Impure Subjects Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr!
TARRANT ni3^6S
Absolutely No Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eve and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles Coughs
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, Gr.F.O., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
WHITE HEATHER
«* WHISKY.
Business Announcements.
d.s .mai R
S p
WflTuH REPAIRS BV PuST.
fninsr»rinrv O/A . /~n • ~
26 5 Hairspring, 26, Jewels,
12 months’ 4 ’ llll(iers > s /6. All work guaranteed
Phoifw^l 1 ?* h f in &, fitted his centrally-si uated vvork-
forl modern tools and appliances necessary
Co i vuS ? ? f , hl « h - class w °rkiiianship, requests
PoT ww r" 18 t 0 tonvard Watch Repairs to him by
Street, Sydney.' 011 gUaranteed - Note a *'>-ess:6B4 George-
A Phenomenal Novelty!
The Calendar U|atch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the
year, and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked,
sterling silver case and dome, extra jewelled
movements, second hand, keyless. Price, 455.
Securely packed. Sent registered post free to any
colony. J
Address—THE MANAGER,
The globe (Hatch Co., [td.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
*
Fitted with MOUSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
IADIES.- Call and
see our (111 RAP
;'i AOH 1N MS,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s Gd weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
l etc.
: S. ROWLEY Sc CO,,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Jlnrkets,
SYDNEY.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHADLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
safe*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, &c-, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
't'
e>
v,
S*\ susßUjgWgL-,,, -1^
N
(7
p «o
>^lORsTjfij
THE LAST OF SIX.
nuci If. i ... fit CtMit la. S 4.


IELUR’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
sud plies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
RSELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of - all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Pub i?at!ons, etc.
Worth
Worth Reading
Worth Keeping
We have five little books which have
been carefully prepared, and explain n
clear and simple language the cause a i d
cure of various prevalent maladies. Ea h
of these popular Medical Guides dea s
with a different subject. No. 1 with
Gout, No. 2 with Headache, No. 3 with
Indigestion, No. 4 with Constipation,
and No. 5 is for Ladies, and deals with
Neuralgia, and Periodic Headache, and
their cure by means of YAMBA. Either
or all will be sent Post Free to any ad-
dress by A. BISHOP LTD., Mile
End New Town, London ; or from
their Australian Depdt, 18 O’Connell-
st., Sydney. When writing, please say
which booklet is required, and write
to-day.
Sept
h.
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and.
I* Confes-
, sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
lAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
D complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d, from ANGLO AMERICAN
PUBLISHING CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other Fast
Sailing Books. Mention this paper when writing.
BOOKS.
Books Books
Published
Price-
Farm Management and Veterinary Practice.. 15/
The New Enquire Within, 5000 receipts .. 7/6
Every Man His Own Medical Adviser, 800 do. 35/-
The Farmer’s Own Book suitable for Breeding 7/6
Farm Engineering, Irrigation, Water Supply 16/
Dictionary of Universal Information .. ... 25/
Hopper’s Prac. Timber Measure, with tables 5/-
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £l. All Books sent Post Free.
Second
Hand.
7/6
5-
15/-
5/-
10/-
10/6
2/6
NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.
The Soiled Dove, being
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy ; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence—
each, post, free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
yon ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 35."
SECRET
Photos
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
(Continental Supply Agency,
r Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. J. A. M'Grill’s “ Orange Blossom ”
Specific. A positive cure without the use of the
knife for TUMORS and all forms of malignant
growths, allied with Female Weaknesses, Sick
Headaches, Despondency, Hysteria, etc. “ORANGE
BLOSSOM ” is applied direct ; instantly removes pain
and congestion. All women can use this most wonderful
remedy at home. Thousands of testimonials from young
and old. Pamphlet “ Plain Talk to Ladies,” sent upon re-
ceipt of stamped envelope. Consultation free—lo to 5.
Head office in Australia for Dr. M'Gill’s “ Orange Blossom
Specific,” City Chambers, 114 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Is it generally known that in Australia,
under the Imperial Fugitive Offenders Act, a
witness in a criminal case can be dragged from a
province to which lie has levanted to the one in
which he is wanted, by the magisterial endorse-
ment of the subpoena?
Vie. penal statistics show the greatest
number of prisoners as from 20 to 30 years of age,
the next two decades exhibiting considerable de-
crease, and the 60-to 70 period displaying a trifling
increase—probably due to senile weakening of the
precautionary and previsory faculties.
A grim paragraph :
Times are still very tout'll for hundreds of poor devils
in each of the populous suburbs of Melbourne, despite
Treas. Turner’s splendid surplus—which, by the vva.v, is
due entirely to the fact that many wealthy men bave i
been considerate enough to die during the past year, and
which, furthermore, is really a substantial deficit when
lhe Stiiels bonds are accounted for, as they must be.
Have met with two instances of lunacy, induced by out-
of-work terror and wear and tear, in one suburb alone.
The first unfortunate, after a game effort —extending over
six months—to find work,.succumbed intellectually, and
now imagines himself a magnificent and munificent cap-
italist, and goes about bestowing constant billets at £3
a week upon all and sundry. Another man, once a
successful city tradesman, since anything that offered, —
bricklayer’s laborer, bookmaker’s clerk, and bone-gatherer
—after seeking constantly for months the chance to earn
bread for his family, went stuttering from sheer ex-
haustion induced by hunger into the office of a city firm
in answer to an advt., and was told, “ Damn it, man, go
and learn to speak before you come here for work ! ” He
returned home, maundering about this, and is now at.
Yarra-bend Asylum—believes he has built a palace, and it
is his daily duty to carry luxurious food and gorgeous
clothes to his wife and family—whom God help 1 As soon
as news spreads of a fatal accident in a sewer or at a
factory, the first rush is not to help find the dead man,
but to secure his billet. I heard one workman declare,
speaking of a fatality in a sewer tunnel : “ I heard the
explosion, and I ran every step of the way, but two men
had seen the boss before me and there was only one man
killed."
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. VAA- each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold bv all Chemists.
"OLEMANE’S
FUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL f-END YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
Is positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We cannot publish all the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving from grateful sufferers
who have been cured. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the .most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon,
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to
S. COX & CO.,
PATENTEES and SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
422 JBourlee Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth Ss Bathurst Streets,
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IS
BX
p\mc/X Men
INOIOEjTIo/J
HdOlT/a
\*s
>IV
headache
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result .
Craig & Aitken,6Bo-682 George-st„ Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then 1
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL OAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
SfRATH^y
Choice Old highland
SCOTCH WHISKY
TRADE
y
MARK
if (y\.m\xvaf ,
c Un-casts.£
Fine Old
SCOTCH WHISKY
i CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Euerasy will completely cie«
Btroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 6 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
*pai«9B ‘39JJ !>uas aaao saipu'e esauua
-Hunaa jo OSBBSJP aqj uo "',qdure,j
eucrasy CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS o£ the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
'“•"•'liiiija
!"! | i»uinij3
<i»M|iiiriii|
am'!!!
SSiHi"!!'* 1 !!!"
I* • mill,l
| , uni '
aiiisw
iii.ii,'!!!!“!
in"* •;;
i 5,.!.;
imini "••■•'iniii
'■ •,v.v'.'*! l " '
5 H """"
1 • !!!! , iiiiiiii
!'*!* !>*f
■
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splend.d Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
I and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
l&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
- select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproci Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 <>. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 '-, trimmings included.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
Ulinerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s, Gd. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price Gd. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co ,
Manufacturing Chemists Sc Pood Specialist".
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M,.rgaret,-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE
DRROBERTS’:
ssftgsSSS
SfO/V MEASEf
and V/OUAfDS
OF ELVER Y
DESCRIPTION
u
FOR SKIN DISEASES,
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEMISTS //// & 2/? EACH
BEACH & BARN'ICOTT L° BRIDPQRT.
MELBOURNE.
V A
CATALOGUE?
<M3"V POST FREE
WatcHes-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
Weddiinlc e Christening Presents
sl*
opposite G:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man - Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts gi vf a steady, sooth-
ng current that can be felt
'•y the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the fill amount
paid. We mean .exactly
what we say. and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that, you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), givm : i) n orations o; different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGEN Y,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
RUPTURE,
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-j
'lief from pain; security from Strangulatedl
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible.]
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic/
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at/
' what you will learn. This Truss positively/
'does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
ruptured man or woman. If you want the i
_ BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free f
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pit.t-st.. SYDNEY.


A GREAT 1,000 MILES RACE.
HOW DAVE HIRE WON HIS WAGER.
A ONCE BED RIDDEN CRIPPLE TRIUMPHANTLY TOURS VICTORIA.
RIDING THROUGH SLEET AND HAIL.-NEVER ONCE RUBBED DOWN.—INTER.
VIEW WITH DAVE KIRK.—HOW HE OVERCAME HIS DIFFICULTIES.—AN
ASTOUNDING DISPLAY OF ENDURANCE.
INTERESTING READING FOR CYCLISTS.
A reporter of the Melbourne Advocate, seeing
in the city and provincial press glowing accounts
of an almost incredible feat on the part of one of
the best-known and highly-popular cyclists of
Victoria, Dave Kirk, saw him at his residence,
Aylesbury House, 59 Park-street, East Bruns-
wick, and had a friendly chat with the erstwhile
bed-ridden, but now robust and agile, favorite of
the track. In August of last year a reporter was
favored with a first interview with Kirk regarding
his complete restoration to health, although
several prominent surgeons had not long before
given it as their opinion that Kirk would be for
ever a hopeless cripple. All Melbourne, all Vic-
toria, and even the sister colonies, were marvelling
at his recovery from what was, to all intents and
purposes, his life-long illness. Not without reason
has the present century been called an age
of enlightenment and progress, and justly does
the Westminster Gazette remark that medi-
cine in our day is practically a new science.
But it can be safely said that not only our genera-
tion, but ages to come, will admit that the most
marvellous and fruitful blessing to suffering
humanity in the scientific field of the present cen-
tury is the medical discovery which is ever"where
MR. DAVE KIRK, VICTORIA’S CYCLING HERO.
known as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
—an unparalleled remedy for numerous ills to
which poor humanity is heir. True, it does not
require much solid reason to give an impetus to
some alleged discoveries in arts and sciences, but
in the field of medicine the touchstone of success
must absolutely rest.on results, and amongst the
long array of solidly established cures stands out
in bold relief, challenging the medical and the lay
mind alike, the PERMANENT AND COM-
PLETE CURE of the subject of this interview,
Dave Kirk.
Nearly everyone has mastered the particulars of
Kirk’s marvellous case, but, for the benefit of
those who have not, a summary is appended :
KIRK’S TERRIBLE ACCIDENT.
On the Bth October, 1896, Dave Kirk was train-
ing on the Scotch College Grounds, Melbourne,
when he was suddenly hurled with tremendous
force to the ground, through the tire of the leader
breaking. The unfortunate man lay for some
minutes a helpless and wrecked mass of humanity.
His friends, not daring to hope, hurried the appa-
rently lifeless form to the Melbourne Hospital.
The poor fellow was at once admitted to the
casualty ward, where the fearful nature of his
injuries caused the surgeons, who had been hastily
summoned, to shake their heads in significant
silence. Indeed, they held out but slight hopes
of being able to pull the mangled young man
through. For many months the patient lingered
betwixt life and death—a victim of hemorrhage,
spinal disease, pleuisy, dysentery, complete para-
lysis of the body, and last, but by no means least,
locomotor ataxia. This last-named is a fearful
malady, which deprives the victim of all power
over the operations of nature, which take
action irrespective of the will. Kirk’s left
heel had to be removed, and thirty-two stitches
were inserted in that part of his foot, 18 being
placed in the right leg. The kneecap was smashed,
and had to be lifted. Altogether, seven surgeons
had to do with the sufferer, who was reduced to a
very weak and almost comatose state, after nine
operations had been performed on him. Mortifi-
cation set in in parts of the lower limbs, and arti-
ficial means had to be employed to draw off the
water. The system was washed internally four
times every day with water and carbolic acid, the
stomach being cleaned out by means of a tube.
Injections were also largely employed. This was
a sad wreck of the man who had been a powerful
and successful cyclist on many a hard-contested
ring. Dave’s friends, at length despairing of ever
seeing their favorite wheelman on his feet again,
had him removed with gentle care from the hos-
pital to his home.
And yet to-day, Kirk, in the best of health and
spirits, has ridden 1042 miles through Victoria, for
a wager, in the short space of 14 days, under the
most adverse circumstances possible.
When Dave’s relatives found the fearful condi-
tion to which he had been reduced, they naturally
looked out for something that would relieve him
of his many sufferings. Doctors and patent medi-
cines had absolutely failed, and, as a last resource,
the newly - discovered medicine, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, was brought into play.
An almost
IMMEDIATE CHANGE FOR THE
BETTER
was experienced ; but it is more*satisfactory to let
the then sufferer speak for himself :
“ Gradually,” says he, “ the sense of numbness
began to disappear, and the extremities acquired
by degrees their wonted healthy glow and warmth.
During my enforced stay in the hospital the sense
of feeling had almost deserted my members. To
be sure of the absence of the sense of touch, the
doctors would conceal my vision, and then ques-
tion me as to the part they were piercing ; but my
answers clearly proved to them that I was abso-
lutely bereft of all sensibility !
“After a month’s trial of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I was able to throw aside my crutches. But
one of the most powerful effects of the pills was
the restoration of functional health. Bowel
troubles had been a terrible trial to me ever since
the day I met with the accident. Regularity in
this direction was perfectly set up, and I am now,
after four months’ taking of these pills, in the
enjoyment of perfect health. ”
So remarkable was this cure that it attracted
general notice throughout the Australian colonies.
Doubtless, much of this notoriety was due to the
fame of the victim of that dire accident, which
brought him to within an ace of death. Dave had
won his spurs on many an Australian cycle track,
being placed, as a general rule, on “ scratch ” for
each event. The sporting world was deeply
affected to hear of what was regarded as his life-
long enforced absence from the track. Hence it
can well be imagined with what general satisfac-
tion the public welcomed his absolute cure, due
solely to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. But the prac-
tical age in which we move likes to be thoroughly
satisfied about the genuineness of a statement
before giving it its adhesion. People were say-
ing, “Well, if Dave Kirk is so thoroughly him-
self again, we should like to see some practical evi-
dence of so remarkable a triumph of medicine over
disease and death.”
No sooner said than done ! On the Bth July
last Dave, accompanied his trainer, Wren Mat-
thews, mounted one of the famous “ Dayton ”
racers, and, although his friends, acquaintances,
and the press tried to dissuade him, started upon
a tour of the colony. He undertook to do 1000
miles in 28 days, but in reality he covered 1042
miles in 14 days ! The very fact of the man
starting on such a journey was sufficient to satisfy
the most matter-of-fact and incredulous as to the
genuineness of his restored health and vigor of
mind and body. But this is not all : it is well
here to emphasise the fact that Dave believes he
did 3000 miles, computed against wind and
weather.
The splendid average of seventy-four and a half
miles per day was maintained throughout the trip.
As an example of muscular power and endurance,
it may be mentioned that Dave rode from Ararat
to Beaufort, a. distance of 28 miles, in If hours,
and at the finish of that run did a walk on foot of
13 miles ! Carbine ! Marvellous work, surely,
for an erstwhile cripple ! Yet this is true in every
particular, and vouchedfor on unquestionable testi-
mony. The route taken by Kirk and his trainer
was through Sunbury, Kynetown, Castlemaine,
Harcourt, and Bendigo. Wherever Dave went
he was literally lionised by the cycling fraternity,
and wherever a club was stationed he was heartily
welcomed, and escorted for some distance on the
next stage. The steep gradients between Castle-
main and Bendigo, notably those experienced
after passing Harcourt, famous for its granite
boulders, are well-known to cyclists. Kirk, how-
ever, mounted these with the greatest possible
ease, and out-distanced some half-dozen “wheels ”
who attempted to keep up with him. His friends
gave him 28 days in which to negotiate 1000 miles,
but he did more than that distance in half the
time. An important point, which greatly strength-
ens the case, is the
TERRIBLY SEVERE WEATHER
which was encountered during the whole fortnight
Kirk was on tour. It rained almost incessantly ;
snow and hail were met with, and a gale of ex-
traordinary violence raged, making the journey a
heavy labor for the stoutest heart. The roads in
places were almost impassible owing to the con-
tinuous downpour. Nevertheless, Kirk rode on
CHART OF KIRK’S 1000 MILES RIDE.
with a i ight heart, happy in the possession of “ a
sound m f nd in a sound body.’ He was filled with
gratitude to the greatest benefactor of the age.
J> r . Williams, sole proprietor of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills f ’ r Pal( ! P £ ople to which powerfu i
medicine Dave admits his being able to enjoy the
pleasures of the cycle track once more. People
£ ere on the look-out for the now famous cyclist
of whose wonder f u l case they had already heard
either through the press or from their friends
H is arrival in the various centres of population
excited much local interest and Dave w P s P eag eriy
questioned as to the genuineness of the reports of
marvellous cure. Readily did the hero give
fche credifc to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and he
advised those suffering from dysentery, hemorr-
hage, pleurisy, spinal disease, paralysis, or
locomotor ataxia to at once enter on a
course of these pills. Asked if he felt any
fatigue beyond that which was to be expected,
Dave laughingly replied—“ Not the least.’’ His
next line was through Elmore and Rochester to
Echuca. Coming back to Bendigo, he made
Maryborough, where he found the fame of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills had preceded him. Indeed,
a well-known local chemist, Mr. F. Ogle, in-
formed Kirk that he found no small difficulty in
keeping sufficient stocks of the invaluable pills to
satisfy the wants of his ever-increasing customers
Dunolly and St. Arnaud were touched. Included
in what is destined to be regarded in the annals of
Victorian cycling as a thrice-famous run may be
mentioned Ballarat, Geelong, Camperdown, Mort-
lake, Kyneton, Terang, Warrnambool, Koroit,
Hamilton, etc. Quite an ovation was accorded
the plucky and highly-popular crack cyclist wher-
ever he went. But the most astonishing thing
about it all is that, after having undergone such a
labor as is implied in the track traversed by Kirk,
he returned to the metropolis with an
INCREASE OF A STONE IN
WEIGHT !
Upon his return, Kirk freely entered into a chat
anent his trip. “ Well,” he said, “ you see I have
greatly improved in weight as a consequence of
my trip. During the journey I was almost
ashamed of my appetite. After doing a big day’s
ride, lasting up to midnight, I felt quite comfort-
able, and after a hearty supper fell into a sound
sleep.
“ Look at my limbs,” said he, exposing his
legs ; and, indeed, a more splendid pair of calves
it would be difficult to see. “ You will scarcely
believe it,” said he, “but I never required a rub
down at the finish of a day’s hard riding, and the
trip was one of the severest I have tackled. I had
to push on in the teeth of a head wind, which was
almost strong enough to blow the head off one ! I
did not feel the slightest want of medicine or
stimulant of any kind ” (Dave is a total abstainer),
“but if the necessity had arisen, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills would have been my friend as usual. I
would like a word about the Dayton machine, on
which I did my 1042 miles in 14 days. There
was no occasion even to blow up the tire, nor
did so much as a screw loosen during the run.
You can imagine how greatly surprised everybody
was when I returned to Melbourne in such exube-
rant health and spirits. Congratulations poured
in, and, as was naturally to be expected, the fame
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills continues to gain in
popular favor. In several places I found people
who did not hesitate to say that they had been
cured of various ailments by a course of those won-
derful pills, thus confirming the now public, verdict
regarding their never-failing efficacy in the treat-
ment of all diseases arising from disorders of the
blood. It is my intention to introduce Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills among my chums of the track,
and to impress on them the fact of their wondrous
healing properties. Wren Matthews accompanied
me as a precautionary proviso. This arrangement,
however, proved altogether unnecessary, for,
although I experienced no fewer than eight falls,
my strength and strong
MERVE NEVER FAILED ME
during the 1042 miles. So strong did I feel, and I
was in such splendid fettle, that the trip could
have been accomplished in 12 days! However,
you will admit that all who tried to dissuade me
from the undertaking have been quite out in their
reckoning. The challenge of those who felt some
lingering doubts as to the absolute thoroughness
and permanency of my cure ought to be more
than satisfied. As a further proof of my strength
and muscle, and a test of staying-power and en-
durance, I am ready, at a moment’s notice, to ride
from Melbourne to Sydney, 580 miles, at almost
twice the speed of the Victorian tour.”
♦
Chats From the Papers.
Whilst Kirk was on tour the various provincial
newspapers evinced the liveliest interest in his pro-
gress, and one and all were astounded at his mag-
nificent condition, many of them expecting him to
show, in a more or less degree, signs of his former
illness. We reprint a few of their pars., which
are sure to prove of interest.
The Australian Cyclist, 28th July, says
“ Dave Kirk, the much-shattered racing crack, is
pegging away over the 1000-mile course which he
has to cover ere he wins his £5O wager. He has
been now a little over two weeks away, and has
visited Kyneton, Castlemaine, Bendigo, Creswick,
Ararat, and Stawell, and speaks highly of the
kindness of the various country clubmen, who
have helped him in every way. Kirk is over the
worst part of the road, having ridden 560 miles.
Should he not have any accidents, he hopes to
complete the journey by the 29th of this month.
During the trip Kirk has had seven falls, but, so
far, he has been able to keep going, and is at
present 60 miles ahead of his schedule distance.”
The Cycling News:— “We hear that ‘Dave’
Kirk, a well-known cyclist of Victoria, famous for
his many misfortunes on the wheel, has made a
wager to ride 1000 miles in three weeks. After
Kirk’s last accident he remained in the Melbourne
Hospital for months suffering from partial
paralysis, the result of his injuries, and was ulti-
mately discharged as incurable. Upon Kirk’s
discharge from the hospital he was the beneficiary
of a cycling meeting held at St. Kilda, and was
set up in business. Such have been his recupera-
tive powers that had anyone 12 months ago sug-
gested that Kirk would ever ride a bicycle again
he would have been laughed at; yet we are now
staggered with the news that he is going to make
an attempt to ride 1000 miles on a bicycle. Kirk’s
recovery has been a marvellous one, but we think
that his ride is ill-advised, considering the terrible
injuries he has suffered from.”
The Bendigo Advertiser Dave Kirk and
Wren Matthews, two well-known cyclists, arrived
in Bendigo yesterday from Melbourne. Kirk is
passing through Bendigo on a long ride of 1000
miles to comply with the terms of a wager made
with him. If he succeeds in riding that distance
on his bicvele ho is to receive ,£5O. Captain T.
Hunter, °f the Bendigo Bicycle Club, who went
out to Harcourt to meet Kirk and his companion,
says that he was surprised to see Kirk propel his
machine up the steep gradients between Har-
court and Bendigo. Kirk and his companion leave
here this morning for Maryborough and Ballarat,
whence they will proceed to the Western dis-
trict. Kirk some time back met with severe
m]unes, the result of an accident on the race
path, which laid him up for some months, and it
was generally understood that he would never
nde again. He is mounted on a Dayton machine,
and prior to leaving here was congratulated on his
successful ride from Melbourne.”
Ckeswick Advertiser “ Mr. Kirk is now
doing his first ride for eighteen months, and is
going to ride 1000 miles for a wager of >£so.
Already he has come from Melbourne, passing
through Bendigo and Maryborough, and will con-
tinue his tour to Warrnambool, via Ballarat, Ara-
rat, and Stawell, returning thence to the metro-
polis again. On the completion of this round,
half the stake will be paid to him. Then,
to gain the balance, he must ride to Sydney
and compete in the Austral Race. To realise
what this means, it must be understood that the
Cyclist gave a portrait of Kirk on crutches, a
long time ago, with the title, ‘A crack for ever
off the track ; ’ the doctors gave him up ; he has
had injuries to his head, spine, legs, arms, and
r? • ’ as over 80 stitches in various parts
of his body, and once struck the ground with his
head with such force that, when picked up, many
yards from the place he first touched, the soles of
his feet were found to be burst open—a pheno-
menon that has defied the reasoning of the ablest
medical men. And still he rides ! ”
Clunes Guardian and Gazette : —“My readers
all know Dave Kirk, the cyclist, by name, if
not by person, through having read of him in
the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills advertisement.
Some considerable time ago he was literally
smashed, up in a bicycle race, and was taken into
the hospital almost a lifeless corpse. He pulled
through by the aid (as his testimonial showed) of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and is once more able to
ride the bicycle. He was in Clunes on Tuesday
last, in company with another well-known cyclist,
Matthews. He is completing a journey of 1000
miles for a wager of ,£5O. He is riding a Dayton
machine, the same frame that Walne rode so
many races with, fitted with Dunlop tyres. His
mate is riding a Dayton, fitted likewise. This is
Kirk’s first ride since he came out of the hospital.
He looks well, and one could hardly realise that
he was the same Dave Kirk who was smashed up
on the Scotch College track.”
Numbers of others print similar pars.
It should be mentioned that Dave Kirk intends
entering for all forthcoming wheel events, includ-
ing, of course, the Austral, the A.N.A., &c. One
can safely predict for Dave some brilliant feats
on the track. No man can command success, but
Dave certainly deserves it.
Here is a case that absolutely defied the best
medical skill of Melbourne. Here was a promis-
ing athlete reduced in a moment to a helpless mass
of quivering flesh, a victim to a combination of
diseases any one of which was enough to render
life intolerable. Look at him now, and behold
him not only raised up from a seeming death-bed,
but completely restored to his wonted remarkable
athletic powers—able to take the sporting field
once more, and fairly astound the public by per-
forming a cycle journey of 1042 miles, in the teeth
of hail, snow, rain, and wind of an unprecedented
severity. Not only so, but he gains a stone in
weight, and further strengthens every member of
his once-diseased body ! To conclude, what the
medical faculty and patent medicines utterly
failed to accomplish has been brought about
by a course of a remedy which, it can be
safely predicted, is destined to revolutionise
medicine, viz., Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People ! Is it any wonder, then, that the practic-
able thought of our up-to-date colonists has
grasped the intrinsic value of this medicine, and
that the manufacturer is experiencing the greatest
difficulty in keeping up with the heavy orders
pouring in daily from the wholesale houses in the
various Australasian colonies ? If, as the saying
goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, it
can be said that the popular demand for this, the
greatest remedy of the nineteenth century, is the
best guarantee of its worth as a cure for most of
the ills that flesh is heir to.
The interview being read over to him, Mr. Kirk
signed it as being correct, Mr. Wren Matthews
signing as witness.
: 4
The Vitality of the Human
Race.
A remarkable efficacy in curing diseases arising
from an impoverished condition of the blood or an
impairment of the nervous system, such as rheu-
matism, neuralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor
ataxia, St. Vitus’dance, nervous headache, nervous
prostration, and the tired feeling arising therefrom,
the after-effects of la grippe, influenza, and severe
colds, diseases depending on humors in the blood,
such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas, &e., is possessed
by the only genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills give a healthy glow to pale
and sallow complexions, and are a specific for
the troubles peculiar to the female system, and in
the case of men they effect a radical cure in all
cases arising from mental worry, over-work, and
excesses of any nature. These pills are not a
purgative. They are genuine only with the full
name, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
and are sold by all chemists and by Dr. Williams’
Medicine Company, Sydney, whio will forward
(post paid), on receipt of stamps or post-order,
one box for 2s. 9d., or half-dozen for 15s. 3d.
They are never sold in bulk, or by the dozen or
hundred, and any dealer who offers substitutes in
this form is trying to defraud, and should be
avoided. See that each box is encircled by a blue
warning label, and regard with distrust the man
who wants to sell you something which he says is
“ just as good.” He only wants a bigger profit.
4
The remedy in question, Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, are not a patent medi-
cine, but are a thoroughly scientific prepara-
tion, the result of years of careful study on
the part of an eminent Edinburgh University
physician, and they were successfully used by
him in his everyday practice for years before
being offered for general sale. They are
a perfect blood builder and a nerve restorer,
curing such diseases as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus'
dance, nervous headache, general debility, nervous
prostration, the after effects of la grippe, influenza,
and severe colds, diseases depending on humours
in the blood, such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas,
etc. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills give a healthy
glow to pale and sallow complexions, and are a
specific for all troubles peculiar to the female sys-
tem, .such as ansemia, poor and watery blood,
female irregularities, etc. In the case of men they
effect a radical cure in all cases arising from men-
tal worrv. over-work, or excesses of any nature.


Castro’s Last Sacrament.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The scenario of Byers’ stories embraced four con-
tinents and bits of Polynesia. His geography was
correct, and his pathos had a finish that smacked
of art. Byers was a pilot—late of the Hoogli ser-
vice—and on the slightest provocation he would
pack you away in a deep-sea tramp, and send her
clanking like a boiler-yard over the horizon. Then
he would lean forward to hit you convincingly on
the breast-bone, and, presto ! you found yourself
marooned with Johnny, the cook, on a sand-bar,
outside Little Sheol in Malaysia. Marooning was
the leading feature in Byers’ stories, and his prin-
cipal characters were the Johnny aforesaid and a
wicked mining agent named Battle. Upon one
occasion he omitted both, thus :
The three jesters of the Orient Hotel were Cas-
tro, myself, and the big German, Schloss ; the
other man was Gilbert Herrick, a long-limbed
kiddy that the Torres Pearl Fishing Co. had
recruited from the Indian Survey Department.
The co. paid no divs. during Herrick’s regime ; he
was too easy, and used expensive gear, and
studied lives. There was a fleet in the Straits,
and 200 Japs to be controlled, and Herrick’s inex-
perience was pathetic. He could give you the
Himalayas’ area, or Indus soundings from Hyder-
abad to Lahore. As a boss pearl-raker, he wasn’t
sure whether an oyster walked upstairs or used
the lift. For being the newest chum you ever
struck, Herrick took all certificates.
• * * *
Castro’s Orient Hotel was under the bluff where
you signal ships from the Gulf side of the Straits ;
a lonesome place, with a lot of palm-jungle in the
back-yard, and a league or two of surf roaring
under the front window. There was a tiger-like
playfulness about. publican Castro, and if you’d
let him he’d maul and slaver over you like—like
Paolo Macari. No man with a nose like Castro’s
ever made friends. It was a hook between two
blinking eyes, and it was bone-white —perhaps it
lived in constant fear of being hit, and before you
knew him ten minutes you wanted to do it an
evil with both hands. There was another man, a
beach-combing pariah named Smith ; sometimes
he cleaned Castro’s windows, but he preferred to
cadge from the Jap divers. The personality of
Smith wouldn’t improve any story, and the less
said of Smith the better.
Schloss and I were very miserable at Castro’s
until the Torres Pearl Fishing Co. sent Herrick,
and the newness of him blew away the monotony.
The card-hunger vanished from the German’s
eyes ; he rolled walrus-like across the wide veran-
dah, making petty excuses for shaking hands. He
even forebore his daily yarn that connected a dog
and a sapper named Kolbs with the German siege-
lines around Paris. •
“ Der gots haf send us someding do blay mid,”
he chuckled. We had drinks. Herrick was in.
the bar, and publican Castro was talking. On the
counter was a cheese-knife, and Herrick was feel-
ing it gingerly with his thumb. Said Castro :
“ Thirty feelers and seven heads he had, and
that damned octopus was sparring for a hold. I
don’t mind sharks, a kiss of the hand sools ’em
off. Whales are regular gentlemen : you could
take your girl down and introduce her to ’em.
Now that damned octapuus ! ” —— ■
Schloss borrowed the knife to cut some tobacco.
“Whales are always worth looking at, aren’t
they?” said Herrick simply. Castro shook his
head.
“ We wouldn’t go outside to see ’em, would we,
Schloss ? ”
Schloss inferred that a school of thrashing bull-
whales was a dreary spectacle indeed.
* 0 * * *
Mrs. Castro permitted Schloss to address her
from a distance. Mrs. Castro was 17 and a Nea-
politan. She hated Schloss and his silly Dutch
talk, but, as Gilbert Herrick was smoking under
the palms, she stayed, with her back half-turned
to prove her utter indifference to Schloss. Now,
with her back to the Teuton she could see Her-
rick much better, and Herrick, she felt sure, was
looking at her in a manner that wasn’t strictly
proper. Schloss was saying things—in the first
place, he argued that her mother had robbed the
heavens to provide her with a pair of eyes. He
appealed to Herrick. Julia Castro frowned and
spoke Italian to Schloss. Schloss called her “the
immediate jewel of his soul.” Julia Castro didn’t
go away, she prowled amongst adjacent ferns and
shook a tiny white fist from afar. There was a
cross-shaped pearl on her second finger; Schloss
told me under his breath that years ago Castro
had knifed Yamshai Janneker for it, when Jan-
neker and he were working under Yanysuthen’s
reef—knifed him in 60 fathoms of water ! Julia
Castro didn’t know that. We watched her half-
an-hour later swimming in the surf.
* • * *
The thing came out of the jungle, and danced
from shadow to shadow. Schloss said it was a
man, because it was brown, and striped, and had
a tail. It frisked towards us and stopped.
“ Big Babuan jief,” said Schloss, turning to
Herrick, and, when Schloss pressed his heel on my
toe, I looked for Castro’s nose on the Papuan
chief’s face, and it was there, my friend. Castro’s
impersonation was a mixture of harlequin and
barn-fowl: he was a fleering bedevilled nightmare,
edged with ochre. There were turkey’s feathers
between his toes ; he halted in the strip of moon-
light, and slavered with the butt end of his tongue
between his teeth.
“ Good God ! ” I said.
“Ging of Babua,” droned Schloss. “He haf
galled to zee Herrig. He haf a hundred war
ganoes in der sthraids. Herrig, he haf galled on
you; id is dergusdom.” Schloss waved a hand
invitingly to the offensive object, and the object
pounded the earth with a waddy.
“I—er —I’m deeply grateful,” said Herrick,
going forward, “and I look upon the king’s visit
as an honor indeed ! ”
Herrick spoke earnestly, because he couldn’t
tell an Orang Kaya from a Maori pundit. He
was chockful of Stanleyism, was Herrick, and
considered the moment a favorable one for tighten-
ing that silken hawser about a loose and unregene-
rate king. Castro capered appropriately, and
moulted. He was real dirty, and you could whiff
the goosefat of last Xmas in his hair.
Herrick bowed, like Stanley.
“ Glad to meet you, king,” he said. The
alleged king preened himself and slavered.
Nothing that walks on two legs ever looked like
Castro ; the man had been down to Gehenna to
fill in his idea of a devil, and—barring the 101 l of
the head and the slaver there was a sinewy
grace about his masquerade that was convincing.
Talk about Dan Barry ; it was high art !
“ I’m only a 150 a-year man,” said Herrick,
anxiously ; “ but I suppose the beer-bin ordinaire
will fill the bill ? ”
The king frisked judiciously, moulted, and set-
tled on one leg.
“ What does that signify? ” whispered Herrick.
“ Id signify dot your remark haf hees abbroval,”
said Schloss. The king waved his waddy in a
favorable manner at Herrick. Herrick raised his
pith-helmet —like Stanley.
“’Ow are yer, Mister ’lckenbottom?” said
Smith, strolling near. “ Glad ter see you’ve come
up without yer horns. Take a seat, Mister ’lcken-
bottom ! ” There was a lot of crude dialogue about
Smith.
It was fitting that there should be an orgie. and
Smith sang ; no one even hinted that Smith
should sing, and when he commenced his noisy
melody on top of the rain-barrel we found it
necessary to remove him with stones. Herrick
conducted the king back to the jungle. Herrick
was impervious to beer, and the king was anxious
about his reputation.
“So long, king! ” Herrick touched his hand with
due magnificence.
“Ac—hie —Acheron,” breathed the man from
Papua. Herrick looked hard at Schloss.
“ Observe,” he said, “ how the aboriginal mind
jumps with Dante’s ! ”
The king fell into the jungle.
m * * *
A wisp of moon hung like a silver boomerang
across the straits. There was a full tide, too, and
you could hear it talking through the palms, and
on the reef. Schloss pointed seaward; and oh !
man, there was a liner tramping south-rooting it
white over her black muzzle, and snoring.
“Rangoon, China borts and Brisbane. She’s
8.1.,” grunted Schloss.
“She’s Tyne built,” said I, “and she has beam
without length, after the Quetta’s lines. She’s not
8.1. for all that, Schloss. Anyhow, she’ll be in-
side the Barrier before she loses the Cross. Give
us a song, Herrick ! ”
Herrick wouldn’t sing; but he stood out in the
open and recited —words to a woman that filled
the air with a halo of jewel, and scented dusk,
and although he only seemed to whisper, each
word was distinct above the clamor of the surf. I
could see that Julia Castro had come out to listen,
with her head flung back and her hands clenching
a screen of parasites. The crucifix-pearl glowed
on her second finger—the pearl that Castro had
knifed Yamshai Janneker for under Yanysuthen’s
reef. When Herrick stopped, she came out.
“What do you call those words ? ” Strangely
enough she addressed Schloss, but her eyes were
on the ground.
Schloss thought for a moment. She came nearer,
and the silk of her dress whistled like birds; man,
she was decked out fine that night!
“ The words ? ” she asked.
“ Herrig’s nide Biece to Yulia.”
“ Thank you, Herr Schloss ! ” And, without
looking at Herrick, she swept into her room.
“ Every ’Errick ’as ’is Julia!” said Smith,
feelingly. “ Yorter seen the little tart I struck at
Clontarf onct; Spud Maloney was onter it, too.
‘Spud,’ I sez, ‘if yer lookin’ fer a poke in the
eye, say so. Spud
The suppression of Smith was immediate.
Schloss kept both feet on him. And Schloss
talked and carried us through a wilderness of
words, to Gravelotte and Sedan, and from Sedan
to the sullen-faced embrasures of Maison Guyot,
until the crystal streaks lined the humps of barrier
in the east. Then came the king out of the jungle,
and we saw that nothing remained except sour
beer and Castro. He staggered to nis wife’s room
—Julia’s—and we overlooked the little circum-
stance until Herrick sprang up and said “ Oh,
Christ! ”
“Der ging haf gone in to Julia ! ” chuckled
Schloss.
• * • *
I felt the painful squeeze of his fist, and sat
silent. Here was a new turn to a dead joke !
Herrick leaped across the open space, and by the
writhing of his sinewy torso we relied upon
strange things happening to the king. Herrick
sailed into the room like a young steer, and the
next three minutes were filled with a series of sharp
grunts. Then Herrick spun out with his left arm
lifted and dropped to the ground.
“S-say, Byers!” he gasped, “ w-was that a
p-put-up job ? He’s given it me under the ribs,
old man, and I’m cooked.. . . . He’s half
white, and the paint’s coming off. Youdidnt
put it up for me—you or Schloss ? ”
Schloss swore. There was an ugly gash under
his left arm. We carried him into his room.
“ Mein Gott! ” wailed Schloss, “we haf killed
der boy. By-and-by, I tink we shall go into
Gastro ; I haf a sabre dot belong to my fader at
Marengo.”
We bandaged Herrick, and Julia Castro came
in- .
“ Oh, you too ! ” she said. “ Why do you play
with people who are quick ? ” There were tears in
her scowling, half-turned face. She stooped over
the bed and kissed Herrick between the eyes.
“ One of you shall pay for this ... or Castro the
butcher.’’ The last word, “ butcher,” stayed over
long between her pretty teeth. We found Castro
amongst the sheets, whimpering like a painted
gorilla. In the scrap Herrick had turned Castro’s
wrist, and sent the knife back up to the haft. He
doubled up when Julia came in, and whispered
something to me that I didn’t catch. She
smoothed his pillow, and spoke soothing words in
the lingua franca of the Levant. He watched her
like a cornered rat. She wept—he would not take a
little brandy ; he wouldn’t take anything from her
hands. She brought wine from the cellar, and of-
fered it with kisses and “ Caromio —caro inio.” A
little strength came back to Castro; he flung aside
the tumbler and screamed —Julia’s eyes filled with
tears of reproach—he quaked like a frightened
beast, until the painted sweat ran over the sheets-
Man, it was queer !
* * * *
Then the race-instinct came back—he wanted a
priest. We sent Smith. Smith didn’t want to go,
and argued :
“ Ickenbottom goes in fer ’igh-class comedy and
chivs ’Errick ; ’igh-class comedy’s good enough
fer me ; we’ll stick to it. ’E wants a priest ; now
you lend’s a razer, Mister Byers, an’ off goes me
goatee ; then gimme a sheet, an’, s’welp me Gawd,
I’ll ’ear ’is sins ! ” Schloss rolled forward half-a-
pace. I didn’t think Schloss would plug any
man. Smith went for the priest. And the surf-
manes were flying white over Vanysuthen’s reef
when Father Dominick Lynch rode up; he was
carrying something under his vestments. He re-
coiled from the painted effigy in the bed ; Schloss
explained. Then a dour look sent us to the
verandah, until Castro should have jabbered out
his sins. Julia stole from Herrick’s room, and I
saw by the droop of her head and the hand catch-
ing at her breast that Herrick had crossed the bar.
She stood by the window watching the priest in-
side. I spoke a few words ; she eyed me threaten-
ingly, and her hand, snatching at me across the
window-light, brought . with it the fear of a
poignard ; Schloss paled, he understood her breed
better than I.
The priest coughed twice —a signal that Castro’s
sins were out. Julia slid into the room, and I
o .
(S'
(h
c
?
¥
CUINE
CA&C.
MICE SIMMONS.
NEW DEPARTURE. CASH TRADE ONLY.
All Sporting Materials at Lowest Cut Prices.
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES.
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and most VARIED STOCK of
Cricketing Grood.3 in Australia.
NEW SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
BATS, —Special Line Youths’ All-Cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 6/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-Cane Handle 11s 6d
„ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International) 16s 6d
~ Brj'ant’s Men's All-Cane Handle (President) 13s Od
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-Cane Handle 10s 6d
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s-ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s, 7s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
~ Full Size ... 4s 6d
TAN LEG! GUARDS.—Youths’ 6s, 6s 6d
~ Men’s ... ... ... ... 6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s 6d
BALLS. —Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match ... 5s Od
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d; ditto Best 6s 9d
„ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
~ n isucn a iutttun ... ... ... ... ... 10 ou
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in two pieces,
full sizf, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
~ With pegs, runners, &c. &c 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS. —Cobbett’s All-Cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto ... 6s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lillywhite’s All-Cane Handle 16s 6d
~ Nicholl's ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury's ditto .. 6 6,9,6,10/6, 12s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark & Sons’Patent Cork-Cased Handle ... 15s Od
„ Dark & Sons’ All-Cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS. —Tan, full size, ventilated, per pair 6s-0d
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs) per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s Gd
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
~ Compo. —Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
~ ~ Match, s|oz., Is ; Boys’ 3d, 4d, 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ ...Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youths’ Cane-Handle Bat, Compo Ball,
and Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-Handle Bat, Leather Ball,
Brass-hound Steel-shod Stumps ... 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW AND COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t 3 Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st., 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIAN< )S.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS
KTICHOLSOKT &
GEORGE STREET, STREET.
CO.


saw the crucifix-pearl gleam amongst the tapers'
Her hand made a lightning movement over the
communion chalice—the priest was praying beside
Castro—then she knelt and prayed also.
“May the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ!”
began the priest as Castro raised his head to
receive—pilot Byers quoted it in the Latin, but
that’s beyond me—“ preserve thy soul to ever-
lasting life. Amen ! ”
I never saw a man wriggle so after receiving
the Holy Eucharist; it seemed to fill him up.
He just caught himself by the throat and coughed
up the ghost. Man, it was queer !
“ Der vas brussig acid in dot sagrament ! ”
drawled Sehloss. Julia’s maiden name should
have been Borgia.
ALBA DORION.
M‘Culloch’s Chump.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas on a farm, a farm whose charm
Lay in the fact that binders
Got decent pay, six bob a day,
And no midnight reminders !
That is to say, we worked all day;
Worked hard, there’s no disguising;
But heard no. shout to rouse us out
Because the moon was rising !
’Twas in the days of simpler ways,
’Fore strippers struck Australia ;
When goose-neck bands and human hands
Beat all the paraphernalia !
There was a lout, a slack-built lout,
Was binding at M'Culloch’s,
Weighed sixteen stone, all brawn and bone,
Arid calves as big as bullocks !
This raw-boned dolt could break a colt,
And, if it came to fighting,
Gould take his part; but lacked the art
Of reading and of writing.
Said he to me one night at tea :
“ I hope my girl is better,
D’yer think yer’d find—that is— d’yer mind—
Er—would yer write a letter ? ”
The “things” were found. All hands sat round,
The raw-boned chap dictating.
“ Tell her,” said he, “ I hopes that she
Won’t get too tired o’ waiting.
“ You’d better tell her I’m quite well
And hope at time o’ startin’
That she’s the same. Yes, Meg’s her name,
I told yer Marg’ret Martin !
“ You got that down ? Well, say Jack Brown
Is chirpy as a plover ;
And, tell her—why—that—is—that I
You know—just say I love her !
“You might just say I ain’t too gay,
But anxious to be oyer.
Got that all right ? Well, now you might
Say just once more I love her !
“ What else ? Say chaff is three ’n’ a half
And season’s right for clover,
And spuds is down to half-a-crown,
And—better say I love her !
“ That’s all. You sign my name, Devine."
“ No more ? ” asked I, inditing.
He scratched his head and calmly said:
“ Put ‘ Please excuse bad writing ! ’ ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
The Tiotala.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’m under obligation to you,” said the king-
fisher, loftily, from his perch in the tall tauneve
tree, which suggests a large-leaved poplar.
I should say he was. I had just rescued him,
by dint of censure and cajolery, from the atten-
tions of some juvenile natives, to whom he acted
as “ cup-and-ball,” with a string attached to his
leg. His beak was still battling with the remnan
of the string. I thought he need not have been
quite so patronising.
“Don’t let yourself be caught again,” I re-
marked, wishing to be impressive; “I might not
be there to ■rescue you. ”
That is true, and I repeat, I’m much obliged,”
he rasped—his voice always is like a rheumatic
rattle “ but these young Christians are very ob-
jectionable. There is no dodging them, some
days.”
“ well, you understand, I hope, that that is
the consequence, not of their being young
Christians, but the descendants of old heathens.”
The bird stopped fiddling at his small leg with
his big bill, and looked down at me knowingly.
If he had been his first-cousin, the Australian
jackass, he would have laughed outright.
“ White people do amuse me,” was what he
said.
“ White people are uncommonly useful to you,
anyway! Where would you be, pray, if there
were no white tourists to take an interest in you?
no white missionaries to teach the natives that
they must be kind to you? no white traders to
influence ” I stopped short. You see, I
wasn’t sure of my ground with the traders.
That cheeky bird began to plume his shiny blue
feathers, as if I were not speaking at all. Then
he tried to flirt his ridiculous, squat tail. Finally,
he shook himself, and looked at me again. lam
positive that he winked.
Evidently I had rescued a wicked old bird.
Only wicked old birds wink. I turned away.
“ Won’t you listen? ” whirred his Wickedness.
“ Not if you wink,” I retorted. My principles
are occasionally strong.”
I won’t wink; I’ll talk. What white people
call straight talk. Oh, rot this string ! ”
Where did you get your nice language,
pray ? ”
“From the whites, of course, like all other good
things ! Now listen : Christianity is a bad thing
for natives. Missionaries are bad things for
natives. They do a lot of harm. I know 1 ”
“ Oh, oh, oh ! ”
I was quite sorry I had rescued him. Evi-
dently he was an Evil Influence.
■ “ A good heathen is better than a bad Christian.
The missionaries make bad Christians. I know ! ”
“ How dare you,” I burst out, “ I won’t listen
to you any more. The Samoans make splendid
converts ! They go to church regularly, the more
services the better for them. They have family
prayers, Sunday-schools, native teachers, native
preachers; they sing hymns, shout prayers, hurl
sermons with all their lungs ”
“ And play with birds, and spear fish, and break
off crabs’ legs and strangle pigs and ”
“ That’s not the fault of the missionaries.”
“Yes it is.”
“ Not at all. They can’t help the people being
cruel. They tell them it’s wrong.”
“ The old heathen priests could help the people
being cruel. They told them not to dare.”
I sat straight down where I was, crushing a
whole clump of red coleus and almost annihilating
a colony of ants. The ants did not notice their
danger—and mine.
“ Perhaps,” I said in desperation, “ you’ll ex-
plain ? ”
“ With pleasure. I know! Didn’t my ances-
tors settle in Samoa, years ago, on the strength of
our knowledge? Samoa was a lovely place then.
The natives hadn’t seen a dollar, or a Bible, or a
white man—but they believed in the gods.”
“ And in going to war, and in human sacrifices,
and in CANNIBALISM? ”
_ “ It’s very rude to interrupt,” said the king-
fisher, suavely. “ White men have brought big
fighting-ships here. They sometimes kill each
other, and sometimes hang each other, and they
ma,ke other men work hard while alive, which is
quite as disagreeable as being eaten after you’re
dead.”
“ Well, but—those are not missionaries.”
“ No. And missionaries aren’t priests and
don’t teach natives to worship animals. That’s
how we had such good times. The gods took us
under their protection, and that, of course, made
our lives sacred. If you belong to a big god no-
body dares even to think of killing you, and if
you belong only to a little family-god nobody be-
longing to his family dares to kiil you, nor anyone
who does not care to quarrel with that family.
And if a great chief belongs to you and is called
by your name, nobody w'ho is at peace with him
dare kill you. Ah, we could build our nests in
safety then ! ”
“And, of course, you remember that in those
days nobody ever speared a fish, or lured a pigeon,
or cut up a pig alive, or”
“ You need not excite yourself,” observed that
provoking bird ; “ I am only talking for your
benefit, and I certainly don't remember what
didn t occur. Thel-h .were always some people
to eat some animals; and, if it’s done in reason,
I’m not the one to object. I enjoy a fresh fish
as much as anyone, but then I only want a little
fellow now and again, and he’s not missed. The
larger ones are sa to me, because I can’t swallow
them. And a lot of fish used to be sa, because
people dared not swallow them. And if one family
fi • r^)l<^en Mullet, another sea-urchin, and a
third bonito, can’t you see what a difference it
makes?”
‘They don’t eat small birds now,” I put in, in-
consequently.
No; they only kill them by dragging them
round with a string ! Drat ... Oh ! I forgot,
you re particular about language ! Fancy drag-
a s^r ' n o * n the dear old heathen days ?
ihe days when the owl was reverenced in the
grove, and the Devil was in the cuttlefish, and
even a fowl had a chance of being apologised to if
it were baked. As for us kingfishers” The
bird hopped higher and caught the sunrays on
his jewelled feathers, and scratched his head pen-
sively as old folks will when recalling the past.
I hen he raised his harsh voice :
“ Tiotala ! Tiotala ! ”
‘What is that for?” I said, peevishly; “I
don t want any more of your chattering round.”
I was only calling the other tiotalas to see if
they remember about it. Ah, the tine times we
had ! Why, I have known a whole army turn
back just because they spied me sitting on a bough
on a wet day. And I have fluttered ahead of
®uem with the sunbeams flashing on my feathers
and the whole troop capering behind, their skins
glistening and their leaf girdles tossing, as they
brandished their clubs and shouted that I was
leading them on to victory. Dear, dear ! I was
a kind of war-god myself, then. The man who
hurt me would have been killed straight off.”
‘ The missionaries have been very happy and
comfortable here for 60 years, and you remember
things that happened before they came? You
must have singular facilities for living ! ”
You see, I was getting nasty. His remarks put
me out.
‘ I am the old Greek Halcyon,” he answered,
blandly, “and I have the secret of Y outh. You
ought to know that. Yet, how should you ? They
were pagans—healthy, wholesome old pagans, who
understood that God and man and beast are all
lirilvecl together, and acting accordingly. You
Christians— ”
Belong to the right religion,” I interrupted,
firmly.
“ Oh, of course ! But, I put it to yourself: If
one religion held you sacred, and the other held
you by a string, which would you favor? ”
“ I don’t believe you are a genuine bird at all,”
I said, getting up hastily, for the ant colony had
discovered me ; “ I’m really sorry I had anything
to_do with you. I believe you’re just a wretched
old pagan re-incarnation.”
“ H-sh-sh-sh ! ” said the Tiotala. “Who’s
using nice language now? It sounds just like
swe.armg. And if you are going, will you please
undo this knot in the string.”
I did. And left him with a knot in my brain.
The wind was whistling through the ff-trees, and
as they bent it whispered—
“ He prayeth best who loveth best
All creatures, great and small.”
ROSE DE BOHEME.
Siufanga, Island of Savaii.
Gentlemen requiring Spring and Summer Un-
derwear and Overwear should call in or drop a line to
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st., where their requirements will
be studied. We exert all our energies to please our
clients, in town or out of town, and give niore for their
cash than most firms. As we pay solid gold down on the
spot for everything we buy, we buy cheapest, conse-
quently sell cheapest ; and, being always on the spot,
we have first pick of the newest European goods. Now
what do you require ? An answer on a penny postcard
will do nicely. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.
-IHE MOST REFRESHING, COOUjSGj & HBALXHFDL BEVRR
>4 V
Trad a Mark)
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-,
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
vvinfSSJ w R f RAT L ™, E FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
Tt Wat , ei r’ , 1S a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a giateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, an <l is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAGES:
Drug- Co. Newcastle-D. Cohen &Co dTh Austrahan
IjUSSISE
''D • I'R OttDER TO-DAY.
We vi ill mc c 1 Han please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this ini'
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios„ f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 to a. Description: Case, So’ id Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved. So inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys r
5 sets, to octaves of our beautiful golden-toned rteds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refe ence, First National Bank here.
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
YO
HIRE RELISH
1 MOST DEUCIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD. *"*
0/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i'-, and 2 - each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS rwr
Sole Agents for New Sonth Wales! '
riLLOCK & CO., KENT and MVERI'OOI, STKEETS, SYDNEY.
minions of bottles
SOLD ANNUALLY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands onl y °i SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
Lifts.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
(Under Royal Patronage.) _ «, .
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with ali MOT E L
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
sing on Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
BOAD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
as s i
Tra- cti o n,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Fc table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd,
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER ,M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
I 1 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
! Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. 'IMF FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RFLIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ W JiITH A.
(i GI iS jei A A B .. 2L. ”
BEECH \M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly > ernove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and 2s 9d each.
The WORLD looks on
and LAUGHS and
drinks its
P
coc
just the same.
WHY?
Because it has been pronounced
—by the World’s best judges
GRATEFUL & COMFORTING
not for a day but for a lifetime.
It is the World’s standard of
EXCELLENCE and nothing
can alter it.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., L + -Cl.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Hollow ays pills and ointment.
- There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands ol sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £ ' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
ty Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortlx Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliablemining information to be obtained from J.W.
LEA AND
OBSERVE THAT THE
81Q NATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; .
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL everywhere.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs, VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID CX)HEN & 00., SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
OWBHIDGE’B LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
'a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
r Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
jWglftnic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at I*. 1 %d., 2s. 9 d., 4*. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Snffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Bon’t Delay.
Stop that Coug*li!
• . • TAKE . . «
IRISH moss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis. Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bennington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


HIGH-CLASS
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian lleadq’rt , rs,lP3-M9'Wi’!iam-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address:
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue 1-ree, on appdcution.
ESTABLISHES
1847.
Harvesting
Hay-making
Seeding
Cultivating
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
58 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Qae:n Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior A ccoinmodatiov. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
SPOONS & FORKS
<£>he Wbbot
HffiftauowagSftewta,.
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PI*ATE ard
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
Also at SYDNEY.
“ THIS BX.OCK:,*’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)ii)gtoi) PCirppiog Epgipc Company.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOn KTOttlerS. BraJh.)
32 Clarence-st.,
~r
SWS^
REGULAR PATTERN.
ORTH I NGT;
TRADE: MARK/
Sydney,
Agencies :
N.S.W.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE
Couth Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO, North Terrace,
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO, Alice-street, BRISBANE ADELAII)K
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO, FREMANTLE
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON
New £e land: E. PORTER & CO, Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WCBTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stools:.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- o. T T,-r>-p?T.TDO-3B & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 loii h ’i i; i<; E, .1 y I)\ ]■; y
Co|>p. Centenary [Jail).
Country Orders by j art rum a t the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
Jfheumatfsm, Sciatica,
J.ntnbar/o, &c.,
Completely cured b,v Mr. C. F.
J‘ llt ii lilt , 145 Victoria Parade,
HTZttOY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
“OLEAC
Discovered by < hristopher
IMndd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H ,R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
depots ,
Sydney—M. H. Horwitz, S 4 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris & Kemp, 6 Rundle St.
Melbourne— Fred. JE, Phillips, Bl7 Collins St,
“OLEftC”
. Self Applied.
LTD.
PiMlIWq nf e Country TVTilk Trade ; the Factory System
Futter-making (which has done so much lor
the colony and colonies); the Creamery Si stem of Uitterwnakino-
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY ' '
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
visit » £‘2, « DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KINO STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AG! NTs hVUU V.WH KliE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
mu
BRHm
m
'
ages:
The Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of—Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “Janies” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note. "We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
?^ n 8 Powder.
TSfSOIaVEN’T ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
“ & Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-ban-el Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ’
5 Double-bane. Breech-loading: Guns, snap action, walnut stock, verv best barrels, choke bore steel locks with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 10 10s, reduced £3 17s Od each, compete ’
h .__L f„n“ it 2 > £ ri lfk Gw J s > «n|fine-tur^ e d rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bote, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete. ’ triage maemnes
Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve*
!-T a for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price ' 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete
Free 3 5' ■ f he supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6- (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
P^rrt* 0 any a<ld nn n of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun
Bank Diafts, Cheques, made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co. *
T H .f i L 9 N r? O|V * SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolu.ely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS PARTS and CYC I F ACCFSSORTTrq
Tangent Nickle, Perry’s 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel RUls (2 3 gross), Rim Ushers (fd.^rS
Saddl°os 66 ' Pie. n'e] d pork B H lke n r ? 1 6) °"t sl <le Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 36, Brooke’s
,» C j'! e ° 9 handle-tips (10- doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for tra-H Illustrated Price
' I! a to supply 2/> per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
ip to (late, 1/, £B, i-9, cl«, .12, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
P. (GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS
74
Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
THe Geo. F. Bla.lc.e Maxifg. 00.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W". F. & John Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
S. lE*. Sturtovant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, ETC.
Representative in Western Australia—J. BARRE JOHNSTON &CO Fremantle
NOW Zealand-J. BURNS & CO., ’ Auckland.'
