

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
u The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
XS. O-. WATKINS 00.5,
107 Sent street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
RISCOE. DRYSDALE
& GO.,
56
and @1 Y'ORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, MacflTeil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
v
■ "-777
- 1
R
m
m
MM&
<RA c^Afl
' V
B. A. HBKVBY, Aaei.l, l7l Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gitoson,
AGENTS for
Battle Sz CO., 85 Pitt-strc
Sydney.
Over 2200 of these Machines Sold and at
Broadbent’S
DIRECT
STEAM
DRIVEN
Hydro-Extractors.
These Machines
have been suc-
cessfully intro-
duced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar, Salt, Chemicals, the production of Meat Extracts
Send for testimonials and full particulars. All sizes in stock or arriving. Spare parts stocked.
Colonial-made Wire Matting-.
iVivcl see that you get it.
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
large stocks always on hand.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
X»ys3iglit Bros. & Co., Xitd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
(\DE
PROOF
$
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
DIGMETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
A GREA T TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
□ES. J. & 13. CURRAN,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
What is Health?
■ Tfheumatisni, Sciatica,
1 - - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Par abb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
After all, is the Best.
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & m\, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS. N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
Q. FOX, Proprietor.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-stroet,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRAL
ELECTRIC GO., LM., Australian
Melbourne.
lAN
:ne.
!E@~ Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
*SS|S*
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
OF SIX,
PRICE la. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commerciall)
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY. A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Yoi. 19.—N0. 954]
[Saturday, May 28, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AG STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
• George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
T>Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
BY R.M.S. OROYA.
Hope’s Simon Dale, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Pett-Ridge, Three Women, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s. and
4s ; Hichens’ Londoners, 2s fid and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Russell (Clark), Is He the Man ? 2s, post 2s 6d; Ashley’s
Sir Tristam, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Cameron’s
Devil’s Apples, 2s 6d and 3s fid, post 3s and 4s ; Dicken’s
Against the Tide, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. BRITANNIA.
Conrad’s Tales of Unrest, 2s (id and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Winter’s Peacemakers, 2s 6d and 3S (id, post 3s and 4s ;
Lander’s Lucky Bargee, 2s (id and Ss (id, post 3s and 4s;
Kingsley’s Prisoners of War, 2s (id and 3s (id, post 3s and
4s ; Locke’s Derelicts, 2s fid and 3s fid, post 3s and 4s;
Merriman, H. S., Young Mistly, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Villari’s
Machiavelli, 7s fid, post 8s; Low’s Pocket Book for
Mechanical Engineers, 7s fid, post Bs. - . .
TILE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr. Philip Muskett, author of
“ The Art of Living in Australia,” “ Feeding and
Management of Australian Infants,” &c. Wrapper, 2s 6d,
post 3s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Ask
for
Cameos!
w
m
LU
fir 1
OHMHII
The Hag under which reigns supreme-
PEACE! CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE RED PAGE.
KYRIELLE OF OPEN SPEECH.
Good friend of mine, you feel with me—
Your blood grows hot by sympathy
With something that I say or do ;
Then speak—l want a word from you.
Let not the silence wrap you round
While you are living over-ground.
They say that earthly years are few:
Then speak—l want a word from you.
Perhaps I pass you in the street,
And, when our eyes a moment meet,
I wonder are you wishing too:
Then speak—l want a word from you.
Are you, too, longing for a sign,
Yet fear to stretch a hand.for mine?
What other am I writing to?
Then speak—l want a word from you.
Some way our thoughts together run,
Since both lift brow toward the sun
Beneath the self-same vault of blue ;
Then speak—l want a word from you.
J. La GAT BREETON.
" Harold Grey."
“Creeve Roe 1 ’ writes regarding' that brilliant
Sydney journalist of the seventies and eighties,
“ Harold Grey ”
One day, about the end of ’Bl, I was stand-
ing in the bar of the Bulletin Hotel, Sydney,
then kept by the late Richmond Thatcher.
A tallish, slenderly-built man with close-cut
fair hair, short moustache, thin Roman nose,
and hawk-like look came in, and, nodding
lightly to Thatcher, said, “ Absinthe, Dick ! ”
Then he turned and stared at me with
large, light-blue, prominent eyes. During this
inspection he held his head slightly on one side,
bird-fashion. He had, in fact, much the air of a
large, inquisitive bird—one with, say, the body of
a crane and the head of a bald eagle. Thatcher
introduced us. “ The Pilgrim a title by which
Grey was best known in those days—gave me a
few long, cold fingers to shake, and asked me if I
would have some absinthe. It flashed on me at
once that Miirger and all the brilliant Bohemians
I had read about used to drink absinthe, and I
replied that I would have some. I had some.
That casual drink was, though I knew it not at
the time, my Bohemian baptism. After making
a few jesting remarks, which I thought very
bright and cynical, Grey left us ; his greyhound,
“Rose,” following c. c his heels.
• • • *
At that time he was employed on the staff of
The Bulletin. But before that journal started
he had made himself, fighting single-handed, a
power in Sydney. It was in the wicked old days
when the Cabbage-Tree Mob did what seemed best
in their own eyes. And what seemed best to them
then would seem pretty bad to the boldest rufflers
in these feeble times. It was then that the all-
night flourished, and painted, patchoulied
Sin sat in the private bars singing on the knees of
drunken, leering Lust, and Priapus was a god in
the land. What a harvest for the sickle of the
satirist! The satirist arrived. “The Devil in
Sydney ” was the first intimation of his presence.
This was a weekly pamphlet, written chiefly in
verse in the manner of Churchill, in which the
iniquities of the city were exposed in a fashion
that delighted all readers but those who were
chiefly concerned. It had an immediate success,
and, when it had run its course, was followed by
“ The Pilgrim,” a publication which was more in
the form of a journal. This had an even greater
sale than its predecessor, and the name of
“Harold Grey’’became a term of loathing and
terror to the cafe keepers and all who went in
unto them. For the former saw clearly that their
reign was coming to an end, and the latter also
saw it arid were maddened by the knowledge that
their tnerry nights with Silenus and Venus Pan-
demos would soon be things of the past. And it
fell outevenasthey foresaw. The cates were closed.
The authorities shut them up with a violent, vir-
tuous bang, and poor Venus Pandemos had to
gather up her liquor-stained skirts, and hide her
marigold head behind curtained windows in
private streets where her old-time patrons could
scarcely revel above a whisper lest the neighbours
should fetch the police. This was chiefly Grev’s
work, and goes to his credit in the reckoning of
his life-account. And, as said before, lie did it
single-handed. No other writer of that tune
could have helped him, even if there liad
been—which there was not- any other writer
with the courage to try. “The Pilgrim ” played
a lone hand. But he was in Maitland Gaol when
what lie had wrought for came to pass. Those
who had smarted moßt keenly under the.lush of
his satire laid a trap for him—and he was caught
in it. It is an ugly story long since forgotten.
Let it rest.
* » * *
A word or so as regards Grey’s literary style. In
his case the style was the man, beyond doubt.
His manner of writing was bis manner of think-
ing. Its lightness, brightness, delicature, accuracy
of epithet, and delightful devilry in general were
Gallic plus Grey. lie was by blood half-French,
half-Jewish. His father was an Old Bailey lawyer;
his mother a Parisian actress. The union of such
a couple might well have resulted in a Voltaire.
Theodore Emile Argles was Grey’s real name.
This gets rid of Ins genealogy. To return to bis
style. It was clear-cut, aiid yet light as frost-
work on a window-pane. And what a master of
literary-fence he was ! His rapier-thrusts were
swift and sure, and left no ragged wounds behind.
In a word, his style was infused with his spirit,
and gave forth an aroma as of absinthe. M. de
Jouy, an eccentric French literary-man of the
pre-Romantic era, filled his library with glass
flagons in the shape of books, containing exquisite
wines and liqueurs labelled “ Spirit of Montes-
quieu,” “ Spirit of Rousseau,’’&c. I have now-
and-then thought of copying his example, and
buying a book of absinthe, which I would label
“Spirit of Harold Grey;” but the fear that at
times when inspiration flowed feebly I might
empty the bottle has hitherto restrained me.
* * * *
Old Bulletin readers will not need to be told
what a sparkling and piquant sketch-writer
Harold Grey was. Those of a newer generation
may get an approximate idea of his style by glanc-
ing through Grenville Murray’s social sketches,
which should be procurable in any decent library.
When Archibald Forbes read “Hash ” he strongly
urged Grey to go to London. “ Hash ’’ was
written in an upper room of a Sydney boarding-
house on a summer morning. Grey sat at the
table with a sheet around him. I sat, similarly
attired, at the other side of the same table writ-
ing “ Sundry Show ” paragraphs. There was an
empty bottle between us, and, for the reason that
writing all night is dry work, we were both pray-
ing for the time to arrive when the hotels would
open. This may not be a respectable reminis-
cence, but it is part of the picture. Grey has been
twelve years in his grave, and yet I could, by
shutting my eyes, almost delude myself into the
belief that he is at this moment sitting opposite
me, holding his head bird-fashion, and searching
the ceiling for the inevitable word. And then,
having found the word—as he always did—l can
hear him chuckling. He was one of those rare
writers who can chuckle over their own screed,
and know that it is good. A precious gift.
• * • «
On such occasions, after having finished our
copy,” we would go out and stroll through
Macleay-street, and, as we glared through the
iron gates that barred the entrance to some of the
great houses there, Grey would speculate upon
the different ways in which their owners must
have sold themselves to the devil in order to
acquire such lordly habitations. It was great
comfort to us to reflect that, bad as we might be,
we were not criminals of this colossal kind. I
remember there was one especially fine mansion,
the proprietor of which, Grey said, had committed
the Unspeakable Sin. Neither of us knew what
the Unspeakable Sin was, any more than did
Nathaniel Hawthorne, but Grey said the man
had committed it, and that was an end of the
matter.
• • * •
Seriousness was not in Grey. The riddle of the
painful earth had no meaning for him—exoept in
so far as it might deal with the getting of coin for
the spending necessities of the moment. Yet
with all his levity there was one subject—religion
—about which he never jested, though he had no
more idea of the real meaning of Religion than a
bush-missionarv. I tried more than once to get
him to say what he truly thought about the
problem of Existence and the possible Hereafter.
But he always eluded me. He seemed to have a
sort of superstition that it was unlucky to speak
lightly of such things. And who could expect a
man who didn’t trouble himself about the day
after to-morrow to trouble about the Day after
Death? Grey’s philosophy might be summed up
(as it often was by himself) in the sentence—
“ Let’s get some coin and go fishing.”
* * * *
Fishing—or rather boating, for he was too reck-
less to make a good angler—was his favorite
amusement. He could sail a boat well, but took
too many chances. Twice we were wrecked on
the shores of the harbour, and once cast away on
Shark Island. For the country he cared little or
nothing, though he was always talking about
getting away from the city to some place where he
could “ see something green.” When he did get
away he was miserable, and couldn’t even write.
The Bush, with its weirdness and mystery, was to
him simply a dismal wilderness peopled by melan-
choly, unshaven semi-savages, who ate like ogres
and talked like crows. He was, hi fact, a born
boulevard ier.
* * * *
Though Grey made many enemies with his pen
there was no real malice in his disposition. Impish
maliciousness he had in plenty, however. But he
was serenely unconscious of giving serious olfence.
Even when he riddled with ridicule the character
of a public man, he could not understand why the
man should scowl upon him afterwards. Had the
fellows no sense of humor? Benvenuto Cellini
in his autobiography describes with much gusto
how, having met an enemy in the street, “ I
plunged my dagger in him, with great address.”
This was Grey’s mental attitude. He was an
artist, even when something of an assassin, and
was amused and delighted by the dexterity of his
own strokes. Outside of print he overflowed with
boyish spirits. He used to place bottles, labelled
with the names of his enemies—the chief of whom
on those occasions was the cashier of The Bulle-
tin, whose name appeared on a large-sized square
gin bottle which could be easily hit—on posts, and
pelt stones at them until they were smashed.
Then he would laugh—or rather chuckle, for he
had not the lungs of a laugher—till the tears
ran down his hawk-like beak. A free-handed
Islunaelite he was, too, and as ready to spend, or
lend, as to borrow. He borrowed with a
consummate ease and grace probably modelled to
some extent upon the charming style of that
Prince of Borrowers, the late Marcus Clarke, who
was, by the way, Grey’s literary godfather.
* * * •
This slight and ineffective sketch of the bright
personality known as “Harold Grey” must end
here. He said to me one day when we were talk-
ing about Kendall, who was lately dead: —“I
don’t care what they say about me when I’m gone,
as long as they don’t say ‘He was no man’s
enemy but his own.’’’ And that was precisely
the first thing they did say after his death. But,
what matter ? His spirit has long since met the
spirit of Voltaire in that part of the Elysian fields
which is railed off for the accommodation of Wits
and Humorists. Hamlet’s remark concerning
Yorick would answer well as an epitaph on Harold
Grey : —“ He was a fellow of infinite jest.”
*.
Lond. publisher Fisher Unwin (impudently
enough) advertises in Literature (4pril 2) regarding a
local rhyme-book previously noticed : “An Australian
Poetess. ‘ A Twilight Teaching, and Other Poems,’ by
Lala Fisher. Crown Bvo., cloth, 6s. net. This is the first
book of poems published by a Queensland woman, and,
although to some extent the poems are coloured with a
local colouring, there are many which treat of other
lands and other things.” Lala Fisher isn't a poetess;
and her book isn’t the first book of poems published by
a Queensland woman. Mary Hannay Foott issued in
Brisbane a-dozen-or-so-years-ago a book (“ Morna Lee
and Other Poems ”) which did not merely suggest to this
scribe the undisciplined emotion of a poodle in moonlight.
W. S. Gilbert, interviewed lately, depreciated
Sydney Grundy as “only a translator.” Lond. Era
commented, speaking of G's “overweening conceit,” and
G. sued for libel. Some sparks flew from plaintiff under
cross-examination. Q. Did you say you were going to
write no more plays?— A. I said it was no longer neces-
sary for me to be a cockshy for the herd of low-class
critics. “Brantingham Hall ” was a failure, no doubt
owing to the critics. Then counsel m vde “a palpable
* Bee y° u re ? er to criticism in one of your plays,
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.” King Claudius says—
The acts were five. Though by five acts too long,
I wrote an Act by way of epilogue ;
An Act by which the penalty of death
Was meted out to all who sneered at it.
The play was not good, but the punishment
Of those that laughed at it was capital.
A. Those were th- words of Claudius of Denmark, and
not of myself. Q. Who composed them ? A. I did, but
I do not hold myself responsible for what King Claudius
says. And then Gilbert wriggled to admit that he had a
quarrel with D’Oyly Carje, with Horace Ledger, and with
John Hare ; and emitted a dubious ‘Well, no ; I did not
have a quarrel with Sir Arthur Sullivan.' Henry Irving
testified that Gilbert’s pride had stooped to ask for the
production of a play at the Lyceum ; and altogether Gil-
bert had a highly uncomfortable time—fruitlessly, for the
jury disagreed.
J. M. Barrie is credited with receiving for some
time past £4OO a week from “ The Little Minister” play.
The book doubtfully brought him much more in a year.
In Australia, we have regretted “Rolf Bold re-
wood’s ’’ decadence for long, but the prestige of publisher
Macmillan has hitherto won his rubbish good notioes
from most of the English reviews, dependent on pub-
lishers’advts. But “ Plain Living ” seems to have filled
the cup. Literature says “ the story is infantile in its
exeoution . . . the Australian bush has its distinc-
tive note • . . hut Mr. Boldrewood’s book will hardly
carry anyone’s mind much beyond the tracdess solitudes
of Wimbledon-common. . . . Mr. R. babbles, in all in-
nocence, conventional, outworn fables.” And over in
America N.Y. Critic rites sarkastisul that “ there is abso-
lutely nothing bad in ‘My Run Home,’ by Rolf Boldre-
wood ; ana one might go further and leave out the word
‘ bad ’.”
H. L.M. : Apropos the Local Dogmatist and
Essex Evans, take this from negro Paul Laurence Dun-
bar—
They please me not —these solemn songs
„ That hint of sermons covered up.
'Tis time the world should heed its wrongs ;
But in a poem let me sup,
Hot simples brewed to cure or ease
Humanity's confessed disease,
But the spirit-wine of a singing line,
Or a dew-drop in a honey cup!
Yarns from Mountstuart Duff’s recent “Notes
from a Diary.” There was a ruinor that Garibaldi was to
marry the old Duchess of Sutherland. “ Impossible 1 ”
says some ope, “he has a wife already.” “ Oh,” replies
some one else, “we will put up Gladstone to explain her
away.” An M.P. yawned during his own speech. Some
one observed, “This man is not without taste, but he
usurps our province.”
Le Gallienne’s “Omar ” has educed this anony-
mous complaint—
Boy, 1 dislike a paraphrase of Omar
Done into English second-hand from Persian ;
Roses distilled with patchouli’s aroma
Are my aversion.
Give me instead the feast once faithful drew to,
Trumpeted forth by neither Star nor herald;
That loaf of bread, that jug of wine, and you, too,
Rare old Fitz Gerald.
Eng. critic Sidney Lee, whom research for his
“ National Biography ” article has steeped to the ears in
Shakespeare-lore, definitely plumps for Lord Southamp-
ton as the “ Mr, W.H.” who begot the sonnets. Comes
to this: there’s no decisive evidence any way, but what
there is points to Southampton. Lee stresses shat not
a'l sonnets have “ genuine autobiographio significance.”
Reasonable. His mistress’ eyebrow may suggest a woe-
ful ballad ; hut the poet needn’t (often doesn't) confine
the ballad to that particular eyebrow. So Southampton
was text, not. sermon.
Louis Becke is establishing himself as a re-
viewer for the Lond. dailies. It is a pleasant surprise to
meet Australian-book notices written from an Australian
point of view, instead of from the cockney or cockney-
cum-oasual-visitor ditto.
The Nelson MSS. which Literature is criticising
make it. dear that Clarke and M'Arfhur—on whose ver-
sions of Nelson's correspondence everybody has hitherto
relied—were deliberate garblers and suppresses. Con-
sequently everybody’s estimate of Nelson, right down to
Mahan’s, must, be readjusted.
Amer. quote: “ Mr. Richard Le Gallienne
made his first appearance in America at the Lyceum
Theatre on Feb. 18. He read from his own writings, and
pleas-d an audience composed largely of women”
Svmilia.
S.F. Argonaut's literary criticism, never Rood
seems worse since founder Frank Pixley died Issue
March 21 quotes two stanzas from “Ballad of ’Readme
Gaol “ (one “The vilest deeds ”), with the Boeotian com-
ment: “The faulty metre in these and in almost every
other stanza makes it extremely improbable that this
ballad was written by the author of such polished verse
as ‘ Ave Imperatrix.’ ”
The ashes of two dead weeklies ( Lika Joko and
Ihe New Budget) are on Harry Furniss’s bald head
and on April 20 he was to lay them with the first number
of a 6d. monthly, Fair Game.
Apropos the Sothebv sale of ‘ a bill for Burns’s
boots and shoes,’ Literature prints a ballade complaining
that only the bill is extant whereof the envoy con
victs but won’t convince an obstinate contributor of bad
possessi ve-case-forms
And it’s 0 for the soles and the heels we lose
Burns’s shoes! Burns’s shoes !
Scattered to batten the fowls and the brutes
Burns’s boots ! 0 Burns’s boots !
English papers print affectionate notices of de-
ceased James Payn. But the conclusion of the whole
matter is that he was an agreeable literary person who
doesn't count.
Ignotus : In “ Pantologia,” a 12-vol. cyclopaedia
by J. M. Good, F.R.S., Gregory, LL.D., Newton Bos-
worth, of Cambridge, and others (Loud., 1813), I find re
New Holland that many people doubted whether it would
be possible to subsist in such a place ; all depended on the
senior chaplain of the colony (of N.S.W.), one Sam. Mars-
den ; “Scarcely anything is too much to expect . . ,
from this excellent man ; and we doubt not that unborn
ages will revere his name." This was the Parramatta-
buried flogging parson.
Omega : Has the fact been noticed that in
Australian aboriginal dialects he is an equivalent for
she ? In referring to lubra or ohildren, the Combo says—
“ That feller he,” etc. Never she or her. Why!
Omega : There are eight or ten verses in the
“Whaler’s Rhyme ” sent by 6xB. In the eighties, on
Lachlan river side, it was very popular, and was rendered
thus—
Hurrah for the Bogan !
That's the place to shear;
That’s the place to go
To make a cheque, boys, every year.
With my —
Little white flour-bag
Looking nice and plump,
Little tea and sugar-bag,
Sitting on a stump.
Three little johnny-cakes
All nicely cooked,
Nice little cod-fish
Just freshly hooked.
“ TFhen the shearing’s over," etc.
I’ve forgotten most of the rest. Will some Lachlan
shearer supply ? >-
S, O’B. : Can anyone tell the name of the (? old
Irish) air to which “A Wild Colonial Boy” is sung?
“ The Wearin’ o’ the Green” serves for two other bush
songs—“ The Kelly Gang ” aud “ The Broken-hearted
Shearer ” (sometimes known as “ The Way to Lamb a
Fellow Down," and printed in Bulletin some years
back.)
Jezebel has had her whitewasher: why not
Jeffreys? H. B. Irving, writer of a just-published
“Life,” has (says a reviewer) “beyond question suc-
ceeded in showing . . . that he was a sound lawyer, a
just if merciless Judge, a politician not more unscrupu-
lous or self-seeking than his competitors and colleagues
of that evil day ; and that, as regard* the particular judi-
cial acts which have blackened his reputation, they were,
apart from his manner of doing them, not marked by any
more cruel severity than the upholders of authority . . .
conceived themselves . . . bound to use against the
enemies of the established order in Church and State."
If Jeffreys, in fact, had held his tongue, his name would
have borne no particular historic odium. But he had
»uch a ferocious knack of “language” that his Mount
Rennie trials were burnt into public memory. Macaulay’s
Jeffreys, by the way, is said to be a Whig picture gained
by garbling or worse.
Eable of the capable plagiarist (in Bond. Aca-
demy) :—The stars accused the moon of plagiarism. And
they sent word to the nightingale not to commend her, say-
ing, “She deceiveth thee, and borroweth this beauty.”
“Even so,” answered the nightingale. “ Yet which ot
you will tell me that she borroweth not to advantage?”
W. E. Barnard on “ Art ”
The tree of life had grown through time untold,
And branch and leaf had each fulfilled its part ;
There came a perfect spring with sun of gold—
The tree burst forth in bloom; and that was Art.


i
AND
Sydney's Leading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
m
f
m
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing' himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed tin* treatment of
Drs.
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verb,a,_< m a single man,
but it is ’
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Rene wned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
s\o
- w
ci
k.
In the Itaboratory .
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains ?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you teel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache <
Do you shun society ,
Are you losing flesh?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches ?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat ?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
TiPE. s Wo
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
ReSctigd at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Partner—in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, 109. ;
or Including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEY.
l’lasc mention this Paper ipken writinj.] CoHHKSPONUiENCK, P.O. Box' ICSD.
ss
9
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES,
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his'unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young’ Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
n.f.iT
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-l)aily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing: how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy EN TI It EL Y
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
• TRIUMPH.’ P 0 Box 462. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
r ATROPHY in Men^
Waited or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
w J. HINTON-WILLIS, j
Cor, Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb.
The modern medical institute,
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice of quicks and pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still more flaming books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us and we will correspond
with you hy return post.
DR. J. COUB BROWNE'S
CHLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOUCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-j
|lief from pain; security from Strangulated j
Hernia, and a permanent cure if
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic/
' Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at J
’ what you will learn. This Truss positively/
' does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
/ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free 1
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TBUSSCO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. 11.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
JOHN OUIAMTS
12ft
FULL BIRECTIUtIS'
» enclosed; • j
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a fe«v days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney, JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Ligh.t and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent; Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, -78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
-a-
sr:
tr
OLD
RMS
3s:
SUNBU
FING
<s>
fed
CHA
&.C
s
Y
H
m
<n
ORS
BOOKS by ‘Bulletin’ Writers,
forwarded from ‘Bulletin’ office post-
free to any address for postal notes to
prices named —
“The Banjo’s” “Man from Snowy River”
Verses, ss. (Id.
Henry Lawson’s Verses, ss. 6d.
>• >» Sketches and Stories, 3s. and 4s.
Dyson’s “Rhymes from the Mines,” ss. (id.
Barcroft Boake’s “Where the Dead Men Lie ”
Verses, ss. 6d.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address _...
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Address
Rosehill 0. June 25.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name.
Address
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE. July 9
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Australian Waterloo C. July 12, 14, 15.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
N«me
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee tyedaeers
‘Friends of the family’
—AND—
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
► ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
! ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
*kW‘
&c/vfc
'fyjL. AjlqJM
|ow —
ec^
MsJJ^/ C
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promo'es Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
nd its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i., 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores. &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO., LTD.,
16 Bevis Marks, London, England.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD.
HOMAH or HOVIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAt),
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Read’s Liver Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedy for Dizziness, Nausea. Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Tongue, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address —
H. READ, 145 Collins-st., Melbourne.
“DRUNKENN€SS” CUR€P.
Lady having cured her husband secretly of in-
temperate habits, will gladly send particulars of remedy
to anyone forwarding stamped envelope. Write Mrs.
C. FORREST, Box 1412, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
SULKIES, as shown, 8 springs, wheels 4ft. 4iih high, or lower’, silve? dash, 6oifl J
plete, with lamps, £8 17s, 6d, SULKIES, from 955. j Single-seated fiuggieS
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. j Double seated Buggies, £2O,
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, D9s, SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 90s, to 90S.
per set. Best Quality \VAG(JA STYLE SADDLES*
70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles, 70s. PARK SADDLES, 58Si
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d, BOYS' SADDLES
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. HILL I UR,
135 <& 137 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
1;S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
AST Send for Price List, "fill
H. KILLIES,, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
r
Bent -Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
Positively the Best Dressing
ssgsm
m
1
m
\ i
!;(
m
-o
FOR
PRESERVING Sc BEAUTIFYING
THK HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“H ARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2,6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W-c.
HOCMDO’S Marvellous MIR RESTORER
$
c/2
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
ss
52
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
E. Holland, Esq. Dear Sir, —I wish to thank you for your skilful treatment of my hair. When
our family doctor (under whose treatment I had been for some considerable time, though unsuccess-
fully) advised me to call and see you, my hair was in a most deplorable condition, more than half my
head being bare, and my eyebrows were gone. Thanks to your beneficial treatment, my hair is now,
after ten months’ treatment, quite thick all over my head, and my eyebrows have grown in splendidly.
—Yours gratefully, E.W. Melbourne, August 13, 1897.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. —9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
LOOK A.T OUR PRICE’S !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, ±6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special
No. 2.
HV
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los Including Splash
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including- break and lamps, £2l. boards , Silver Dash Hail
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in- anc i T. nmn o
eluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
£8 18. 6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st-, NEWTOWN, Sydney
Bend, for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHIELING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATH writes : U I find Dr. Mackenzie's Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins.
Dr. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. Ihis Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs ou the face. Delicious in hot climates.
& HARVEY, LTD U 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
.nmtcl,
am
THE
‘Plum*
whofmd their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Jf Razor a trial. 1 his brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
Tt is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind or edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee cadi Razor for Two Years.
Price [ R ;lZ01 ' ! n ? tron g leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful rnoroooo leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Fost T ree to any of the Australian Colonies , Queensland and Tasmania , Is • extra•
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNE3T,
Bards of the Backblocks.
The Violets and the Years.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
I was trudging to the schoolhouse when she gaily
ran to meet me,
All her glossy curls a-tumbling o’er the wee, ex-
cited face ;
One brown arm half-hid behind her, and the other
raised to greet me,
And I smiled and marvelled greatly at our
School-Queen’s fawnish grace.
Then she wheeled beside me, breathless, and the
big brown eyes grew grand :
“ I-have-something-nice Just-guess-it ! ” —but
my guess was most remote,
And the little maid, triumphant, showed the
hidden small brown hand,
“Just-this-little-bunch-of- violets ! May-I-pin-
them-in-your-coat ? ”
Every morn whilst flowers were blooming came
the little brown-haired maid,
Now as quiet as spring dawnings—now a scrub-
land fairy wild;
And she told me of her bright days, and the days
of dismal shade,
Till I grew to love the lassie—as a boy might
love a child.
I was eighteen then ; entrusted with the guidance
and the care
Of some thirtv other youngsters, groping on the
road of life;
And I blazed their tracks at random as I con-
jured visions fair
Of a queenly girl from Somewhere, waiting then
to be my wife.
Then I left the country school-house for a billet in
the town,
And the jealous god, Ambition, led me over
lonely ways
Till he left me near the death-gate, just a powdered
padded clown,
Stuffed with heaps of useless knowledge from
the withered heathen (Jays.
All the life seemed gone from living, and my
path stretched bleak and grey,
Measured out in annual programmes with a
dreary twelve-inch rule,
Till a bunch of fragrant violets greeted me one
sunny day,
Gift from May, my brightest scholar —and I
dreamed that day in school.
And the holidaying found me walking down the
old school-track,
Walking ’mid the scent of violets, dreaming of
the years long flown,
When a full-toned girl-voice called me from the
dead years swiftly back,
And I turned to find a brown face smiling
sweetly at my own.
But the gladness in the bright eyes faded ’neath
my wondering stare,
And I saw a half-sob struggling ’neath the
dainty shapely throat;
Then a brown hand sought her waistband, and I
heard the old voice “ There ! ”
“ There’s a little bunch of violets ! May—l—
pin—them—in—your—coat ? ”
W.A.
L.M.D.
The Old School.
(On the “ back” Port-road.)
There’s a little clap-board schoolhouse on the
back Port-road :
’Tis a lonesome little spot;
In the summer, melting hot;
In the winter, freezing cold ;
Very frail, and very old.
But the gill-bird and the green-finch find a fair
and free abode
In the rnallee round the school-house on the back
Port-road!
Many merry moments fleeted on the back Port-
road,
In that little wooden school,
Where we used to play the fool—
Midnight melting into morn
When the juice of Barleycorn
Used to keep us on the warble till the early rooster
crowed,
Waking echoes in the school-house on the back
Port-road !
And the timbers of the school beside the back
Port-road
Are the same as yester-year.
But the welcome sounds of cheer
And the hand-clasp and the smile
That we knew upon a while,
They have vanished like the colors that the
Autumn sunset showed
Of an evening by the schoolhouse on the back
Port-road !
S.A.
NIL.
Only a Girl.
Poets may rave of the charms that enrapture us,
Grace of a fawn with the form of a fay,
Glances that thrill and enthrall us and capture us,
Juno-like orbs that are bright as the day ;
Truce to their trills and their vaporings amorous,
Peace to the pipes and their classical skirl,
’Way with their witches so wily and glamorous—
Give us the goddess who’s only a Girl!
Angels for Angels and Gods are for Goddesses;
Heav’n is the land for the ladies with wings ;
Earth is the home of the darlings in bodices
Picking our pockets and fooling our kings.
Beauty’s a dower that’s lavished diurnally
Down on this earth where the roses uncurl;
Virginal voices can warble supernally
Here —where the Goddess is only a Girl !
He who hath dreams of the dainty Romanciful,
Ladies bedight with their gems and their gold,
Let him fare on at his feast of the Fanciful,
Spread in the halls of the Wizards of Old ;
Lightly we’ll pardon the sluggard for slighting us,
Let him read on till his brain’s in a whirl;
Red are the lips that are sweetly inviting us—
Lips of the Goddess who’s only a Girl!
'Way with your Queens in their peerless apparel-
ling!
Room for the Lass in her simple array !
Hark to the sound of her maidenly carolling !
Mistress of hearts —she shall queen it to-day.
Give us her laugh in its musical sanity ;
Give us her smile with its ruby and pearl;
Give us her whims and her innocent vanity—
Give us the Goddess who’s only a Girl !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIC.


TWiStrahai) HtiUial p roVidcl)t Society.
0 V The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established “ * *“ v »
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £423,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £330,030.
X3Eea.d. Office : 3*7 Fitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
floMLr
front ff?/6 perofat/feupu/ards
mCLUtfVE.OF all weals and attendance
Of TK ALIA
A W'\ M?o^
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON’
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, cle m; and its weight
(3-1 Oths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-lOths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
>. - *
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents z
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ls universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
T ATT Eli S A LIAS HOTEI, &
dPimmip
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to 'Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
.TrT Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G-.P.0.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF: - Bs. per Day upwards.
... . . .. . W. ,J. ADAMS, Manager.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
erang
.The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897 which has
just been received, speaking of this product, says This Brandy was
judged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDAIION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this class \ RT/F
t TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD-ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.” J^iAmnfcHED
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate iri Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
fPHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain • also
Without Plates, by means « jßridf/euiovJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
OS 3EE±xMp?-sifc., Sydney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEPERHI -
PALACE
?v
1:
1
ELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. 23P“” All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI’OLR'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains.: Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
CH it
MPA
LI MI
Trade
Mark
CO
71 —. n'ormiroiis W
!te Distillers CoaranyC-
“* EDINBURGH.
j. e ' ‘■■'lEte i^.aife l ';
i i> u .tM «
)7 Zt
' '"’V /otu At übi jj<&*
• < Hill tL'pj !buC ~14 f triAt/in ‘
yUty
Qrink
Moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘D.C.L.’
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office i 120 Pitt Street Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
V -THE—>
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR '•’?
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments arid Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748 —assuring f 23,8e0,4£0.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,615.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo>' A :-i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Mjllan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting jjixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yat)kw Poodle.
The Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cban^pioQ-
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug ■
CooqGcror.
New and Old The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
CeQteQQial.
Bark Blug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite D£Eoilopol6 y Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, 4c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—-No. 954.
SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1898.
Price, 6d.
\^A^7~FR hf,\ RJ) £
Geo 7?eid - Ahll, ZyAcl7 aro 'V*.
RSe Ac/ d° eLGi-yf\ s _
' dyne ~ A Active AS<
/Aolfah' Aver \
l \ // ? TAitssn/i#- /M/L \
\
) '# fa , .
had- AGjur }
.7%e.re As■nT* lnl /
jfotUHrUf a f „ i
/hill Ao7c/sr. v - j
ftjifor /o //frate/ ce -Z~
/risk Zo <See Jctm?£
ZZutZcms _ AS?//, uer-
<?/* cS<?e /*?/£/<s/* t/ci rrt e S y &
/qoye / " , / y/
\/ISI for ('turnins/ cc le J /za/;
/'s ie Zs Zzc —-
feuftotis "oZ J truss
nor ZZ?af /f Z' es
ZfnicfAfeoZ
ct.fi TfictTTf'ursfi'
'csfr/£/vj?/D j\crMfS
fiery /<?fires /nyvtSor o/ 1 fi&r/o'/T-
.. Well,
one great reform of the public service left oome-
tlilrm still to Do done, but now that the paln.t 1
anoects of the operation am passed. I believe w-a
will soon be in a position to re-establish a
bv which every efficient member of tho service
vsrt 11 receive a,, annual Increase in his salary
rmt at the caprice of a--Minister or a majority of
the Legislative Assembly at an early hour •-]
ae morning, but as a matter 'of statute lavr and
public Justice, (pbeers.)
Ifoxf S ' n/ inct 6£a<u/> Mfrf*
of /F<> cus^
ffafs 7fe'*<//&*& fe of M«r/*$
€'ge-gictss . Can'/'Sac ou'h/Jttfc
a A yvuJ‘S<slf,
POLITICAL MOHS OR LESS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, for The Bu' lettN
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North* Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney.
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £■! 6 ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings -sterling —with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order. Postal A ote,
One Pound Ante, or stain;is of any Australian province,
you can. hare Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week tor a ye'ar.
Cheiiues, Drafts, etc., anddll Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Arciiiuald.
Special Notice.
'The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the,form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, sag, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly con fidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Mack and White.
Anyone supply ing toTuv. Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sit. Meat merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a cun eat event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
■which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
a- Co.. Cornhi.il.
Soutu Africa.—A. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiik Transvaal : -F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout.-st., Cape Toion, South Africa.
Colombo. —IP. M. Smith <C: Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria . S. Australia,
Westralin and ATaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on I nterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. ild. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscripts i
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Ojice, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7?^^xx!leZzai.
SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1898.
The Axes and the Grindstones.
One of the weary Commonplaces of the
Federal campaign has been the remark that
coarse personalities and the impuiation of
personal motives should he strictly avoided.
The campaign, it was urged over and over
again, should he kept apart from the miry
tracks of ordinary politics, and conducted in
a high, pure atmosphere of its own. There
was to he a mutual agreement that all the
parties concerned were absolutely free from
all ideas of self-interest, and that though
they might sin, and scramble for billets and
perquisites, and have all the ordinary wicked-
nesses in every other capacity, yet in their
Federal or anti Federal capacity they were
pure as the new-laid snowball. This appeal
for a mutual agreement that nobody could
possibly have any axe to grind has come
most frequently from the anti-Federal camp
—in New South Wales especially—and it
was mixed up with loud shrieks that all the
other provinces were actuated by base motives
of robbery and plunder. The Bulletin
coldly and brutally infers that the anti-
Federal push made this appeal because it
was grinding the bigg s personal axe, and
had most reason to desire that the painful
subject of axes and grindstones should be
dropped altogether.
* * * •
The Bulletin has no desire to be any
more offensive than usual on the question of
the axe and the grindstone, but it. regards
this proposal that all parties should begin by
assuming the spotless purity of everybody
as the saddest kind of drivel. In every
other business, the great mass of mankind is
rushing after the loaves and fishes, after the
loot and the boodle, and the plunder ; and it
is absurd to suppose that on this one subject
it has suddenly risen to the level of the
angels. Simply because there is a lot of
human nature in man, this paper assumes
that almost every person who has an axe to
grind, and who sees that the grinding thereof
would be accelerated or retarded by Federa-
tion, is more or less influenced, consciously
or unconsciously, thereby. In Australia,
almost every importer is a Foreign-trader, and
almost every manufacturer is a Protectionist,
and almost every Land-taxer doesn’t own
land, and almost every anti-land-taxer does,
and almost every man who believes that
long pastoral leases will be the salvation of
the country is a pastoralist, and so on. It
is too absurd to suppose that this is all mere
coincidence. And when these men go into
Federalpolitics, The IT lletiN assumes that
they are much the same there as they are in
any other politics, and that their statements
should be viewed with the same kind of
suspicion accordingly.
* * * *
Taking New South Wales as an example,
that province is run by an Assembly of 125
members, and a Council of 62—-therefore it
finds more or less dignified and profitable
billets for 187 politicians. The Common-
wealth Parliament proposes to run the prin-
cipal concerns of five provinces with 94
politicians in all. If it succeeds in doing
this, the utter absurdity of maintaining the
present huge local Legislature to deal with
the small parochial concerns that are left
behind must occur to the public, and the
most probable result will be a reduction of
the membership to about one-half. That
will mean that 93 politicians will be thrown
out of their billets, and as only 31 of them
can find occupation in the Federal Legis-
lature, a good many men are likely to be
among the Men who are Left. This reduc-
tion is not a certainty, but it is such an ex-
ceedingly strong probability that it is one
excellent reason why the bulk of local poli-
ticians should be found in the anti-Federal
interest. The small dimensions of the Com-
monwealth Parliament are a bad disappoint-
ment ; it will actually only supply half the
number of billets furnished by the New
South Wales Legislature alone. Also, the
union of the five provinces means that there
will be only one Agent-General instead of
five, and one Postmaster-General instead of
five—therefore eight good billets vanish out
of sight in one act.
* * * *
In New South Wales especially Federa-
tion will turn local politics upside-down and
blot out all the old landmarks. For a good
many years New South Wales politics have
consisted of the fiscal question above all
things. Federation will shift the fiscal con-
troversy to the Commonwealth Legislature,
and then a great fall must needs ensue. All
the politicians who are in Parliament simply
because they are Protecf ionists or because
they are Foreign-traders will be no more
wanted, and the useful tariff controvei'sy has
raged so long and so desperately that these
now probably constitute three-fourths of the
Assembly. Lyne, whose one political
merit is that he is a consistent and hard-
fighting Protectionist, will be dead and
utterly superfluous, because it won’t matter
one straw in the New South Wales Provin-
cial Legislature whether a man is Protec-
tionist or not. No one will want Lyne any
more, for the one subject he knows any-
thing about will have dropped. Nor will
any one want Wilks or Neild or
the rest of the multitude of small
men who got in at last election
because they were strong on the shoddy
ticket. About half or three-fourths of
the present Assembly will have to learn
new politics, and find new reasons for
being in politics at all, for the only political
knowledge that a large section of the House
possesses will become useless when the fiscal
row is removed to new quarters. And the
four Sydney daily papers will drop the men
they have boosted up by reason of their
fiscal creeds for so many years, because
these men will be of no more use to any fiscal
creed. The New South Wales Parlia-
ment is the only one that has lived for years
on the tariff question, and the loss of its one
great bone of contention will be a heavy
blow.
* * * *
Then the New South Wales Provincial
Legislature will have to readjust i self into
Democrats and Conservatives and as it will
be no longer possible to crowd out awkward
social problems by raising the old tariff row
a lot of new questions will have to be faced.
It will be a woeful time for the old school of
politicians. Many of them don’t want to
call themselves Conservatives because it
doesn’t pay with the electors, and don’t want
to be Democrats because it is foreign to their
nature and to their private interests, but
when there is no fiscal issue to live on they
will have to be one or the other. Then the
Daily Telegraph will be able to cordially
kick Reid if he remains in provincial politics,
and the Star will be in a position to bounce
the large brick of objurgation oft'the head of
Lyne if he remains there also, because these
two men will be.of no value to their respec-
tive organs any more. They have been kept
by their respective papers for fiscal reasons,
and it will simply be a case of tiring out the
old dog who is no longer wanted. And the
Herald, which has reluctantly supported
Reid and his landaninkuintax for the sake
of Foreign-trade, will then be in a position
to joyfully cast its fat Jonah overboard, and
there will be chaos for a while, till things
get into their new shape. By that time a
good many politicians will have been sub-
merged, and quite a lot of things will have
happened.
These are a few of the unpleasant possi-
bilities of Federation, but there are others
as well. Turner’s amendment on the Con-
stitution Bill makes it certain that''neither
Sydney, Melbourne, nor Adelaide can be the
Federal capital, and the increase of popula-
tion, and the consequent increase of land-
values and rents wjhich w.ould go with the
extra population, are lost to the,landlords of
all these cities. As these cities represent
one-half the landlord interest of the three
provinces, there is naturally a very large
class which must be against any Federation
Bill till this clause is taken out of it.
Again, Turner’s amendment makes it quite
possible that the capital may be a new city,
built on an area purchased by the Common-
wealth, and where the Commonwealth will
be the sole ground-landlord, in which case the
unearned increment will be wholly lost to
the class of private land-grabbers in general.
This also means that a very large grindstone,
with a very large axe grinding upon it, has
a tendency to turn in the anti-Federal
interest.
* * * *
When the Postal Department is taken over
by the Commonwealth, one necessary result
will be the establishment of a uniform postal
rate throughout Australia. This almost cer-
tainly means the abolition of the New South
Wales free newspaper postage system, and as
under this system many scores of private
advertising sheets are carried throughout the
province solely at the expense of the tax-
payers, there are quite a number of in-
fluential traders who' have reasons, amount-
ing to several hundred pounds per annum,
for being of the Provincial persuasion. Also,
the abolition of free newspaper postage
means a serious loss even to the legitimate
newspaper press of New South Wales, which
is now largely subsidised by the State, and
protected to the extent of 50 per cent,
against the competition of outside organs of
public opinion. The fact that a large section
of the press is in favor of Federation shows
that it, at all events, has risen superior to
this monetary consideration; but another
considerable section of the press is against
the national cause, and whether this section
is in any way influenced by corrupt motives
or not, the fact remains that it is mostly
arguing on the side where its personal in-
terests lie. Another consideration is that,
whereas the Age now bosses the Vic-
torian Government and the Telegraph
largely bosses that of New South Wales, a
Federal Government, located neither in
Melbourne nor Sydney, can’t be bossed to
any great extent by any one provincial
organ. Therefore both these papers are
hollering against the cause which means
their political abdication.
* * * *
But, so far as concerns New South Wales,
the most violent opposition to the Federal
movement is located in Parliament, and it
is in Parliament that the largest personal
provincial interest lies. For the New South
Wales Assembly is far the largest one in the
Seven Provinces, therefore it is the one
which is most certain to suffer a heavy reduc-
tion in membership when its importance is
diminished by Federation. The hostility of
its members to Federation may, or may not,
be influenced by this circumstance. Also,
it is the only Parliament in the Seven
Provinces where both leaders owe their
political existence to the fiscal contro-
versy ; Reid is Premier because he is the
boss Foreign-trader, and Lyne is prospec-
tive Premier because he is the boss Protec-
tionist, and when the fiscal question is
entirely removed out of local politics the
principal reason for the existence of both
men will vanish. The fact that both of
them are hostile to the Convention Bill may
be mere accident—or again it may not. The
New South Wales Parliament is the only
one whose members also mostly owe their
political existence to the fiscal question, and
have most reason to object to its removal
out of local politics, and the fact that it is
the most provincial in spirit of all the Legis-
latures may be owing to this—or again it
may not. Also, the fact that the New South
Wales anti-Federal Party—the party with
the biggest private axe to grind—is the one
which has most strongly deprecated any
suggestion of the possibility of interested
motives in the advocates of either policy,
may be mere accident—or again it may not.
But the axe is there, anyhow, and the grind-
stone also.
“Indissoluble.”
On paper, at all events, the Federal Constitu-
tion is indissoluble. In that respect it is like
the Constitution of all the live States, and all
the dead or dissolved ones of which we have
any record ; they never contained any pro-
vision for their own dissolution, but they all
dissolved just the same, when their time came,
or will dissolve in due season. The fact that
the Federal Constitution is nominally indis-
soluble places it on exactly the same level as
the Constitutions of New South Wales, Vic-
toria, and the other provinces ; also on the same
level as our connection with Britain, and with
the other parts of the British empire, and the
connection of every part of Britain with every
other part, and every other political connection
under the sun. The exact degree of indis-
solubleness in the Federal Constitution is a
matter of some doubt, but at the worst the wild
alarm and surprise with which Want and the
other Cabbage - tree prophets of desolation
view the alleged permanence of the proposed
union is wholly uncalled-for. The very worst
that any of them can say about it is that it is
a cast-iron agreement, and if any province
enters it there is no exit formally provided on
paper. That is exactly the condition under
which every part of every Australasian
province lives nov , and always has been
living, and every other State is in the
same awful condition, and has been there since
it first existed, and never expects to be any-
where else. Yftt no one notices the horror of
it, and Heydon and Want and Haynes don’t
sympathise woi I h a cent. Neither does Higgins
or Hancock i. : Ebenezek, Wakd, or anybody
else. ’ -tr '
♦ io *
If these p: ople are actually grieved at the
allegedly . ca!>i-iron of the Federal
Constitution,‘.and View indi: solu'deness as an
evil—though their conduct n akes it difficult to
believe •anything of the kind —T ie Bulletin
asks their, to give up liyster cs a id be logical.
The pretended grievance is, that if one section
of the Commonwealth (say N;S. Wales) wanted
to leave "the Commonwealth, it couldn’t do so
without permission of the other partners and
of the British Government. Yet if Riverina
wanted to leave... N.S. W. and join Victoria, or
if the regions beyond the Darling wanted to
secede from N.S. W. and attach themselves to
S.A., they couldn’t do so without the permis-
sion of the rest of the province, and of the
British Government. The same people
who cry aloud that the indissolubleness of the
Commonwealth is a brutal tyranny and an out-
rage on human freedom defend this, system;
and any hint at an alteration is described as a
conspiracy to “ rob N.S. W. of its territory.”
* * * *
Under the provincial system, N.S.W. has
held a great part of Riverina and a great part
of the West merely by the strong hand. So
long as there are interprovincial tariffs and
purely local railway management, it would pay
these districts far better to attach themselves
to Melbourne and Adelaide respectively. Then
they would have no tariffs between them and
their nearest ports. The Riverina would get
direct railways to the market which is near at
hand, whereas the greater part of it is only
allowed to have railway communication with
the one which is a long way off. The West
would get railways to Adelaide, whereas it has
now to do without railways at all because
N.S. W. can’t afford to build the long lines to
Sydney, and it will see the West “ further” be-
fore it will build lines to connect with Adelaide
or let the S.A. Government do so. Under the
indissoluble N.S. W. Constitution, these dis-
tricts have no right to secede so long as it suits
the Sydney majority to deny that right. They
have no right to trade where they please or
belong to whatever State they please ; they
have to put up with all manner of losses and
disadvantages so that the Sydney majority
may boast of the size of N.S.W. territory and
the volume of N.S.W. trade. If Want, Hey-
don and co. really believe in the right of seces-
sion, then here is a fine chance for them to show
their sincerity.
* * * *
The right of the people to secede from their
political bargain if they don’t like it is not
what the anti-Billious crowd really aims at,
though that is what it talks about. What it
desires is—(1) that the people of N.S.W. shall
have no right to secede from the British Empire,
however much they may want to do so—the
anti-Billious crowd being, in the main, aggres-
sively “loyal”; (2) that the people of any
part or district of N.S.W. shall have no right
to secede from Sydney, however much they may
want to do so ; (3) that the Sydney majority
shall not only have the right to secede from the
Commonwealth if it feels so inclined, but also
to make all the rest of N.S.W. secede also,
however much it may object to do so. If the
word “ indissoluble ” is taken out of the
Federal Constitution, as the anti-Bill crowd
demands, then the N.S.W. majority (which is
Sydney and its surroundings) will have the
right to secede when it feels so inclined. But if
all the residents in the Riverina and the south-
western country wanted to remain in the
Commonwealth for the sake of having access
to their natural ports they would have no say
in the matter at all. The rights of man
wouldn’t count for anything whatever in such
a case, and the right of secession would be nil,
and though the indissolubleness of the Federal
Constitution is said to be a curse, the indis-
solubleness of the N.S.W. Constitution would
be held to be perfectly fair ami proper. r ihe
right of secession which the anti-Bill section
demands is not the right of the people in
general to secede, but the right of the people
of Sydney to prevent other people seceding or
to force other people to secede —as the separate
interests of Sydney may dictate.
• * • •
Wherefore The Bulletin gets by a long and
circuitous road to its text, which is this :
PERMANENT FEDERATION IS THE
ONE THING. WHICH WILL PREVENT
THE ULTIMATE DISMEMBERMENT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES ON A LARGE
SCALE. This may seem a tolerably reckless
prophecy, but there is exceedingly strong evi-
dence behind it, N.S. Wales is in the peculiar
position that nearly half its territory is nearer
to the great ports and the political centres of
other States than to its own port and political
centre. It is under the further disadvantage
that a stupendous mountain range hinders
access from almost the whole of its territory to
that port, and makes that access difficult and
expensive. Provincialism means that a great
part of N.S. Wales territory is cut off from its
natural outlets by customs barriers, and is
likely to continue that way indefinitely. It
also means that the same districts are further
cut off from their natural outlets by the refusal
of the N.S. Wales Government to provide
railway communication with „any place ex-
cept Sydney. And the inevitable end of
provincialism will be that a great part
of the Riverina will some day want to cast in
its lot with Victoria and a great part of the
West with S.A.—so as to get on the right side
of the customs barrier instead of the wrong one,
and so as to get direct communication with
the city that is near and convenient, instead of
only with the one which is distant and incon-
venient. How many years of provincialism it
would take to start the movement, and how
much longer it would take to make it success-
ful, and how the success would be achieved,
and the indissoluble N.S.W. Constitution be
broken up, are beyond present conjecture But


the wreckage of hundreds of indissoluble Con-
stitutions shows that some ink on a piece of
paper is no defence against the inexorable logic
of circumstances. And the circumstances
which can’t be shifted out of the road are a
mountain range over 3600 feet high, and the
fact that Menindie, on the Darling, is 220 miles
nearer to a S.A. port than to one in its own
province. That mountain range and these
extra 220 miles are past explaining away.
• * * *
The difference which Federation will make
is that the customs barrier disappears, there-
fore these outlying parts of N.S. W. will no
longer have to secede from their own province
so as to get trade-access to their natural out-
lets. The other difference is that the railways
will almost certainly come under Federal con-
trol in course of time, and it will be the in-
terest of the Federal Government to build its
lines so as to give the shortest road to the
nearest port, and then the other great
grievance—the refusal of all facilities to trade
except with one enormously remote city—will
also vanish. When these are removed there
will be nothing to secede for, or want to secede
for. No district would care much which capi-
tal the magistrate who tried its local drunk was
accredited from, or which Government col-
lected its income-tax and hanged its local
assassin. But if Provincialism continues the
ultimate dismemberment of N.S. W. is as in-
evitable as the ultimate dissection of Queens-
land, which is suffering from a somewhat simi-
lar disease. In S.A., Westralia, Tasmania and
Victoria (except as regards a piece of western
territory which is more convenient to Adelaide
than to Melbourne) every habitable portion of the
province is nearer to its own provincial capital
than to the capital of any other State, there-
fore these provinces (Victoria to some degree
■excepted) hang together by a natural process of
cohesion. N.S. W., how'ever, consists largely
■of territory which naturally centres round other
■State capitals, and holds that territory by main
force per medium of its “indissoluble” con-
stitution. In this respect, therefore, it has
more to gain by Federation than any of its
neighbors (though Victoria comes a good second),
and the alleged “ indissolubleness ” of the Com-
monwealth is in its favor. For, if it doesn’t
federate, the loss of the Riverina and the south-
western country seems inevitable, some day, by
mere force of geographical circumstances. And
if it does federate, and the Sydney majority
afterwards provokes secession, the same loss
seems equally inevitable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Upside Down.
Just now, when the reliability of N.S.W.
Statistician Coghlan, regarded as a Federal
authority, is so much in dispute, the following
figures are interesting. They represent the
population of Sydney and the country districts
of N.S.W. for the last eight years, as given in
the N.S.W. Statistical Register for 1896 and
previous issues, and a perfectly new' set of
figures which appear in the Statistical Regis-
ter for 1897 :
Sydney. Country.
Old New Old New
Figures. Figures. Figures. Figures.
1890 380,040 380,040 741,820 741,820
1891 399,270 387,640 766,030 777,660
1892 411,710 391,520 785,940 806,130
1893 421,030 394,480 802,340 828,890
1894 423,600 397,530 827,850 853,920
1895 408,500 403,470 869,370 874,400
1896 410,000 410,790 887,640 886,850
1897 417,250 906,210
The first lot of figures, which were consistently
adhered to till a fortnight ago, showed that
Sydney grew rapidly during the Protectionist
period and that a great and violent downfall
took place when the new Government came in
and the new fiscal policy came in sight. The
second lot not only abolishes all the old story
about that famous decrease of population, but
it turns things right about, and represents Syd-
ney as growing slowly in the Protectionist era,
and growing rapidly again in the Foreign-trade
period that followed. To do this a lot of city
population is shifted into the country, and then
some of it is shifted back into the city. As an
incidental result of this change, the Reid
‘Government’s boast that it has done more to
.settle a large population in the country than
any previous Ministry goes broke. The new
figures show that the country population in-
creased by 29,000 in ’92, 22,000 in ’93, and
25,000 in ’94 ; then under the Reid regime it
grew by 21,000 in ’95, 12,000 in ’96, and 20,000
in ’97. Consequently the Reid Government,
which was, till a fortnight ago, the one whose
policy wrecked the city but made the country
flourish exceedingly, is now suddenly trans-
formed into a Ministry whose policy has done
more than the average to bloat the big metro-
polis ; and has retarded the growth of country
settlement. But when official statistics which
have been adhered to for years are suddenly
thrown overboard in this fashion it is very bad
for the public faith in statistics —also in statis-
ticians. And when Cog hlan shows the awful
results of Federation to N.S.W. The Bulletin
will always remember that these figures are
also liable to be turned upside-down by that
versatile authority a little later on, and will
smile the horrid smile of unbelief.
An Unwise Long Man.
The most beautifully modest proposal which
the N.S.W. anti-Billiouscrowd has yet put for-
ward was announced in Sydney Telegraph on
May 17. That organ rises to propose that after
the people have accepted the Federal Constitu-
tion—
It will be quite within the province of Parliament by a
meeting of the two Houses or by the two Houses sitting
separately, as was the case before the Convention of 1891,
to appoint delegates to a Parliamentary Convention to
reconsider and revise the Bill. If it should be necessary,
an amendment of the Federal Enabling Act might be
made for the purpose. The Bill, as redrafted, could then
be either submitted to another and final popular referen-
dum or left for the acceptance of Parliament in the form
of adopting the address to the Queen. Mr. Lyne is one of
those who think the proposal an eminently safe one. As
the Bill has been prepared, and as there is so much of it
th;it can be adopted with scarcely any alteration, it is
unnecessary, he thinks, to have a second elected Con-
vention.
Let’s see ! The people elected the Convention;
"The people will also, to an absolute certainty,
accept the Bill drafted by their chosen repre-
sentatives. Parliament has already (with the
cordial assent of the Telegraph, which howls
for majority rule) partly disfranchised the
people in the interests of Provincialism by
exacting that if there are 79,999 votes for
Federation and none against it, the 79,999
voters will lose and the nobody will win.
It is now proposed (by the daily paper
which howls for the Referendum) that
Parliament should take hold of the Bill
which the people have approved and ac-
cepted, and alter it however it darned .well
pleases, and disfranchise the whole community
in one act by not giving it a chance to pass an
opinion on the new measure, which may be
“ left for the acceptance of Parliament.” Of
course, if one province alters the Bill there is
no possibility of Federation unless the other
provinces accept its alterations, and, to get
their acceptance, the only way is to hold
another Convention. And Lyne, also appar-
ently the Telegraph, reckon that it would
be quite superfluous to give the people a voice
in the election of the new Convention. So,
presumably, it is proposed that the said Con-
vention should consist of nominees only,
and that the nominees should set aside the
people’s democratic Bill, and fix up a
little thing of their own, and proceed to
federate the provinces in their own fashion
without consulting the nation at all. Lyne, an
allegedly rational human being on two legs, is
actually quoted as approving of this gorgeous
scheme for disfranchising everybody, and he
shows no signs of repudiating the slander.
Seemingly that long wooden political dupe has
no idea of the uses to which he is being put.
When the Telegraph has an utterly outrageous
scheme to propose it says that Lyne thinks so,
or that Lyne cordially approves, wherefore
Lyne stands the obloquy. Also, he will have
to stand the inevitable chuck-out—the Tele-
graph, having no seat to lose, can’t be chucked
out. When the Telegraph is quite done with .
Lyne on the Federal question, and has effectu-
ally undermined him and blasted him with its
approval, it will doubtless boom a Foreign-
trade candidate against him at the Hume on
the old fiscal issue, and then a long sad man
will suddenly find out how many uses he has
been put to, and what a very unwise long man
he has been.
+
The Cost of Federation.
The committee appointed to consider how the
finances of N.S. W. will be wrecked by the
adoption of the Convention Bill has sent in its
report, and the anti-Biliious crowd bangs its
drum in a minor key, and says that its view of
the case has been “ fully endorsed.” The in-
dependent member of the committee, J. R.
French, manager of the Bank of N.S. W. (who
was appointed as chairman and referee and
bottle-holder, and as the strong man who was
to haul the Bill member off the anti-Bill mem-
ber in case they began to fight) and Dr.
MacLaurin, the nominee of the anti-Federal
party, both agree that the extra cost of Federa-
tion will be about £380,000 a year, and allowing
£45,000 for contingencies and £75,000 for extra
defence expenditure, they bring the total to
£500,000 a year. The Federal member, Bruce
Smith, reckons the estimate excessive. In any
case, both parties acknowledge that it makes no
allowance for the savings to be effected by
having only one Agent-General and Postmaster-
General and military boss instead of five of
each, and by reducing the size of the local par-
liaments, and consolidating the public debt, and
in various other ways. The very largest amount
which the anti-Federal party’s own nominee
can show as the cost of Federation is £500.000
a year —in fact, all the extra cost he shows is
£380,000 a year, the rest being the margin for
contingencies and the extra sum which the
Federal Government may, or may not, spend on
defence, and which would be quite as essential
if the provinces didn’t federate. Considering
that almost all the anti-Federal crowd has
stumped the country telling the people that
the cost of Federation would be £1,750,000 a
year, while Lyne and a few others put it as
high as £2,250,000, this is a very rude smash in
the eye for the firm of Want, Norton and co.
N.S. W.’s share of the expense is put down by
the committee at £207,000, whereas the anti-
Billious crowd has put it at from £BOO,OOO to
£1,200,000. The rest of the report embodies
the fact, which everybody knows already, that,
if the uniform customs tariff yields enough to put
the other provinces in the same position as at
present, N.S.W., when the surplus is divided,
will have a good deal more revenue than at
present. Which will enable N.S.W. to pay out
of revenue that £500,000 to £BOO,OOO a year of
ordinary expenses which have now to be put
into loan expenditure to keep the accounts
straight. The only important feature in the
report is the utter refutation of the very primi-
tive and stupid lie about Federation costing
from £1,750,000 to £2,250,000 a year, and that
has disappeared like the mosquito which is
stepped upon by the fresh elephant in the
spring. When the man whom the anti-Federa-
lists nominated to represent their view of
things on the committee can’t make the visible
cost more than £380,000 a year, and even after
adding on a big margin for accidents can’t make
it over £500,000, that useful tale must needs
go and perish quietly on a back seat.
The “Telegraph’s” Patent Convulsion.
The proposal that the alleged surplus of a
million or 1£ million per annum which N.S.W.
is expected to have under Federation should be
spent in paying for new railways and other
works, instead of the whole cost of these works
being paid out of borrowed money, is the
latest cause of provincialist cursing in the Syd-
ney Telegraph. The cursing culminated in
last Monday’s leading article, when the Tele-
graph had the following very bad fit on the
floor: —
Take the railway suggestion. Its essence is simply
this: The masses of the people would, in the form of
Customs duties on the necessaries of life, subscribe about
a million and a-quarter a year towards providing railway
accommodation for those in need of it. That is the annual
premium which the people would put upon the political
services of the wild-cat line promoter. With this much
money to supplement the earnings of the railways,
there would be no reason why the Government
should refuse auy district its line, and during
first five years in which the Customs surplus had to
be restored to the province a return of the sort of boom
days, from which we are still feeling the effects of the
disastrous reaction, might be looked for. . . . The
million and a quarter a year subsidy to New South Wales
railway construction would, therefore, come to a sudden
end without the people being relieved of one penny of
the taxes out of which it was paid. They are already
taxed to some extent for the maintenance of unprofitable
lines, but this would be quite a new situation, and one
for which all the records of political recklessness are
without a parallel. Yet we have representative men
gravely telling the taxpayer that he need not worry
about his immense Customs overcharge, as it can be put
to good use as a subsidy to the roads and railways. And
this at a time when the province has just been chastened
by the reaction from a policy of unreproductive expen-
diture upon public works.
This wonderful convulsion, therefore, boils
down into these five propositions : (1) To build
railways with borrowed money, and heap up a
gigantic debt, and be always dependent on
foreign capital, and have our country and our
soul in pawn to 8011, is all right; to build the
same lines, with our own money, and be inde-
pendent of Bull, and not to be in pawn, is a
situation “ for which all the records of political
recklessness are without a parallel.” (2) To
build our own lines with our own money, and
let the profits go into the Treasury, is to put a
large premium upon the services of the
“wild cat promoter.” (3) Because N.S.W.
has just been “ chastened by the reac-
tion from a policy of unreproductive expendi-
ture (of borrowed money) on public works ”
it should stick to the borrowed money system
which caused the reaction. (4) The expendi-
ture of 1| millions a year of the country’s own
money is to make such a huge orgy of public
works that every district is to have its railway ;
yet the expenditure, as at present, of over
millions a year of borrowed money isn’t an orgy
but a sober, prudent policy of development.
(5) Because N.S.W. had a disastrous boom
through over-borrowing therefore if the pro-
vince stopped borrowing and went in for a
policy of self-reliance there would be a return
of the boom days and of the disaster. The
paper which denounces Federation as a thrift-
less device for helping N.S. W. to pay its way
instead of adhering to the old, sound, eco-
nomical principle of owing the money and being
in debt, has invented quite a new kind of
patent fit.
♦
L. F. Heydon, M.L.C., shouting promiscuously
in the anti-Federal interest at Glen Innes :
After five years New South Wales would get back
£600,000, instead of £1,500,000, because the power of dis-
tribution would be in the hands of the necessitous Slates.
The real object of Braddon’s blot was that Tasmania,
which was dead-broke, would get back part of the three-
quarters which should be returned to New South Wales.
With regard to the rivers question, he decried it as pre-
posterous, and added that the water that falls from
heaven on New 7 South Wales the moment it entered the
rivers no longer belongs to this colony. Referring to
railways, he said the other colonies were anxious to get
the control of them, but we as a State would still have to
pay heavy interest on their construction. If this Bill
were rejected we would have another, under which the
colony would collect its own customs, and pay a fair share
to the Federal Parliament, and keep control of the rivers
and railways. A vote of thanks to the speaker was car-
ried with enthusiasm, but the feeling of the meeting was
not tested by a vote.
Heydon’s exact knowledge of what will happen
five years hence convinces this wicked paper
that the Almighty ought to- take him into
partnership. And yet his knowledge of what
is happening now is stupidly defective. For
water does not fall from Heaven, and N.S.W.
does keep control of its own railways, and
of its own rivers, barring the Murray, which is
mostly fed from Victorian streams. And the
allegedly bankrupt isle of Tasmania has had a
handsome surplus for some years past against
N.S. W.’s large deficit, and, in propor-
tion to population it has a vastly
smaller expenditure, and is borrowing much
less, and is now spending a smaller amount
annually on unproductive works, and at the
end of ’97 it had, in proportion to population,
the less debt of the two. And, seeing that
Heydon was against all Federation that he
was against it before the Convention met at all
and was opposed to the Bill before there was
any Bill—his promise that N.S. VV., if it will
only throw away this chance, will soon get
another, sounds rather deceptive. On Hey-
don’s past record most people would think
that he is against this Bill simply because he is
against Federation altogether, and that N.S.W.
will never get any other chance if Heydon,
M. can prevent it. If that eminent Tory
is really a friend to Federation it must be the
alleged utter badness of the present scheme
that has made him so. Before this scheme was
drafted he was the bitterest kind of enemy.
4.
Another of the Sydney Telegraph’s reasons
why the Federal Bill should be rejected is this:
If one thing is more certain than another, the Federal
capital of Australia will be a show place, and neither the
legislators nor the Ministry will be housed in buildings of.
an inferior stamp to the State Legislatures and Ministers.
Neither will these buildings be the end of the expendi-
ture. There must be barracks, a Government House, a
park, fine thoroughfares, a drainage system, railway and
telegraph extensions, and other constructions, involving
millions in the aggregate, and it must all be on Federal
territory.
A great part of this burst of grief is, of course,
an argument, not against the present Federa-
tion Bill, but against any kind of Federation.
If Braddon’s alleged “Blot” was taken out
of the scheme, and the representation in the
Senate went according to population, and the
division of the Federal surplus was fixed for all
time, and the debts and railways were taken
over, and Foreign-trade made the permanent
policy of the Commonwealth, and everything
was as the Telegraph wants it to be—the ten-
dency to spend money on ornamenting the
Federal capital would be just the same. Appa-
rently the real trouble in this case is that the
capital is to be on Federal territory. Then, if
the Federal Government keeps possession of
the soil, as it will do if the Australian
democracy doesn’t waste its splendid oppor-
tunity, all these improvements will presently
make the site of the Federal city worth
many millions, and the rental will make it a
handsome profit to the Commonwealth, and
a magnificent public asset. But if it wasn’t
on Federal territory the local Fat Man, who is
strong on the Telegraph directorate, would
get the benefit of these improvements, made
with the public money, in the increased value
of his allotments. Years ago some of the Tele-
graph crowd were deeply involved in a private
enterprise which wanted to buy up the Sydney
tramways, and apparently the same crowd feels
bad at the idea of that great unbuilt show city
being the property of the Commonwealth, in-
stead of belonging to the private capitalist, as
all good things should do.
+
About the largest illuminated hollow turnip of
theN S. W. anli-Billious party is the «£1,000,000
of extra revenue which the province is to have,
and which, for want of any legitimate outlet,
is to lead N.S.YV. into drink, so that it will
ultimately get the horrors and hang itself at
midnight on a gum-tree. The Bulletin sug-
gested that it should be used, partly to slop the
chronic deficit, and partly to pay for the
<£600,000 or ,£BOO,OOO worth of repairs and
roads and bridges and other non-productive
works, which now go into the loan swindle, and
the balance could go in railway-building.
Minister Carruthers offers a very similar sug-
gestion in the S.M. Herald :
There are many parts of the province which have no rail-
ways at all, and so would not benefit by any reduction of
rates. But such neglected portionsof the province would
be all the sooner likely to get their railway communica-
tion if, instead of borrowing the money for railway con-
struction, we applied portion of this great surplus to
railway extension. For instance, a railway could be con-
structed to the North Coast district, and also the railway
to Broken Hill, and if constructed in this way out of
revenue there would be no heavy burden of interest to
be met. There will be no need to waste the million
surplus, which will be returned to the people in some
beneficent form or other. To use the old protectionist
gag, the money will not go out of the country. At the
same time I reiterate the opinion I have already held that
the railways and the public debts should have been taken
over so as to do away with the necessity for raising this
large surplus through the Customs. But as power to
take over the railways and the public debts exists in
the Commonwealth Bill, they are certain to be so taken
over as soon as the public mind is educated up to the
standard of national life.
There are nine highly-paid politicians in the
Reid Ministry, and Carruthers is actually the
only one capable of realising that N.S.YV.
needn’t wreck its constitution by drinking the
surplus, after all. The.national instinct to go
and knock down the cheque at the pub. was
too strong for the other eight, and the only
thing they could think of was an annual burst
on the strong, brown tanglefoot.
»
Apropos of the great Papuan land-grab, it now
transpires that an Australian syndicate ti ied
hard for several years to buy up 64,000 acres
of land in Papua, but was always blocked by
Governor M'Gregor’s flat refusal to deal.
The local steal only wanted one-fourth the area
which the British steal has got, and it asked
for none of the extra privileges. It was willing
to pay a better price ; and it proposed selecting
its land all in one lot, whereas the comprehen-
sive British fraud and snatch is allowed to
pick the best patches all over the country,
and for many years to come no one can And
a good mine or a good patch of soil without
the probability that the great Papaun grabbers
will take it and fire him out. Moreover, the
Australian looters didn’t ask for indefinite
additional purchasing rights as well as the
original grant. But old Bill M'Gregor in-
formed the Australians (who pay his salary and
expenses) that any large land-sale was contrary
to the policy of the Government; so the local
steal never came off. Apparently something
very large in the shape of argument or in-
fluence has happened since then to alter
that policy—or else the policy never meant
anything except that Australians (who pay
M'Gregor’s salary and expenses) needn’t
apply.
Old .Tack : In Manila practically the whole of
the retail trade is in the hands of the Chows,
who are also the money-lenders and trick-
financiers generally. And this despite the fact
that upon three several occasions within the
past 120 years the Chinese in Manila have been
massacred to a man. Apropos of Ah Cat in
general, every boat arriving at Melb. from
Tasmania now brings more or less Chow-. He
is, in eight cases out of ten, the same Chow-who
has been sent back a few weeks before as an
undesirable importation from Chowland direct.
The Vic. law provides that only One new Chink
to every 500 tons of vessel may be admitted to
the province. But Tasmanian law permits the
introduction of one pig-tail to every 100 tons.
So the rejected sons of Cathay simply go on to
Hobart and then slip over to Melbourne, to the
discomfiture of the Customs, as tonnage be-
comes available. The game of landing
Chows in Melbourne on, the naturalisation
papers of deceased Ail Cows and Ah Cats is
about played out now, though it used to
boom greatly. The issue of these papers
stopped about 12 years ago, and only very
elderly Chows can get through on them. Very
often a squad of Mongols (not covered by the
tonnage regulations), aged about 23 on an
average, turn up in Melbourne with papers
showing that they were naturalised in Victoria
15 years ago, and were then aged 46. And as
the law scornfully rejects them they have to go
to Hobart, and enrich the revenue of the
Raspberry Land with a £lO poll-tax apiece, and
come back in other vessels at the rate of one to
every 500 tons register. Therefore Van Dob-
son’s Isle profits, and the Chow gets the benefit
of the fresh sea air, and he reaches Lilly Buck-
stleet just the same in the end.
♦
N.S.YV. Speaker Abbott, who was elected to
the Federal Convention without making a
single speech to further his candidature, pleads
ill-health as his reason for not making a speech
in support of the Bill now. But he writes a
half-column letter which, though not argumen-
tative, is pretty telling. His expression,
“ Electors of Australia,” is suggestive and
rousing ; and a six-line quotation from Frank-
lin on the acceptance of the U.S. Constitution
is strikingly appropriate : “ I doubt whether
any other Convention we can obtain may be
able to make a better Constitution ; for when
you assemble a number of men to have advan-
tage of their joint wisdom you inevitably
assemble with those men all their prejudices,
their passions, their errors of opinion, their
local interests, and their selfish views. ... It
astonishes me to find this system approaching
so near perfection as it does.”
The late Lord Sackville Cecil left nearly a
quarter of a million sterling—made mostly “off
his own bat ” as a practical electrician and rail-
way-manager. “ Uppah,” middle, and worker-
all in one 1


The MUTUAL LIFE coMSSn? 15 of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
A FEW COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in preference to
BECAUSE
it is the
BEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
any other:—
It is PURELY MUTUAL. All Profits go to the Policy-holders.
In its Fifty-five Years’ Record it has no compeer.
It is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department
of the State of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
Assets, December 31, 1897 - - - <£52,112,204.
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on their behalf, after
payment of all expenses of management, about 14£ millions sterling
.more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning' the most profitable forms of investment insurance policies armlv
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices or Authorised Agencies. ’ *
Telephone '276l.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE) ' s • i
TAKES THE LEAD ’
[ifelike and Irtistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Straight from the Heart."
Criterion “The Squire of Dames.'*
Her Majesty’s. “Sien of the Cross."
Lyceum “The Orphan Heiress.”
Royal Standard “ The Wages of Crime.”
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Town Hall Miss Holroyd s Benefit.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Wilson Barrett Farewells.
Royal “ Shall We Forgive Her.”
Buou Myra Kemble Co.
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops.”
The ancient restfulness of the “Sign of
the Cross ” comes back to Sydney like a pleasant
dream. Julius Knight and co. are an oasis after
the rather robust and meaty Roman of Wilson
Barrett; also Julius K. wears the brief white towel
of the old Latin over a more graceful pair of legs
than the other Roman, and the towel itself isn’t
quite so disgracefully abbreviated. The old story
of the “ Cross” may not be logical, but, anyhow,
it is pretty in sentiment and gorgeous in coloring,
and very agreeable to look upon. The long,
snowy garment of Mercia never gets soiled even
in prison, and tiie early Fathers and Daughters of
the Church don’t seem to hurry as people do now,
because, if they did, they would assuredly trip
over the tail of the toga and fall into the Tiber.
The miracle by which Mercia is saved from the
affectionate pagan who is pursuing her round a
small room with a view to matrimony is still in good
working order, and The Bulletin has a vague idea
that more rich red perspective has been put into
Nero's palace than there used to be, and that the
jewelled Caesar has fits under a more gaudy dome
that formerly. But perhaps this is a mere un-
founded impression. The only thing that is still
wanted to complete the realism of the drama is a
view of the coarse red beast with the powerful
voice which ultimately eats up Mercia, and if it
could be arranged for that animal to stalk across
the arena making a dust with his tail the effect
would be perfect. But otherwise there is nothing
to complain of ; right down to the creaking of the
rack on which the very small Christian is being
dislocated iii the next room, all the effects are
carefully studied. One thing which this paper
would like to know, however, is whether the
gorgeous Marcus isn’t dashed sorry for it all
at the last moment. He is a magnificent Roman
with unlimited wealth and jewellery and palaces,
and with all the patrician drunks of Rome to cali
and see him, and with money enough to purchase
all the Flossie in Nero’s empire. And he gives
it up to go and be eaten by the lions along
with his pale Christian girl, for the sake of
a faith that he doesn’t comprehend afier all.
When the lion (which is a very unwholesome
beast) got him down, aud left a dirty footmark on
his toga, and breathed a preliminary breath in his
eye, this paper is half inclined to'think Marcus
suddenly decided that he had been a very great
Latin fool of the early days.
• * " * *
One very clever and stately Christian is
gone out of the co. through the departure of Mario
Majeroni, and a new down trodden slave does
Berenis’s hair in place of Mrs. Morris, and a few
other changes have taken place, but as a whole the
co. is as good as ever. Caleb Porter’s Nero is the
same fascinating study of a bad Ftnperor in the
horrors as he used to be. The attractive Miss
Elliott Page and Julius Knight still call for the
cordial support of this powerful organ ; and Miss
Ferrar, as the white-robed saint of the story,
and Gaston Mervale’s Chancellor, show no sign of
deterioration. There is an added carbuncle and
an extra blush on the nose of the red and fruity
Glabrio, and that pretty and clever actress, Miss
Linda Raymond, has put some variations and im-
provements into the part of Dacia, the most
noticeable of them being the extra-warm hug she
now gives to her port-winey patrician. Also, the
little Christian, about whom this paper spoke dis-
respectfully a good while ago, still arouses the
same old ill-feeling. This paper fears that it will
never feel really good to the smallest believer, and
is really pleased when he is dislocated in the next
room.
** * *
“ The Orphan Heiress,” which is now
receiving moderate encouragement at Sydney
Lyceum, is a highly undeserving horror of the
worst description. Even the red literary horror
commands respect when it is well put together •
but when the incidents have obviously been com-
posed with a fork it doesn't. The “Heiress ” was
written by somebody who is apparently lying
low till it blows over, for his name doesn’t appear
on the programme. It is a tale of an irredeem-
ably wicked brother and sister whose methods of
trying to get the old blind relative’s fortune are
so unsatisfactory that their failure calls for
general approbation. Barring their clothes these
two persons haven’t a redeeming trait between
them. They first of all sool the blind capitalist’s
wife away by sending her a curt letter in the old
man’s handwriting telling her to get out, and
when she goes they tell the old man that she has
fled and become a notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith. Then
they take his infant daughter away at night and
ask a curate in the street to hold her for a minute,
and go away. They intercept the old gentleman’s
advertisements in which he implores his wife to
return, and spend the (id. which should have paid
for them in the worst form of dissipation. They
also hand him a loaded gun, and while lie
is breathing down the muzzle and thinking of his
lost wife and child, it naturally goes off and blows
one character out of the story. When the lost
wife turns up the brother fatally jumps his horse
on her, and, after that, he steals the lost daughter
—whom the curate has been holding for 17 years ;
and her lover is charged with burglary, and her
only girl friend is arrested through having a neck-
lace planted among her clothes, and the orphan
heiress herself is beguiled into the wild beast cage
in a circus. And, just here, this paper got such
an awful pain in the ear that it made for home,
and the end of the horror is a mystery.
* * ♦ *
Taking them all round, the co. is much
less of a shock to the nervous system than the
drama. Miss Inez Bensusan is particularly bright
and effective as the heiress who is dragged through
all these bogs of woe, and Misses Watts-Phillips,
Therese Lindahl, and Fanny Liddiard leave a
pleasant recollection behind them. Even
in the worst parts of her career of crime,
Miss Phillips can never be otherwise than
a finished and painstaking actress, and Fanny
Liddiard, in conjunction with Harry Shine,
brightens up the tragedy at times in a brisk, off-
hand fashion, with something concerning a pig’s
trotter. Diver and J. H. Nunn also do more for
the piece than it deserves, and Miss Helen Fergus
doesn’t fail any worse than the drama, in any
case. The aroma of irrelevant drink which Harry
Shine sheds on the play, and the pork trotter
afore-mentioned, were the only things, up to the
time this paper left, which were not unmitigated
ghoul and gloom, and the writer has sent out his
harrowed constitution to be soled and heeled.
** * *
The last night of the Cartwright season at
Sydney Criterion is fixed for >rd June. According
to present arrangements, to-night (Thursday) and
h riday will be devoted to a brief revival of the
“ Marriage of Convenience.” A three nights’
season of “ A Squire of Dames ” starts on Satur-
day, and then after three nights more of the
“Idler” the co. will celebrate its ill-luck by
closing on a Friday, and will bestow its well-
deserved curse on an unappreciative city, and
depart. Barring the regrettable “ Moths,” every
piece which the Cartwright co. has produced was
well-deserving of support, and that solitary excep-
tion was only one insect anyhow, and not a very
large one at that. The absence of Miss Edith
Morley certainly weakened the co., but even
before that charming actress met with her acci-
dent, and either did or did not knock out one of
her pearly teeth on the public road (reports on
this point are varied), things were not brilliant.
Probably her return to the stage this week will find
them still in that condition. Cartwright as Cyrus,
the potter, in “The Middleman,” was great and
magnificent without any noticeable effect on the
business. And, considering that the other mem-
bers of the company didn’t call for immediate
decapitation or any other sign of serious disap-
proval, the ill-luck of the Criterion season is
hereby set down to the unaccountable absence of
the public, and the fact that the Firm is now the
only institution in Sydney which retains the pre-
scriptive right to charge ss. for admission.
** * *
At Sydney Royal, the “ Life of Pleasure ”
is going as strongly as it did at the beginning.
Bland Holt can certainly keep a melodrama
running to profitable business longer than any
other manager in Australia, but all the same he
has resolved to change the bill on Saturday.
“ Straight from the Heart ” is to be the next
production. Last week the horse, alluded to as a
cause of alarm in a previous issue, fell on Bland
in Burmah—it somehow dropped off the perpen-
dicular mountain right into the middle of the cam-
paign—but the cheerful star got it and himself up
again, and the two departed in search of help as
vigorously as ever.
*# * *
The new stars whose coming was lately fore-
shadowed have now arrived at Sydney Tivoli,
where much young bright female limb and drapery
are offered to the public, as usual, at a moderate
tariff. A number of small temporary shows also
announced themselves for the royal birthday, but
as they will mostly be dead and gone before this
paper appears they call for no special notice.
** * *
The general grovelsomeness of the Sydney
daily press in its dealings with mummers must be
held accountable for Wilson Barrett and co.’s
attack upon Nugent Robertson. They were given
to understand that Sydney editors would not
permit their “Hamlet” show to be “ insulted,”
and this promise kept them quiet when one Touch-
stone wrote as follows to Melb. Age, two months
previous to the A.N.R. episode : “ All intelligent
lovers of Shakespeare should feel grateful to you
for the intelligent and straightforward criticism
of Hamlet—according to Wilson Barrett-which
appears in your issue of this morning. Dramatic
art is in a bad way, and dramatic taste is at a low
ebb, when such a fustian performance of the noblest
play ever written is tolerated, applauded, and in
some quarters praisefully written about.”
** * *
Wilson Barrett and co. returned to Melb.
Princess’s on Saturday, and started a quick-change
season with “ The Manxman,” the reception of the
spicy melodrama, likewise public faith in methodi-
cal, unthrilling W. 8., being less apparently warm
than of yore. All the same, the house was nearly
full everywhere, and will probably get more or
less crowded throughout the second chapter of
Barrett. Wherefore The Bulletin exhorts that
tumultuous tragedian to refrain from writhing
under the whips and scorns of criticism, and rest
content with the boodle which droppeth into the
till like dew from Heaven : for the Lord loveth
the cheerful guyver, and venomous epistles to
editors are but the sign of the cross. On the
other hand, The Bulletin advises Barrett to
yell forth “ How dare you, you blackguard ? ” if he
has learned from experience that such indignation
serves a business purpose at the tail end of the
season. The great professional object of acting
is Cash, even as the trade of “right-thinking ’
criticism is Truth, and as long as a full chested
Hamlet can get more money for acts than the
other fellow can tret for facts he is undoubtedly
doing well according to his lights. May Mr.
Barrett never weary of well-doing is all the harm
the present scurrilous writer wishes him. To-night
(Thursday) they play “ Ben-my-Chree ” at the
Princess’s, on Friday “Virginias,” with disput-
able “Gimlet” and “Silver King” to follow.
Next week the approaching restoration of Miss
Pattie Browne to her native stage will be fully and
feelingly mentioned. Miss Pattie follows the
“Man of Wrath.”
*****
“ Dr. Bill, at the Bijou, on Saturday,
produced further proof that the cosy little house
is a good enough pitch for any 3, 2 and 1 show of
the popular order. A full-sized multitude—
whereof the d.c. portion was requested to remove
its female hats, because Madden, Administrator of
the Gov., had consented to bring himself and
family on the nod—came to sample “ llr. Bill.”
For a time the first-night performance looked pro-
mising. Miss Myra Kemble put in some
bright, artistic work, also George Melville and
one or two other members of a mixed
co. made vigorous efforts to keep the weaker
vessels in front of the wind. But in Act 3
the leading lady’s pace slackened down to a stand-
still, and the joke went all to pieces, and the large
congregation tiled gloomily down the steps as
though it had been consulting “Dr. Bill w re
pains inside, and was going home for a poultice.
A farcical comedy which fails utterly in the third
act is too sad a circumstance for detailed reflec-
tions on the chief offenders.
** * *
The Poluski Bros., who make a first
appearance here on Saturday, give a distinctly
new turn to variety proceedings at Melb. Opera
House. Two live Poluskis, supported by three
dummy figures, perpetrate a shriekful military
sketch in which honors are divided. One Poluski
impersonates “an officer and a gentleman ” much
more convincingly than the average young mum-
mer can play the same character in Bland-Holtian
drama, whilst the other Poluski fools around.
Individually, the brethren are acrobats with india-
rubber spines, and jointly they amount to ah
eccentric comedy, or an original humorous effect,
or something that hasn’t found a name for itself.
Anyhow, the new turn is a large addition to the
bdl, and with the Kellino Family still going
strong, things at the Opera House are all right,
and a little bit over.
** * *
The criminal law which shows such mar-
vellous energy in flaying lunatics and in gaoling
men who wash themselves or play cricket on Sun-
day, has never found time to frame a punishment
for the yahoo who yells “Fire!” in a crowded
theatre and incites a thousand or two people to
stampede and kill the weaker of their number.
Last Saturday night an alarm of this sort was
given at Melb. Opera House by a detected pick-
pocket who desired to distract attention and
cover his escape. The ruse partially succeeded,
but when a young man was subsequently caught
on suspicion of being the offender, the police could
find nothing more serious on the Statute-book to
enter against his name than “ insulting behavior,”
for which the maximum punishment is .£5 fine.
Massacre at reduced prices with a vengeance.
Even the big slaughters of the King of Dahomey
cost more than this in wear-and-tear on the
knives.
** * *
“ Two Little Vagabonds ” prospers at
Melb. Royal, but the run is limited to a fortnight,
and the korf-stricken Wally, who wanted to be a
blacks mi if, will expire for the last time on Friday.
Wally’s decease, by the way, is not fully ex-
plained. Everybody knows that the pallid youth
must pass away before the curtain falls, for
no drama has been known to miss a fair chance
of turning the corpse-light noon an interesting
consumptive, and yet the passing of Wally leaves
the audience doubtful as to whether he died of the
assassin’s knife or jemmy, or fell a victim to mere
shock on the lungs. Did one of the comic villains
administer a fatal wound, and, if so, why does the
trouble end without any reference to a hanging in
store for that humorous miscreant? Perhaps the
least suggestion of Oily Deering and his game leg
falling through the scaffold would demoralise
Wally’s death scene. The pathos wouldn’t be
strong euough to stand it.
** * *
George S. Titheradge—more power to
him !—has undertaken to postpone his last appear-
ance in Melbourne for another month, and when
Chas. Holloway’s co. resumes operations on Satur-
day, at the Royal, it will have Tith. in a lead-
ing part. The drama prepared for the occasion is
“ Shall We Forgive Her?” If the heroine there-
of is anyway accountable for Titheradge’s latest
engagement we do forgive her, and hope she will
do it again.
** * *
i Next Saturday’s “ Pop ” concert at the
Town Hall promises to be the best of the series
thusfar. Philip Newbury will give them “ Cujus
Animum ” and the Christmas song “ Noel,” with
organ, ’cello, and harp accompaniment by W. E.
Nott, ITattenbach, and Walter Barker, who will
also each do something on his own account.
Young Nott, after all said and done, is the best
of performers on the municipal instrument, and
Walter Barker now harps back to his brilliant
form of long ago. Madame Spada, too, is singing
well again, and the latest Biographe view trans-
ports the spirit of every good Cockney back to
Hyde Park Corner.
** * *
Marshall Hall and his Orchestra take
another innings at the aforesaid Town Hall on
Saturday afternoon (28th). This time the piece
from M.H.’s “ Alcestis ” composition is to be
given, with Madame Wiedermann as vocalist ;
also Beethoven’s Pastoral Symphony, and a con-
certo for orchestra and pianoforte in which Scharff
will perform upon the box of music.
** * *
The Alexandra threatens to re-open its
■dusty doors on Saturday under new management.
“The Ladder of Life” is the drama, and the
gallery will be available to the local aristoci'acy at
threepence a head.
** * *
“ George Musgrove, with one great, seven-
year stride, has landed fair in the heart of theatri-
cal success in London with ‘ The Belle of New
York,”’ writes The Bulletin’s London corre-
spondent. “The Casino ‘Gaiety Girls’ have
sung, smiled and kicked ‘ johnniedom ’ stupidly
moamngly silly, and it's Mount Morgan to a kero-
oattle ‘tick’ that in three months the
West,’ where the johnnies do most congregate,
will chirp with a Yankee drawl that will warp the
blinkers on the ’bus horses. Even marble-faced
Malone- Pat. of George Edwardes’—was moved
to words by the electrical sparkle, rippling clever-
ness, and bubbling vivacious beauty of the
j Amurkans.’ Alongside Lederer’s troupe the
Gaiety Girls’ of Australia’s knowledge would
be as sleepy penguins to sprightly humming-birds.
For the first time in many years the papers are
excelling each other in laying the ‘ tatty ’on,and
using soup-ladles for the purpose. The advanced
booking after the first two nights isawild scramble,
and Mnsgrove will recoup all the ‘Scarlet
Feather ’ losses out of what is to be the rage of
London.”
How 100 Halfpennies Make 16s. 8d.
About the boss anti-Billious yarn and misrepre-
sentation which Sydney Daily Telegraph has
perpetrated up to date was its tale about the
alleged Victorian coal bounties in last Tuesday’s
leader column. The. arithmetic is especially
beautiful, and was evidently done by the office-
boy’s younger brother: —
The Secretary to the Victorian Premier says: “The
payment by the Treasury of pi. per ton per mile on all
Victorian coal carried for the public is the only bounty
granted by the Government, so far as this Government is
concerned.’’ That alone would be a very' considerable
bounty'. But the Railway Commissioners also make a
reduction of id. per ton per mile for all such coal. Thus,
Victorian coal is carried on Victorian railways, and will
continue to be so carried if the Convention Bill is
accepted, at £d. per ton per mile less than that sent from
this province, which is a queer conception of the fair-
dealing between State and State, and the complete
removal of trade barriers, which the Federal contract pre-
supposes and professes to assure.
Tiie coal-mining district of Gippsland is, roughly speak-
ing, 75 miles from Melbourne. On thisdistance thecolliery
proprietors receive, in reduction of freight paid for at
public cost, a bonus of at least Us. per ton for ail the coal
sent. Taking Ballarat and Bendigo, each great centres
of Victorian coal consumption, as about lot) miles from
Melbourne, the suppliers from the Gippsland coal pits
receive a bonus of £1 per ton. . . . It is the merest bum-
bug to say, as has been said here by some advocates of
Federation at any price, that there is no bounty on Vic-
torian coal ; that under present conditions that product
is not protected against that of our coal-fields. . . . The
coal-mine owners of Newcastle or Bulli or I.ithgow cbuld
not be more effectively' legislated against if the Victorian
Government imposed a protective duty against their coal
equalling the difference in freight charged on tlje Vic-
torian lines. It is only by means of coddling in this
fashion that the inferior coal of Gippsland has becoiiie a
competitor with the high-class product of our own urines
in the Victorian market. It is only at the expense of the
Victorian public that our output has been diminished so
seriously. . . . The N.S. Wales coal producer must go
on paying 16s. Sd. per ton more to have coal carried from
shipboard at Melbourne to Ballarat or Bendigo the
Victorian.
In the first place, the awful fool who wrote this,
and the wfid-eyed person who inserted it, say that
per mile on 75 miles from Gippsland to Mel-
bourne is 35.; then they say that |d.—the same
id. —per mile for the 100 miles from Melbourne to
Ballarat is 16s. Bd., whereas. 100 half pennies are
really only 4s. 2d. Later on, they again Repeat
the 10s. Bd. fiction. As a matter of fact, there is
no id. in the question. When the Vic. railways
carry coal at |d. per ton per mile below what the
management reckons a fair thing, and the Treasury
pays the same £d. instead of the consumer, then
the concession is only —The Telegraph’s
theory is that if Jones hasn’t got |d. about him,
and Smith pays it for him, the which Smith
pays and the one Jones doesn’t pay make id. —
which is something quite new. A hundred far-
things are only 2s. Id., instead of 16s. Bd. Next
point is that N.S.W. railways carry coal at the
same low rate as the Victorian lines, only the loss,
it any, is charged to the railways instead of the
Treasury, so the coddling is the same in each pro-
vince. Further, the concession of |d. per ton—-not
the Telegraph’s alleged £d., 100 of which make
16s. Bd. will not be continued if the Convention Bill
is carried, unless with the permission of the Com-
monwealth Parliament, for it is only a temporary
allowance made for two years. Also, the N.S.W.
coal output hasn’t diminished seriously—in fact,
it shows a steady increase instead of a diminution,
and the 2,696,623 tons exported in 1897 was the
very largest export in the N.S.W. record, an in-
crease of 222.000 tons on the quantity for 1896,
and over 500,000 tons more than was exported in
1895. Therefore, the only objection which'this
paper makes to the Telegraph’s anti-Bill argu-
ments is that there isn’t a shadow or semblance
of truth about them. And, above all things,
100 half-pennies don’t make 16s. Bd. anywhere
outside of a lunatic asylum.
The Cat jumps! The of
N.S.W., who has be<‘n roosting- oil the fence,
finally decides that in view of the “ ominous signs
of war.” and the unfortified state of Queenbeyan,
and the whittling down of the financial difficulties
of the Convention Bill, lie has decided to vote for
that measure. Aha!
J udge Adams, of Tasmania, the smallest
Judge in Australasia, measured in more ways than
one, shortly retires on a il6oo per year pension.
Arrived in V.D.L. in 1856, was Solicitor-General
from ’67 to ’B7, and Judge since that year. Is now
67 years of age, and looks about 48. Is chiefly
remarkable for the persistency with which? lie
“concurs” in the judgtnent of his colleagues in
Full Bench cases. Is locally known as “ Cocky ”
Adams, probably from the natty little belltop-
pered perkiness with which he toddles about the
streets. Has a brother a. parson, also in Tasmania.
This latter gentleman married a granddaughter of
Robert Southey, the poet, and begat some literary
talent in the person of a daughter or two. Though
thus related to a poet, Judge Adams’ >vorst friends
cannot accuse him of ever having presumed bn the
connection by perpetrating verse, though rumor
has it that he oiice made a harmless' little pun, at
which, the Court, as in duty bound, laughed
moderately. The pun is forgotten now, and, 1 but
for his pension. Judge Adams would soon be'for-
gotten, too. Mr. Adams will be succeeded by a
very different kind of man, A. Ihglis-Glark,
ex-Attorney-General, a brainy lawyer, good advo-
cate, and enthusiastic Federationist, who was a
notable figure in former Conventions, but, having
unfortunately been compelled to take a health-
trip to America, was unable to stand for election
a,S a delegate. A humane and clear-sighted Radi-
cal like Mr. Inglis-Olai k will be a valuable acces-
sion to the Australasian Bench. •*


SIR JOHN
Power’s
Whiskey.
Sydney : AH Wine Merchants.
Melbourne : Hogan, Mooney & Co.
Brisbane : Quinlan, Gray & Co. Ltd.
Rockhampton: Walter Reid & Co. Ltd.
Perth : Mcßran, Bowkbr & Co.
North Queensland : Burns, Pijilp & Co. Ltd,
Adelaide : F. Ralhi & Co.
“TbcRCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
R. BELL l CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Acs. I
Reps. (
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildinsrs, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEA jH'NS POWDER, 38/387.
Caustic Soda, Carh. Soda, Rorax, Idtharire,
CYANIDE GUA £A™ D
Hone Ash, Zinc Shaving's, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71“/.
All Mining: Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mrlbournb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 1U Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The total amount advanced on mortgage by the
Maoriland State Land Bank up to 31st March, 1898, was
£1,112,775. And the oft-prophesied breakdown of the
system still shows no sign of coming along.
V V * *
The Bank of New South Wales, in its balance-
sheet for the half-year ended 31st March, 1898, shows a
net profit of £88,128, which is equal to £5 11s. lOd. per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds. A 9 per
cent, dividend absorbs £87,750, and the remaining £378
is carried forward. The profits of the B.N.S.W. keep
remarkably steady, some recent results being as follows :
March, 1894 .. £78,451 | Sept., 1896 .. £87,601
Sept., 1894 .. 78,614 March, 1897 .. 87,898
March, 1895 .. 81,714 I Sept., 1897 .. 89,462
Sept., 1895 .. 84,737 j March, 1898 .. 88,128
March, 1896 .. 86,460 |
In the great boom days of 1888, when most of the banks
showed about the 1 biggest earnings on record, • the
B.N.S.W. had a year’s profit of £240,816. It now averages
about £176,000, so it has stood the commercial downfall
better than the great majority of its contemporaries.
The Bank of New South Wales has now £1,950,000
paid-up capital, £l,2oo’ v ooo of reserve, the largest deposit
business in the Seven Provinces, £5,288,840 of cash on
hand, and £6,627,771 reckoning cash and liquid securities
—which is the biggest reserve in Australasia. Said re-
serve equals over 30 per cent, of the entire liabilities to
the public/. Altogether the B.N.S.W.’s report is a
splendid one, and if there are any weak points in it they
are not visible to the naked eye.
Apropos of Australasian banks in general, the
following show's the amount per cent, per annum earned
by the various institutions upon the shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves) according to their latest balance-
sheets. The capital and reserves are taken as shown in
the last published accounts, though the writing-down to
be done by the Bank of North Queensland, the E.S. and A.
and the Colonial will, when effected, make their figures
look a good deal better than they now do :
oh .. Interest per cent, per
-s, annum earned on
. Shareholders’ Funds.
West,Australian Bank £l3 6 5
National (Jank of N.Z .. 7 18 11
Bank of Adelaide 6 0 4
Bank of New South Wales .. .. 6 11 10
Royal Bank (Melbourne) . . .. .. 6 3 0
National of Tasmania .. .. 414 6
Bank of New'Zealand .. .. .. 4 2 2
Commercialof Sydney 3 19 10
Ballarat Banking Cos 3 16 5
Commercialof Australia 3 11 2
Royal of Queensland 3 10 8
Queensland National Bank .. .. 8 10 0
City Bank of Sydney 3 7 1
Bank of Australasia .. .. .. 3 7 1
Bank of Victoria 33 2
Union Bank ... 2 19 10
Commercial of Tasmania 2 19
Bank of North Queensland .. .. 1 11 2
National -(Melbourne) 1 10 6
E.S: .and A. .. 124
Colonial (Melbourne) 0 17 1
A.J.S. Bank .. 058
*"• 1 * • •
The Bank of North Queensland notifies that
another writing-down of the assets will probably be
necessary. There seems to be no end to the weary
writing-down process which started in ’93 and is still in
good health and condition in ’93. When the great breakage
took place the B.N.Q. wrote off £50,000 of capital. In ’95
the reserve-fund (13000) and £7OOO of accumulated profit
were w-ritten off. It is now proposed to write off another
£IOO,OOO of capital, which wilj leave only £IOO,OOO of the
original £250,000. The Bank of North Queensland trouble
is the same one which the Commercial of Australia, Royal
of Melbourne, Colonial, A.J.S., Queensland National, and
E.S. and A. had to face; they all thought the drop in
values had ended with the 1893 slump, and that, when
they provided for losses then, the trouble was over. But
the slump kept on continuously, and though things now
look, in some quarters, like being on the turn, it isn’t cer-
tain even yet that it is all over.
Even with its capital down to illoo,ooo the
North Queensland should be a safe enough institution for
depositors. Its total liabilities to the public at 31st
December, 1897, were £300,090, so there would have to he
an enormous further downfall in values before there was
any chance of loss to outside, creditors. Even the Bank
of New South Wales, whidh has 8) millions of share-
holders’ funds against 22 millions of liabilities to the pub-
lic, hasn’t so large a margin of safety. One principal
cause of the smallness of profits hitherto has been that
the business is hardly large enough to be worth running.
Last half-year the B.N.Q. only realised at the rate of
£1 11s. 2d. per cent, per annum on capital. When capital
is written down as proposed from £200,000 to £IOO,OOO
the earnings, even if they don’t improve, will equal
£3 2s. 4d. per cent, per annum, and as'there are seven
Australasian banks earning even less than that the figure
is perhaps a sign that the B.N.Q. has now got
fairly abreast of the depreciation. But when
the proposed writing-off is effected the North
Queensland had better embody in its constitution
a solemn league and covenant that one-fourth of its pro-
fits are to go to reserve-fund till the said fund equal's
£150,000, and that at least half, if not all of, the reserve
he invested in State securities, so that the hank will know,
where to find it when wanted. Even in these times, when
a lot of Australian banks are getting down to very small
dimensions, a concern with £IOO,OOO capital and'no re-
serves is somewhat ridiculous. In the circular issued by
the board it is stated that the B.N.Q. should he able to
pay moderate dividends (it hasn’t paid any dividend,
moderate or-otherwise, since the half-year ended 31st
December, 1892) on its reduced capital. If, by moderate
dividends, the board means 2J per cent., it may be justifi-
able, provided things get no worse; judging from last
year’s figures, anything over that would lie utterly reck-
less and up justifiable. And last six months’ figures, taken
separately, would suggest 2 per cent, as the outside limit.
The four banks which showed the smallest earn-
ings last half-year in proportion to the shareholders’ funds
were the A.. 1.5. (ss. Sd. per cent, per annum), Colonial of
Melbourne (17s. Id. percent.), E.S. and A; (tl 2s. 4d. per
cent.), National of Melbourne (tl 10s. 6(1. per cent.) and
Bank of North Queensland (£1 Us. 2d. per cent.) Of
these the A..J.S. is a deep and awful mystery. But the
Colonial, E.S. and A., and North Queensland all propose
to write down capital heavily so as to make their earnings
hear a more reasonable proportion to the alleged funds.
And last half-year's figures of the National, which showed
a very serious fall in the profits as compared with the
returns at. 30th September, 1897, seem to suggest that it
may possibly have a similar difficulty to face, though no
hint of such a thing has yet reached the public.
* * * *
The Bank of Adelaide shows a profit of £33,401
for the year ended 28t,h March, 1898. The last seven years
profits are as follows :
1892.. ..£31,116 1896 .. ..£31,225
1893 .. .. 30,976 1897 .. .. 31,017
1894 .. .. 30,703 1893 .. .. 33,401
1895 .. .. 31,019
The profits are equal to t 6 Os. 4d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds (capital and reserve), therefore the
one surviving S.A. bank shows much better returns than
the average Australian bank of these times. It contrived
to keep so far outside the whirlpool of the boom that since
the ’93 disaster it has actually been a better paying con-
cern than it was in the grand old days of ’B9. The usual
7 per cent, dividend absorbs £28,000; £SOOO is added to
reserve, making it £160,000; and the other £4Ol, with
previous balance, leaves £15,962 at credit of profit and
loss. The Bank of Adelaide has a sound little business,
and its reserve of £806,000 in cash and State securities
equals nearly 36 per cent, of all liabilities to the public.
It has also the distinction of being the only bank in the
Seven Provinces which pays a larger dividend now than it
did in ’B9. Two others, the National of Maoriland and
the West Australian Bank, pay at the same rate as they
did then. The rest have dropped—some of them with a
small drop, the majority with a very large one.
* * * ' •
The Victorian Insurance Institute met last
week, and the President took occasion to point out that
“ the agitation in favor of State fire insurance ” was a
fool of a thing, anyhow. He also remarked that “ the
Flinders-street conflagration was a lesson to all, old or
young, who were students of sound principles of fire in-
surance, as well as to the advocates of what he might,
without offence, call the chaotic schemes which had been
hitherto presented to them from time to time under the
name of State insurance. With respect to Government
management, it might or might not be efficient, but all
experienee pointed to its expensiveness. They had seen
over and over again that a business which was successful
in the hands of a private firm came to ruin when con-
trolled by a board of directors. The reason was not far
to seek, and as between a joint stock company and the
State, the probabilities of economical management
could hardly be said to be on the side of the
latter. The enormous interests at stake, the
amount of capital required to conserve those interests.”
&c., &c. Yet, when one considers that the only State
Life Insurance Office in these provinces is chiefly notable
for the fact that its expenses are about one-fourth less
than those of private offices of its own size ; and that the
State-managed Bank of New Zealand shows a bigger re-
turn on capital than 14 of the privately-managed banks,
despite the fact that there is an appalling burden
of liabilities left behind by the old private manage-
ment to work off; and that the Q.N.B. first showed
signs of improvement when the State began to par-
tially superintend the dreadful affair, the above
President seems to be a man of considerable powers of
assertion. Also, when allowance is made for the fact that
the countries where railways are most profitable are those
where they are under State control, and the economy and
safety of the State Savings Banks are compared with the
results of the private savings institutions which went
down smash by the dozen a few years ago, the President
seems even more remarkable than he first appeared. Any-
how, the prompt disappearance of four Australian fire
insurance co.’s immediately after (and mostly as the result
of) the same Melbourne fire, which, it is alleged, showed
the great superiority of the hard-up private enterprise
insurance system over one with the State’s resources
behind it, is a rather awkward episode.
* * * •
The first 50 tons of Victorian beet-sugar from
Maffra were sold at a good price in Melbourne last week.
The quality is described by experts as superior to the
Queensland and Mauritius cane product, so if this stan-
dard can be kept up the new industry should take root.
A great deal of the row about bounties has centred round
the Vic. sugar industry, but as the Government merely
lends money to the sugar co’s at a profitable rate of in-
terest, and takes a mortgage over everything as security,
the aid given hardly comes under the bounty provisions.
Or, if it does, then the Vic. State Land Bank and the
N.S.W. State-guaranteed, or partially-guaranteed. Savings
Bank, which make loans to agriculturists in the same
fashion, also come under the bounty clause of the Con-
vention Bill.
* * * *
Melbourne wholesale dairy-produce dealers are
now at their wits’-end how to fill orders. In butter most
of their suburban travellers have been knocked off and
are resting—no stock procurable. For the Westralian
trade N.S.W. butter bought in Adelaide has to meet the
demand as far as it can. As to the South African trade,
orders are cabled to London from Melbourne. And pre-
sent prospects indicate an even worse state of affairs.
• • * »
Melbourne sewerage scheme is wiping out
suburban rookeries wholesale. In South Melbourne alone
over 400 shanties (boom-time jerryites) have recently
been removed —the owners unwilling to pay sewerage-
rates.
* .. *
Vic.: “It transpires that some house-agents
‘ring the changes ’ by keeping their tenants on hand, like
the subjects of an imitation mesmerist, or the bidders at
a mock auction-room. Commission is whacked, the agent
always receiving the first week’s rent. Then the bogus
tenant, shifting to another of the agent’s houses, lets in all
the tradesmen at the last place. I have just seen a sheaf
of such bills.”
* * • *
When the war began, Victorian importers of
kerosene promptly combined to put up the price 30 to 50
per cent. There was no reason to suppose that the
Spaniards were strong enough to blockade American
ports and stop the supply of the illuminant, and the in-
creased marine-insurance rate only amounted to balf-a-
fraction, so the grab had no justification whatever.
Kerosene is free of duty in Victoria, and the incident
shows casually that the Freetrade importer is quite as
good at working rings and combinations as the protected
manufacturer can possibly be.
* * * *
Apropos alleged conspiracy. It looks very much
as though the prosecution of a big manufacturer will fall
through for want of actual proof of conspiracy as legally
defined.
* * » *
The success which undoubtedly attends that
bogus-cheque firm is largely due to the fact that the police
are dubious about the result of prosecuting either the
makers or endorsers (the latter always pass the cheques),
as it would be necessary to prove conspiracy between the
drawers, passers, and endorsers before a conviction could
be got. Conspiracy is always hard to prove.
* * » «
The attachment of the resumed-area halves of
Western (N.S.W.) squattages to the leaseholds under the
’95 Act is going to give all sorts of trouble. The latest
point to arise is whether a selector who puts up a fence
can claim half-value, seeing that the land may be resumed
by the Minister on six months’ notice. The squatters
submit that no claim will lie, because they have not the
five years title which a holder must have before be is
liable to pay for improvements on his boundary. If this
is so, then in many cases attachment will impede instead
of expedite the improvement of the country.
* * * »
When a bank insisted on retaining all the bond
certificates of a certain firm “ the trade ” generally sympa-
thised with the firm and decried the bank’s shortsighted-
ness in incurring heavy storage charges, which could only
increase the firm's liability to the bank’s detriment. It
now turns out that the enormous rise in the price of the
stored commodities has not only enabled the firm to
command the market, but reduce the bank overdraft by
between £15,000 and £IB,OOO.
* » * •
What last season’s South Australian wheat
harvest failure was like may be judged by the fact tliat,
whereas in 1896 Port Pirie exported 1,509,053 bushels of
wheat and 10,585 tons flour, in ’97 no wheat was sent out
and only 868 tons flour.
B.H. Prop, advertises in Europe for an assistant
gen. mgr. What, however, is really desired i 3 an officer
who can do just what Mr. Alex. Stewart himself did
shortly after his arrival to fill the same office.
• • • *
Tarrawingee co’s line, being useless now that no
more flux is required at Broken Hill, all the smelting
being done at the seaboard, was about to be pulled up
when the pastoralists induced the Govt, to consider an
offer. The cost was over £90,000 ; price asked, £15,000
and the co. would come down more than a thousand.
But the traffic would be very small: about all that can be
said in favor of taking the line over is that the existence
of 50 miles of line through only partly-prospected mineral
country may help on development.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, has now 11 smelting furnaces run-
ning at Pt. Pirie, which becomes the second town of the
S. A. province. The co. is advertising—in Europe only—
for an assistant manager to succeed W. J. Kohler, who
leaves within a month to superintend the Westralia
Smelting co’s works at Fremantle.
* * * *
Block 10, like almost every other Broken Hill
mine, is finding an unexpected difficulty in the increasing
hardness of its ore. During the co.’s last half-year, this
not only disappointingly reduced the quantity' of ore
treated at the mill, but it increased costs everywhere ;
and, instead of the promised shilling per month div., barely
enough was made to pay 4s. during the half-year ; allow-
ing for depreciation, in fact, only 3/6 could have been paid.
But the directors drew on the co’s resources and paid 55.;
and, as a sale of 100,000 tons of “ zinc tailings ” has been
made for £25,000, to be paid inside 10 months, it’s probably
all right.
* • * *
B.H. Block 14 has fallen on hard times, too—
harder times, at any rate. The profit for the half-year
has reached £14,150, according to the balance-sheet ;
but as £3381 of this has been paid for mine develop-
ment and £9813 for machinery additions necessary to
keep operations going profitably, it is very doubtful
whether the £14,000 odd ought to be regarded as profit.
The hard solid facts that can’t be dodged are that only
1 5000 has been paid in divs., and that liquid assets have
decreased by £3909. Block 14 apparently “ finances ”
considerably. This half-year it owes the Bank of
Adelaide £8352, and other creditors £25,793 ; previous
half, £5878 and £17,970 ; and for the half preceding that,
£lß7l and £19,779. It may pay to buy stores (timber,
&c.) in very large quantities (this line in the statement of
assets has gone from £5860 to £17,499 in the six months);
but overdrafts are generally expensive luxuries.
It is figured, on the basis of last half-year’s
reports, that Block 14 can pay its way on a market of
Is. sd. per oz. for silver, and £l2 17s. per ton for lead.
* * * *
Didn’t the question of Chillagoe railway con-
cessions touch up some of the Northern Labor M.L.A.’s?
Men who had posed as thorough-going State socialists
suddenly found out that there yet was room in the world
for land-grant individualism even though land-grant in-
dividualism was actually unwilling to fix a decent day-
wage in return for its privileges. (Present wages paid,
6s. a day). And Mareeba-Chlllagoe successes are to be
followed by other requests for similar concessions, in next
session of Bananaland Parliament.
• * » *
.Judging by the rapid progress of the Emu Bay
Railway Co.’s works, the Chillagoe line should be finished
well within schedule time—which has about 18 months to
run. There will be none of the engineering difficulties
the Emu Bay line has experienced—with bridges every
mile and cuiverts every two chains, and long, spongy
button-grass plains and peaty slopes to get over. Also
the Chillagoe line will probably be constructed by day
labor—so well has the system proved itself on the Emu
Bay works.
• * * *
According to the Warden, the Charters Towers
output for the first quarter was highly satisfactory. The
Day Dawn Block and Wyndham, Brilliant, Brilliant and St.
George, Victory, Victoria and Queen, Band of Hope all
appear on the dividend-list with their wonted consis-
tency; while recent excellent returns from stone in
Kelly’s Queen Block point to speedy inclusion of this mine
in the same enviable catalogue. On the other hand,
Mills’s United makes a 6d. call. Cyanidation returns
would have been much larger but for want of both lime
and cyanide. Search for good limestone is proceeding
round the Towers just now, but, so far, with little suc-
cess. Cyanide returns are seldom complete, on account
of unwillingness of certain cyaniders to give particulars.
* * « *
Clarke’s Brilliant Worcester and Victory, the
pet mine of Charters Towers, has had a heavy fall owing
to a poor crushing—only an ounce when, it is alleged, two
were looked for.
* * * *
Vic. Govt. Geologist has issued a preliminary
report on the Mt. Deddiclt silver and lead deposits. “ The
field, as a whole, covering an area of 24 sq. miles, is yet in
its prospecting stage, and, although the veins of galena
are small, they are sufficiently numerous to lend hope to
the ehnethat furtherdevelopments in the crosscutting may
reveal larger masses of galena. It must be borne in mind
that the ore already discovered bears but a small propnr-
t.on to the mans of quartz or other gangue forming the
lodes. I cannot enter into further details respecting the
permanency of the fields in a commercial sense until the
survey novv being carried out by my assistant, Mr. Fer-
gusson, is completed.” Details thus far have sufficed to
send Mt. Deddick shares down to 6s. at time of writing,
six “bob” being equivalent to £6 in the original un-
watered stock. As for Deddick “ pups,” the latest report
from the Scentrai is a pathetic squeal:—“ Work on new
lode shows bottom of drive, carrying lode very strong, and
in face of emphatic assertion of Govt, geologist that lodes
will go down, and with increased value, have reason to be
satisfied with present state of affairs.” The Deddick camp
was going to prove “ another blow for the croakers” when
its true character was investigated, and the railway was
put in hand, and the shares rose to fabulous prices.
Seems to be Stone-Deddick at present.
* * * *
The half-million Mt. Lyell depreciation of last
week was not the shock the daily papers have made it out
to be. Inspired paragraphs and interested barrackers
have alleged the Mt. Lyell deposit to be not only enormous,
but rich, and the public seems astounded at what (it is
nnw plain) should have been foreseen months ago. The
Mt. Lyell deposit will last a generation, but the great pro-
portion of poor ore and the enormous amount of dead
work in the way of removing over-burden puts the pro-
bable dividend at something under 15s. per annum with
the present plant, and only a pro rata increase with the
smelter extension now in hand. And on £l2 a share 15s.
is 6} per cent. Mt. Lyell is a sure enough spec, to be
regarded as an investment, but 6j per cent, is nothing to
howl about in mining : a fact evidently now borne in on
the over-sanguine who talked of the great body as if it
were 10, and not well-under 4, per cent. ore. Suppose
copper fell to £4O, where would Mt. Lyell be?
• » » »
Writes “D.W.D.”: Even at this late date I
must answer “ H.” re the North Lyell. He says that the
tunnels which I described as being bent at an angle from
their original course to strike the new deposit were begun
with the definite intention of striking the deposit. That
is to say the tunnels were put in to cut an ore
body which wasn’t known to exist till some
months later. I pass over his contradiction of
the theory of the existence of such a thing as a con-
centrative attraction in big lhdes and deposits. His
statements are about as vague as mine were. Let “H ”
put, the following in his pipe and smoke it. Up to the
discovery—accidentally made in the cutting of a track—
of the “new” ore body, the N, Lyell was one of the
wildest-looking specs, on the Tasmanian market, which is
saying a good deal. Yet, prior to the discovery, the
London Board was talking airily of millions of tons of ore
which, to put the thing very mildly, nobody on the spot
could vouch for, and securing capital to build a railway to
carry away the visionary ore aforesaid, and to construct
smeiteFs to produce the copper which existed in the
imagination of the Board. And meanwhile the tunnels
aforesaid were being driven to cut the lode which was
then undiscovered and unknown !
What has become of the Great Lake Dora
(Tas.) districts, where the copper was protruding into the
climate in two-ton slugs?
» * • •
Westralian workers have invited delegates from
the various trades councils in the other provinces to
attend a congress. It is to be hoped that the opportunity
will be taken to make some definite announcement in the
question of labor covenants in mining leases, so singularly
neglected by the average Trades Hall, and so persistently
attacked by the capitalistic camp.
• • • •
There’ll be razors in the air pretty soon now.
“ It would seem that the liquidator (of the Kalgoorlie
Mint and Iron King, an English co.) has reported that,
instead of the number of duplicated shares being 23,000,
there are in all 32,484 of them. So far, the liquidator
has not discovered who the responsible parties are, though
the matter has been in hand for three months.”
* * * *
The cyanide people (Australian Gold Recovery
co.) have issued the dreaded notice in the West. They
“ beg to warn all persons or companies interested or con-
cerned in gold-mining that any person or persons infring-
ing the said patent rights are exposing themselves to very
serious claims by way of damages, and not merely to a
payment of back royalty.”
• • * *
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
As anticipated, Q. convict Archer, charged
with stabbing a warder at St. Helena prison, was
mean enough to cheat the hangman by dying in
his cell.
An Australian Premier, whom Earl Dufferin
humorously ticketed at Jubilee time, tells his
friends that he has since received, from an autho-
ritative London source, a letter informing him
that, if he can transfer himself to England, a seat
in the Commons will be placed at his disposal.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, now return-
ing to Australia, has had ten offers of “livings ”
in England during the term of his protracted
visit. The last was the offer of a vicarage worth
.£BOO a year. He wasn't offered a Bishopric, how-
ever, and it is said that is why he comes back
to his Australian “Poll.”
Told of “ Wooster "-sauce-Lea that, when
Lord Sandys, who had given him the recipe,
called upon him and said that, as so much coin
was being turned-in over the sauce, he (Lord S.)
thought he was entitled to a share of the “oof
Lea replied that he was willing to part —if his
lordship would come behind the counter and sell
for him ! The additional big ad. didn’t come off.
Cairns municipal council has half-decided
to shift the naughty Ynm-Yums out of the centre
of the township ; but there is an alleged difficulty
because the council collectively says it doesn’t
know a Yum-Yum when it sees one. Individually
the aldermen know quite a lot, but somehow
they’re too shy to tell.
Commencement of an address to General
Booth, drawn up by “16,387” —confinee in U.S.
San Quentin prison and sergeant-major of the gaol
S.A. corps :
As Providence does not permit us to be personally
with you in ymir campaign, nevertheless we shall be with
you in spirit and in prayer.
Avery special Providence, indeed !
Horatio Bottomley, whose Westralian co’s
have come such a cropper on London Stock Ex-
change, was 14 or 15 years ago a well-known
Fleet-street shorthand writer. He launched the
little Debater, on which he felt his feet and got a
taste for finance, and in a year or two was in the
thick of the Hansard Union and other mammoth
enterprises. Horatio's fatal fondness is for the
ballet; and impecunious managers and others
have bled him much.
“ Democratic ” antagonism to the Federal
Convention Bill appears to be full of the sugges-
tion that Australia in general is an ass. There is
nothing in the Bill, says somebody, “to prevent
the Governor-General selecting an Executive
Council from kanakas, blackfellows, or Chinese.”
By the same token there never was, is, or will be
anything in any bill to prevent a united People
from insisting upon a decent management of their
own business.
It isn’t all fun to be an Afghan in the
West. One Said fatally knifed another Said in
the Coolgardie camp lately. Said 1, being noto-
riously off his head, was at once suspected and
charged, and he quite as promptly confessed.
Then the doctor who examined the accused at
Fremantle Gaol gave evidence that he believed
Said was insane ;. but after Acting-Judge Janies
had remarked that the medical examination was
made 10 weeks after the murder, and then only
with the help of an interpreter, the jury found the
man guilty and he was sentenced to death.
Which, as it wasn’t Said’s fault that the Govt,
hasn’t a doctor who can speak his language, and as
it also wasn’t his fault that the delay in examin-
ing him occurred, seems pretty rough. And
rougher still when Said's sworn-to reputation in
the Afghan camp is remembered.
The gunboat Monocacy, which took part
in the battle of Manila, is a composite paddle-
steamer alleged to have been built for a Hudson
River ferry co. Her guns were old - type
muzzle-loaders on wooden carriages. She was the
shabbiest of the shabby U.S. squadron in the
Pacific in ’B7, arid too tender to be sent the. long
voyage home. Bv the "ay, H.M.B.’s survey-boat
Dart was originally the “ cruiser ” of the Royal
Yacht Club. She has been over 16 years “map-
making ” in these waters, and is virtually one of
the “institutions” of Australia. Mdler’s old
yacht is her sister-ship. The Dart is noted for
carrying the heaviest top-sails and main of any
vessel of her class and tonnage. Also, she’s been
of more real service to Australasia (wanted, a
new name of not over seven letters—a new one,
not the old one boiled down and served up cold as
hash) than all the other men-of-war put together.
Surveying-officers are mostly brainy men without
influence —the “ butterflies ” are kept on the fancy
stations, such as the Mediterranean.


d
DAVID
ORIENT
s CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for. samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
A -
SNAP-
SHOT
The
Victoi
Camer a
21/-
Tit
Duplex
■
Camera
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 2S.
SOCIETY
Papua is becoming Christianised under
compulsion. The thing is worked in this wise :
The Native Regulations make education (three
days a week) in the neighborhood of a school com-
pulsory for all youngsters from five years of age
up to 13. A fine of ss. may be imposed on the
parents of any child who does not attend. But
all the schools are of a semi-religious character, and
are conducted by missionaries. See?
* * * *
Mt. Barker was long represented in S.A.
Parliament.by Dr. Cookborn, who had most to do
with securing tile recognition of women’s political
equality with man in that province. So it was
appropriate’that the Mt. Barker court should, the
other day, have to deal with a charge brought
against Naomi Appleton of leaving her husband,
Reuben, without adequate means of support.
Rube, it seems, was coaxed into making over his
farm sections to Naomi; and, later on, Naomi
having made things sultry, he went “to his
sister’s.” Argued, of course, that as it was Rube
who “left,” and not Naomi, the case must be
dismissed; and so the lady scored again.
• * * •
Attending a funeral often
means antedating your own. Graves
sunk in clay retain the surface water
that drains into them, and when the
grave is re-opened the water (now a
strong cadaver-solution) is baled out and
thrown on the surface, thus stirring up
the germs and giving them a show to
get in good work amongst the mourners.
Moral : prime up with good Scotch —or
stay away ! There is lots to be said, after all, in
favor of whisky at funerals.
• » * *
The lady-doctors scored a point the other
night when the Port Melb. branch of the Austra-
lian Natives’ Association unanimously decided to
place on the medical list of the association the
name of the popular Miss Elizabeth O’Hara, M.B.,
B.S. This is the first time a lady has been ap-
pointed medical officer to a local branch of the
A.N.A. The branch (remarks a cold-blooded
Bulletin correspondent) might, however, con-
sider the advisableness of allowing a member to
be on two doctors’lists at the same time, as many a
man might consider the lady med. quite fit to cope
with the missus and “ kids,” and yet have grave
doubts about trusting his precious self to her
mercies.
• * • *
A maintenance case with points was heard
at Stawell (Vic.), the other day. The husband,
a bee-farmer, did not see that he should be called
upon to support his wife, as he was opening nego-
tiations for her sale. A letter was read in court
in which he declared his intention of letting her
go cheap to a syndicate composed of her mother
and a male party. He asked >£2so cash for his
wife and all the children, 40 acres of land, and a
few etceteras like a cow and a clutch of chickens.
The letter concluded :
I would have no power to interfere, because you are
sold, with 40 acres and buildings and fruit-trees too.
The Bench found for complainant, and adjourned
ere defendant could offer to allow 2| per ceut. off
for cash if the other parties would close. By the
way, divorce by auction is not at all a bad idea.
m * * •
A mother was quoted in Bulletin, the
other day, as replying to daughter’s inquiry about
Miss Blank’s faux pas, that, at all events, it
wasn’t a pas seal. But N.S.W. Full Court has
just decided that a slip of the kind may be a pas
seul. The finding that respondent A. committed
adultery with respondent B. does not, it is held,
establish the fact of B.’sadultery with A. “Things
which are equal to the same thing are not equal to
one another.”
♦ * * *
Gumleaf : “ Victorian authorities are
rightly careful about the wholesomeness of the
imported banana and orange, but what about
the local peach and apple? Crossing Princes
Bridge, the other morning, at 3 o’clock, I noticed
on several cartloads of fruit coming into market
that the boxes were old and filthy, and stained
with manure liquid. Happening along the same
way later, I saw the carts going home again-
loaded with horse-manure, from which the liquid
ran out beneath, and a cloud of steam rose above.
The now empty fruit-boxes were lying higgledy-
piggledy on top.
* * * *
Jones : The humors of market-gardening.
Cabbages in Melbourne from 3d. to 6d. apiece just
now ; cauliflowers are almost unobtainable.
Brighton and neighboring gardeners who planted
a few months ago mostly lost their whole crops
through the dry weather, yet a Chinaman from a
little further out drove a huge load of cauliflowers
—about 80 dozen—into the Victoria market last
Saturday week, and sold them as they stood in one
lot for £4O ! Yet I know white gardeners who have
water laid on and should be able to raise green
stuff.
* ♦ * »
Dear B.—Concerning Coroners’ inquests.
I agree that, in ordinary cases, the magisterial
inquiry is sufficient, especially if some notice
thereof be given to all putative witnesses. In a
gaol-inquest, however, such as took place at
Wagga, and of which I wrote to your columns,
the six prisoner-jury men are a safeguard to a
certain extent against systematic murder. Asa
rule, however, the prisoners are carefully (officially)
selected old-timers, long - sentence men and
habitual visitors—and, therefore, valueless.—
Scotty.
A_ peculiar case of pre-
natalinfluenee at Carlton, Melb.
The mother, some little time be-
fore her confinement, was trying
to split a piece of pine with a
sharp axe, and, missing her
aim, cut two of the fingers off
her left hand. In her conster-
nation she carried her injured
hand to her face. She noticed,
later, the marks of three fingers
in blood on her nose'and fore-
head. The child, when born,
had the three marks reproduced
npon its nose and forehead in
exactly the same manner, ac-
cording to the mother’s assertion.
Anyhow, the marks on the
child’s face are dis-
tinct] y those of
blood - stained fin-
gers, and the efforts
made at the Chil-
dren’s Hospital to
remove tin* stains
have been quite un-
availing.
* «
Dear Bulle-
tin. Our boasted
civilisation depends
upon the abolition
of the dog-tax in
favor of a cat-tax —
thusly. The change
would result in a
large increase of
dogs, which would
cause a great dimin-
ution of cats, which
would lead to an enormous in-
crease of mice. The mice would
scare more women into matri-
mony and the formation of those
homes “ which are the basis of true civilisation.”
The Single-tax cry is all right—but it should be
for a dog-tax.—K.K.
* * * *
B.E. : No wonder the man-on-the-land
finds it hard to make a living, considering the
prices he charges for his produce. Went up
country lately for a holiday. First day trotted
about a mile to nearest farmhouse for provisions.
Leathery old party didn’t seem particularly
anxious to sell even at —eggs, 2s. Bd. a dozen ;
cabbages, Is. each ; pair ducks, 7s. (id.; apples (the
ground was covered with decaying fruit), l|d. each.
Reckoned I’d struck Klondyke, and tried the
township second day. Paid 4s. for a small shoul-
der of mutton, and sd. for a loaf. Stood it two
days, then sent to Sydney for a crate of potted
meats, flour, and et ceteras, and saved about 75
per cent. Solid fact!
* • • *
Dear Bulletin.—Went up from Melb. to
Box Hill the other morning. In the carriage
(smoking) were two men handcuffed together
accompanied by a uniformed policeman. They
were decent-looking fellows in their working
clothes, and were afterwards discharged. Why
should merely-accused persons be subjected to
this unnecessary disgrace ? Were the constable
in plain clothes very few would have noticed
them.—F.C.
* * * *
How truly self-sacrificing are the clergy !
At last meeting of Presbyterian divines in Bris-
bane, the “ meeneesters ” from the Bakblox ven-
tured to express an opinion that they would like
a change now and again from the desolation of
the West to the comforts of the town —in short,
an occasional parochial “ swap ” with their
luckier town brethren. And didn’t the town-
brethren rage at this reasonable suggestion ! No
talk about gripping staff and girding loins and
doing a fair turn in the Never-Never, but a grind-
ing of teeth, flashing of eyes, and ejaculation of
nastinesses even after the fashion of the Un-
godly !
• * * *
Ezrom : Two pranks of Fate. Not long
ago a young Tasmanian married couple went to
tlie stable to feed their quiet old buggy horse,
and, when the husband jestingly said, ‘I think
I’ll sell the old moke,’ the wife replied ‘ Not while
I’m alive, at all events.’ With which, as she had
often done before, she patted the animal on the
rump, whereupon it lashed out, landing one
foot on the poor girl’s face, and killed her almost
instantaneously. No. 2 was within my personal
experience. An apparently very old man used to
call daily at the office where I was employed, and
the clear-headed manner in which he transacted
his business caused me to ask him his age. ‘ I’m
88, sir,’ he said. ‘ And what do you think of
things after such a long experience ? ’ ‘ Well, sir,
I thank God for my long life ; and, if my time to
go is this very afternoon, I’m ready.’ Hardly had
he walked away 10 yards when, in stepping from
the pavement, he tripped, fell heavily on his head,
and fractured his skull. He survived less than an
hour.
* * * *
The lady superintendent of the Elizabeth
Fry Retreat, Melbourne—a dreary-looking insti-
tution where life for the penitents is one eternal
washing-day—announces that the soapy show is
now being conducted “on faith lines.” The
collector who used to whip round for subscriptions
will not call upon keeind friends any more. “We
■shall be glad of help from any the Lord may
incline to send through,” says the advt., “but
shall not ask any.” Asa matter of fact, the Fry
Retreat is, or ought to be, a very self-supporting
laundex - ee, considering the labour that each able-
bodied lodger devotes to her tub during, say,
twelve months of washing away her sin, and the
state of poverty in which she is eventually let
loose to find a situation as “ general.”
* * * *
Anybody with anything Australian to sell
—pictures, books, old clothes, ash-barrels, no
matter what—take it to England at once! The
Australian boom is keeping up manfully. It
started with the economists’ proofs that Britain
without her colonies was doomed to become a
third-rate Power ; was cemented by Queen Vic.’s
Jubilee ; and capped by the big fright which John
Bull got in the “ splendid isolation ” epoch. John
has realised that he’s got to be very good to Aus-
tralia ; and the products of this country have gone
up nine notches. The newspapers flatter every-
thing witli a eucalyptus twang about it; and
flattery means money. Let us get under the
spout 1
A WAY OUT.
SUNDAY SCHOLAR (reading text on wall): “I won’t need to, Miss
Smith, will I? ’Cause I’d a new mother last week.”
A nasty story is current in Brisbane. A
detective of 10 years’ clean record was summarily
discharged from Q. police for using language
w hile under the influence. A fterwards, he obtained
a billet as wharf-constable with the A.U.S.N. —
from which post, it is stated, he was summarily
sacked at the instigation of a police official.
I’tuple who know Commissioner Parry-Okeden do
not believe that he approves of his subordinate
officers hounding dismissed members of the force
to prison, drink, and perhaps starvation, by pre-.
venting them obtaining and retaining work. Is
there any other side to this story?
* * » •
The Sydney D.T. social scribe momen-
tarily gets away from the commonplace :
A floral decked chancel bathed in srolden sunlight, the
tall, dignified figure of the clergyman, with hand raised
in benediction upon the youthful pair kneeling at his
feet, was the impressive and beautiful picture presented
at St. Mark’s last Wednesday, when the closing words of
the marriage ceremony made Lulu Allan and William
Owen man and wife.
The exaltation quickly collapses, however, and
“the’pretty bride” who was “beautifully dressed
the “ pretty wedding gifts ” on the table that was
“beautifully decorated'’ with “pretty autumn-
tinted leaves”; the “handsome wedding-cake
occupying a prominent position,” and the “ con-
THE 'OWSEKEEPER.
1ST LADY: “ ’Ow er yer spending yer ’ olidays,
Sarah?”
2ND DITTO: “Oh, ma’s at the 'orspital — an’ I’m
keepin’ 'ouse fer pa an’ the hoys!”
gratulations showered on the happy pair,” who
will reside in “an exceedingly pretty cottage,”
assume their wonted monotony. The pen that
“ does ” the wedding-cackle has a hard row to
hoe.
* * • »
From Argus report of a Melb. Harbor
Trust meeting : “ The chairman drew attention to
the 60,000 cubic yards of foul-smelling filth brought
down the river, and deposited within the Trust’s
jurisdiction. Commissioner White moved and
Commissioner Treganowen seconded, ‘ That the
matter be left in the hands of the chairman.’ ”
W * * •
New Version : “ How these Christians
love one another’s ” wives !
Winged
[jhj € waJkeJ <ii\ converse .sweeT
<jyr* fcsTT”
I A*\onyrJ\ you see,
• fliejsr’ M 7 neju^e^iy 1
A|*\. v<6P»fy *aJd j
T\e J 7 e i- 15 a^oos€^J
W.H.O.


m
J
B
"n
AVE You
Forcotte
as
A'
s®
XSOSE’S CELEBRATED
X * l EYE LOTION
STANDS alone
(or ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chem.ist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
}>or Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUHTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon thp citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and Millett).
CAT ALLA RO LIQUORICE,
Wholesale Only
from
HY. MARKWALD
11 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY.
178 William-st.,
MELBOURNE.
14 Currie-st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
At Dunedin, the other day, a very
high Maoriland Anglican ecclesiastic
appeared before the police-commis-
Bioner to explain his position
mortgagee of certain property.
He stated that 18 years ago he
advanced A1000 on the pro-
perty. People had since in-
formed him that the tenants
were not respectable, but he
had no personal knowledge as
to their character. The com-
missioner smiled. The round-
aboutly-suggested idea of a
cleric in a bagnio hunting
up his rents seemed-to high-
ly amuse these sons of Be-
lial. But the ecclesiastic
himself went on to say that
he had offered to cancel the
mortgage if he were paid
back half of the principal.
The mortgagor could not,
however, find the money,
and so the matter stood,
Lais and Phryne must now
feel that their business is in
a measure sanctified. A
portion-of their profits goes
to paying, interest to the
Church^—the Church which
is ready to compound with
the Devil on a half-way
basis. And an absolutely
unreliable M.L. paper says
the interest is 10 per cent.
» * *
In one of the Aus-
tralias . recently a youth was
charged with embezzling moneys
which he knew were rents of cer-
tain disreputable houses, occupied
by immorality and rascality of vari-
ous kinds, and said to be owned by
an exalted public functionary and a
lady of large society tonnage. It leaked-out,
however, that the youth’s solicitor purposed
calling these gilded persons with a view to
questioning them in the witness-box as to
whether they did not take advantage of the smell-
fulness =of their tenants to extort much higher
rents than would be realisable from decent persons
—whereupon the Crown promptly discontinued
the. case, and • the accused, upon undertaking
not to proceed for malicious prosecution, was dis-
charged. Now, who is to prosecute the Crown
for compounding a felony ?
* * * *
S.b. : “Melbourne runs to funerals on
Sundays. Any well-advertised burying—that of
a murdered party, or a sensational suicide, or a
jockey, or a bishop, or a ballet-girl—happening on
the Day of Rust is bound to ‘ take well and give
pleasure to all.’ The daily papers are quite reliable
for once in their notices of the funeral of the
Yarraville murder victims. There was a crowded
house, and the audience was demonstrative. St.
Kilda cemetery was so rushed that the manage-
ment found itself compelled to close its doors an
hour before the arrival of the hearse, and then it
should have hung out “Pit Full” to have pre-
vented a great crush and a battle royal at the
gates. Inside, during the progress of the cere-
mony, the crowd perched itself on the tombs of
lamented persons of great respectability, and
scrambled over the ashes of its fathers, and
climbed obelisks, and urns, and other sacred
masonry, and the tumbled female fought her way
to the front every time, with her back hair loose,
and her hat over her eye, and trod down the grave
decorations. I think this Sabbath appetite should
he turned to account. When a popular corpse is
to he buried, give the business into the hands of a
good manager, make a charge at the cemetery
gate, and let the proceeds go to a fund for the
regeneration of the Melbourne Sunday. At (ire-
sent the' Sabha'h is so dull that a funeral is a
comparatively cheerful function, and every second
man envies the corpse.”
• * * *
The spectacle of some hundreds of people
hustling and soruffing each other in Melbourne
cemetery to get a look at the coffins of two mur-
dered children was a smack in the eye for our
“advanced civilisation.” The impulse, indeed, is
but a variant of the morbid zest for the horrible
which used to bring the crowds to gloat over a
hanging—with this to the greater shame of the
Melb. ghouls, that, while the Tyburn and New-
gate rabbles were largely composed of the dregs
of society, the Melb. “push” wa3 well-dressed
and, presumably, well-educated. But no educa-
tion, when 'the occasion arises, seems to be proof
against an aboriginal relish for the brutal and
horrible. And the longer one lives the more con-
vinced one becomes that, in mouthing abdtat the
“higher destiny of our race,” we are thinking
with our elbows and talking through our hat.
I ** * *
A JBPLijKTIN man was attracted the other
day by a good-sized crowd in Pitt-street, Sydney,
and stopped to see how the fight was getting on.
When he found that the excitement was all be-
cause a man was sitting on the edge of the pave-
ment mending an umbrella, he made some dis-
gusted remarks and passed on. The sort of things
a crowd stops to look at are as good a test as any
of the prosperity of a city. In the Boom days,
when everybody had money enough to go to the
theatre and to Manly and Chowder and the dog-
fight, nothing less than a stand-up fight and a
skull-fracture would draw a big street audience.
Now, in the Gloom days, the crowd has to occupy
its mind .-with anything that costs nothing, so even
a man mending an umbrella attracts an audience.
THE MATTER WITH GWENDOLEN.
GWENDOLEN VICTORIA (continuing narrative):
“ Yes; and at the ’orspital we was washed all
over every four hours!”
ACQUAINTANCE (sympathetically ): "All over ?
O-oh crickey!”
A Melb. weekly lately devoted a large slab
of a recent issue to the notice of a fashionable mar-
riage between a Govt, clerk at .£4 a week and a
young lady from the—er—Bar. Sassiety journal-
ism is beginning to confer much distinction on the
people whose little events have hitherto got
through unnoticed.
» * • »
Dear B. —Re “J.F.D.’s” connection be-
tween saintliness and spec-
tacles, the chain runs some-
thing like this: Saintliness,
sexual abstinence, more
saintliness, general weak-
ness, spectacles.—Joe
Smith, M.D.
COMPLIMENTARY.
NIECE OF TALENTED AUTHOEESS: “ Aunty, I am sure you would get published in the ‘Fleet-
street Magazine ’ —they do put such awful things in!”
There will probably be some startling
shipping-disaster news from a point between Ade-
laide and Albany shortly. Reports have already
been published of “ harmless contests ” between
rival passenger-boats “ timed to leave port at the
same hour,” of one “virtually challenging” the
other and the other “ gamely responding to the
invitation.” Also, there are reports of “yet
another struggle ” between the same steamers ;
but unfortunately there were head winds and
other drawbacks, so perhaps “ when they meet
again a more exciting struggle for mastery ” will
be witnessed. Quite likely—with the possibility
that the struggle will not be confined to the two
boats.
Melbourne Presbytery started recently to
talk over the ever-interesting subject of the col-
lection, and one reverend suggested a great idea
for persuading every wor.-bipper to contribute.
The reverend’s plan was simply that the plate
should stop short in front of every worshipper,
and not budge until at least a copper was forth-
coming, or until the unfinancial person rose up
and went out. Then, as it would be no use to
bold the plate in front of the empty place where
he had been, it must either go on to the next man
or else decamp out of the church and down the
road after the defaulter, and continue the argu-
ment until he either parted or gave way to anger
and kicked the plate, right back into B.C. The
only possible improvement on this idea seems to
be that female as well as male elders should be
appointed, and the congregation should be seized
and searched after service and all its coppers
taken off it, and where there are not so many
coppers on any worshipper as there ought to be,
be or she should be retained until the other 2d. is
forthcoming, or should leave part of his or her
clothing as security.
* * * •
The Sims divorce-case—heard in Melb.
last week, was a very ordinary pale-brown dis-
agreement about a mother-in-law—there were no
purple streaks of sin in it and no rich sunset tints of
iniquity, and it was a perfectly moral and respect-
able row all through. The one bright patch was
Sims’ wailsome letter offering to have his tail
trodden on to any extent if his wife would only
come back :
I have, darling wife, as I promised, resolved this time
in earnest to turn over a new leaf, and by God’s help to
leafl a totally different life in the future to that of the
past. Ethel, I once was a Christian resolved to follow
Christ, but since I came to Melbourne and joined the
Railway department I went from bad to worse through my
want of faith and conception of Jesus Christ. . . . Your
poor, penitent, heart-broken husband. . . . burdening my
poor soul with mountains of unnecessary deep-dyed sin.
... I promise faithfully, in the presence of Almighty
God, to be a perfect comfort to you, and to behave as a
Christian gentleman should -true, kind-hearted, Christ-
like, prayerful, zealous, attentive and neat in dress. . . .
I am going to dress nicely for the future and be a credit
to you. ... If they will accept my proposals I will make
a’.l my property over to either you or your mother at
once as a guarantee of my good conduct and kindness to
them in the fnlure.
The letter e ided with twelve pages of original
h rain about the Need of Repentance. But though
Si ris held cut the olive branch of this great liter-
ary effort, the breach didn’t heal worth tuppence.
* • * ♦
The extraordinary allegations of “ cronk-
ness ” made by both sides in a recent Melb. will-
case have left everybody who has watched the
evidence in the condition of a student of bimetal-
li-m. Even Judge Holroyd acknowledges him-
self hopelessly bushed, and has expressed a wish
that a Sherlock Holmes or an Edgar Allan Poe
would come along and lend a hand in getting at
the facts.
* * * *
“A man who knows”: Poultry farming
will not pay more than seven miles from Sydney.
Reason : cheap food by the purchase of hotel and
other waste; saving of freight
and commission ; high selling
price by dealing direct witii
purchasers. Ducks are far better
than fowls.
The demi-monde in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, are occasionally chivied by the plain-
clothes police, and with tightly-drawn dresses
make for the tram or cross street. They are now
utilizing this effect for “biz.,” and Johnnie is
surprised by a young lady whose knee-kilted
garments expose delicate lingerie and shapely
ankles, suddenly seizing his arm, and with tearful
voice begging to be allowed to walk a little way
with him, as those nasty police were about. The
ruse is generally successful; even a well-known
Flinders-lane magnate, of weight in religious
circles, has been known to escort one to the nearest
corner, and with “Go home, keep out of trouble,
and be a good girl,’’ hand over a sov.
A wild-looking character, in a lamentable
state of bush-rum and snakes, pot at the Numur-
kah (Vic.) police for a night’s board and lodging
lately. He called in with a horrible tale about
how he had murdered one Cohen in ’92, by putting
dynamite under his bed, and connecting it by 90ft.
of fuse with an adjacent hut. Then, when Cohen
was asleep, he lighted the fuse, and by-and-bye
there was a fearful explosion, and for half-an-hour
after it rained Cohen all over those parts. The
police took him in on the strength of this tale, and
told him to prepare for execution. Next day they
learned, to their utter disgust, that no Cohen had
blown up in ’92, and their prisoner was a harmless
beer-wreck, who saw Deadwood Dick visions when
in liquor, though at other times he was an inno-
cent individual who ran after cows for a living.
The tale of Cohen’s death was so large and crude
and gory that the Numurkah police are now
ashamed of having been taken in by it, and desire
that the unpleasant subject shall be dropped.
* * * *
A correspondent of Australasian Chemist
AND Druggist declares that a few months ago ap-
plications were invitpd in Mdb. Argus for the
position of “Nursing and Dispensing Matron,’’
to have charge of a country hospital under the
medical officer, at a salary of =£so per annum.
This is given as an extract from a late letter of
the successful applicant:—
I like this place and the people, very well, the doctor
especially (happy doctor). Ido all of his dispensing, hos-
pital and private. He has a very extensive practice.
There is no other doctor nearer than one way and
the other way (40 miles one way, 60 miles the other).
So you see I often have lo act resident doctor. lean
stitch scalp wounds, set fractures, extract teeth. I charge
2s. Gd. for teeth. lam allowed to keep that. I have 19
patients in now. We admit about 25 a month. They
generally stay about a week or two. A lot suffer from
sore eyes. I have six cases of typhoid. You will be sur-
prised to know the normal temperature (of the blood)
here is 99.4 deg. Fahrenheit. . . . I have sole charge in
the doctor’s absence. ... I make the out-patients
pay Is. a visit. I have got for the month about £'4.
Doctor is going to ask the committee to give me 2s. in
the y. for all money I collect, so that will make my salary
a little more in the year.
Try to imagine one individual carrying out with
efficiency all the following offices : —l. Dispenser
for hospital and private patients within a radius
of 50 miles. 2. Resident surgeon in absence of
qualified medico. 3. Dentist. 4. Hospital col-
lector. 5. Matron. 6. Head nurse. And all,
presumably, for the fat remuneration of a fraction
over 2s. BJd. per day !
* » * *
Jack: “One reason why the military
volunteer system cxn never su ceed among Aus-
tralians. Country town : Local troop formed up
for drill —instruction by Staff-Sergeant Blank from
headquarters. Nos. 1,2, 3, and 4of the front
rank are Poinpos Fitz-Jones, Esq., Algernon de
Bumble, Esq., Dr. Pillgarlie, and young De Vere
from the Banko station. Remainder of troop con-
sists of Tom, Dick and Harry, minus the ‘Esq.’
‘’Tention ! Form fours! By your right—for-
ward ! Fours left; halt; dress ! Come up there
(to Tomdicknarry)—up further. Come up you
b mules ! B you ! you're as slow as b
elephants ! Mr. Fitz-Jones. just back a little,
please ; not too much. There, that’ll do nicely,
thank you. (To Harry) You, there ! sit up
straight, d —- you. A b camel could give
you points. Doctor, kindly dress up a few
inches. A little more, please. That’s it—thank
you, doctor ! ’ ”
* * * *
They have flourishing Mormon communi-
ties at East Brisbane and at Ipswich. A giddy*
holy institution is about the only thing that could
flourish at the latter dreary town, which is the
dumping-ground of more Little Bethels than any
other place this side of the line. Also, the birth-
certificate giving the putative father as “ J. Smith,
residence unknown,” is greatly in evidence at
Ipswich.
Not a house of easy virtue now exists in
Exhibition-street (Melb.), and in Lonsdale-street
remain only those priestesses of Venus who own
their own property. This clearing-out of the city
(of course absolutely useless, as it merely means a
shift to the suburbs and a return to old quarters
when things have quieted down) has been carried
out at the instance of P.M. Panton, who has an
idea that the two streets named ought to be occu-
pied by residential flats and city mansions.
* * * *
The Turner Government proposes to repeal
or radically amend the Victorian Act for the
more speedy starvation of illegitimate children.
Melb. police are continually down upon
tbe Asiatics in the slums, for that over-crowding
which the health authorities ignore. This class is
of the lowest moral and social
grade, and special legislation is
necessary to enforce some slight
observance of the. ordinary laws
of health. A doctor, called re-
cently to a couple of patients
(consumption and pneumonia),
found them in a room 10ft. sq.,
crowded with occupants, sleeping
<i*d cooking amidst an intolerable
frencti. Then hawkers’ packs were slung
on the wall, and doubtless would spread
disease broadcast on the exhibition of their
contents in suburban households. And, alas for
the “silken bonds” ! —these people are “British
subjects.
* * * *
The splendidly-situated beach-reserve at
Manly is in a disgracefal state. It is a mere grass-
less eyesore, given up to banana-peel, old news-
papers, empty tins, broken bottles, and general
smellful frowsiness. If the local municipality
can’t afford to keep its reserves in some sort of
trim, Government should shell-out more liberally,
in view of the fact that the Manly reserves are, at
one time or another, the resort of all Sydney.


All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS hare 110 E i gal
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A Nobleman Shoemaker.
Noblemen of various countries have been found
in many queer positions, and we have no doubt
TTTT!IT!
an
* A
1
IS
bik
m
that some have
been shoemak-
ers before this.
A shoemaker’s
trade is not by
any means the
pleasantest on
earth. It is cer-
tainly a very se-
dentary life to
lead, and this,
combined with
the strained po-
sition that the
work necessi-
tates, is very
likely to bring on digestive complaints, and then
Bile Beans are needed. Digestive ailments arise
from many causes, and observance teaches that
those leading an indoor life are much more subject
to them than others. Pains in the back are one of
the surest symptoms of a deranged liver or stomach,
and when these manifest themselves a remedy
should be instantly applied. Bile Beans for Bili-
ousness are acknowledged the premier specifio for
indigestion, debility, costiveness, piles, pains in
back, dyspepsia, headache, insomnia, female ail-
ments, pimples, and all liver and kidney com-
plaints. They have their origin in the discovery
by an American of a vegetable substance
that has the same v. ifeot on the digestive organs
that the natural biiu has. If you cannot sleep,
cannot eat, cannot work, cannot think, your liver
is out of order, and you need a course of Bile Beans.
Their price places them within reach of everyone ;
sales being wellup in the millions annually is the on 1 v
reason for this, owing to great cost of ingredients *
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 24, 1898.
Mr Dear Myeb—
I have been taking lessons this week from a
bright little book with a lady in red on its cover
and advice within to ladies who write. Until yon
digest the innards of the production, you might
think the pictured lady over-gaudy for a “pen-
hen ” who spreads her bread with Mrs. de
Browne’s family paste, trims up her old black
grenadine with Lady Gros-gros’s last season’s
chiffon, and treats herself to a winter hat
made from the summer roses that adorned Prin-
cess Maudie’s bonnet at the opening of the Mad
Cats’ Institute. But, when you learn of certain
lady fash ion-writers whose wage in bigger than a
Cabinet Minister’s, the gaud assumes a perfect
correctness. And, when you are brought face to
face with specimens of the famous Mrs. Aria's
composition (Mrs. A. is the most conspicuous
fashion-writer in the world), you wonder why the
ladies who do another kind of mangling, and the
ladies who clean orfices, and the ladies who tear
each other’s clothes to pieces with nails instead of
pens, don’t devote themselves to gaud and jour-
nalism straight away.
What do you think of these two specimens? I
offer them because the perusal may pour oil upon
some Cabinet Minister’s wounded pride. “I have
no objection to the lion lying down with the lamb,
the Persian lamb, or rather, I should say, to the
sable being allied to this fur, or to the combination
of black caracule or sable with ermine, any two
furs, or indeed three furs put together. I recognise
as appropriate and elegant, but the frivolous work-
ing of furs with colored satins and silks now
obtaining the affections of the many is not at all
to my taste.” And the next goes one better :“ A
single row of white pearls next to the fair or even
dark throat of a woman has always a beneficial
effect upon her complexion. And, talking about
a beneficial effect upon a woman’s complexion, let
me mention once again the exceeding becoming-
ness of the new shades of blue, these being rather
of a sugar-paper order of blue, but a little lighter
in color, perhaps, yet having that vivid tone about
it. This is freely mixed with dark blue, the
lighter shade being used for making trimmings for
bodices, or indeed to make an entire bodice. The
hat which completes it will take every shade of
blue.” And of such is one of the largest incomes
earned by any woman in the world !
Yet this lady is allowed the last word on dress
in all dressing capitals—prophesies fashion with-
out a failure, shows chiffons the ways they are
bound to go, condemns, invents, introduces, and
has published a big fat boast that she scorns to
treat of fabrics whose cost price is under so many
guineas a yard. With her own income in the
background, she is pitiless in pushing women
along the road to dressmaker’s bills and ruin.
When Australian women get into the grip of her
advice, the husbands of the bills and gilded gowns
may thank me for offering the above specimens on
which the unkind words of the bill-payers can
wreck themselves with the scorn of a just cause.
With that end in view, I recommend the mascu-
line mind to get these gems by heart.
This nice little book is written by a man, and
calls itself a practical guide. But, notwithstanding
Man, some of its hints should be served with a
large amount of salt. The Art of Corresponding
with an Editor opens with a protest against
family history, “your excellent paper which I have
always admired,” and omission of name, address,
and stamp. There’s virtue in that, but then, just
as his cause is winning, the author gives up the
game as meekly as a mouse. “ Resolve to see your
editor, face to face. . . . Ask for him in a firm
voice. . . . Requested to state the nature of
your business, make it as vague and enticing as
possible. ... If the editor is engaged, ask for
an appointment or wait. . . . Refused an ap-
pointment or told that to wait is useless, call to-
morrow or the next day ; be pertinacious, and by
pertinacity you will eventually see him.” And
that little book will go all over the world. And
all over the world women will be hard at work
inventing “vague and enticing business.” And
a new brand of editors, without any teeth and
without any hair, will curse the name of E. B.
Bennet with curses that stay out all night,
because they are too heavy for the ordinary
poultry-roost. Strange to say, this Bennet is
himself an editor of a big woman Vinagazine, and
one’s inference is that he is trying to palm off on
his pals some of his own bad times.
Last Friday, the ghosts of Claudians, Hamlets,
and OtheUos had Her Majesty’s to themselves,
and, Saturday, “ Sign of the Cross ” hoisted itself
aloft again. Cne more lightning stroke was added
to those electric flashes that go wherever Wilson
Barrett goes. In no less than four plays of this
actor’s staging, the lightning fizzles and the
thunder bellows just in time to reveal the wicked-
ness of some bold, bad person. “Claudian,”
“ Ben-my-Chree,” “ The Sign of the Cross,” and
“ Virginius,” are all illuminated by these spasms
of heavenly ire. A big house welcomed the
“Cross” people with the same old welcome.
Everyone was applauded. Wilson Barrett thought-
fully sent bouquets to all the leading lights, and
milk-and-water, and religion, and lightning, fed
and clothed and warmed the audience as comfort-
ably as ever.
Miss Ferrar still springs a surprise on everyone
when she owns up to her affection for Marcus
Superbtis. Julius Knight is credited with the re-
mark that he is as much surprised as anyone when
Mercia tells him lightly that she loves him. The
family likeness between the voices of Miss Ferrar
and Miss Jeffries is more noticeable than ever.
By the way, Maud Jeffries’ photographs have sold
so lavishly in Sydney that one bookshop owns to
doing .£7O worth of biz. in this line alone. What
a lot of people make money out of a popular
actress ! The florists who name their own prices
to her adoring vegetarians, the man who takes her
photographs and sells them to the shops, the shops
that sell them to the people, the dressmakers,
hairdressers, milliners who assist in her attiring
and use her name as a brand for goods that won’t
go off without a brand. To say nothing of the
fashion-writers who desoribe her frocks, and —but
stop—l see the long and doleful line of Johnnies
who have lost by her, and I haven’t the heart to
follow up these reflections.
A second visit to “ The Middleman ” revealed
Mr. Styan in a new black tie, and Charles Tlnirs-
by in a clean shave that put away with the
moustache all likeness to Captain Feilden. But
the change that was most needed had not occurred
at the time of my visit. The house was as little
and thin as ever, and Cartwright’s magnificent
acting was still pouring itself out to comparatively
empty benches.
All sorts of reasons are afloat for the profound
coolnesswith which Sydney play-goers have ignored
these Criterion performances. One reason, which
is just as feeble on its legs as any other reason that
has no right to an existence, states that people
don’t go because Miss Lamb is not Miss Nether-
sole. The impetuous Olga, with her big black
eyes and unreserved stores of passion, was cer-
tainly a witching lady. But why should a golden-
haired actress, with blue eyes and a statuesque
face, be blamed because her eyes don’t flash black
sparks ! As far as the public is concerned, that is
about the depth of their objection. All through
this Australian tour Miss Lamb has never been
taken fairly “on her own.” Miss Nethersole’s
astral haunts her at every step, and all that she
can do goes for nothing, because she cannot play
on Olga’s warm dark lines.
Miss Lamb and Miss Darragh were the victims
of another frost last Thursday. The very high-
toned committee of the Factory Girls’ Ball invited
these ladies to judge the fancy dresses, but four
dresses do not require much judging. The prize-
winner was little Nessie Law, who deserved
another prize for shedding one brief beam along
the dullness of the evening. Dressed as a sprite,
with shiny little wings, she and her bicycle
whisked round the room with much vivacity, and
the gratitude of those people who didn’t know
where to put their yawns was long and pro-
nounced.
There was no wild wrestling over the. Federa-
tion prize. One Mr. Flannigan dressed up as
Henry Parkes, and had the whole field to him-
self. He accepted half his prize-money with a
meekness I cannot think Parkes would have
approved of. The much admired Thursby also
was guilty of a disguise. But I was disappointed
with the Factory girls. Perhaps they didn't go,
or perhaps l was not clever enough to distinguish
Society and Factory without their labels. Any-
way, there was no one there of whom I could say
positively, “ she’s a factory.” On the whole, the
dance was not the cheery entertainment it deserves
to be. These factory girls with their long, hard
hours are a worthy charity, but somehow this
particular committee never draws the public in to
any great extent.
The fashion of the day is still tucked. A light
grey cashmere, pale as smoke on a white cloud,
adorned an at-home lately with hundreds of tiny
tucks that overlapped each other from the neck to
the item. No trimming was needed; the sleeves
were tucked, the grey chiffon sunshade was tucked,
the plisse velvet toque pretended to be tucked, and
a hot crimping iron made imitation tucks over all
the lady’s golden hair. But the simplicity of these
tucks is one of the things that are not what, they
seem. Tn leed, the hair is the only thing that may
be subjected to a home-made treatment.
Sydney musicians are waking from their summer
dreams this month. Some wake with songs on
their lips, some with waltz tunes, and one with an
anthem. Time was, when nobody with proper
self-respect failed to write at least one waltz
a lifetime. And some respected themselves to the
number of two, and some to the number of three,
and so on, until the revolving bubble burst with
self-respect and want of cash. And now, only a
very hardened case puts a waltz seriously before
the public. Self-respect lets itself loose in song
to-day, and the whim of the moment buys warbles
where it used to buy waltzes. Melodies from
popular c-oinic operas have snatched the laurel-
crown from original dance compositions. Local
music-makers will soon make a fortune as readily
from a varsoviana as from a waltz or a polka.
You will be glad to hear that Sydney Hoben,
creator of “ Melons ” and “ Cromaboo,” has
written a graceful little love-song, of the twilight
order, “For L"ve of Thee” (mind you, it is
dedicated to Mr. Burns-Walker). From Mel-
bourne comes a patriotic- cry, “ United We Will
Be,” inscribed to the people of Australia, who
might make a good thing of this song if they all
rose and cried it at a given signal. Otherwise,
there is a lack of excitement in four or five folk
singing united we will be around the piano at an
evening party. Dr. Mcßuruey is responsible for
the music and William Carrington for the words,
and the words have overlooked no correct, con-
ventional national sentiment of my acquaintance,
also the music hides a dearth of originality beneath
a capable mnsicianly cloak. “ The Treasure
Trove” waltz, by F. R. Campbell (Paling & Co.),
is dedicated to Major and Mrs. Ferguson’s infant
son by special permission—of the infant son, or of
his nurse, or of whoever gives permission to infant
sons to accept these dedicated goods. “The
Treasure Trove ” is a painstaking composition
that changes its theme half-a-dozen times, and
desists from wearing its coda into shreds as the
modern waltz delights in doing. And now I come
to my anthem, and am met with the jolly injunc-
tion—-“ Let us make a joyful noise 1 ” (W. H. Glen
and Co.). Of all the music before me, this is the
only muse that alludes to itself as a noise, and
courtesy impels me to recommend the work to
everyone who is unable to make a more joyful
noise of his own. The opening chorus is quick
with melodious life, and the solo is a pleasing
little air with top notes that will be an acquisition
at a monotonous church service. The musician in
this case is Mr. H. Hadwen Chandler.
It is not every musician will lie so missed as
Harry H.vndes, who died in Sydney last week. He
was popular everywhere, and belied his physical
largeness with an affable tranquillity of nature,and
of pianoforte playing. All sorts of happy parties
have revelled among the aesthetic drapes and
lacquers of his rooms at Paling’s. With Harry
for a host, a party could not but be jolly. I feel
sure the harps and violins have brightened up on
the Other Side since ho passed over. It is said
that private means protected him too securely
from over-exertion. Otherwise his thirty-four
years might have run on into the seventies. But
even at seventy his passing would have left a big
cold blank behind.
To lecture on Napoleon Buonaparte is rather an
heroic undertaking in these days, when “ lectures ”
have been pushed into the background by variety
entertainments, and solid, serious discussions are
not permitted out of church hours. Madame
Conolly’s exposition at the Centenary Hall last
week was a quaint performance, embellished with
a white satin empire gown, red roses, and a chic
but baffling foreign accent. The Frenchy-looking
lecturer had a naive liveliness of manner that
made her little audience laugh more than once.
And to make a little audience laugh is a much
more difficult matter than to tickle the fancy of a
big, combustible crowd. Broad smiles broke into
sounds when Madamedescribed the little corporal's
methods when conversing with women. Other
subjects failing, he would ask them how many
children they had. Then a love-letter from Nayj.
to Josephine was read aloud, and its fervent,
flowery fallacies were supplemented by the artless
comment, “/tink it is lofely.”
There is nothing new in the lecturette. No re-
flections, no deductions, and not an overwhelming
store of knowledge. Yet the empire gowns, and
the foreign accent, and the red roses helped along
an entertainment that a serge frock and thick
boots and a twang would have chilled and killed
in two minutes. I gathered from the card that
every sort of patronage, from Government House
downwards, had been bestowed upon this lecture.
Yet there was no one in the five filled rows that
looked like a patron, and it seems that the men-
tion of V.R. patronage is losing its charm even on
the very outer circles.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
‘‘Classical music is having a turn in Melbourne
this winter, to make up for the absence of it last.
r ihe Marshall-Hall orchestral concerts and the
Elsie Hall concerts are in full swing, and there
are other things looming ahead. They are all
well-attended, though all strictly classical, with-
out a bar of rumty-tum-tura, or a song of the
‘ I kissed her in the moonlight ’ order. Thus, at
the first of the Chamber music-concerts, the music
was entirely by Brahms, Schubert, Schumann,
and Raff. Best of all : all this music is inter-
preted by resident artists, not the specially im-
ported and largely-boomed variety ; and is, in
point of fact, all the better for that reason. There
isn t a finer pianist out of Europe than Benno
Scherek, and his playing in Schubert’s Quintet in
A major was something to make one’s hair curl.
‘‘ The Athenaeum Hall was more than two-
thirds filled for the first of Allan’s Chamber
Music Concerts by an audience (mostly women
and very unobtrusively trimmed) that took its
two hours’ entertainment with evident thankful-
ness. A Brahms trio, a bit of Raff and Schubert’s
good old Trout Quintette, got the kindest of
treatment—long-haired Herren Scherek and
Hattenbach, and close-cropped George Weston,
looking less than ever like a fiddler, being c iefly
instrumental in making the other people feel glad
to be there. As an introduction to the Quintette
performance, Herr Rudolph Himmer (what
should we do without our Germans?) gave the
Schubert song of the Trout rather faultily, after
he had warbled ‘Du bist die Ruh ’ with taste
and feeling. The ‘star’ of the afternoon was
Herr Seharf, who tackled Schun.ann’s ‘ Etudes
Symphoniques ’ in masterly style, and was twice
called back to bob his head at his admirers.
Seharf has seldom been heard on a Melb. platform
since the Musins went away, and one had almost
forgotten what a clever pianist he is.
“ In Melbourne the domestic servant is practic-
ally extinct. Suburban registry-office keepers
supply much-sought-after damsels with a list of
competing ‘missuses’ to visit and decide upon
at leisure. One sprite called lately under Ma’s
wing to inspect a possible crib. 'After a stiff
cross-examination of the would-be employer,
mother and daughter withdrew, the former re-
marking austerely ‘We have other interviews
this morning and, of course, Queenie can't accept
the appointment without consulting her Papa.’
A candidate of older growth offered to give the
billet a show on three conditions. (1) House-room
for small harmonium. (2) Christian privileges
(unspecified). (3) Title of ‘ Miss,’ because, as she
explained, the handle made ‘all the difference
outside.’
“ It’s always tin* lie-householder who raises Cain
when laundry or culinary results are not up to the
mark. Theoretically, however, he likes to cham-
pion the down-trodden slavey against the alleged
oppression of tyrants of her own sex. A local
Benedict, ‘Jack’ by name, at one time always
deprecated Jill’s criticism of their then parlor-
maid. ‘1 ou don t take her the right way,’ he
would say. ‘ Look how willing she is to oblige
me.’ When Abigail’s day-out came round
‘ Missus ’ went into the absentee’s room to unearth
the books habitually accumulated by che inmate
from all parts of the house. As she dug out the
volumes front under curl-papers and sieh, her eye
was caught casually by her own and Hubby’s
Christian names writ large on a document spread
open amongst the hotch-potch. Small blame to
the intruder if she promptly consulted the context
of what proved to be a letter from the recipient’s
young man. ‘Jack is too mean to live,’ he wrote
- Wouldn t I like to chew his ear. Suppose
Jill still scrapes her fiddle. Does she keep any-
where nearer the tune than she used ? It's
enough to give you the pinny-ache. ‘
“ T’other evening, when a crowded suburban
train was raided, a ticketless lady waxed pathetic
at the thought of detection, vowing that her dis-
grace must bring down Hubby’s bald head with
sorrow to the grave. A gallant fellow-passenger
gave her his ticket, first noting the number on a
scrap of paper. When the collector reached his
corner the dodger bridled up and said, ‘You’ve
got my ticket already.’ The official denying it,
the argument waxed warm. Porter announced
‘ There are 12 passengers here and I’ve only got 11
tickets.’ Traveller retorted, ‘You’ve got mine
that is all I know.’ Supposed culprit, when asked
to get out of the train, demanded instead that the
station-master should be brought to hear his com-
plaint against the careless employe. The chief,
impressed by the passenger’s cocksureness, said he
was very sorry, but he must accept his subordi
nate’s statement. Then accused brought his last
ship into action, and blustered, ‘ To prove that I
had a ticket, I’ll tell you its number,’ which he
did. The flabbergasted porter, snubbed by the
station-master for his ‘ mistake,’apologised to the
traveller, who pompously pardoned him. What
price chivalry ?
“ Harking back to the ‘ Royal Divorce ’: how
poor Josephine Ferrar’s dress-standard deterio-
rated as the play rolled on ! Beginning with
spangled white brocade, Crown and Imperial
mantle, she sank from short-waisted silk sacque
to matronly purple cloak and Empire bonnet,
draining' the last dregs of all in hooded black
cover-alls. Still, according 1 to contemporary
chronicles, bloated dress-biils first rifted the love-
lute of Napoleon and his Josephine, so an old age
of compulsory frumpdom was a well-earned doom
for the wastrel.
1 ‘ By all accounts, female royalties, past and pre-
sent, seldom loud though often dowdy, are apt in
real life to manifest dislike or jealousy by frigid
disdain rather than slap dash insolence. As love-
sick Berenis, of ‘The Sign,’ Miss Elliot Page
looked patrician anyway.; but the second Mrs.
Buonaparte’s arm-akimbo, nose-in-the-air deport-
ment while visiting Josephine, would sit better
on some purse-proud she-bounder than on a
‘ Daughter of the Caesars.’
“ At the Royal ‘ The Vagabonds ’ finds favor
with big crou ds apt to giggle disturbingly over
the tangled love-troubles of stage grown-ups and
just as ready to ‘ let their tears doou fall ’ for pity
of waifs Dick and Wally.
“ Somehow men (schoolmasters excepted) seem
even more easily melted than women by juvenile
woes, real or imaginary. T'other night a he-
ininate of the d.c. mopped hard all the evening,
but when it became evident that the consumptive
cherub meditated instant heavenward flight, this
torn-down spectator broke up and blundered
blindly to the back, where he blubbered behind a
post, while his ‘ girl ’ kept her seat and chewed
their joint supply of chocolate walnuts. Mrs.
Maesmore Morris, just as pretty as of yore,
and less amateurish, wears, to begin with, a
delightful silk blouse in broad stripes of rose and
white with skirt of dull-rose cashmere. Later on,
as the bride of her Majah, she trips about in
black-and-white check Russian blouse costume
and toque of geranium chiffon. Zouave of silvery
passementerie brightens her black brocade dinner-
gown, and a midnight.alarm enables her to air a
classic robe of yellow cr§pe. Tea-gown, this gar-
ment must be, though in the same scene Emilie
Hughes’s vestment (white nainsook, all inser-
tioned in front) is own cousin to a robe de
nuit. Afterwards both ladies rush off in these
rigs to rescue stabbed Titheradge from the mid-
night streets. Considering that Mrs. Thornton
(Emilie Hughes) need not consider expense, her
feelings towards the ‘ mitherless bairn,’ when once
he stands revealed as somebody else’s chick, in-
cline towards the leathery. Evidently a tigress
woman, who licks her cubs only because they’re
hers, like Thenardier in ‘ Les Miserables.’
“ Nowadays, girl-tourists get back from ’Ome in
black-cashmere frocks, jewelled belts, and hair
packed up into the crowns of Tudor toques. For
dinner-wear, they bring their topknots forward till
they overlook the forehead, and fasten big blowsy
white roses in their low-cut black-satin bodices.
For ball-gowns, white satin is the fabric of the
hour, and, altogether, fashion droops in the clutch
of a reaction from the mad, merry color-mixtures
of recent seasons.
“She-soeiety awaits with jealous forebodings the
home-coming of that orphan heiress and her seven
thousand per annum. Young, graceful, and fas-
cinating, this lucky damsel, having completed her
contimrital education, only waits to be presented
at Court before returning to her native heath.
“A fashionable marriage last week wag the
union of the son of Winter-Irving, a squatting
magnate with a large stucco mansion in Armadale,
and Miss Nellie Pettey, of Brighton. They were
wedded at All Saints, St, Kilda, where so many
high-toned couples have been mated.
“ Overheard in a suburban train a few short
months ago:—‘Freddy, dear, open the window.’
‘No, Gladys, darling; if I do, you’ll catch cold.’
‘ Please, Freddy dearest.’ ‘ No, Gladys sweetest.’
‘ Well, if you don’t. I’ll get another Freddy.’ The
window went up with a loud bang, and the whole
carriageful of tired business-men grinned behind
their ’Erat.ds. The little moral which I would
carefully pin on to the above fragment of endear-
ing converse is that Gladys did get another Freddy
eventually. Freddy the second, for whom No. 1
was mittened, has much coin, and she wa* married
to him the other day.
“The Australian Church choir, with outside help
and Lyric orchestra conducted by A. Levy, suc-
cessfully wrestled with ‘Stabafc Mater’ before a
crowded churchful on Thursday evening. W.
E. Nott, at the organ, played two little things of
his own which pleased the company, and the
orchestra has been worked up to professional
pitch by the conductor. It is the best amateur
band in Melb., and a residuum of good taste left
by the Cowen performances in extravagant Vic-
torian orchestra days, which makes one think that
the money wasn’t altogether wasted, after all.
The sensation of the evening was the plump little
soprano in pink reaching for the high C in the
‘ Inflammatus,’ that languorous, passionate Italian
love-song, which, because it is labelled * sacred
music,’ good people listen to in a church where
they would be horrified at any ‘profane’ min-
strelsy. The soprano was so little and the note
was so high that many in the back rows stood up
at the critical moment to get a full view. But she
came out of the ordeal with great triumph, and
was the success of the concert.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
HZ*.
I; J '
CIGARETTES.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Liverpool apd Lopdoo
*6 lobe li)S6raoC€ Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Hounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853
Empowered by Act N.S.W. Vic. 28,1805.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO-
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Gumming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Katbr, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mack ay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary,
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. Short, Adelaide’s first Anglican Bishop,
had the honor of being for a time tutor to
Gladstone.
R. E. O’Connor, of Convention Bill fame,
is credited by two of the Premiers, who attended
the sittings in Melbourne, with being the most
expert draftsman of Parliamentary measures in
the polities of Australia.
King Malietoa, of Samoa and general
South Sea Island fame, and auctioneer Hardie, of
Hardieand Gorman, were schoolfellows, and still
occasionally correspond by means of presents. Mr.
Hardie’s mother taught the dusky royalty to read
and write.
The Age follows the Argus in office
changes, and soon chief-of-staff Shuler will take
his place among the leader-writers, while Prancis
Fox, late of the Standard, steps in as chief re-
porter. During editor - Windsor’s recent illness,
Shuler has occupied the editorial chair.
S. Gov. Buxton departs for ’Ome in
Dec., ahd it is probable he will not return. H. Ex.
is ambitious to enter the Commons, but it is doubt-
ful if even an English constituency could be found
to elect this homely old man as its member. He
has already made two attempts and failed.
Mr. A. INCLIS-CLARE, the new Tasmanian
Judge.
Never introduce your wife co any man
named Alexander. In M -lb. Divorce Court, the
other day, no less than three Alexanders were
cited as co-respondents. Alexander clearly doesn’t
mean “ a helper of men ” for nothing ! Alexander
means Sandy, and Sandy means Ginger, and
Ginger means—er—co-respondence.
“The Grand Old Man” was the last to
linger of a notable band of intellects born in the
same auspicious year—lBo9. Of these Mendel-
ssohn, the composer, was the first to go in ’47.
Abraham Lincoln followed in ’65, then Darwin in
'B2, Alfred Tennyson in ’92, Oliver Wendell
Holmes, ’95; lastly, W. E. Gladstone, 19th May,
’9B.
The disinterment by Sydney “ Ninety-
Eighters ” of “insurgent-chief” Michael Dwyer’s
bones recalls the gruesome blunder by which,
when the exhumation of D. H. Deniehy’s relics
was in hand, the remains of a hanged man went
very near to playing the leading role in the solemn
procession to Waverley cemetery. Deniehy’s
troubles, too !
Murray Smith, in a silk-lined frock-coat,
an aggressively-glazed white shirt-front, and
giving off a lavender odor, speaking at the smell-
ful Democratic Club : “ A Constitution is a
serious business. It is not to be changed as you
change your shirt.” Single-shirted Democrat,
from back of hall, ruefully : “That’s if you have
one to change.”
Died in Adelaide, May 13, Philip Levi,
who, half a century ago, had a good part of the
northern suburbs of the S. A. capital in his sheep-
run. But, though he turned to city warehouse
business as well, Mr. Levi, like three-fourths of
those who took up large tracts of the northern
areas of S. A., lost very heavily, and died com-
paratively poor.
Chief Justice Madden does not believe in
juries. “No jury can equal a Judge,” was the
gist of his evidence on this point before the Law
Commission.
Nine tailors go to make a man,
A good till or a Lad un,
Blit tijetve mere laymen never can
Quite make a man like Madden !
The Argus learns with surprise that
William Archer, most scholarly of British dra-
matic critics, has a connection with Australia,
inasmuch as he wrote a lurid melodrama, mostly
about bushrangers, for Sadler’s Wells Theatre in
his youthful days. Though a Perth Scotsman by
birth, the Ibsen prophet is the son of an ex-Agent-
General for Queensland, and was out here with
his family in 1876-7.
T. J. Byrnes is the first Roman Catholic
to attain the position of Premier in Queensland.
John Douglas was charged with having ’verted
to R.C.-ism while Premier, in consequence of
Bishop O'Quinn marrying him, but he publicly
denied the statement. Queensland Governments,
however, have almost all been so partial to R.C. in-
terests as to suggest that , the church gains most
when she supports “ libera] ” Protestants.
Major Reay, of Melbourne ’Erald, who
was merely a journalist in uniform when he went
’Ome to the Jubilee with the Vic. contingent, is a
raging loyalist and patriot now-a-days. Reay
shook hands with a princess or two, and Queen
Victoria has sent him an autographed portrait of
her royal self. Reay is undone. He whoops for
the Hempire, and can’t sleep in his bed for wonder-
ing what a man of his distinction ouylit to do next.
If a small boy shouts “ Hoo-reay ! ” the ill-fated
editor takes off his hat.
H. : “Dully, in his autobiog, mentions it
was by bis advice that Marcus Clarke truncated
‘His Natural Life’ for the London publisher,
Bentley. Clarke humbly sent the whole story, as
published in the Australian Journal, to Duffy,
who said that both the introduction and ending
must be cut away, while the central part would
serve, suitably written up to and down from.
Clarke altered the story to improve the motivation
—always a dangerous process. In the original
Lalor is Peter Brawler.”
Millionaire Gov. Brassey’s solicitude for
the people of Victoria and his desire that they
should receive his greetings was characterised by
his usual regard for economy. Did he march to
the nearest telegraph office in London, and pay
like a man for sending out his precious greetings ?
Not he ! He went to the Agent-General’s and
got them cabled at the country’s expense. Now,
if the Audit Office is courageous it will disallow
the cost of that cable, and insist on having it
deducted from Brassey’s screw.
N. : “The clerical remark about the
Crotty bequest giving work to the poor in build-
ing the useless St. Patrick’s spires, recalls a yarn
about Spurgeon. Pastor Hatcher, from theU.S.,
visited this idol of his, at Beulah Hill, the nicest
spot in London, where Spurgeon had his snug
earthly mansion. Says the severe Hatcher:
‘ Brother, this ought to have been given to the .
poor.’ Spurgeon: ‘So it was, brother, so it
was. But I made ’em work for it. You wouldn’t
have me encourage Sloth, would you ? ’ ”
“Saw Phil May the other day,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “His
Annual has now been bought by VV. Thacker and
Co., of India and London, an enterprising pub-
lishing firm, and May expects to benefit materi-
ally by the change. ‘ Harry ’ Thompson, formerly
of Melbourne, and now of the Daily Mail, has
been asked to take the editorship. Phil has
changed but little, and although he explains a
malformation of the jaw prevents him saying
‘ no,’ is doing better work than ever—judged by
the sketches for the summer (June) number of his
Annual. ”
The-'answer to “Who was the founder of
Sunday journalism in Sydney?” is not W. H. L.
Bailey, I. R. Cohen, or any other of the crowd
named in current controversies. George Howe
and the Botany Bay Governors were the founders.
The Sydney Gazette, the first newspaper at this
end of the world, started as a Saturday, but, by
* order of the Governor and for the convenience of
the printer, was published on Sundays from the
year 1803 to 1843. That is, N.S.W. had a Sunday
journal for 30 years before any of the present
claimants were born.
Fitz Gibbon, of Melbourne, has given birth
to a great idea. The other day there was a
Masonic celebration at the grave of the late Grand
Master, Baronet Clarke, and Fitz arose, and hit
his chest, and spouted much about the deceased
baronet. Finally he got down to his idea : “As
thousands in England gather about the statue of
Lord Beaconsfield on Primrose Day, so, I trust,
will the people of Victoria mark the day when Sir
William was called from their midst.” This is the
climax of Eitz’s folly, but the Poet of the Sewers
is evidently sincere in his respect for the late
Grand Master, or else he would have written a
poem about him.
Martin
Lough nan,
deceased Bal-
larat money -
bag, was a man
of ingenuous
conscientious -
ness. Once,
when acting
as judge at
the local races,
he had backed
the horse that
ran second.
The winner
belonged to
Charles Era-
ser, st i pen-
diary steward.
There could
be no mistake
as to the win
Fraser’s
horse was
head and half-
a - neck in
front. But
there was con-
siderable delay
in setting up
the numbers.
Fraser asked
the reason.
“Well, Char-
ley, me bhoy,”
said Lough-
nan, “it was
just this way.
I’d backed
the other harse
for a century,
d ’ye mind,
and so had
my natural
doubts as to which harse w'on. But as I con-
sidered you wanted money more nor me, ould
man, I give it to your harse. So now we’ll have a
bottle of fizz over the niatther.”
John M’Elhone, M.P. (N.S.W.), no doubt
died from the indirect effects of the over-exoite-
ment incidental to his Parliamentary career. His
denunciations in debate were invariably delivered
while the speaker was at a white heat of both
mind and body ; his speeches, or rather his pro-
tracted series of yells, could be heard 100 yards
away from the Assembly. The present writer,
when living in Macquarie-street opposite Parlia-
ment House, has more chan once been long kept
awake at night by M’Elhone’s yells, escaping
through open windows right at the other side of
the street.
AT THE CONCERT.
HERR ROTTENSHINGLE (arriving somewhat late, hopefully):
“ Dere vas some chairs in der gallery, mein friend?”
IMMACULATE YOUTH : “ Oh, yes—lots!”
H. R. (excitedly) : “ Ach! dat is goot!”
I. Y. (calmly): “ They've all got people in ’em at present,
though !”
“ The ha’penny Daily Mail moves into
.£120,000 offices shortly. It threatens to reach a
sale of 750,000 daily if the Spankee war breaks
out, and has started a special office and staff in
New York on the chance,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “ The present circula-
tion is 440,000, and the new machinery will allow
of this being outputted almost in an hour, at the
rate of 7000 copies a minute. The managing
editor, S. J. Pryor, is 32, and was 10 years in
American journalism, and has profited thereby.
Of the same age are the ‘smartest news editor in
London,’ Lincoln Springfield, and his assistant,
Melbourne ‘Harry’ Thompson, one of the five
Australians or ‘ half - and - halfs ’ on the staff.
George Bull (erstwhile of Sydney Star), one of
the oldest hands, has done well : Crossley, sub-
editor for many years on the S.M. Herald, and
Dr. Rubie, son of Edward Rubie of Freeman’s
Journal and the Express, and Arthur Lynch,
Paris correspondent, are the others. Rubie was
born and bred at Bathurst, and holds the Sydney
University M.A. It may, therefore, be assumed
that the ‘ liveness ’ of the Australian atmosphere
is in some way responsible f<>r the Daily Mail
having the highest advertising rates in England
AN EYE FOR COLOR.
STRANGER : “ What became of that artist chap that was prospecting up these parts? ”
NATIVE : “ Oh, he struck a reef of the yellow stuff, sold out, painted the town red,
blued all his money, and cleared out !”
Gladstone was a great intellect., a splendid
worker, and a good Christian, as ambitious world-
lings go, but nevertheless his cabled nnirmurings
of the Lord’s Prayer on his deathbed remind one
of Labouehere’s bitter gibe at the Grand Old Man
—“ I wouldn’t complain of the cunning old fox
always having an ace up his sleeve, if he didn’t
pretend that God Almighty had put it there.”
The best Gladstone anecdote ? It would
be hard to beat Palmerston’s measurement of his
dialectical skill in the Garibaldi story. “ What
shall we do with Garibaldi ? ” asked a cabinet
colleague in 1848 when the continued presence in
England of the Italian Liberator was becoming
embarrassing. “Oh,” said Pam, “marry him to
the rich Miss X , and then get Gladstone to
explain her away !”
A very well-known N.S.W.
citizen of Irish extraction, who has
been married more than twice, was
asked recently if certain of the chil-
dren were by his present wife.
Oh, no !’’ was the response
“ they are by my future wife.”
An old-time Vandemonian
settler was George Anstey —father
of Chisholm Anstey, a notable of
the British House of Commons 50
years ago. Old Anstey was a man
of one phrase. He summed up the
resources of the English tongue in
his constant ejaculation—“ None
so dusty ! ” Did he like his dinner?
—t’was “ none so dusty.” How
was his health? —“oh, none so
dusty.” On a sermon preached by
Bishop Nixon at Campbell Town
the old chap bestowed bis highest
praise with—“ none so dusty, my
lord—none so dusty.” And even
when he was dying, and the doc-
tor asked him how he felt? he
gasped, “ None —so —dustv ! ” and
passed out.
That celebrated “ tough,”
Bill Nash, was once cock of the
gambling walk in Sydney. He
was an emancipist, and retained all
the habits and language of the
chain-gang. But he had his'vir-
tues, for once when a callous
youth with more money than brains
bad a dicing bout with Bill, the old
sinner, after he had scooped the
youngster’s cash, said to him,
“Look here, my chicken, when I
was a kiddie like you, I did just
•what you have done—l lost my coin
to a sharper. And it made me so
mad that I set to work to learn the
trade. And that sent mo out here.
But your sort could never learn how
to do it It needs an extra-sized
oocoanut to nm the gambling biz.
Besides, you couldn’t do two years
and be the better for it. So, see
here. Give me your word, on the
honor of your mother, that you’ll
never touch the bones again, or the
pictures, or anything else in the
gambling line, and there’s your
money back.” The youth gave
the promise, and kept it; and now,
as an old man, he has kept a kindly
thought for Bill Nash.
Another sample of the working-miner s
pluck. In a Kalgoorlie shaft two mates, Wall
and Symonds, fired a shallow 20in. hole, and got
in the bucket. But the edge caught—did you ever
try being hauled up a shaft in a bucket?—and
Wall fell about 25ft. Symonds signalled first to
stop and then to lower (he was down 225 ft.), and
got to the bottom in time to nip out the fuse and
save his mate. It was all the pluckier because of
the shortness of the fuse and the certainty that at
best he could have only a few seconds to spare.
Numbers of Q. papers keep on repeating
the assertion that T. J. Byrnes is the youngest, of
Queensland Premiers—an assertion which is in-
correct, R. W. Herbert having held that position
at the early age of 28 years and six months. Geo.
Thorne held the position in his 37th year—so
Byrnes’s laurels (in this respect) are slightly faded.
It is, however, perfectly true that Byrnes has been
continuously in possession of a portfolio : true also
that T. J. 13. has attained his Premiership without
ever having sat in the cold shades of Opposition —
a fact that speaks volumes for his luck, but is nob
an absolute voucher for his pugnacity and staying
power. '
A branch of the Westralian Leakes settled
iu Tasmania while it was still known as
Van Diemen’s Land. Bought land on the
Macquarie River, and waxed rich. One scion
of the family, known as “Billy,” was pretty
dotty. Bought COO bonnets once in one lot.
“Come in handy some time,” he remarked
with a knowing Morinonite wink. Another time,
as a wedding-guest, Billy walked in amongst a
flock of ladies in his hostess’s room and calmly
proceeded to take off his riding-breeches. “Don’t
be alarmed, ladies,’’ he observed as the women
scuttled away —“ I’ve got two pair o’ trousers
on !’’ Billy was just one shingle short of a
genius, and, as it was, he wrote “poetry.” and
never had his hair cut.
Gladstone had no saving sense of humor,
and his grave speeches on ridiculous occasion*
provided much easy joking for the Hinglish
“ comic ” papers. Notably the incident of a large
deputation journeying down to Hawarden to
present him with a blackthorn stick. He care-
fully inspected the gift and spake : “It is an
excellent stick, beautifully polished, light to the
hand, and very serviceable to a walker. I would
not like to get a blow from a strong arm with this
stick. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all try to be
as useful in our several capacities as this stick is
in its humble capacity.” The “comics,” of
course, burst forth with imaginary G.O.M. ad-
dresses in acknowledgment of presentation hats,
boots, &e., from his devoted disciples. Glad-
stone held ridicule in contempt, whereas Disraeli
Beaconsfield was keenly conscious of its political
value. Dizzy condescended to snub an inane
jingo—one Tracy Turnerelli —who had procured
through public subscription a chaplet of laurels
wrought in gold for the head of the Tory party.
Gladstone would have accepted the same bauble
in all seriousness. Probably he would have worn
it for a few minutes whilst delivering a discourse
on the signification of laurel-chaplots in ancient
Rome.


“ THREE GOOD THINGS ”
. . Madk i.v England. . .
Holbrook’s m,,. Sji uco
Holbrook’s Pickles
Holbrook’s *■»*“* Vinegar
68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce h * s been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
AUK SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
•IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
A Melbourne Manufacturer’s Complaint.
Mr. A. Johansen, of the well-known firm of
Johansen, Oast wood, and Co., bookbinders and
manufacturing fully explains in the
following terse letter :
“308 Lonsdale-st., Melbourne,
“ 29th January, ’9B.
“ Ten years ago I suffered from pain in my back
to such an extent I could not stand to my work,
and had sometimes to be taken home in a cab. I
took Warner’s Safe Cure, twelve bottles in all, and
although l did not keep to the prescribed diet I
have not had a pain in my back since, and I con-
sider that Warner’s Safe Cure cured me.” It cures
backache and all kidney and liver disorders.*
•+
The profits of one London philatelic firm
for 1897 on salo of used foreign stamps reached
over £50,000 ! “ Mostly fools ! ”
FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH.
Sir Henry Horpons was found on his death bed
with one of Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes in his
mouth. True to the last.*
By far the Best Victorian Coal
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Flinders Buildings, 312 Flindei’s-st., Melbourne.
Aboriginalities.
T.H.M.: “The best bit of rough-riding I
ever saw was done in the ’6o’s, on Tin-pot station,
Weddin Mountain district, by one Maher. The
yard was full of colts, and he bet a fiver that he’d
ride any of ’em without bridle. He was taken up;
and they picked an old gelding that had killed
two black boys. He was put in the crush, where
Maher mounted him, and got him into a spare
yard. We all thought the rider mad, but the
horse was madder still. Didn’t wait to buck, but
went straight for the outer gate, which he hit full
butt, knocked over, and was off along the road.
We got our horses and followed, and just managed
to keep in sight—or, rather, in sight of the dust—
for 15 miles. By this time the brute had steadied,
and the rider was trying to steer him with a
waddy when we came up. We managed to yard
horse and rider that evening at the Bald Hill sta-
tion, 40 miles from where they started by the
way they took.”
* * * •
X.Y. : “Talk about ‘living on the pro-
ducts of the land,’ they do it in real earnest up
New England way. A saddler lately settled in a
small N.E. township with a view of establishing
a business, and, after waiting three weeks, his
first ‘ customer ’ entered the shop and paralysed
the leather-man by asking for a pair of stringy-
bark stirrup-leathers. The saddler also noticed,
with further disgust, that his would-be constituent
wore vegetable-marrows with the ends cutoff and
centre cut out by way of leggings 1 ”
• * • *
Pounce : “ The man from wayback has
hard feet. Saw a bushman milking cows one
winter morning, heavy frost on ground. He
scorned boots ; Nature’s covering suited him.
Bailed up strawberry cow, butted his head firmly
against her body, and started work. Cow kicked
and then placed her hind hoof square on foot of
milkman, who calmly milked on, and, when done,
pulled his foot by main force from under hoof of
cow, hitting same against fence to restore circula-
tion. Then he whistled, and tackled the next
cow.
* * * *
When Robert Simson ran his station on
the lower Boyne (P. Curtis), the hands had rather
a good time. A favorite occupation of theirs
when the old man was away was shark-fishing
near the mouth of the river. One day, after doing
a little branding at the yards, they adjourned to
the river close by to indulge in their customary
recreation. When three or four sharks had been
caught, one of the party, inspired by the devil of
cruelty and mischief, heated the branding-irons,
clapped the station-brand on the twisting brutes,
and then, with the help of his mates, turned the
branded fish back into the river. A month or so
after, a newly-arrived jackeroo, while fishing on a
"lay, hauled out a voung shark and found, to
THE NEW LITERATURE .
BRISISH AUTHOR (just landed on island) : “I come, little One, to an unhackneyed field to seek
material for an out-of-the-common novel . Loves of brown women and white men—
and all that sort of thing , you understand. ”
CHIEF’S DAUHTER: “Capital idea; only we used up the last white man this morning for
breakfast, and pa has just gone out in his canoe to look for more. I wonder how he
missed you!”
his wonderment, the Simson brand on its hide,
Went straight to the boss, almost crazy with
wonder, and ejaculated: “My deah sir, while
fishing down the rivah, I actually caught a fish
with your brand on. Would you mind glancing
over me a bit, for I’m uncertain as to whethah
you haven’t got your brand on me as well.”
T - . * . * , T . ’ , *
Jvosciusko: Ke Jinda on the extremes
of cold on Kosciusko and the Snowies. I was in
Kiandra in ’9O to see the snow-shoe races. Snow
was only about 2ft. deep in the open, but the
recorded temperatures were very low, and rarely
as high as 32deg. at mid-day. The New-Chum
elevated tail-race beside the town was fringed with
icicles 10 to 15ft. long and several feet thick.
Early in the mornings the telegraph wires were so
thickly coated with frost that they were the size
of a ship’s hawser. One night when the tempera-
ture was 48deg. below freezing point all the fowls
in town died and remained rigidly frozen to their
perches until a thaw set in a couple of weeks later.
All the beer and stout in the hotel was frozen, and
the boys told me that in severe winters even the
spirits froze, and the barman would then knock the
heads of his barrels in and serve out drinks by
chopping a sliver of rum or whisky off with a
tomahawk. This practice of chewing one’s drink
is said to fully account for the fact that all the old
hands in the locality have their teeth worn to
stumps.
* * * *
S.S. : “Read a par. in ‘ Aboriginalitiea ’
recently, in which it was declared that pigs are
proof against the bite of a snake. Evidence to
the contrary : A Drouin (Vic.) farmer tells of the
destruction of five pigs in two days ; cause, black
snake or snakes. The bereaved agriculturist saw
the reptile dart his head from under the feed-
trough, and fix his last victim with a nip on the
snout or under lip.”
• * • •
So remarkably good has the season so far
been in S.W. Queensland and far N.W. N.S.
Wales that many stations west of the Darling and
Paroo have tidy stacks of Mitchell and other
native grasses; and the question is discussed
whether something can’t be done systematically
towards cultivating them. But, unfortunately,
the trail of the bank and the mortgage co. is
heavy over that part, and about as much is likely
to come of the discussion as of the long-talked-of
and very necessary cultivation of the edible
bushes and scrub.
* * • •
Dear B.—Please shut down on your
jackass-cam-snake controversy, for it is under-
mining the faith of Young Australia in his lesson-
books. On page 53, 2nd class reading-book, he is
told : “It (the goburra) also kills young snakes
whenever it can catch them, and so prevents those
dangerous reptiles from becoming too numerous.”
-P.
* * • *
Ed. Bulletin.— Re that good old fly-bung
subject, let me state with certainty that the fly
does not sting; the mischief is caused by a small
red-colored louse upon the body of the fly. This
parasite is thickly covered with minute spines,
contact of which with the eye causes the “bung."
The N.W. aborigines settled the point for me long
ago.—Bulger, Roebourne, W.A.
* * « »
C.D. (Monaro) : “‘6xB’ errs in stating
that the lyre-bird cannot imitate the laughing-
jackass. Self and mate were camped in the
Yaouk mountains near Kiandra recently, when p
lyre-bird came within 80yds. of our tent and d'
perfect imitations in turn of the laughing-jackass,
butcher-bird, black cockatoo, gang-gang, and
other birds.”
* * • *
The Brisbane clergy (or at least a section
of them) seem to be rather jealous of the success
attending Q. Govt’s late treatment of aboriginals.
There is too much unholy, secular simplicity
about the Mestonian scheme of drifting tne un-
happy remnant of the nigs, off to an island and
allowing them there to lead the natural life of
savages as they did before our advent. Parson-
dom wants permission to run a farm of 128 acres
with the aid of aboriginals rescued from the claws
THE MAYOR AND CORPORATION OF THE BOROUGH
OF BILA BONG ALONG.
of Satan. If this be not done there is danger the
blacks may actually drift bade to the deplorable
condition they were in before the arrival of the
“Blessed Gawspel.” And the Q. Home Secre-
tary brutally refused to meddle with the Mes-
tonian or pagan system in favor of the system par-
sonic, wherefore the hapless Q. aboriginal will
continue to shoot cheerfully down to Sheol in the
wake of the Sacred Ibis.
* * • *
Spot: “ lie black cockatoos’ nests. In
’BO, at Station Creek, a tributary of Tower Hill
Creek, a black showed me a nest in the hollow of
a gum-tree. The hole was not more than Gin.
deep, and there was one young bird in it. The
Barcoo niggers in those days often got nests, but
never containing more than one young bird.”
* * * *
Boiardo : “Re the Q. black cockatoo, I
have found several nests with young in them on the
Lower Barcoo, between Isisford and Stony Point.
They build in hollow sprouts, much the .same as
galahs, and other parrots. Very hard to rear the
young ones, have tried it several times, but about
six weeks was the longest time I had one to live.
Never found their nests anywhere else.”
* * * *
“ In the old days in the bush on the Man-
chester Block the mosquitoes were so numerous
that the men employed in felling the forest used
to catch them in handfuls, roll them up into balls,
squeeze the juice out, and afterwards use the
liquid, diluted with a little gin, as a cure for
sprains or bruises.” — M.L. print.
* * * *
W. y. M‘C. : “ ‘Some more’ bigger loads
of wool. In ’93 a bullocky brought 14 tons odd of
wool from Gurley Station to Narrabri, and, next
season, the ‘ carrion choppers ’ (horse-drivers), not
to be outdone, sent one of their number in with
17 tons odd from Barton’s Burren Station, pulling
it through the Namoi River at ‘ Mollie ’ crossing.
A few weeks later Dick Turbot—bullocky again—
landed in with 18 tons odd from Edgeroi Station.
Then Tom Scott’s horse-team loaded up 20 tons at
Gurley, and pulled it until his waggon, anew
broad-tyre, broke down.”
• * • *
Snell : “ The best and most stirring bun-
yip-scare I ever struck was in the vicinity of a
small Tas. mining town. For three or four nights
there had been strange talk of a horrible monster
in the vicinity of Bullfrog Lagoon, a swamp sur-
rounded by scrub and timber. Several people had
heard its bellowings, and one or two had come
running into the township, wild-eyed and grey
with horror, stuttering frantic yarns about a white
beast as big as a horse, with a long, black
head like a hippopotamus, seen on the edge of
the lagoon. The last of these induced a small
party to take guns, and start a bunyip-hunt at
midnight. I chipped in, and after an hour’s
walking and another hour’s hunting a muffled
bellowing and a yell from Angus brought us all
together, breathless, at the water’s edge.
There stood Angus, paralytic with various
emotions, pointing a trembling hand across
the swamp towards a weird white animal dis-
tinctly visible in the moonlight, standing knee-
deep in the water, and tossing its barrel-shaped
head up and down, whilst uttering a blood-
curdling call and breathing smoke. Two guns
went up. * Don't shoot! ’ gasped Angus. ‘ Take
him alive, and our fortune’s made.’ One remained
to watch : the rest started to stalk the bunyip.
We stalked with such care that we were over an
hour and a-half getting near enough to the beast
to discover that it was a cow. The animal’s head
was jammed in a powder-keg that somebody had
used as a flour-barrel; she was covered with flour,
and when she ‘mooed’ with more than ordinary
vigor still blew a respectable cloud. We removed
the unfortunate cow’s muzzle, and went sadly and
silently home.”
Face: “The only Australian tobacco
growers who really knock a living out of the game
are the Chinese—and not many of them. Also, it
is a very poor living. The common or “cabbage’’
Chow is a bloated aristocrat compared with the
tobacco Chinaman, who mostly subsists on rice
and ’possum, and sleeps up a hollow log.
Even with this, it takes all a Chinaman
knows to make it pay. In Riverina, the
writer has seen the Chow, after he had
cut and hung the tobacco-leaf, sprinkle it
over, first with water, then with dust.
Many dustings on a few thousand
leaves puts a bit of weight
on, and the smoker has a
little dirt to flavor his
“ toby.”
Johnson was an old
campaigner passing his last
few years on a 20- acre-
clearing patch out Binda-
roo way. One day he
mounted his nag and rode
off for a week without in-
forming the neighbors of
his intention. A blazing
log set the hut a-fire an
hour or two after his de-
parture, and by the time
folks arrived to extinguish
the conflagration the place
was in ashes. Where was
Johnson ? Careful search
among the ashes brought
to light a number of bones
and buttons—and, as John-
son must have had bones
and buttons of his own, it
was decided these were the
remnants of Johnson. Lo-
cally-empannelled jury de-
cided further it was a case
of accidental death by
burning. Bones were ac-
cordingly buried, and a
collection taken up to de-
fray funeral charges. . . .
Johnson rode back just in
time to be asked to give
a sub. to bury himself de-
cently.
* * *
W. : Tea, dried bark,
and leaves are common
emergency smokes; but I
saw a swaggie smoking dry
horse-dung, a supply of
which he carried in a little
bag, lest there should be
no horses ahead. “ Fus-
rate for cigarette blokes,” he remarked, “ but too
damn mild for me.”
* * * *
Another fact re the eternal tick question.
A tick-infested cow will lie down, and imme-
diately the fowls will make a rush at her and
commence to gobble up the pests with which she
is infested. Fond of them ? Should think they
are. Won’t touch maize while ticks are plentiful.
* * • *
Nil: “ Have any of your bush naturalists
noticed that the great majority of calls of Aus-
tralian animals are produced in duo by two of the
same species (male and female) ? The cross-cut-
saw-like cry of the koala (native bear), the ‘ ehee-
cheedle’ of the peewit, the ‘t’zeek, tz-z-zeek ! ’ of
the grasshopper, and the very similar sound of the
big cicada are all examples. ’.Possums also vive
alternate cries ; and the familiar call of the land
* curlew ’ is really the combined notes of two indi-
viduals.”
* * * *
A cheerful correspondent from up Mun-
gundi way :
Dear Bulletin. — I’ve been up at Mungundi, and now
proceed to let down the tailboard of my intellect. Mun-
gundi stands—or rather staggers—on both sides of the
Barwon. It is, therefore, divided by water, but that
element never otherwise causes dissension there. It con-
sists, principally, of five pubs, and a brewery and two
stores. So much sack to so little bread ! It is the cham-
pion drinking town of the district—and the dustiest.
Everything is dusty in Mungundi-'-houses, timber and
people. All but the girls. They’re not so dusty. One
half of Mungundi gets drunk one week and the remainder
next week. That’s when no one is in with a cheque.
Then, the collective manhood of Mungundi arises in its
mighty thirst, leaves “the missus’’ to shepherd things
and abandons itself to a blissful delirium and booze,
until the new-comer is reduced • to chalking up “ Jimmy
Woodsers” on his own. The biggest cheque ever taken
into Mungundi melts in a week. If it lasts so long, the
Govt, usually provides the coffin. The programme of the
visitor with a big cheque, is Ist day, drunk ; 2nd, very
drunk : 3rd, beastly drunk ; 4th, jim-jams ; sth, jumping
jim-jams ; 6th, assorted jim-jams with streaks of sheol;
7th, Planted. One fate meets all visitors ;in one sense or
the other they are soon stiff. There is a legend that one Q.
drover, whose inn’ards had been tanned by Barclay table-
land home made grog, saw a cheque through for a fort-
night in Mungundi, and then won, first, £IOO, and then
a citizen’s wife, at two-up. But this is a mere fable ; not
only because no Mungundi citizen would have £IOO while
there was a pub in the country, but also because his
calm sagacity would prompt him to stake the old woman
first. This slander is attributed to the malignant jealousy
of Collarendabri—a one-dog township down rhe river,
that can t raise a decent drunk—even on Sundays. Why,
they never had but one case of the horrors there in five
years, and he was a Mungundi man ! In Coll., etc., they
only get up twice a week, whilst at Mungundi they seldom
go to bed at all.


A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of
doubtful quality when the “ D.C.L"” Scotch
(Black Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thoroughly matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity.*
“I thought I had a Stamp.”
Many inquiries having been made at this office foi
the above humorous picture by “ Hop ” which
appeared in The Bulletin as a coloured supple-
ment some years ago (and which has been long out
of print) Mr. Hopkins has, by special permission of
The Bulletin, executed an etching of the work,
and a limited number of signed artist’s proofs
may now be had only on application to this
office. The proofs are printed on Whatman’s
“Creswick ” drawing paper, 14 x inches ; size
of plate, x 12. As every detail has been carried
out by the artist himself (including the printing)
these proofs have all the value of an original
drawing. This will be an exceptional opportunity
to possess an example of “ Hop’s ” work, which is
rarely to be seen outside the pages of this paper.
On receipt of Three Guineas we will send l>v
post or parcel delivery to any address.
BULLETIN OFFICE,
214 George Street, Sydney.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOTJNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear Statei height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE It HOIHE US,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Answers to Correspondents.
Photo., Elliott & Fry, London. THE LATE W. E. GLADSTONE.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
<T.F. : Where do you get your knowledge of
Almighty William from, and did you examine him in his
ten languages? Kings have an all-round education thrust
upon them, but they can remain insufferable blowhards
to the end Scot : Can’t track the Scottish joke to its
lair. Presume there is a Scottish joke concealed some-
where in the paragraph W. : The cable reports Stod-
dart as saying that the Australians hadn’t received
sufficient credit for their brilliant play .... The Lyre : A
gross variant of Goodge’s deft verses; also, it would
deservedly get us seven years, to say nothing of the
squatter’s libel action. Did you really expect this paper
to print such a thing? £46: Unavailable Winda:
Will print “ Eloa.” Nil : That’s all right.
E. : Not a face but a soul Sola S. : Charities, in con
nection wit# religion, are, for the most part, side-shows,
which help in an unobtrusive fashion to maintain
a luxurious clergy Edith S. D. : Submitted to artist.
C.W. : Just iook here': the man who labels his
alleged verses “ poems ” is as objectionable as he who has
the gall to label himself “ Esq. ” on his addressed-for-
return envelope. “ Wake ” good .... Sendora : Bulletin
doesn’t want ten lines where three will do. As it can’t
afford the time to boil down every proser’s copy it per-
force passes thousands of items C.W.S. : Many of the
N.S.W. Parliamentary opponents of the Convention Bill
are fighting, poor wretches, for very existence. To them
the question is one of plenty versus hunger—the Parlia-
mentary refreshment-room versus the soup-kitchen .....
Mirama: Well, your 13-.vear-old handwriting is firm
enough for 30. But poetry will wait five years 8.E.:
Article unusable ... L.M.D. : Jackass-rhyme not bright
enough .... O’S. (Wellington): Seems you dropped your-
self through a hole in Space and found it at the bottom
of nowhere before you kicked yourself up anywhere .....
Tyagong : Half a-dozen familiar people have said it much
better Anonymous (Cairns): Possibly B.G. :
Thanks; but item hardly virtue enough L. : Ghost-
yarns dull, unless very cleverly handled Tambourine :
Come back in a couple of years .... G.S. : “ Deadbeat
wails” no longer Ivan P.: Verse possibly J.J.P.:
Worth comment ; but yours not the right comment
Prospect Good : Doubtful Helen P. :N it much force.
“ Wistful Face ” best, but “ struok ” doesn’t rhyme with
“shook.” Pitchery : Thanks J.J.O’M. : Will print.
C.W.O. : We knew by our scratched finger that it
was a feminine screed. Man always puts the pin-point
out of harm’s way ; woman, dear creature never !
Grif : Ice-yarn venerable. Boot-item slightly varied from
story about Sheridan, the dramatist .. Adam H. :(M.C.) :
Yes, previous publication always debars. Other two
often been printed. Some of rest may use W.P.;
Rather striking idea, but needs more robust telling
R.C. : Rubbish! We occasionally call His Eminence
Cardinal Patrick Francis Moran “ Mr. Moran,” just to
remind ourselves that, in our opinion, he is but human
and mortal after all Julius : Don’t know; unless you re
thinking of the skit on the Royal Marriage Act—
Quoth Tom to Dick—“ This Act appears
Absurd, as I’m alive !
To take the Crojyxn at 18 years—
The wife at twenty-five ! ”
Quoth Dick to Tom—“ Thou art a fool,
And little know’st of life;
Alas ! ’tis easier far to rule
A kingdom than a wife 1 ”
p, ; is it original? Submitted to artist
P!t.F. : Will print “Awakening." M.E. : N.S. Wales
wants no more ex-preachers in the Assembly. Experi-
ence proves them a most undesirable lot Exclusive :
Clearly malicious. The lady conies of a refined family,
and being well-behaved and very charming could go any-
where. A well-behaved and extremely pretty woman is
always “in society.** Leah: Good observation, but life-
less style Ethel G. : Not strong enough Dave M.:
You are “too tired to swear?’ Well, we’re not /
Dick : Scarcely out of the ruck G. Eastgate : Too
much talkee-talkee Billy T.: Not up ; but doesn’t call
for the severity' you deprecate Rusty : Very ! ana
we’ve no time to polish you Pattie : Faintly humor-
ous, but too slight Old Guard: May use Lucy
A. W.: Tennyson-and-water Mimee : Neither new nor
true.
The Australian Star, in its special anti-
Billious issue of May 18, fired off once more the
old, bald assertion that “ everything points to the
Federal capital being in Victoria.” Everybody
knew perfectly well, from the day the Bill was
drafted, that the Federal capital wouldn’t be m
Victoria nor in any of the other states, because it
is expressly provided that the place selected is to
be taken from the province which now owns it
and made into a separate Federal territory. But
the good old lie still goes round just the same.
C.C. : Soon after my arrival in Newcastle
some years ago, I was “ doing the shipping for a
local paper when an old square-at-both-ends dere-
lict was hauled under the cranes to load sudden
death for ’Frisco. The first truck-load dropped
into her with a dull, sickening thud, instead of
being lowered gently into the hold, and up popped
a red-faced ruffian above the bulwarks. “Good
Gord, haul tight ! ” he yelled, shaking his fist at
the crane-boy. “ D’ye want to drop the coal right
through the blanky old hooker!” “ Keep yer
wool on, ole man,” retorted the crane-boy, , it s
all large coal, so yer needn’t be ’fraid o’ the
screenin’s gitting through ’er.” I passed on,_
humming— u make the punishment fit the crime.
AN IMPORTANT OMISSION.
MISTER O’REGAN : “ Eight ’ours labor, eight ’ours
racreation, eight ’ours rest — thot’s twinty-
fower ’ours. Phwat?”
D OOLAN: “ Begobs, yer roight!”
O’R.: "Now, phwat toime’s a bloke got fer slapin?”
(They give it up.)
Waverley (Sydney) municipal council is
considering the possibility of reclaiming Bondi
sand-wastes for pastoral purposes by the planting
of “ marram ’’-grass, the usefulness of which m
stopping sand-drift has been effectually demon-
strated in Southern Victoria.
“ Ishmael Dare ” writeajapropos Lawson
and his book of prose sketches .
This is the book of Australia-the man who claims that
name, not from an accident of birth, but because his
whole life and character have been shaped in spit* of
himself by the land that owns him. The Britisher, to
use a convenient Yankeeism-is much the same all the
world over as long as he is the master, dominating and
taming the new land of which he has taken possession
In minor habits, in the use of new’ varieties of colloquial
speech the man of Johannesburg may differ from the
Victori’an, the Anglo-Indian from the frosted Ourack,
but they are all the same “ Britisher at bottom. It is
when the land takes possession of the man that differen-
tiation really begins. And Australia, the land of hug ,
unvarying distances, of sheep by the thousand and
rabbits by the million, where a sudden drought brings
the millions and the thousands down to hundreds and
tens and a good fall of rain runs them up into
thousands and millions again-where the main range
with its barren level ridges typifies the worst
side of democracy, every hummock as high as another
and none really high-the “ reckling of the continents,
the gawky, long-limbed, red-haired child that nature m
her shame kept out of society as long as possible—Aus
tralia has wound these long arms round many a man
w'hom physical weakness or dull intellect has handicapped
against his fellows, and has made of him the swagman,
the sundowner, the spieler, the unique Australian type of
failure. And here we have him set down at last by a
man w'ho knows him. Globe trotters have noticed him,
sometimes as a picturesque object (which he isn t very
often), sometimes as a moral lesson. He is a drunicara
and a gambler-he has very little moral stamina-he is a
God-forgetting scoundrel in a God-forgotten country.
The "-lobe-trotter sees him and moralises : also he writes
about him, and gets good money therefor-but he doesn t
think of paving his model. But the globe-trotter has
never even' seen, has never had the most remote
experience of the conditions under which he lives.
The great plains swallow him up, and their mono-
tony deadens his brain more than all the liquor he drinks
—delirium tremens has at least the saving grace of variety.
The burning sun evaporates his conscience, and the soak-
ing storms when they come wash all the morals out of
him-he survives only because he is thoroughly adapted
to his environment, and has a wild cat s tenacity of
life. Small wonder if he has in him a good deal
else that is animal-not much encumbered by finer
feelings.” But virtue does not leave him because
it is virtuous. Such virtues as will help mm in
the struggle remain to him, and increase mightily.
And the greatest of them is the virtue of mateship.
“ Gawd send us a trusty chum 1” says Kipling s typical
Tommy. The swagman’s chum is not always as trusty as
he might be, hut the swagman knows howto allow for
that; and, after all, it is rarely that the most un-moral of
swagmen cheats his mate. It is this mateship, broaden-
ing to include all fellows, that for a long tune
strengthened and made impervious to the squatter s soft
speeches the unionism of the hush trades-unions. In its
more personal form it is tha chief, and often the only,
force making for good in the life of the regions Out Back.
Just there it is as well to make one point quite clear.
We have called this swagman-type the typical Australian
native. Let it be distinctly understood that he is typical,
not of the mass of the population, but of the influence of
the country. He is the Australian as the kangaroo is,
not as mutton is Australian ; but even now the sheep
vastly exceed the kangaroo in number. His qualities are
the typical Australian qualities : wherever you find men
country-bred, shaped at least partially by the typical
Australian environment, there you find the drunkenness,
the easy-going gambling propensity, the comradeship
that at best is heroism and at worst “chivalry upside-
down.” The townfolk are of the everyday British
pattern less eduoated, perhaps (their opportunities
have been fewer) than
the British middle - class
—less hide-bound, too, and
less coherent in their
familv life—but not essen-
tially’ different, from their
relations at home by reason
of the land they live in.
But on bushmen the bush
leaves its mark, and most
deeplv, most untnistakeably
on the weak, the shiftless,
the failures. I have spoken
of Australia as a gawky child.
But a gawky child may have
good eyes, and may, more-
over, grow up into an alto-
gether splendid woman. The
land is not all bush, not all
Out-Back. But its beauties
—and it lias them—go about
four pennyweight to the ton.
So do its great men at pre-
sent. We hope with confi-
dence that the gawky child
will some day carve great
statues in marble; at pre-
sent she is modelling in very
soft putty. And this book
is the photograph-album of
her models.
Legal verbosity dies
slow. In the M. L.
‘ ‘Coroner’s Handy Book, ”
by Judge Johnston (1868)
one finds “useful forms”
for verdicts. As, a man
being blown up with an
engine, the jury are di-
rected to find that “ the
said (boiler) burst and ex-
ploded, whereby a great
quantity (to wit) 500 gal-
lons of the boiling and
scalding water and steam
then being within the
cavity of the said boiler,
and a large quantity
(to wit) five bushels of hot
and burning coals, &c.
. . . accidentally, casu-
ally, and by misfortune,”
&c.
The biggest bottle-and-rag business in
Melbourne—it hires carts to about 30 men— is
run and managed entirely by a woman, and a
mighty smart woman too.
Why don’t magistrates know something of
the rudiments of law ? Magistrate Addison, of
Sydney, the other day indignantly asked an able-
bodied vagrant why he didn’t “ volunteer to go to
the war.” And if he did volunteer the Foreign
Enlistment Act provides for putting him in gaol
for helping to shoot at the subjects of a friendly
State.
Indian papers relate how, when a moun-
tain battery was shelling a rebel position, one of
the enemy kept signalling in regular practice-
fashion—“ High, to the right,” and so on; and
even when the guns were trained on to the signaller
himself he continued his derisive messages, until
a shell exploded so near him that the kieked-up
dirt knocked him over. But the moment he
got up he signalled—“ Position untenable—About
to retire,” which he promptly did. Of course, a
deserter—and a humorist!
“Woe to a land whose king is a child.
Spain !
The “ Sporting Reminiscences,” mostly
Melbournian, of Thomas Haydon are not entirely
the fault of Ethel Haydon’s papa. It seems,
from the preface, that various people at divers
times egged Thomas on to do this lamentable
deed, and at last he “ yielded to the persuasive
eloquence of an old friend,” and dedicated^ his
volume “(by permission) most respectfully to
Lord Hopetoun. The author’s gratitude for his
Lordship’s permission is evidenced on page 17:
Lord Hopetoun, however, eclipsed all his predecessors
in the matter of style and pomp, his carnage, with four
magnificent horses and postillions, being quite a novelty
to many of the colonial born. . . . A more genial
host never presided at a banqueting table, and both ne
and the Countess were positively beloved by every one
who had a drop of sporting blood in their veins. . . •
Lord and Lady Hopetoun’s arrival in and departure
from Melbourne will never be forgotten by those who
witnessed those quite State ceremonials.
Tom Haydon tells scarcely anything worth hear-
ing, and he tells it in labored journalese. His
“ Reminiscences ” at the best are dry chestnuts,
at the worst they are babble
Flemington racecourse is, without doubt, one of the
show places of Melbourne, and justly so. . . . A horse,
now in England, called Paris 111. distinguished himself
by winning the Caulfield Cup twice, in ’92 and 94, carry-
in" on the last occasion the very respectable impost oi
9st. 41b. ... A more charming personage than Mr.
Dailey it would be impossible to meet. He was affability
itself, and I treasure up in my memory the hour I spent
with him, discussing various topics over an excellent
bottle of claret, in his bijou residence overlooking
Sydney Harbour, &c., &c.
For a man who was onetime secretary of the Vic.
Trotting Club, worthy Haydon has about the
smallest fund of anecdote on record. He states
facts and chronicles circumstances (which are
seldom old enough to be newly interesting to Aus-
tralians) after the manner of a dull globetrotter
imparting information to his friends at Ome.
He deals with two sudden deaths in paragraphs
that, in his own way of speaking, have ‘ seldom
been equalled and never surpassed by any author
of a well-bound book
I must not omit to mention a most tragic aim un-
looked-for finale which occured at the Princess one night
It was on the occasion of the representation of laust,
wherein a most capable vocalist and actor named Fredencl
(Federici, by the wav) met his fate. The opera had gone
particularly well this evening (first night of the produc-
tion by the wav), and Frederici, as Mephisto, excelled,
himself, but his final disappearance down the trap proved
his final appearance on any stage, as he fell dead when he
reached the basement, a heart affection, I believe, being
the cause.
Then the paragraph describing the Caulfield Cup
catastrophe of 1885 :
Women shrieked and fainted as, one after another, the
injured jockeys were carried to the casualcy-room. How-
ever plenty of medical assistance was at hand, but when
the roll was called one poor lad, Donald Nicholson, failed
to answer the summons. He was killed outright. He
was a respectable and much-respected jockey, and his
death cast a gloom over the subsequent proceedings,
which, unfortunately, did not interest him any more.
Ye gods 1
Miss HETTY HOLROYD, a coming Sydney soprano, pupil of
Steffani .
Photo., Falk Studios.
“Woman has 30,000 way 3 of plagueing
man, and only one of pleasing him.” —Heine.


MISSING AT LLOYD’S.
The old vessel Anti-Bill, which was lost on an inhospitable coast during a severe storm on the night of 3rd June, 1898. There was no insurance, the vessel being considered
an unsafe risk.


THE N.S.W. GREASY PIG.


Out-Back postmasters have some very try-
ing experiences (writes a Bulletin correspondent).
Instance : a teamster lately bowled up to our local
P. 0., handed in a “ way-bill ” showing him to
have six tons of loading on board for Narrabri,
and explained that, as he wished his wife to have
the document “ immediately,” he wanted it sent
by telegram. On being informed that such a
thing was not possible, he roared out, “ How ther
(etcetera’9) that? Aren’t I sent cheques an’
money-orders by telegram, an’ if I kin sen’ them
why carnt I sen’ this ’ere thing?” About
half-an-hour’s explanation had no effect on him ;
he departed cursing the unfortunate postmaster
for a “lazy blanky disobliging loafer.”
C.H.R. : “ Writer came across some
papers, the other day, connected with a curious
incident which happened at Woolmers, Longford,
Tas., many years ago. Thomas Archer, owner of
Woolmers, his wife and niece, with James Hortle,
Superintendent of Police, were startled one night
to bear a whistle at the door of the room in which
they sat, followed by a voice which said ‘Joe
Wilders ! ’ This occurred twice. The premises
were searched thoroughly without success. Next
morning the body of Wilders was found pinned to
the ground by a honeysuckle limb where he had
been cutting wood the previous clay. That he
had lived some hours was evidenced by the holes
scratched in the turf by his feet and hands. Now,
who whistled ? ”
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS
VELVETEEN.
n
LUSTROUS BLUE
AMD
JET BUCK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
•‘LOUIS’’ Velve
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
l FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.— Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS"
elveteen bears the name, and is stamped with C
grantee of wear.
r» ! eet ail Substitutes.
Storyette. Man who lives at Bondi (hang-
man Howard also lives there) was sittirg outside
local hotel, when the noseless man-tho 6' came
along with: “That your dog, sir?** “
“ He'd be an ugly customer, sir, if he got at a, man $
throat We are all egotists.
Viator: “In a Victorian town they showed
me an old man driving the post-office cart. He
had been the humble, poor, neglected brother in
Ireland of one of the millionaire squatters of
Western Victoria. Squatter died. His brother
got the whole fortune —and lost it.”
Asls for
WHITE
heather
WHISKY.
AGGREGATE BALANCE - SIII:ET
—OP THK—
BANK OF NEW SOUTN WALES
H/X&L-rcl-x 31, 1303.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. (I.
Notes in Circulation .. 789,677 0 0
Deposits and Accrued
Interest .. .. 15,728,463 0 4
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include reserves held for doubtful debts
and amounts at credit of Officers’ Fi-
delity Guarantee and Provident Fund)
Paid-up Capital.. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . .. 1,200,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 111,481 18 7
£ s. (1.
19,518,140 0 4
2,487,825 18 6
3,261,481 18 7
£25,267,447 17
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits and endorsements,
as per contra .. .. -. • • 239,443 1
4
5
£25,506,890 18 9
£ s. d.
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances..
British and Colonial Go-
vernment Securities ..
Municipal and other Se-
curities
Queensland Govt. Notes
Notes of other Banks ..
Due bv other Banks
5,288,840 6
009,748 11
135,124
131,736
12,750
140,563
Bills receivable, Bills discounted, and
Remittances in transit
Loans and Advances to Customers
Bank Premises
6,627,771 5 9
2,638,119 15 0
15,373,556 16 7
628,000 0 0
£25,267,447 17 4
Liabilities of Customers and others on
letters of credit and drafts, as per
contra .. .. .. •. ... 239,443 1 5
£25,506,890 18 9
PROFIT AND DOSS, March 31, 1898.
6. d.
Mar. 31. To Rebate (at current rates) on
bills discounted not due
at this date
„ Dividend at the rate of 9 per
cent, per annum ..
„ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Loss,” new account ..
£
6,789 4 2
87,750 0 0
16,942 14 6
£111,481 18 7
1897. £ «•
Sep. 80. Bv Amount from last Account.. 1(5,564 7 0
1898.
filar..3l. ~ Balance of Half'-Yeat's Pro-
fits after provicliiijr for bad
and doubtful debts, reduc-
ing the valuation of bank
premises, and including re-
coveries from debts pre-
viously written off as bad.. 94,917 11 7
£111,481 18 7
RESERVE FUND, March 31, 1898.
s. d.
0 0
1898.
Mar. 3L To Balance
(of which £600,000 is invested
in British Government secu-
rities, and the balance is era-
B* 1 in the business of the
£
1,200,000
£1,200,000 0 0
£ e. d.
1,200,000 0 0
1897.
Sep. 30. By Balance,
£1,200,000 0 0
1898.
Mar. 81. By Balance £1,200,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
DR. MACKENZIE Expanding Shoulder
Brace for Men.
In bringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, and
for clerks, accountants, and more espee.ally cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are such a protec*
tion to the lungs
and kidneys i lie
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity without the
slightest danger of
catching cold. '
Bit#
Dr. MA K NZIE’S Celebrated Shoulder Brace
and Spinal Supporting Corset.
The Corset not only protects the spine, but also the
lungs, keeps the shoulder-blades in proper position, and
prevents stooping or roundness. In a word, the wearer
unconsciously acquires a graceful and perfect carriage.
mm
These Corsets can be obtained nowhere but from tin
Dr. Mackenzie Corset Company, and are not sold by am
one but ourselves, we having the patent rights of th<
goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Send for Circulars to above Company. Address— Dr.
MACKENZIE, 81 YORK ST., SYDNEY; 147 b COLLI
ST., MELBOURNE.
Mr*. FRAZER, Frankville Terrace, Wellington, New
Zealand.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc: price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
A- Saunders.
16c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 6s; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, 8s fld.
A Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 6s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 12„ 6d.
Links to match, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 8-bar Amethyst., 265.
16c. Gold „ „ 465.
U U Do ww w U
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
16a Gold, Diamond and Redstone, 355.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £8 ss.
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
*2, £2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
A. Saunders.
3-Bird Heart and Chain Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Latest London Style.
16c. Gold 2-Heart, Opals
and Diamond, £2 10s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 16s;
2ls.
15c. Gold, 255, 80s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, os.
18c. sfol(i,,j._a t n>hire»
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
15c. Solid Oold.
4 Diamonds, 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
9c. Solid Oold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold, 7/0; extra strong, 10/- 15c. Gold, 16/-
18c. Gold, 20/- Silver, 3/6. Any Name or
Initial Free.
Oold 2-Bamboo Bars Scroll Pearl Set, 15s 6d
15c. Gold, 32s 6d.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction,
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c., £2.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.
255, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
A. Saunders.
Good Wishes Lucky Bone Gold Brooch,
10s 6d ; Large Size (plain), 6s 6d.
Pearl Set Bird Centre, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 26«.
15c., £2 15s, £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Bedstone, 20s.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
Hand -made Wedding Rings and Keepers
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send fo r
card.
Ladies’Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 15c. £3, £4,
Send for Pattern Book
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in oases.
(Post Free).
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Gold Brooch,
Pearl Heart,
12s od.
IPSgJS
m
y
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s (id, 15s, 20s. Send to*
Price Illustrated Book.
We guarantee you the same satisfaction as if you were here to choose for yourself.
Our Stock is Large and Up-to-Date, and at PRICES FAR BELOW ALL OTHERS.
“All articles sent Post Free to any address required.” Send for Price List.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
Clocks, Jewellery and Silver-plate. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.SW.


Beale and Company, Ltd.
Iron-Framed Pianos for Hot Climates.
Tl)« Celebrated NAPS BURG PIANO, Hew Style.
. . . Tbe Nigb-CIaSS F. ISERMANN PIANO.
The late Chas. S. Packer, Royal Academician : “Extremely pleased with sweetness, fullness and
power. Tone and finish all that can be desired. Unsurpassed.”
Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman : “ Aussi charmee que surprise de la douceur exquise de leur
toucher, unie k une ampleur et une sonority remarquables.”
Monsieur Henri Kowalski : “ Good tone, easy touch, durable, every element of conseientous work
and careful making.”
Signor Roberto Hazon : “ Purchased one. All respects very perfect. Suited to climate.
Splendid finish, faithful workmanship, tone and power. Cannot be excelled.”
Mr. J. A. Delaney, of St. Mary’s: “Tone powerful; extremely sweet and clear. Touch elastic
and sympathetic. Depend on remaining well in tune.”
Sir Wm. C. Robinson, Gov. of S. Australia, gave his unqualified approval.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Queensland. Purchased “on account of its special sweetness.”
Rev. W. G. Lawes, New Guinea : “ Stands this trying climate remarkably well.”
Rev; J. Levy, Sydney : “ Highly toned. Entire satisfaction. Confidently recommended.”
Rev. J. Hornsby Spear : “ After six long journeys and eight years’constant use, has been only
tuned once. Perfect order, condition and tone as new.”
Rev. Hy. Jobson, Cowra : “ Every satisfaction. Very pleased with it.”
Very Rev. J. T. Marriott, D.D., Dean: “Has given satisfaction. Much admired.”
Rev. R. Thomson, Tenterfield : “Every satisfaction. Exceptionally economical in tuning.”
Rev. Jas. S. Scott, Woodburn : “ Cannot speak too highly. Never heard a better-toned inst.
than you supplied me. Retain surpassing brilliancy.”
Rev. Chas. H. Gibson, M.A.: “Aftermany years entire satisfaction. Very fine inst., Bweet
tone, easily kept in tune. ”
Rev. J. Moss : “ Constant use in school six years, thus proved good and durable.”
Rev. Walter Lucas: “All who have seen mine are inclined to break the tenth command-
ment ! ”
Ven. Archdeacon Matheson : “ Such an instrument is a real treat.”
Rev. J. C. Warner, Warwick : “Very much pleased. Can speak very highly.”
Rev. Dr. Murphy, St. Patrick’s College : “ Greatly admired for sweetness and purity.*
Rev. Hy. Plume, M.A., Townsville: “ Well calculated to stand the tropics.”
Rev. Matthew Maddern, Orange: “ A charming piano. After many years’ use improves in
sweetness and mellowness of tone.”
Rev. Father Doran, Oberon : “First-class in melody and durability.”
Rev. C. Hamilton Shedden, Bourke: “Wonderfully sweet; perfectly elastio. Touch full of
sympathy.”
The Rev. Mother, Convent, W. Kempsey: “ Given great satisfaction, as they all have.”
The Mother Rectress, Bega : “ Satisfaction with the beautiful instrument.”
The Sisters op the Good Samaritan : “ Recommend for durability and usefulness.”
The Rev. Mother, Coraki: “ Greatest satisfaction. A splendid instrument.”
The Rev. Mother, Lismore: “ Clear, full tone, free action, stands wear-and-tear better than
pianos by other makers at same price.”
The Mother Superior, Wagga : “ Purchased years ago, gave satisfaction; still in good order.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Sunny Corner: “ Constantly used. Needs no tuning. Sweet-toned,
after years, as when first arrived.”
The Sisters op Mercy, Townsville: '* Your Pianos give ns entire satisfaction. Withstand ad-
mirably tropical climate.”
The Presentation Sisters, Hay: “ Piano given unbounded satisfaction, although in constant
use for seven years.”
The Sisters op St. Joseph, O’Connell Plains: “Recommend for durability and sweetness.”
The Sisters op St. Joseph, Perth : “ Good instrument. Great satisfaction.”
Holy Cross Convent, Cooma : “ Recommend Hapsburgs for schools, as very durable. Particu-
larly suited.”
The Sisters op Mercy, Parramatta : “ Hapsburg giving every satisfaction.”
The Sisters op Mercy, Emmaville : “ Greatly pleased. Highly recommend as well-toned, good,
strong and durable.”
The Sisters op St. Joseph, Wattle Flat: “Beautiful piano; after several years’ use, preserves
its sweet tone.”
Mr. Thomas J. Fitzpatrick, Organist, St. Patrick’s, Bega: “My 60-guinea Hapsburg, after several
years, gives every satisfaction. Excellent tone.”
Mr. R. H. Lansdown, Station-master, Quirindi: “ Every shape and form an excellent instrument.
Very highly pleased. Honestly recommend to everyone.”
Mr. W. S. Watts, Asst. S.-master, Millthorpe : “ Magnificent instrument. Exceeds expectations.
Tone and touch excellent. Certainly recommend.”
Mr. Gus. T. C. Miller, M.L.A.: “None to surpass ; splendid tone, volume and thoroughness.”
Mr. Marcus Hume, Bega : “ After many years’ experience, have bought a second Hapsburg in
preference to all others.”
The Sisters op St. Joseph, Cargo: “ They cannot be excelled.”
Annis Montague-Turner, Vocalist :* “ Had one in constant use. Every satisfaction. Resonant
and powerful, yet easily modulated.”
Saml. Geo. Benson, R. A., Music, London : “I testify to excellence, power and durability of Haps-
burgs. That I purchased is a really splendid instrument. I prefer them to those of any maker I have
met with.”
John Radclipp, Premier Flautist, Her Maj. Theatre, London : “ The Hapsburg is an unrivalled
instrument. To the flute-soloist, nothing is more important than quality of piano accompanying.”
Fred. Macoabe (the Evergreen): “ Excel in touch, tone, equality, rapidity of hopper and hammer,
but, above all, in the singing quality of each note. These, united, I have not met with in any other
piano.”
School op Arts, Hinton : “ Piano gives every satisfaction.”
School of Arts, Wickham : “All the first-class pianists speak in highest terms of its brilliant
tone and suitability to large hall.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Granville: “Well pleased, entirely satisfied.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Hillgrove : “A splendid instrument.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Newcastle : “ Great pleasure to speak highly.”
Ancient Order op Foresters, Macdonaldtown : “ Entire satisfaction.”
Bachelors’ Club, Hillgrove : “ Satisfaction in every way.”
School op Arts, Townsville : “ Rich, full tone rarely met with.”
School op Arts, Ipswich : “Utmost satisfaction in every way.”
Burwood Mechanics Institute, Newcastle: “Thoroughly satisfied.”
Mr. Lewis T. Garnett, Australian Star: “Great approval.”
Mr. Fred. B. Gipps, Ashfield : “ Rich tone, excellent construction.”
(Late) Prof. K. W. Goergs, Woollahra :“ Most satisfactorily stood test of wear and climate.”
Dr. W. Cleaver Woods, Albury: “ Combines brilliancy with mellowness of tone. Unusually
sympathetic touch.”
Mr. H. Headley’, Brewery, Albury: “ Complete satisfaction ; keeps in tune wonderfully well.”
Mr. Chas. Clark, school, Araluen: “After years of use, perfect tune. Unrivalled as an
accompaniment to voice.”
Mr. M. O. A. Marsh, Lands Dept.: “I have had several pianos ; prefer yours to any, and anj
sure will stand any climate.”
Mr. Fred. Hamilton, Pub. School, Donald : “I like the Hapsburg very much.”
Miss Eliza Ella, Pub. School, Spring Vale : “ Every reason to be highly pleased.”
Mr. Jas. Thompson, Dep.-Gov. Berrima Gaol: “ Every satisfaction.”
Mr. J. J. Smyth, Pub. School, Bonegilla (Vic.) : “ Recommend any to purchase.”
Mr. T. Phillips, Station, Breeza : “ My wife is highly delighted.”
Miss Rose A. Sunny, Pub. School, Brookfield : “ Really fine inst.”
Mr. Wm. Griffith, Pub. School, Bundarra : “Beyond my expectations.”
Mr. Geo. Drummond, Pub. School, Bungawannah : “ Strong, remarkably sweet and pleasing/
Mr. W. H. Prior, Senior Sergeant, Burrowa : “ Splendid inst. Stands climate ; never out of
tune or unison.”
Mr. Wright Smith, Pub. School, Candelo : “Very sweet tone. Every satisfaction.”
Mr. Walter Stevens, Pub. School, Canoblas : “ Only when contrasting with other insts. can I
fully appreciate what a grand inst. it is.”
Mr. R. G. Francis, Sergeant of Police, Carooar : “ Most handsome. Pleased with quality and
sweetness.”
Mr. J. G. Banbeb, solicitor : “ Every satisfaction. None better designed to resist climatio in*
fluences.”
Mr. Robt. Wenn, Sergeant of Police, Cootamundra : “ Cannot be excelled.”
Mr. Wm. Anderson, Pub. School, Cow Flat : “Surprised and delighted.”
Mr. A. H. Nichols, Pub. School, Cudal : “ I recommend to all my friends.”
Mr. C. H. Dean, Police Office, Dandaloo : “ Everything I could wish.”
Mr. Geo. Claudius Nash, Mission Station : “ Tone pure, soft, and melodious. Not excelled by
any inst.”
Mr. W. T. Adams, 8.A., Delegate : “Treble and bass registers very evenly balanced. Cannot
speak too highly of tone and elastic touch.”
Mr. Rodolph Hempbl (Carlos Sante of W. G. and M.’s Comic Opera Co.): “Recommend to all
my friends.”
Mr. A. Clarke, Stationmaster, Koorawatha : “Every satisfaction.”
Miss Annee Munro, Pianofore Teacher, Quirindi: “ Great satisfaction; consider it the best.”
Mrs. M. A. R. Britten, Public School, Gentleman’s Halt: “I testify to superiority.”
Mr. W. J. Lindley, Newtown : “Rich tone and superior qualities.”
Mr. D. Brennan, Palace Hotel, Mortlake : “ Is giving great satisfaction.”
Mr. W. T. Gleeson, Professor of Music, Petersham: “ During five years has stood enormous
wear. In perfect order.”
Mr. S. Bailey, Waterloo : “I should like to let you know how pleased I am with piano.”
Mr. A. G. Mitchell, Public School, Peak Hill: “ Sweet tone, handsome and strong, and giving
satisfaction.”
Mr. P. Dempsey, Compagnie des Mines D’Or, Brown’s Creek: “ Thoroughly pleased with it.
Sold two on my recommendation.”
Mr. J. C. Cunningham, Condobolin : “ Gives every satisfaction. Stood long road journeys well,
and thermometer at 115 deg.”
Mr. Chas. T. Campbell, Cudal: “A good, reliable instrument, improving in tone with use.”
Mr. D. Jones, Public School, Oakland, R.R. : “ A beautiful inst., and has given perfect satis-
faction.”
Mr. J. Collins, Public School, Bumbury : “ Useless to enumerate its merits ; I am satisfied.”
Mr. C. S. Carpenter, Hexham : “My daughters are delighted with it. First-class inst.”
Mr. John Condon, Hotelkeeper, Port Macquarie : “ Beautiful tone.”
Mr. Robert Maguire, Curban : “ I can highly recommend it. lam perfectly satisfied.”
Mr. Patrick Mathews, Hotelkeeper, Cobar: “Four years in use and but little attention to
tuning. Confidently recommend to anyone.”
Mr. M. J. Murphy, Bulyeroi: “ Eight years in use and stands climate well. First-class piano.”
Mr. J. H. Sweeney, Telegraph Dept., Muswellbrook : “ For excellence of tone and touch it is all
that could be desired.”
Mr. T. W. Edwards, Public School, Krambach :“ I cannot speak too highly. All agree as to
its excellence.”
Mrs. P. Matthews, Pallamallawa : “ Has given me satisfaction.”
Mr. P. Neilson, Dapto : “ Absolute perfection of mechanism and incomparable beauty of tone.”
Mrs. F. Hart, Public School, Berrima: “ Never yet came across its equal in tone and sweetness.”
Mr. Roy Gulson, North Goulburn : “ In constant use for six years, and as perfect as when new.”
Mr. George Stoneman, Trangie : “ Has given every satisfaction, standing hot climate
admirably.”
Mr. A. J. Bundock, Public School, Chain of Ponds, Yass : “Is truly a ' wonder.* * The piano
of the day.’
Mr. W. T. Bullock, Stony Creek, Bathurst: “ I am indeed very pleased with it. Splendid
tone.”
Mr. W. H. Tindall, Duramana : “ For sweetness of tone it cannot be surpassed.”
Mr. S. A. Kaye, Albury : “ Splendid instrument. Would not take £2O extra for it.”
Mr. W. Mason, Lower Botobolar : “ Has given every satisfaction.”
Mr. M. J. Connell, Moree : “ I recommend, having used Hapsburgs for last ten years.**
Mr. S. Royse, Narrabri : “ A magnificent instrument. lam highly pleased.”
Mr. J. J. Moore, Moree : “ Given the greatest satisfaction.”
Mr. W. E. Browning, Telegraph Department, Young: “Thoroughly satisfactory in even
particular.”
Mr. Jas. Aheabne, Young : “ A superior instrument. lam highly pleased with it.”
Mr. E. H. Tyrell, Plattsburg : “ Tone very sweet. Have not played on a better.”
Mr. Michael Lyons, Jamberoo : “ Given me complete satisfaction.”
Mr. George McLennan, Carrington : “Every satisfaction. The tone is perfect.”
Mr. W. E. Benson, Forster : “ Have been supplied with two Hapsburg Pianos, and can therefore
speak in the highest possible terms of their marvellous wear.”
Mr. J. F. Murphy, Public School, Mount Keira : “ Its tone is exquisitely sweet and resonant.
Excellent touch.”
Mrs. Bull, 53 Berthing-st., Newcastle : “Splendid instrument. This is the second I have bought
from you. Will want three more.”
Mr. Gerald Doyle, Mungindi : “ Splendid instrument, both for tone and finish.”
Mr. C. E. Hooke, Tamworth : “A first-class instrument. No hesitation in recommending.”
Mr. Benj. G. W. Freeman, Public School, Coolac : “ All remark its beautiful tone.”
Mr. P. J. Donohue, Railway Inspector, Wagga Wagga : “ Am highly satisfied with my venture.”
Mr. Thos. Blundell, George-street, Sydney (Abbey & Co.): “ Tone, touch, appearance, and re-
sonance all that could be wished.,”
Mr. T. Tyrer, Petersham : “ Well pleased, excellent tone, and beautiful appearance.”
Mr. J. W. Williams, Orange : “ I recommend the Hapsburg.”
Mr. E. Lunn, Public School, Brucedale : “Sympathetic tone, handsome and durable.”
Mr. M. Riley, Public School, South Casino : “ Never heard an instrument so perfect in ff and
pp passages.
Please write to us for Catalogues and particulars no matter where you live. Kindly mention “ The Bulletin.” Pianos of many makers
No matter in what part of Australasia you live, we will supply you with a PIANO fit for the climate.
ALLOWANCE made for OLD PIANOS.
KindLly A.ddress :
BEALS & CO., Limited, 484 George Street, SYDNEY ;
or 13 STRAND.
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS throughout the COLONY .


Oa/VVVVV'vS
<3-0 TO BCELL-
■I(i*)I<AN I) for -Pretty Stamps. We
Soil the Sot of 14, unused, for is. (i<l.
Illustrated Price U*t of—Koreijyi_aud
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratik \ - *Cv
Hagen
(Late D A. Vindln & Co.
74 ELIZA LETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S. VV.
Cl)ip& of WiSdon) . .
Eat Granuma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in' the morning
E>>r mother’s darling;
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
proof of Granuma is jn the eating.
JAMES INGLTS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4, FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
- Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only 3
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The opponents of the Bill in N.S.W. :
Wealth and Want.
Pontius Pilate Reid (loq.) : “I am inno-
cent of the blood of this . . . man.”
Premier Reid’s attitude is that the Federal
Bill is a very had Bill on account of the things he
helped to put in it, and he is going to vote for it,
and implores the public not to do likewise.
Riots in Italy and Spain ! What are they
to the war-riots that might break out in England ?
Its growth of wheat, as Mu 11 hall shows, only suffices
for two months’ supply in the year, and for ten
Eon ths it is dependent on the wheat of America,
ussia and other places.
All Yankee'opinion doesn’t advocate the
war. N.Y. Life asks why the States don’t hib :
somebody their own size ; and N.Y. Critic poeti-
cally accuses Uncle Sam, young and .strong, of
bullying “a.stoop’d and graybeard foe.” Which
is mighty near the truth of it.
Vic. ; Our civil-servants are in a pelter
over Federation. Even those ostensibly not to be
moved are frightened, because it is said that the
host who are to be ousted will be provided for
soinp’now. The Civil Service Association, a per-
fect Vehmgericht. of secresy, is understood to have
ukased No.
At Bathurwc last Saturday, Premier Reid
told his audience that civil-service reform was
rendered necessary “ through the introduction of
utterly unfit persons into the service by the
Governments which, preceded us.” Which sets
one thinking of the famous occasion when Reid
laid before Parliament his bogus list of Dikb;’?
Civil service appointments, and the exposure which
followed, and the painful spectacle of a fat
politician agreeing to take it all back, and admit
that it was a mistake, or a mean slander, or
almost anything, .so long as the subject was
dropped.
The present
seems to offer a
great opportunity-'
to Charles Powers,
ex-Q. leader of Op-
position, now in re-
tirement. Bowers
was Pos.tmas'ter-
Gerier al in the
short -lived More-
head ministry and
is young,’of'regu-
lar habits, fluent
speech almost as
bad to report as
Gladstone much
ability and genuine
patriotism. He im-
poverished himself
and lost a tine Bris-
bane practice by al-
liance with Drake
and the Democrats when he might ensily
•have secured a portfolio from the' Boodlers.
In 1896 lie abandoned polities in disgust and
settled in Bupdaherg to practice his profes-
sion. Now everyone, even the Worker and
the Courier, are calling upon Powers to save
Queensland from chaos and a free-lance Op-
position. Thoso who know Powers best say
• that lie is enthusiastic to again enter the
political fray, hut a large and growing family
and an attenuated exchequer hold him back.
The chief weakness of the Spanish
military organisation is the boy officer of
“aristocratic” birth—brave enough on the
“fools step in,” etc., principle, but obviously
useless as an organiser. In the main, these
officer boys are responsible for the whole pre-
sent trouble. The war in Cuba meant full
pay, and it was their game to perpetuate the
struggle. Quite possibly the Maine episode
was instigated by some of them. Execrated and
irreconcileable Weyler was the officer-hoy’s idol.
S.A. has three large tobacco firms, and
two of them are spending much money to upset
the Convention Bill. Another peculiar circum-
stance is that the S.A. Oppositionists are being
strongly supported by the Hebrew community,
who have provided a good proportion of the cam-
paign funds.
Premier Retd, who complains about the
large Federal representation to be granted the
smaller provinces, voted for the proposal, tu give
all the provinces the sfime number of senators,
which item is the cause of the trouble. In fact,
Reid voted for most of the things that he is now
most indignant about. - . - ,
Scatterbrain : “Re Q-
Ministers using the public
wires, etc., free for private
business, I have now in my
possession a copy of a tele-
gram sent throughout the
length and breadth of the
second largest (in acreage)
constituency in Victoria,
just before last election, by
a Cabinet Minister—‘O.H.
M.S.’ In it he notifies his
committees that ‘ as soon a 3
the Premier delivers the
Govt, programme he will
address meetings,’etc. He
also requests them to notify
local papers (and thus gob
another free acl vt). Queens-
land is not alone in working
things on the ‘ never.’”
At N.S.W. Local Op-
tion League’s recent annual
meeting, Postmaster-Gene-
ral Joe Cook again boosted
the good- old fallacy thab
everything socially amiss is
traceable to the accursed
drink. It never seems to
occur to people like the
smug Joseph that the more
contemptible sort of crimes
are nearly al ways those qf
the outwardly strict liver,
or that the most hideous .
conceivable immorality has
always been rife amongst
non - drinking nations. If
the world had never known
the taste of alcohol it might have gained a lot
more holy sneaks, hut it would hardly have lost
one of its monumental criminals.
N.S. Wales Opposition-leader and anti-
Bill Lyne will have some difficulty in find-
ing and recombining the shattered party which
followed him a few months ago. Protectionists
see more chance of a permanent settlement of the
fiscal issue by Federation than in a three years
tenure of a Lyne-Schey administration, with the
probable bonleversement at the end.
No party is more thoroughly split on the
Federal issue than the Single.- 1 taxers, which is all
the more singular because, up to date, they have
contrived to keep remarkably solid. The Vies.,
led by Hirsch, are strongly for the Bill ; and a
good part of their Beacon is devoted now to
showing how hopelessly befogged are their S.A.
and N.S.W. “comrades,” who are in opposition.
Since the press attracted attention to
the recent gigantic grab of Papuan territory by
Bowles, M.P., and Somers Vine, the visit of ex-
Prenr.ier Nelson and Gov. Lamington to Gov.
William Mac-gregor has a fresh significance.
WAY-BACK REPARTEE.
HARDFACE (to the red-faced, fat, new landlord): “Say, boss, it's the
usual thing for the new landlord to shout."
NEW LANDLORD : “ Take me for a chump, old man? Do I look it?"
HARDFACE : “ Blime, no! You. looks like a cove wot'd drink all your
own beer-engine slops."
Premier Reid, in his recent speech at
Bathurst, told the people that Braddon’s clause,
which provides that three-fourths of the Federal
customs and excise revenue are to be returned to
the States, “.will compel the Commonwealth
Treasurer to raise four times the amount of the
Commonwealth expenditure because he will have
to return three-fourths of it to the States.” H re
Reid, assumes that the Federal Treasurer must pay
all his expenses out of customs and excise, which
is ludicrously absurd. A few weeks ago, in his
Sydney speech, Reid informed his audience that
the .Federal Treasurer would most probably prefer
to pay his expenses out of direct taxation, because
if he wanted- .£250,000 he could simply raise
£250,000 by direct taxes and keep the lot, whereas
to fill the same gap out of customs and excise he
would need to raise £l,ooo,ooo—the other £750,000
having to be paid to the States, '): Will the slip-
pery politician kindly explain himself?
The assurances of Reid,
Heydon, Want, and others,
that if N.S.W. will only
reject the present chance
of Federation they will start
another Federation Con-
vention immediately, evok
ed a rather sour reply fr .
Premier Turner, of Victo-
ria. Turner says, in effect,
that N.S.W. wrecked the
Federal Council movement
by stan ding out; and
ruined the .’9l Federation
scheme, which the other
provinces took up at her
request, by dropping it
without explanation'. And,
if N.S.W. wrecks, this one
(also taken up at her in-
vitation), Turner reckons
that the other provinces
will regard the next invi-
tation from the same quar-
ter as a wild Cornstalk
joke, and will turn'the deaf
ear with the plug of cotton
in it.
The famous Braddon clause did not, as
the anti-Bills allege, get into the Draft Constitu-
tion by being hustled through a sleepy. House at
4 a.m. It was certainly first considered and
accepted at 4 a.m. Then it was reconsidered and
debated at length when the Convention metagain,
and again it was accepted. Also, it was discussed
again, and again affirmed four days later. Lyne
supported it all through, so the plea of that emin-
ently slow gentleman that he voted for it in a
moment of surprise won’t stand dose inspection.
From all accounts, Q. Premier Byrnes is
determined to buy popularity at any price. Dur-
ing his triumphant Northern tour he promised
to build railways, breakwaters, piers, harbors,
colossal public buildings, to sink a myriad of bores
clean through the earth if necessary, to subsidise
every imaginable industry, increase local-govern-
ment endowments, hospital subsidies, and civil-
service salaries —in short, if Toinjoe carries out
half his reported promises, he will raise Queens-
land’s yearly interest bill to something like the
size of the British National debt. Tomjoe has
clearly overdone it, and the reaction threatens to
politically stiffen him.
J. H. Want resigned the N.S.W. Attorney-
Generalship to. as he said, save his honor. -His
chief had announced a determination to vote for
the Commonwealth Bill, and as Want intended to
speak and vote against the Bill, he considered that
the honorable tradition’s. of Parliamentary col-
leagueship compelled him to come out from under
Reid s wing. To-day,. however, we have Cook
and Gould and Young, other members of the Reid
Ministry, cursing the Bill from Dan to Bersheeba,
and calling on the country to blast it at the ballot-
box, and yet wholly untroubled by the scruples
which drove Jack Want abroad. Is it because
,they liavo less “honor}” and more sense-or
because, if they let go a good thing, they know
they have not Jack’s chance of getting it back ?
The war has been going on a good while
now, and the United States’ army is still striving
to get out of chaos, and it seems no nearer being
prepared for invasion than it was at the beginning.
If the enemy had been a rich military and naval
power, like France or Germany, it would pro-
bably have dumped 200,000 soldiers down on top
of the huge, chaotic, unready republic by this
time and (jccupied every big city on the Atlantio
coast. The United States’ alleged preparedness
for war seems to be about a dozen times as con-
fused and helpless as the unpreparedness of the
French Empire in 1870. The courage of the
Americans no one doubts, but when a country
which hasn’t seen war for 33 years, or run against
a military State for over 80 years, starts business
with one or two hundred thousand raw militia
and recruits, the results are apt to be very weird.
Somers Vine’s Papuan land-grab syndi-
cators no doubt consider themselves a modest mob
of Bulls compared to other land-grab co’s known
to Australian history. Vine asks 250,000 acres,
and is willing to pay 2s. per acre. He stipulates
for other valuable considerations, it is true, but,
looking to the land and stated price, and looking
back at the almost successfully engineered Wes-
tralian land-grab of 1825, Vine must think he has
acted quite handsomely. At the date mentioned,
a company, headed by Pell, Vincent and Schenley,
presented a memorial to the British Colonial Office
asking 4,000,000 acres of Westralia for Is. 6d. an
acre. The co. engaged to settle 10,000 immigrants
on the land, but, in the working of the scheme,
this would have further redounded to the co’s
profit. The proposal was actually assented to by
the British Government in 1828, but, owing to a
flood of criticism, was afterwards so modified that
in 1829 the project was abandoned by the origi-
nators.
In Sydney, a week or two ago, Jack Want
urged that there should be a Federation of
N.S.W., Queensland and Victoria only, with the
three allegedly rapacious small States left out.
Up in the North, however, the same Want has
lately been warning the sugar-growers that
Federation will ruin their industry, because
Queensland will come in later on, and then the
nigger-grown Queensland sugar will have free
access to N.S.W., and will wipe them out. At
the same time Want was a member of the Reid
Ministry which voted to let Queensland’s nigger-
grown sugar have free access to N.S.W. even
without Federation. And all this- time Want’s
friends in Sydney are yelling that it will be fatal
to N.S.W. if she federates without her “natural
ally, Queensland.” Also, a lot of these same
people damned Federation in ’9l because Queens-
land was in the movement, and the idea of letting
aTory and nigger-loving province have a hand in
framing the Consitution was too utterly horrible.
The grand old Hinglish example cropped
up at last in the Federal discussion. David Storey,
M.L.A., implores the people of Australia to
reject the Bill,and wait till they can get “ruleby
the majority ” in the good old British way. In
the good old British way Ireland has one member
for, every 45,600 people, and England only one for
every 60,000 ; and 1637 electors have one member
in Kilkenny, while 15,151 have also one member
at Chester-le-Street, and half the political power
rests'with the House of Lords, which is wholly
independent of the popular majority, and where
NATURAL HISTORY.
“Georgeo Reidium." The new chameleon can,
beside changing its color, extend the tongue to some
considerable length, thus striking its prey with
astonishing quickness.
the qualification for membership consists in being
the last member’s- eldest son. As some demo-
cratic satirist once wrote: —
There was an ocean pilot and his eldest son was blind,
And deaf and dumb from childhood, likewise vacant in
his mind.
But of course he was a pilot when his daddy’s couise was
run,
And navigated vessels as his father’s eldest son.
There was a learned justice who sent criminals to gaol;
He’d ah eldest son —a forger vvho'd absconded from his
bail;
But when the Judge went upwards through a tin-tack in
a bun
His vacant place was taken by his outlawed eldest son.
David Storey, M.L.A., actually wants Australia
to wait till: it can get the kind of majority rule
they have in the country which is bossed by the
House of Eldest Sons ! .Rabbits ! !
FEDERATION
BILL
FEDERATION BILL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* Bay 1 Yespleaded Bill to the girl when he met her .
With hope in his accent and truth in his eyes ;
“ / don't mean to say that you couldn't do better —
I haven't attempted to win you with lies —'
But J say,' don't give way to your teinfer perverse r
Just lake me for better than one that were worse,
" The things said agaiust me are mostly the railings
Of foxy old M P "s whose game you don't know g
They.draw up a list of my natural failings,
And don't give my virtues the ghost of a show.
Shut your eyes, and your fears will'in silence disperse ;
Take Bill for much better than one that were worse. 11 '
You must have a Bill, as you've freely admitted :
'Tis time your affections were properly placed —-
Of all willing women, the ones to be pitied
Are flirts who get finally married in haste ; ’
Which mistake, when awake to its folly, they curse.
A cccpt Me for better than anything worse.
“ , m healthy and strong, I've a clean constitution
' To the best of my friends' honest, ardent belief,
And the plans that I'd put into swift execution
Would safeguard your future from coming to grief.
So I guess you'll say 1 Yes '; you will not be averse
To accepting this Bill for a better than worse."
Miss A. took his hand in a manner confiding ,
But did not reply with the three-lettered word.
“My answer," she said, “ needs a lot op deciding— '
You'll get it in writing, dear boy, on the Third."
f or “ No"— written so, it is bound to be terse:
Will she take Bill for better, or wait for xi worse ?


X
%
< n i it i iu\tu\\Vt^
COpid’s Choice
it) Fiije Shoes
Should be relied on, as he knows he makes
•is many virtues by a pretty foot, clad in a
dainty shoe, as by any other attractive
feature. Even Romeo praises Juliet’s foot :
“So light a foot ne’er hurts the trodden
flower.” Our new stock of Winter, Light,
Strong, Comfortable Shoes combines
Style, Beauty, and Durability, . .
. . . with Reasonable Prices.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS* SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Pi
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
- CASH -
RCSISTCR.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of - the world. Our storekeepers’ machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, and
amounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA-
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
TV. A. ZING HAM, General Manager.
Registered
Trade Mark.
Our . .
Guarantee
Hangs upon the above trade marlr, and applies only to
Australian and English Roadster
Many enquiries are made to us, asking if our guarantee
covers American or Canadian Dunlops, and we again
beg to inform the public that we do not guarantee
these tyres, owing to their being too light, and there-
fore unsuitable for hard wear on the rough Australian
roads. We have found that tyres, to give satisfaction in
the colonies, must be manufactured of heavier material
than those used elsewhere. We now make all tyres
specially adapted for colonial roads, and have the utmost
confidence in guaranteeing for twelve months all roadster
Dunlop covers, and roadster Dunlop tubes that bear the
above trade mark ; but in no case does our guarantee
apply unless the tyre bears our trade mark. Claims
under this guarantee should be made direct to any of the
Company’s Branches.
FIRST IN 1888.
FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
And at 486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Latest Novelties in Rings.
duality, Finish, and Durability Guaranteed.
18c. Half-Hoop.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s. £5 £7 10s.
18c. Marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald, or
Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
18c. Buckle.
1 fine Diamond, £2.
1 fine Sapphire,
Ruby, or OpaJ, £ll6s.
18c. Engagement.
3 fine Diamonds, £5.
2 fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl,
18c. La Parisienne.
2 fine Diamonds, £b.
1 fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl, £i.
Post Free
15c. Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or Sapphire,
21s.
Diamond, 859.
18c. Band Ring.
1 fine Diamond, 40s, 60s,
100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255, 40s, 50s.
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 103.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c:, 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters 5s
extra.
Our Popt !a Pedant Rings.
Expanding, 7s od,
8s 6d.
WITH
AMETHYST,
TOPAZ,
MOONSTONE,
GARNET,
OPAL,
OR
LUCKY BELL
PENDANTS.
&
Any Initial, 9s, 10s.
IBc. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls,
£llss, £2 ss, £3.
Curb Chain Ring.
9e., 15s, 20s.
15c., 22s 6d, 27s Cd,
18c., 27s 6d, 3£s.
Plain Band Bing.
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s!
II DOB
0
Solid Band, 12s 6d.
OUR WEDDING RINGS & KEEPERS
ARE ADMITTED
TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA. 4
ALL BINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALL MARK.
9-carafe Gold Wedding Rings and Keepers 5s 6d, 7s 6d, IDs 6d, 12s 6d cadi
15-carat „ „ 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s fit ,
18-carat „ „ 15s, 20s, 255, 32s f>d ”
SEND SIZE OF FINGER BY A PIECE OF WIRE OR A HOLE IN CARDI OATHL
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF LATEST NOVELTIES.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address —QQ KING STREET, SYD7JEY.
The evils attendant on the presence of the
casual boarder in a married couple’s house— that is
an old story. But when the casual boarder is a
“brother” in the Cause, or anything like that,
his virulence is immeasurable. For instance,
Collins, who got such a gruelling front Justice
a’Beckett in Vic. divorce-court, was a grand speci-
men of the tearful, religious hypocrite. He was
named as co-respondent in the case of Middleton
v. Middleton, and, although there was no appear-
ance of the wife, Collins turned up and raised the
defence of contributory negligence on the part of
the husband. Collins sat opposite his counsel
during the proceedings; and when he wasn’t
whining in the lawyer’s ear he was gazing at the
Judge with his eyes full of crocodile tears and his
hands uplifted in the attitude of supplication. In
his evidence he detailed how he had been seduced
by the woman whilst she was sewing a button on
his coat. He did this in a way that, had the_ op-
portunity offered, would have won the best kicks
of everyone in court, from Judge to the Agb
copy-messenger. Here is a beautiful letter written
by Mr. Collins aforesaid :—
Dear Brother Horace, —I hardly know how to address
you. I am so sorry for you. and the great wrong that
has been done you, and so ashamed of my vile flesh and
weakness that I hardly know what to do or what to say.
I did not know exactly what Brother J. and you referred
to in your notes ; although I knew my great, guilt, I did
not want to admit more than Sister M. had said, so that,
if possible, I could shield her. Now, I know that she
has told you all ; and, oh, Horace, I am so sorry that
there ever was anything to tell. You now (sic) the rest,
know what a vilely passionate man I am, and Sister M.
is passionate also. It all came about without the slightest
premeditation. I did not set out to win her from yon,
and have time and again spoken for you. Ask her if
this is not true. I have never attempted to poison her
mind against you; never. Oh, Horace, sometimes she,
sometimes I, and again would both determine that we
w > dd, transgress no more. I have never broken bread
smce that I have not asked God to forgive us, and resolved
that I Would not sin again. But my resolves were as pie-
crust when the .temptation came. ... It has all gone
by, Horace, and God grant that we may never offend
again. I will not ask your forgiveness for myself, but,
Horace, I would humbly ask you to forgiveher. She may
he passionate, but she would not have sinned had it not
been for tne. And, Horace, remember that you have been
hard upon her, and perhaps that helped to turn her to a
sympathiser. Be gentle to her, to her, and forgive her,
and I'm sure she will be a good wife to you yet. Oh, I
am so sorry for the pain you are hearing. I would readily
give my right hand if I were as guiltless as before I saw
her. I know not how to attempt to comfort you, Horace.
I can only tell you of my intense sorrow for you. Horace,
stick to the truth. I have all mv shame to bear, the
brethren to meet, hut, if I gave up the clear, shining
Truth, I would go to the d o j s at once. Stick to the
truth, Horace, and God will comfort you. I will have to
bear my fate at Christ's hands, according to the sincerity
of my repentance. I’ll he home about the 23rd. I am,
your unworthy brother in the Truth, Alex. F. Collins.
A LIGHT SUBJECT IS ALWAYS ENTERTAINING.
This fact is also a matter of great consideration -viz.,
that the residents of Victoria and N.S. W. can save their
time, money, and tempers by sending or calling at our
respective warehouses fur up-to-date Hardware. Amongst
this season novelties will be found the Royal Bath Heater,
burns wood only, and produces scalding hot water in a
few moments. Price 65s. complete. Pamphlets posted.
Also, the great Galopin Lights, for kerosene, which gives
the user the same faciTti“S as gas. Bargains in all
departments, at McLEAN BROS, and RIGG, Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney.*
Two years ago the Dutch Government
quashed an agreement drawn up by an Amster-
dam syndicate for the purchase of nearly one-half
of Dutch New Guinea. Dutch New Guinea is
about half as big again as British N.G., and the
Hague grabbers offered a substantial price, but
the Government snuffed them out.
Premier Reid had the incredible effrontery
last week to tell a Bathurst audience that there
was only one of his promised reforms which had
not been carried out —the reform of the Council.
What about the promised Local Government Bill,
and the Land for Closer Settlement scheme, and
the State Bank of Issue, and the promise to make
the people of N.S.W. Jolly and Fat, and the pro*
mise to square the finances, and all the rest of
Reid’s broken pledges ? The earth is strewn with
the brittle promises of the Reid Ministry.
The two Parisian journalists, MM. J.
Barrrere and R. Gorini, who recently arrived
in Sydney on a world-circling trip begun in
1895 without a penny—have supported them-
selves en route by a curious variety of occupations,
having acted, amongst other things, as scene-
painters, commission agents, “drummers,” and
cooks. They have done England, Canada, U.S.,
and Mexico, and the remaining itinerary, which
is to occupy another two years, includes the
Philippines, Ceylon, India, and Palestine. A
curious condition of their undertaking is the issue,
in every country visited, of an illustrated paper in
the language of the country in question.
It is a curious circumstance in connection
with the proposed New Guinea land-grant to a
British syndicate that the repeated applications
of Theodore Bevan, the Papuan explorer, for a
land concession in the country he had done so
much to exploit were met with the assurance that
no land could be parted with for speculative pur-
poses. In addition to being denied the “common
rights of first application, recognised all over
Australia,” Bevan appears to have been bluffed
off and bamboozled in all directions in the interests
of a lot of British land-sharks, who are eager to
profit by his labors and hardships. The whole
business needs vigorous stirring up, regardless of
the smellfulness thereof.
Since 1890 there have been three invita-
tions to federate —those of Parkes and Reid to
Australia in general, and that of Dibbs to Vic-
toria in particular, so all the requests have been
addressed by N.S.W. to the other provinces. Yet
Heydon, M.L.C., got this off at Tenter-
field : “ This province is in a more prosperous
condition than any other, consequently the southern
States are anxious for Federation in order to get
some of the spoils.” And A. G. Taylor has been
lamenting in the same key in the Star, and
Labor-member Ferguson wailed last week about
how the other provinces were pursuing N.S.W.
with a view to plunder. Would the anti-Billioug
people recognise the solid Truth if they happened
to meet it ?
Just before the Federal Referendum, every
N.S.W. elector will receive a special copy of
Sydney Daily Telegraph, containing many
“ facts ” about the Bill, and giving reasons why
N.S. Wales should vote against it. As aforesaid
electors have been receiving free copies of the un-
reliable paper named from various quarters for
some time past, and have now about “got the
strength of its facts,” this looks like a needless
extravagance on the part of the Telegraph pro-
prietary—or the people who are paying for the
free distribution aforesaid. Already “ Anti-
Bill,” with his 80,000 start, is getting desperate,
and sprinting with a Buck-like sprint, whilst
“ Bill ’’—good old “ Plugger Bill ! on scratch,
has about got the measure of his opposition.


TUESDAY, 21st JUNE.
BY AUCTION.
Tenham Cattle Station-
TO be SOLD pursuant to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Queensland, made in an
action, Hammond v. Hammond and Others, num-
bered 55 of 1897, with the approbation of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Cooper, by Messrs. B. D.
MOREHEAD & CO., of Brisbane, Auctioneers,
in conjunction with Messrs. HILL, CLARK &
CO., of Sydney (the persons appointed by the said
Judge), at Mary-street, Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, on the 21st Day of JUNE, J 898, at
Eleven O’Clock in the forenoon, in one lot,
TENHAM STATION
(Outside Tick-Infested Area),
Situated in Gregory South district of Queensland, con-
sisting of 276 square miles of country (more or less), of
which 190 square miles are Leasehold, having 17 years to
run from the Ist July, 1897, and 86 square miles of country
held under Grazing Right, under “Crown Lands Act of
1834.” Together with
6500 CATTLE (more or less), Fifty (50) HORSES (more
or less),, STATION PLANT, STORES and IM-
PROVEMENTS thereon or belonging thereto.
The Country is situated on Cooper’s Creek and Kyabra
Creek, about 40 miles south of Windorah and about 230
miles west of Charleville railway station. It is very rich
fattening country for cattle, consisting of lightly timbered,
open, mulga country, with occasional black-soil plains,
abundance of salt-bush, blue-bush, cotton-hush, and other
edible shrubs. TENHAM is splendidly watered by the
main channel of the Cooperand its many branches, be-
sides springs. The Cattle are quiet, and have been well
worked. In the herd there are about 1000 head of Bul-
locks and Cows fit to start for market. The Improvements
are sufficient for the efficient working of the station.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be had gratis at
the office of Messrs. Macdonald-Paterson and Hawthorn,
Edward-street, Brisbape; '-.Solicitors for the Plaintiff ;
Messrs. J. F. Fitzgerald and Power, Queen-street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the Defendants ; or at the offices of the said
B. D. Morehead & Co., Brisbane ; Messrs. Hill, Clark &
Co., Sydney ; Messrs. Ryan, Hammond & Mates, Mel-
bourne ; and Messrs. Barker Bros., Adelaide, and at the
place of sale.
Dated this twenty-fifty day of April, 1898.
' (l.s.)' W. A. DOUGLAS,
Deputy Registrar.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
1)1111. Hlont Piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
•74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
I* a}nnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
Bank of Neiv South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cot+Ee, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Officer-Old Broad Street.
With Branches, in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank-allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
Mr in India and the East. _
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 O' 0
1,950,000 0 0
HEAD office
Intersection Hunter, Buck and
Castlereagh Streets.-o
• SYDNEY •
Established -1379.
?W/B£R A
vt Orjfjck in AustkM-'* '
Annual lncome and In vested
Funds Exceed £2oo,ooofieri in*.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver,
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to ,
MELBOURNE’ OFFICE, 52 Market street ;
or to .
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
list-d in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E«q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M. L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street. Westminster.
Insolvency Department — Mr* L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAME« BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent.. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000
Paid-up .. .. ... £2,074,801 10s,
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esu., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L A.;
George Men res, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thou ley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.O.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nnll, R. H. M'Nicol,
H.'L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hixhopsf/nte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew^
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Hsymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. MclboCiriK.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties. Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELROUttNE.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD and
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD HAZORS, for heavy beards, 5 -, 6/-, 7 6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5/-, 6,6, 8 6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, f, 3, 10/-, 12 6.
All Razors Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2 6, 3 6, 5/-, 7/6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
CAMUEL JEFFS, the Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W.,
last heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father's will, conditional on the
‘ trustee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to be sent to
HILL & SCOTT,
194 Hereford-street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
Business Announcements.
USE
Spooler's
ROYALNAVY DRESSIKC
"S» FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
" OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRfcC I lONS FOR USE
lmtmnnmiuunnw
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleanirurand Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
U nrivallecl Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
e Vtit k Lb’S Fluid nisinfrotimt is invalliable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
■ Bunin vong, Tues., May 31, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 4, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tuesday, May 31, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
PREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tuesday, May 31, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
Kelloe, Tuesday, May 31, 5 p.m.
Cargo only.
Leura, Saturday, June 4, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE I
LUCINDA POINT;
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c. J
Tyrian, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 4, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIItKENT FAKES TO AEL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
-LJ by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line fye appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street ; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
0 A, : u
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing- and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS -Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
.Cuisine unrivalled.
Fgll Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE -B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Co3'. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
w
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD,
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or tfood reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
roulelted hinges in the world.
Bd. per 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial. Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moueing & Neal, etc. Box No. 337, G.P.0.,
Adelaida.
Clarke & oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
OLGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooka always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
free on auolicatiou.
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Innaminoka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, June 4.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, June 11.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Innamincka(from Melb.)
Saturday, June 4.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, June XI.
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE.
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Tuesday,
June 7.
Best & Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., r,TD., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching’ at the usual Intermediate Ports.
Pen’nsular 5287 W. A. Wheler July 2 July 5 July 7
Victoria 16527 E. Crewe Juiy 16 July 19 July 21
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £B5 to £7O.
Return, 165 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, i 55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ C°’ s [> ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particul rs apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(D‘|lujrai{h, ffl‘Eachari> & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR^-
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for (he Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
FARES From £l5 15s. to £4O.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne ; or
GEO. WILLS <x, CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEKS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES,- and GENOA.
Passage Money from el 4 to t'67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner. 63 Pitt-street. Sydney.


Coco®.
0
£L cup of Van Houten’s Cocoa contains more digestible
nourishment than the finest beef tea.
LL
BIRD’S
?SCPSI£RD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
-bdOA.jp
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
r a, c t i o n,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soyer’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Lotv Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb>ogtoQ N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.
158, 160, axidL 268 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
Church-street, Farra.na.atta,.
9
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and ST OUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only oj
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE JI»ST DEUCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WORI.D.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPSE3EOENTEQ IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
.MH.LIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i and 2 - each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and EIVEKI'OOI, STREETS, SVDNEV.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii/rmrmmmiiiifiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiTmi
01S3HXNI <j£efOH£7/
Wm Kit
IL33UJ SWV3IO.
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
T. A WRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter,
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
I
m
- •
A
/A
m
m
S*'
l
s
E
"L
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
FOB
<OUNTEB
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
Mick Simmons, Haymarlcet, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS
IN
Tlje
Fii)«St aijd Largest tyGSk WarefcofiSs
ITCT
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
f
T>OOK OF NATURE
-* * —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d,
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
Tiie Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is.2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST FREE ANYWHERE.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Ch.eap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
NTOTICE
TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2| x 1|; fitted with two View Finders, Time
aiid Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, (Id.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4jin. x 3sin. (Ip.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWEEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
■ Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d.
DRY PLATES. —“VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d.; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions \vith each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
■i
AT
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD-
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
06 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See Our Advertisement on Society Page.


G. Sutherland, the determined young Maori-
lander who won the 1, 5 and TO miles championships at
the last Mao riband Cycling Championship meeting, and
who in the past live months has won 28 firsts, six seconds
and ten thirds, rides Dunlop tyres.*
* # * ' *
The Dunlop Tyre Co. states that the work of
driving a bicycle with tyres inflated to a pressure of
161 bs. per square inch is exactly double that of a cycle
with the tyres blown to 351bs. ; and the wear and tear on
the. tyres is at about the same ratio. Kor everv-day r
road-riding in Australia the correct thing is' from 251bs.
to 3011)8. per square inch of pressure.*
• * • *
Some startling similes have been made by
cycling and other journals as to the speediness of Swift
'Value in general track fixtures : “ Like a lightning-flash
—Like greased lightning—Like an eloct' ic spark,” Ac.
A bush editorial, however, recently takes the simile cake
with the rather unscriptural statement that the Queens-
lander “ went like the very devil ! ” As to how fast the
mythological gentleman of brimstone fame can pedal an
up-to-date Dunlop-tyred wheel there is, of course, not
much information of a reliable character. Anyhow, if
such a match could be arranged, it is certain that the
betting as regards the man from Bananaland would still
be even monev.*
* * » •
A. C. and A. A. Middleton have changed their
mounts. Roth these sterling wheelmen are prominent
factors in the Dunlop-tyred Victorian cycle landscape.
• The two Middies now push the speedy Swift wheel.*
The modern (new) “Guinea” pig has a
very long tale.
Last week the Brisbane Boodle Govern-
ment auctioned 50,000 acres of Central Queens-
land soil at 10s. an acre, over 30,000 acres going to
form one big estate. The craving to eat up every
available acre of Central land and secure the
money for tiie Southern Treasury, before Separa-,~
tion comes is the' one consistent feature in the
Boodle Government’s policy. It may wobble like
grass in the wind on every other matter, but its
great stfeal is founded on a rock.
New Life on Circular. Quay.—lt is
pleasing to see the old produce stores around here
showing signs of business activity. -On Friday
last Messrs. Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd., cleared
a great catalogue of 3700 bides—by far the largest
of the day. This company have only been about
a year in the wool and produce trade, but their
good principles as agents only has come along
from their stock trade, and the satisfactory prices
obtained lias rendered it necessary to increase the
accommodation, and has infused new life into the
Quay.*
|_EARN R THINS OR TWO!
Don’t buy a BICYCLE without a guarantee. Don’t accept a Guarantee
not bearing the Signature of the Manufacturers.
REMEMBER,
If .the Machinery proves defective, the Manufacturer is interested in
maintaining the reputation, but the Agent is not.
however,
If the Manufacturer is ten thousand miles away you will have trouble
in getting' at him.
THEREFORE,
Buy a Machine which is represented directly in Australia by Factory
branches. Leave machines imported by Agencies severely alone; others
have been but you need not be.
V«0
RUBY RIMS, RUBY RIMS,
and BLACK BIRBS
ARE GUARANTEED by the MANUFACTURERS :
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO., Ltd.
FACTORY BRANCHES:
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
and Wellington.
HUM
ER
(iIMERI
AX
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works ;
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality.”
£tedLu.ced.
LADY’S
GENT’S
26
25
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Considering' the state of the weather lately,
Sydney Turf Club had luck in haying a perfect day last
Saturday for the opening of its meeting at Randwick.
Four favourites won right off the reel : Honeydew 11. the
Hurdles; Lo'ngford the Amateur Welter; Sailor Boy the
Royal Stakes; and Ditto the Steeplechase. Ace of Dia-
monds went out favorite for the T.C. Handicap, but he
failed-to run into a place. Town Clock winning from
Charge. The wins of Longford and Sailor Boy, owned by
Humphrey Oxenham, were as usual most popular, he
being one of the very few owners whose horses the public
can depend upon getting a run with.
• • •
Another attempt will be made at the annual
M.L. racing conference to raise the minimum weight from
6.7 to 7st. A sensible proposition. Horses have improved
vastly in quality since the last minimum was struck, and,
as the low-markers have to continually put up over-
weight, owing to the paucity of. good lightweight riders,
the proposed rise would do no harm.
'■ • • - • •
Levanter, likely to be sent from M.L. to Aus-
tralia shortly, is the best ’chaser his native land owns.
He has never baulked or fallen ; is sound, and was a bar-
gain the other day at 255g5.
*** f * 1
Tote-shop running has been brought up with a
round turn in M.L. (writes a Bulletin- correspondent).
Tiiree prominent Christchurch layers, raided recently,
went to court with a pile of notes, expecting a stiff fine.
The P.M., however, sentthem up for two months, so that
the shop industry is likely to languish. But if layers
don't keep shops they have emissaries on the streets, and
somehow the force cannot see ’em, although it spends
most of its wages trving to pick winners.
. • • * •
For strict economy re. racecourse “adjuncts” a
Maori club can’t be beat. ’At a'recent Orakei “grand
horse carnival ” the paraphernalia consisted of steel-yards
(for weighing), a "brass hell and a blackboard. That was
ail. You had your lunch before you went. The black-
board, used as an equalisator, was worked by a Day and
Martin mathematician,-resplendent in a top hat, a shawl,
and pair of tan boots. The grand stand was a row of
willow trees, and when anyone accidentally fell off on to
the crowd below there was a bit of a row, nothing more.
* S' • *
Waiukn, one of the best all-round horses ever
raced in M.L., is a St. Leger out of Musket mare. He
won Wellington Thompson Mile Handicap lately under
10.3 for the third time, and next day humped 10.7 in
Autumn Handicap over 1J mile, being’ beaten by a neck
by Target (Dreadnought— Straightfire), who had an
advantage of 3£st. Waiuku’s record—6s races :22 firsts,
10 seconds, 5 thirds; 2S unplaced; stakes, £3933. The
ex-hack has a N.Z. Cup on his list. His great rival, St.
Paul, has started 42 times, won 18, and gathered in £4937
stakes.
* * • *
“Newhaven TL, now at 22 to 1, debuts next
week in the City and Suburban,” writes Tits Bulletin's
London correspondent, “and should win. [He ran
second.] He d'd a fine gallop over the distance (lm. 2f.)
before Dan Cooper, anil his trainer now has the 1 form of
this year’s best up his sleeve. The two most-to-be-feared
antagonists are Brayhead. 4yrs., 6st. 101 b.. 9 to 1, and
Rosenjerryn, 4.vrs , 6st. 121 b., 20's. ‘ Mr. Jersey ' owns
the former, and the latter is Rothschild’s, whose Fosco
so ignominiously whopped Maluma in the Crawford
Plate, three-quarters, this week. The Malua mare had
only 7st. 71b. and £5OO of Lily’s money on, starting
favorite. After the race trainer Webb,' in reply to
‘What was the matter? Didn’t she stay?' said, ‘ She did
nothing,’ and then used verbal lashes that, applied across
Maluma’s flanks, would have made her win by a tail at
least.”
• * • •
In Sydney football circles on Saturday the
hopes of the adherents of the newly-formed club' the
Sydney, that it would follow up its previous Satur-
day’s victory over Wallaroo, got a shock when Randwick
scored a goal under three minutes from the start of play,
half-time scoring being: Randwick 8 points, Sydney 3
points. On resuming play, Light made a kick on spec,
and fluked a goal, and that was Sydney’s share of the
game,’Randwick winning by 21 points to 7. Randwick
was simply too good all round, and whatever the new
club may develop into during the season, at present it
is not up to championship form. Little interest was
taken in the Wallaroo-Pirate game, Wallaroo winning by
16 to 9. - •• V.- . .
* • * *
The influence of the money-grubbing Yic. Foot-
ball League is obvjous"as the matches open. When the
League was started at the beginning of last season by a
combination of the leading clubs of the association, they
loudly denied any intention of taking good players from
the inferior clubs they had frozen out, and, in support of
the contention, depided that no player in the jettisoned
clubs during the season of '96 should be permitted in
League teams of '97. But '97 is over now, and there has
been a general exodus of the cracks of the smaller teams
to the Leagueclubs—the clubs who throughout the whole
history of Vic. football have the most smellful records for
professionalism and general cronkness of play.
. * : * . - * ' *
Capt. Marshal], who engineers Vic. rifle-team to
Bisley this time, will be far better known to young Aus-
tralia as sec. of the old Vic. Football Association. Mar-
shall was all for the' rigor of the game, and, although a
Carlton club delegate, would sit on a Carlton stousher as
relentlessly as upon a misdemeanant of any other team.
To Marshall also are due nearly all the improvements in
the game during the last 15 years, and it must gall the
old man to see what a wreck Vic. football is to-day.
Mediocre play, bad attendance, and the old association
supplanted by a greedy crowd, eager to prevent the
weaker clubs getting a share of the plunder. No wonder
Marshall is getting hint to a gunnery !
* • * »
Coolgardie, like Charters Towers, plays its foot-
ball premiership matches on Sunday, but the authorities,
unlike tljo.se of the .Northern town, forbid “ the- gate.”
As a consequence, the “ plate” has been in evidence this
season at every entrance to the ground, and prosecutions
are pending thereanent.
w * * •
Considered probable that a M.L. Rugby-team
will tour England next year. A whit° combination, of
course. England has forgotten all about Warbrick’s
Maoris by this time.
* • * •
The Sydney police were sent out on a false scent
one day last week to Kensington, whilst “ Chiddy ” Ryan
and “Ginger '*.Toohiey brought off their little affair with
the raw 'tins out Sandringham way. Ryan cutToohey up
pretty severely, until his hands and condition went hack
on him, and the loyal policeman arrived at the moment
when Tooliey had a good show of pulling up lost ground.
The crowd dispersed, and the fight was declared drawn.
• • • »
Thebrutality of prize-fighting as against football,
gauged by last week’s Sydney doings. Ryan and Tonhey
fought with bare knuckles.for upwards of an hour, and,
when the police appeared, both men ran away with the
crowd, Ryan's worst hurt being a puffed hand, whilst
Toohey*s eye was black and his nose was bleeding. In
the Randwiek-Sydney match ot> Saturday, Light hud his
face cut open, Johnstone injured his leg and had to he
carried off the field, and Duggan had a finger severely
hurt. There were minor mishaps, but, in the three men-
tioned, play was stopped for some time whilst, the men
were taken off the ground to have their wounds dressed.
• * • •
A year ago 'Fitzsimmons, when he announced
his retirement-after defeating Corbett, picked upon six
men as likely for the championship -Corbet', Choynski,
Goddard, Maher, Jackson, and Jem Hall; and to-day not
one of the lot stands a chance. The only man of the
crowd who, a few weeks ago, seemed to have “ a possible ”
was Maher, now beaten in a round by the greatest dere-
lict of the lot, Goddard. Australia, which a few years
back held the championships at all weights, does not at
present own a man with a chance for the championship in
any class —bar, perhaps, Fitzsimmons, who seems to have
developed into a newspaper fighter only. The three men
who have the best look-in are Jeffries, Sharkey, and
Kuplin, all big", immensely powerful men.
• • • •
One of thf» biggest surprises sprung upon the
pußiiistlo world for many a day happened last week,
a cable told of the defeat of Peter Maher by Joe
Goddard. But a few weeks ba<:k Jeffries, who heat Peter
Jackson, simply wiped the floor with Goddard, who was
described as having lost all his old-time hurricane dash.
Apparently, however, very little hurricane was required
for Maher, as the cable says the affair did not last a round.
Goddard beat Maher some six years ago in less than
three rounds, and the remembrance of that tornado act
may have had something’ to do with the present defeat of
Maher, who has always been credited with a weak spot.
* * « *
Melb. Bicycle Club, v which opened new club
rooms with an evening-dress banquet the other week, has,
at the present time, £‘3300 invested in Melb. Met. Board
of Works debentures. So there is no immediate prospect
of the M.B.C. making a second private composition with
its creditors. It donates a “ hundred of the very best”
to the local hospitals, and hopes to make another £101)0
profit on next Austral jig.
. Mdlle. Serpolette, the French lady cycliste, now
in Adelaide, is a fetchingyoung creature with a charming
accent and, allegedly, only 20 years old, who looks far too
fragile for cycle-racing. She states that she intends to
wear skirts on the track, and is anxious for the scalps of
all local nian racers. Another illusion gone. Australians
were looking for a big, lantern-jawed female with washer-
woman arms careering round th*- track in tights and look-
ing for the judges during the week armed with a gun.
There is danger, says an impressionable Bi’U.ktin' scribe,
that racing men will be unable to resist a glance from
those dark eyes when coming up the straight. The ar-
rival of Mdlle. adds a new terror to the position of cycling
judge. The ladj has a smile that would corrupt a saint,
and the ordinary Australian cycling judge is but mortal.
• • * •
A man with an invention for accelerating bike-
speed recently inquired of a big Melb. hike concern the
cost of pacing-machines and crews for a fortnight to try
what his patent would do in the wav of
The price quoted was “ a cool thou’ ! ”
* * » •
Plugger Bilmartin’s first race, after his return
to his native land, proved a soft thing for the genial Bill.
Terrill, his opponent, never bothered him from the jump,
and Bill simply wore him down and won as he liked.
This is Bill's only show in ’Frisco, for, directly after the
nntch; he left for the East-presumably to enlist for
Cubin service. Bill, on a high-gear, is calculated to
scatter dismay in the Spanish ranks.
* * * «
A movement is on foot to send “ Jack ” Hamil- .
ton, M.L. A. for Cook (Q ), to England to contest the
revolver-shooting championship. If performances go for
anything, the Northern man should more than hold his
own.
* * * .
The Britisher is proverbial for his fair play—
when there is no chance of his being licked. The latest
specimen is the refusal of young Ten Evck's entry for the
Henley Diamond Sculls. Ten Eyck, a mere lad, son of the
Yankee sculler who was rowing in the days of Trickett
and La.vcoek, won the Sculls last year, completely out-
pacing the best of the English amateurs, and for tlie first
time the Diamond Sculls left England. The Henley
regatta rules allow the refusal of an entry without ex-
planation as to the reason. Young Ten Eyck’s was so
refused this year, the Yankees saying that the only thing
against the lad is t.haE he is a durried sight too fast.
* * * *
Quite a crowd collected in Queen’s Walk, Melb.,
on the morning of Saturday last week. The occasion was
a common dog-fight; combatants, a small brawn poodle
and a hybrid animal of evil propensities belonging jointly
arid severally to the members of a ladies’ club in that
locality. The club dog is tough from long experience,
but the poodle is game, and the battle raged furiously
for some minutes. Then the poodle’s owner, a stylishly-
dressed lady, emerged from an adjacent shop. She didn’t
scream or faint; she just walked up to the scene of the
unpleasantness, and, putting out her gloved hand
grabbed her dog hv the tail and pulled. The dog also
pulled. Then a man in the crowd grabbed the other dog
likewise, hut the club-dog wasn’t that sort of tyke—he
promptly turned. round and hit the man, who thereupon
let go hastily, and used language. Then somebodv sw-
gested to the lady that she should hold a lighted sulphur
match under the Jog’s nose. The crowd jeered. Finally
the lift-hoy came along and seized the club-dog by the
fore-paw and squeezed it hard, and the performance was
over. It is a good tiling to know that a dog can’t bite you
if you squeeze its fore-paw very hard.
* • « *
Cricket (and religion) as she is played in the
South Seas, illustrated by D.T.’s Samoan correspondent:
“ The Native Church of the London Missionary Society of
Apia is about completed. One novel scheme the Samoans
resorted to for raising funds was with cricket-matches.
Once a week the chiefs ordered all the people, men and
women, boys and girls, to play the game. Anyone who
disobeyed this order was fined a dollar. This did not
often happen, for all usually mustered on the ground for
play. The matches were played in different parts of the
town, and from 300 to 400 players would take part in one
game. Each player of the losing side had to subscribe a
shilling towards the building of the church. The scheme
became very popular, and, after a while, folk of all-
denmnin itions, people from other parts of the world,
white and black, desired to participate in the game. It
was finally arranged that any person not belonging to the
church could indulge in an innings upon payment of one
shilling an innings to the church. A number of young
men, who otherwise would not have subscribed a cent to
the church, became large supporters and subscribers, and
many shillings were gathered in each day of the play.
After being bowled or caught, or otherwise put out, it
frequently happened that the disappointed batsman or
batswoman would express a wish to have another trv.
This was allowed on payment of another shilling, and now
the Apia natives are in the proud position of bavinv one
of the finest and most handsome churches in the islands,
and entirely free of debt.”
At Poverty Point.
The theatre-order-tax idea, gravely announced by cer-
tain mummers in a Sydney paper as a “ new path ”
discovered by Mr. Waiter baker, is a path which has
already been pretty well-trodden by Tub Bulletin. This
pappr doesn't remember exactly where it stole the idea
front, but it floes distinctly remember calling attention to
the subject and pointing out that, to the best of its belief,
such a system was then actually in practice at London
Lyceum. “ Mr. Walter Baker” may therefore promptly
take this particular feather out of his cap.
Veteran George Coppin, founder of the Vic. Old
Colonists' Association, is the sole survivor of the first
office-bearers. Yet he opened the Old Col. carnival last
week with quite a sprightly speech.
There are nine plays advertised for performance in
Mell). Age, at time of writing, and in not a single one is
the name of the author so much as mentioned 1 The im-
pudence of these mummers surpasses everything. When
Marshall Hall advertises Beethoven’s “ Pastoral Sym-
phony ’’ for performance—as is the case in the same day’s
paper—it is advertised as Beethoven’s ; but, in the case
of “Hamlet,” Shakespeare is nowhere—it is only mummer
Barrett, who is mentioned. Not that Shakespeare minds,
but still
Miss Katharine Hardy, the pretty songstress of the
B. and B. co., is now- on her return journey from India to
Melbourne. Her many friends in Melbourne and Svdney
were horrified at the announcement—by one of the daily
papers—of her death from malarial fever in India, and for
a time no confirmation or refutation of this report could
be obtained.
Be Clement Scott's apology to the lydies of the stage,
it is indeed remarkable that these conspicuously virtuous
females waited so long before deciding to become in-
dignant. Scott, has been writing the same sort of thing
for years, advising young girls by no means to go on the
stage, because the life is so wicked, atid so forth. But
everyone took it for granted that it was all true, and no
fuss was made until the appearance of the Blathwayt
interview. Anyone who chose to look over the Theatre
magazine while C.S. edited it, would find numerous
remarks of a similar character re the stage as no place for
“good ladies, and its almost inevitable contamination,
with such a proviso as “ Mind, I do not say there are no
good women on the stage,” which was as much as to say
“ I feel sure there are not many.”
.Melba lately told how she and violinist Joachim and a
certain eminent 'cellist once put on old clothes arid spent
two hours singing and playing to the crowd at one of the
Thames locks-with a financial result of 7s. 6d. We hear
what we expect to^hear.
Caleb Porter successfully put in a few nights in Vic.
provincial towns lecturing on “The Sign of the Cross,”
with limelight effects. “Nero” gives the doleful story
with all the unction of a converted pagan, and spouts
lurid bits of the dialogue for the edification of the unco-
gude. The lecture has all the sprightliness and vivacity
of a sermon, and cast" a visible gloom even in Geelong.
Dear Bulletin'. —Cursed are those who have said our
good things before we had time to chip in—or words to
that effect. I have been waiting for somebody to point
out _ that the emendation “ paddock ’’ (toad) for
“ pajocke"—which Mr. Wilson Barrett claims as the
fruit of much independent study of Hamlet on his part—
was made about a century and a-half ago by a party
named Theobald, now dead, who, though not an actor,
was reckoned to know something about Shakespeare. He
still has that reputation amongst students—though, of
course, past masters in everything, like Mr. Wilson
Barrett, are not to be taught anything. Which recalls
another thing. Samuel Foote was asked once to repeat
the wittiest thing he had ever said. “ Well,” he said (I’m
not quoting the exact words, though one should speak by
the card when letter-perfect mummers are on the war-
path), “1 once saw a chimney-sweep mounted on a mag-
nificent high-stepping horse ; ‘ There,’ I said, ‘ there goes
Warburton on Pope’!’’ Mr. Wilson Barrett on Shakes-
peare is a shade more awe-inspiring. Or mirth-provok-
ing.—A Country Galoot.
A certain stage-struck earl known to Australians would
seldom pay for admission to a theatre if he could get in
“on the nod.” Here is a letter he' sent to the manager
of a certain theatre,at which a benefit was gi ven “ The
Earl of —presents his compliments to Mr. ——, and
thanks him very much for the hox, assuring him that he
enjoyed the performance, and hoping that it will prove as
great a success in the pecuniary way as in the entertain-
ment.” But no cheque.
Pollard’s Lilliputian Opera Cos. has had a triumphant
time in S. Africa. At Durban, particularly, the success
was brilliant. “No co. that has e'ver visited this town,”
says a local paper, “ has had such uniform support for
three coinseeutive weeks.” Of Alf. Goulding, in particu-
lar, it is said,. “ the more this little.fellow's extraordinary
talent is witnessed 1 , the more remarkable and fascinating
it becomes.” The booking was so heavy that the pit had
to be temporarily abolished, and at the close of the season
the juvenile performers were presented with a warhilv-
complimentary address—formally commencing “Ladies
and gentlemen.” At Pietermaritzburg, also, the co. did
enormous business, and t he enthusiasm over the “astonish-
ing little Australians” almost reached the hysterical.
Johannesburg critics are not enthusiastic* over W. J.
Holloways production of “The Sign of the Cross.” W.J.
himself gets an ambiguous kind of Credit for “ succeeding
so well with a part for which he is so unsuited.” Dun-
robin’s Nero is more favorably spoken of, but the only
thing, like hearty commendation is reserved for—the
scenery.
Brisbane Street on Walter Bentley’s candidature for
alderman : “ We don’t know Hall (his opponent) from a
crow, but we know Bentley. And, therefore, we un-
hesitating y say vote for Hall! ” Nasty. Bentley got
beaten by 3 to i.
Ami :“ Be Newbury and Albani. Newbury supported
AJbani in London, and came off with a lion’sshare of the
kudos.”
Clement Scott recants. But, as Galileo said, “it moves
for all that."
Vet another violinist, the eminent Belgian, Ysaye, is
announced for Australia.
Attendants at a metropolitan theatre some time ago
sorrowed over the departure of a loving couple, who *tvere
for long the life and soul of the place, and “whooped it
up with such abandon that the lives of all behind the
scenes were spiced with variety of the most riotous kind,
and their business-hours made glad. The differences
always arose over little things, and they gathered and
swelled till they filled the whole house behind with dust
and hair and incoherent exclamations. Hubby lifted up
his voice and stormed till the slates jigged on the roof,
and wifey struck a monotonous squeak and a mechanical
war-dance, and " went on something awful.’ - . The insur-
rection ended in exactly the same way every time : Hubby
slowed down, and drifted into expostulation, then into
cajolery ; after which tears, embraces, and huggv-muggy
before the grinning company. “ Blow me,” says the
scene-shifter, “we see the last of the bloomin’ show, after
all."
When Remenyi—who died suddenly at ’Frisco last week
was in Melb. about 15 years ago, he exhibited violent
svmptoms of the musical swelled-head, which is abso-
lutely the most virulent of all f rms of that dread disease.
One night when the eminent violinist was visiting some
“big” people, the hoM, trotted out, his own fiddle and
began to scrape a tune for the edification of the Master.
Remenyi stood the racket for about two bars; then arose,
“ Ach !” he cried, “ ach, you mek me seek.”
Recently taking part in amateur theatricals at Monte
Carlo was the Girl of Yarmouth—“a clever entertainer,
with a host of colonial experiences.” The experiences
were all right, ain how.
Hodges, of Wilson Barrett’s co., the young man who
looks down from the lofty height of his “profession”
Upon the “trade” of a literary barrister, lias played one
character convincingly since his arrival on these shore?.
The character of the caddish cousin (“The Manxman’’)
who provokes the pub-keeper’s daughter into calling him
“ You beast-! ” Mr. Hodges deserves great credit for the
aforesaid performance. It is a line iliustiatiori of a com-
petent actor's ability to appear thoroughly natural in a
part utterly foreign to his nature. *
Miss Beatrice Lamb appears to know when she is beaten,
anyhow, tslie speaks cheerfully of her “ hopeless failure
as the original Niobe in Raulton’s bright little piece, and
says “ my comedy was about as much like comedy as art
elephant, on a tight, rope.” Although the lady is a very
large Lamb, her name fits her. Sweet and tender; hut
an ungraceful gamboller.
Talking of the “cowhide” controversy in Sydney, what;
did Melb. ’Erald say about Wilson Barretts “ Hamlet?’*
—“There is no disguising the fact that the gentleman
with the inky cloak, who is kind enough to amuse the
audience with a series of detached recitations, is always
Mr. Barrett, and is not Hamlet. There is absolutely
nothing in Mr. Barrett’s delivery of the lines to which
exception could be taken, and that is, perhaps, after all,
the weariest feature of the performance. •. .-. Nor was
there much compensation to lie found among the. other
members of the cast.” But what in Melbourne is but a
choleric word from a theatrical notiee-vvrityr. is flat blas-
phemy in Sydney. •
Girly-Earl Yarmouth still hangs around the sassiety
footlights in London and at the baronial halls of the
haristoeracy. The other week he went across to Cannes
to take part in “ A Marriage of Convenience.” As the
foolish Chevalier, who intends some day to follow the
illustrious example of his ancestors, hut “at present is on
his own account,” festive Yarmouth ought to fill die bill.
The Broughs leave Colombo for London on June Ist.,
leaving Katharine Hardy and her sister, Harry Pfiinmer,
and young George Majeroni to return to Melbourne.
Mario Majeroni, and several others of the disbanded co.,
will accompany the Broughs.
H. : “Chief Justice Madden was solid before the Melb.
Shakespeare Society the other night in his complaint
about, the decline of the study of the hard. But I dis-
agree with him on the point that Shakespearian enthu-
siasts are good business men. The really good business
man enthuses over the acquisition of dollars, and nothing
else.”
Melb. : “ The Salvation Army introduces' the cinemato-
graphe in Sunday services at St. George’s Hail. Sensible
enough. But where does the show begin? Rickards,
would imperil his license by trying the cinematdgraphe
at the Opera House Sunday nights.”
Frank Fillis’s big circus, at latest accounts, was doing
great biz. in Johannesburg, and Herbert Flemming
was expected there from London, with anew co., about
,20th May.


50 YEARS
of honest making; 50 years of honor-
able business methods; and £1,C00,000
capital behind their Guarantee, maks
Massey-Harris Bicycles
safe to buy and safe to ride-
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots : .245 Collins S'reet, 'Melbourne; 385 George Street. Sydney
■ Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Uunediu.
Interesting Illustrated . Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
• •
The King of the Road
Is without doubt the most wonderful value
ever offered to the World of Wheels, em-
bodying as it does all latest improvements
in its working parts of construction gene-
rally. It is produced at a price which places
* PKICE
£l2 lOs.
within the reach of the shortest purse a Machine far superior to most of the so-called extra quality
Machines on the market. Complete—with Spanner, Tool Bag, Pump, and Oil Can.
SPECIFICATION: -
Frame
Hubs
Wheels
Sjwkes
Rims
Gear
Chain
. Weldless Steel Tubing throughout
. Oil Retaining. ’9B Barrel Pattern
. 28-ineh x l back and front
. Tangent, Half-plated -
. James!, Resist’d., Divided Spoke Groove
. Interchangeable, 63, or to order
Brampton’s J 4 Best Block
Plate Crown ... B.S.A. Pattern Parts
Tyres Dunlop Principle
Pedals Rat Trap or Rubber, Dust Capped
Handle Bars ... Ranishorn, straight or upturned
Cranks 6.| inch Square, Detachable
f inish Usual parts (including chain wheel
highly plated, remainder in black.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 61 to 65 Druitt-st., Sydney.
Mention The Bulletin.
Width of Tread, sin.
Weight, about 271 b.
N. : ‘‘Gladstone’s career is too beauti-
fully rounded and cushiony to be great, in the
full est sense. It is no impeachment, unfortunately,
of bis magnificent character to term him the subli-
mation and apotheosis of a trading politician.
His career has been quite unrivalled for enjoy-
ment 1 probably no man ever got" such a dividend
out of life—a spiritual millionaire. His mere
Dining experience was richly worth living for.”
Among the cabled Queen’s Birthday
knighthoods are Messrs. J. R. Fairfax, managing-
proprietor of S.M. Herald, and J. • Langdon
Bonython, editor-proprietor of 8. A. Advertiser.
Considering the amount of agony and sweat which
J. Langdon Bonython is more than suspected of
having expended in quest of the bauble, it is
utterly impossible for even the meanest and most
envious of his enemies to grudge him the dazzling
glory he has at last achieved.
OUItiKLL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top priee, 12jd., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 15id., London, ’93—both greasy.
Missing Friends.
TNFORMATION concernimr ROBERT BENJAMIN KAY.
■*- Last heard of at Bundaburgh in ’93. Supposed to be
in W.A. Write Miss Maggie Kay, Orniskirk Inlirmaiy,
Wigan-road, Liverpool, Eng. ; or E. Whitworth, Hospital,
Daiby, Queensland.
A Silver Watcb
S 3? GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
V*T* F*R F*D*R*T*o*-
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our troods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, per
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which jrives me more than satisfaction.—
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M'CARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at In
SYDNEY. One is “THE tItEM K.VT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
•• Ell s' Kinir-slreel I ottec I'aliire,’ 1 situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
'‘lmperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J r . F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Aprent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
" VVe know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and' fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
S&g~ Agent for “ Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
WHY PAY
FOR A WATCH?
CAN YOU REAL THIS?
In order to Introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver Watches,
Ladies or Gentleman’s to every Reader who sends the
Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS.—That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS. Send
Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address—THE .MANAGER, THE GLOBE WATCH
COMPANY, Ltd., 105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High ]|rt Cycles
• ■ . . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
(
MACK LIN
HENLEY
ORIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, aud the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET , SIDNEY.
T 0....
PIGEON SHOTS
..AND OTHERS.
A GENUINE Greener
Gun can now be ob-
tained from all the principal
dealers in Australia, bearing
the well-known GREENER
marks. Write for a Gun
bored like Mr. D. Macintosh’s,
who has just returned from
Europe loaded with trophies
of his skill and won by his
favorite “ GREENER ” to
ID J. Greener,
COX 326, G.P.0., SYDNEY ; or to his Vic. Rep.,
C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Curral Road, ELSTERN
WICK, MELBOURNE.
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . . .
4 Humber”
4 Swift”
6 Ariel”
. . AND
‘ Singer”
CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 George-street, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOUitNE AND ADELAIDE
&?*
mm
M
Sttt
: • K
S**»
yvj
««
I i
m
9®*
*«P
V ■
■
s ; .'■ ‘
ft m
Wj
T, * V
m
SB»<
Soi» : tO
HNTOS*
mi
21$/ ißiiaraluccr to Be free f*om r atl ; itmKtfcctioas m nas
® t3*rfem*B*sr-. Utc wilt ntnW aoot* jit out* ttiorfcs itt .imV time \tfltmr. one
> >'
m
■pcac from care ot fmrcMSS aiis oefeero %n> accidents* rcoob ussff€. e;
lancet. Htf pattv- to be m'wi& to its <a.«;.«toe iK\ih) forcrmmmtticm, toot-rW
\vui? tj?c Mmnfrcr ot tbc am? claim ti
munveo. ■
V Sv
H
a^i
yv
„ greatest Care t? fatten tVtfre sotction anS> sum# br ••jpuMmi •
I"OT|StJ!HSS. wbicb we recommend a«6 cur auatmttec ritily rest-
cnrcchtlj* .NtL< U«..t S .cr.oi? Ci c-K'uiiUo P-xcmiwf.c Cyre
9t» <w«BTO»»cc tbna lotgyMk' aftfett&a. , j&d&mmt*
ssrtsfl ,swh!*h»cc ttein u
"Stott Of ptreMsjc
S.;:nu L-i Guarantee
m
&
m
tm
mimm
mu
mu


Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla,
• • •
Cleanse, your Wood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla —tlie most thoroughly
reliable alterative ever compounded.
For scrofula, boils, ulcers, sores, car-
buncles, pimples, blotches, and all
disorders originating in vitiated
blood, this medicine is a specific.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is equally bene-
ficial as a remedy for catarrh, rheu-
matism, and rheumatic gout. As a
Tonic, it assists the process of
digestion, stimulates the sluggish
liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated
by excessive fatigue or wasting
illness. Physicians everywhere con-
sider Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the best. It
is a skilfully-prepared combination
of the most powerful alteratives and
tonics. No other blood-purifier gives
equal satisfaction or is so universally
in demand.
Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills cure biliousness
SECOND-HAND
a\d
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE
DEAF
9EAE
“ Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Ciialmkrs, Agent,
229 Colli ns-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lone, •/ f) - all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.~Wisz«M,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send etampa (or full Prioe LlsO
Prompt attention'# von to Country Ordor*
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.O
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H E ST Ma Y n!gee. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Bulletin. —l think the Sarah Sands
had on board the 35th —Royal Sussex —concerning
which regiment a curious item. For betting at
the mess-table before the cloth is removed there is
imposable a fine of either a dozen of fizz or
the amount of the bet. On one occasion a man
had got so far as to say, “ I’ll lay you ” Then
he chanced to catch the president’s eye, and-he
finished his sentence with the name of a very
necessary but much disrespected household utensil.
He was fined that article, and duly provided one
in silver , which always afterwards decorated the
mess table until it went down in the Sarah Sands.
It was subsequently replaced by a smaller one
used as a tobacco-jar. I was honorary member of
the 35th mess for two years, but Col. Blomfield,
of Albury, was in the Royal Sussex and knows
more about it than— Scotty the Wiiinkler.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
David graham $ go.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
Winter Suitings Jnst ° pene I-
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
AT TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham & Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
aaapaa
r
rj
:
C?
u
J
J)
V/
v
MB<C
GUINEA- ,
GOLD
Cigarettes
DA.PTO
(LIMITED),
(Lalte Illawarra), near SYUKTEY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW AREA”
. . BRAND OF.
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT and ASSAYS.
' For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin-place. Svdnev
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE ACED.
“ Steff Cassander ,! : Indian coolies in Fiji
must show a written character before you en-
gage them as servants. And they always ask you
for a reference, even if you have employed them
only a week. ' Some of these documents are very
odd, and the innocent holder smiles serenely while
you read : “ Bearer is an excellent servant, but
none too honest,” or, “ Bearer was my cook. Took
him on immediately after his release from gaol.
Tries his best to go straight, but is easily led
away,” or, “ If this fellow can’t do anything else,
he is splendid at chopping wood.”
THE MAN WHO CAN’T GET ON.
[For The Bulletin.]
w e come across him every day,
The man who can’t get on ;
And nothing seems with him to pay—
He never can get on.
We knew him well long years ago,
When things were very far from slow,
But even then Fate seemed to know
That he would not get on.
The times have changed, but he’s the same —
The man who can’t get on ;
And still he’s at the same old game,
But yet he can’t get on.
A goodly few have made their “ pile,”
And on their oars can rest awhile ;
But struggling in the same old style
Is he who can’t get on !
’Tis not because his style is old,
Or that his skill is gone ;
Or stress of competition bold
Prevents his getting on.
But some defect within must lie—
A shortage of the full supply,
And Fate alone can answer.why
He fails in getting on.
One consolation he may know—
The man who can’t get on—
That life is, after all, a show,
And, show-like, quickly gone.
And, mayhap, in some other sphere,
Since Fortune seems to shun him here,
Fate will not show a face severe,
And then he may get on !
M.L. Alex. B. M'Ceeady.
To the regret of certain Queenslanders
who claim to be hereditary rulers in that province
their boss commandant, Logan, lies interred
among a lot of rubbish on Garden Island, Sydney
harbor. More unlikely things have happened
than that this acrid, sour-souled slave-driver’s
ashes shall be, in some fever of enthusiasm, rooted
up, carried North and given honored sepulture in
some sunny Brisbane knoll —for future generations
to prostrate themselves before. N.S.W. should
yield the ashes without a murmur. Logan bossed
Moreton Bay between 60 and 70 years ago, when
all there were convicts or gaolers, and his lash
bears the repute of never having rested. He was
so successful in subjugating wild spirits that
Sydney used to send him its most incorrigible
villains. Logan broke them in or killed them.
But he himself was killed near Ipswich, either by
the blacks or convicts, and so highly was he
appreciated that Sydney had the body embalmed
and entombed on Garden Island. Queenslanders
can have him back, if they want him, any day.
N.S.W. has heavy stocks of his kind.


ar«-
liiiii
IMHP
' ! if
a
i
llerr Rassmvssen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OP THE
Jlfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors' bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stag ger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE" CURE
is found in taking the
Alfa line Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
---
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
> r
-
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home —and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfa,line Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th • Alfaline Liver and
Kidney -tin. w liioli are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffer i n g,
which keeps
them indoors
throughout the
year, while they
. drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEAL'I'H,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmnssen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
V
W)
>4
rw
-=s=±s= -rv^
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Medical Page.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. - They, are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
(ET.
fa
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
£
w
“HOW OAWEST THOU JLo BE IN THIS
PICKLE : ” — Shakespeare.
mm
m
>)
H V- v
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa ine
Pa f -R.edaciiig' Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, Gs.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those al ready cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world's
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Has mus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
few
sr
r
CHILDREN'S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob' them of the
nourishment, so. necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassinussen's Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. Gd.
YOUNG t
LADIES f
. • fcii;.-. . .i. 1 ■ 1
who possess everything
which the feminine iniud
can desire—Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every I ht-le
disappointment or tiifD,
their complexion sutier-
ing like their tempers. Sin all minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they,
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
m
*5
L
<v>
\
- I
ll II
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the AIEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he..is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Eassmii'sen’s Alfaline Vitality tills the
credit for his wonderful,improvement.
5
$
How to Obtain Free Book.
When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION; just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN
547 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rasmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine Seller whatever. He has no agents.
v...;
K
«*»
LA
/'
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Fills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLtiOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reaucing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual renn dy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mailer how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vi«or t at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Ouaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
ami falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d.,125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System,- Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Cora Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder - Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment-Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guarante d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, arid wonderful fur Beautifying the Complexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Cool gar die— Bailey Street;
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street,
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
aaHji
3DIAQV
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to '
HERR RASSMUSSEN, oo any of his In t«Y colonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply erhlressyour Letters tluiaforprivaey
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 2I)S, General Dost Office,
SYDNEY."
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
Mon^y,.Without, jad . _.


3PROSPBOTITS
OF TUB
Bright District & Smoko
Beef Gold Mining Co.,
HARRIETVILLE.
(To be registered as a No Liability Company.)
. CAPITAL :
£50,000, in 100,000 Shares of 10s. each. 40,000 Shares
paid up to ss. are retained by the vendors and pro-
moters, and 60,000 Shares paid up to ss. are offered
for subscription to the public, at Is. on application
and Is. on allotment, after which all shares rank
alike.
Of the £6OOO thus realised, £3500 will be placed to the
credit of the company, less cost of flotation, and the
balance, £2500, will be paid to the vendors, who
receive a further sum of £4500 as full consideration
for the mine, such further sum to be paid at the rate
of 25 per cent, from the gold won from the mine.
The company jvill be considered floated, and registration
may be proceeded with when 40,000 shares are applied
for.
BRIGHT DISTRICT and SMOKO REEF.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
Dr. F. S. JERMAINE LULHAM, Melbourne
Hon. GEORGE GODFREY, M.L.C., Melbourne
JOHN A. ISAACS, Esq., M.L.A., Melbourne
SETON GORDON WILLIAMS, Esq., Melbourne
THOMPSON MOORE, Esq., Melbourne
JAMES SHACKELL, Esq., Melbourne.
BANKERS:
The NATIONAL BANK of AUSTRALASIA
' LIMITED.
BROKERS:
FEWGOFSKI and HILL, 60 to 70 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne
W. L. CARNARGIE, Stock Exchange, Ballarat
W. C. HORROCKS, Stock Exchange, Adelaide
J. LOGAN, Dunedin, New Zealand
M. STACKHOUSE, Launceston, Tasmania
H. J. DEAN anil Co., Launceston, Tasmania
BAYLEE and WALCH, Hobart,.Tasmania
R. MAPELY, Hobart, Tasmania.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. SNOWDON, NEAVE and DEMAINE,
433 Little Coll ins-street, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER (pro. tern.):
W. W. HILL, (Fewcofski and Hill),
60-70 Queen-street, Melbourne.
This company is being formed for the purpose of ac-
quiring from the owners a Gold Minihg Lease, No. 3827,
containing an area of 30 acres, in name of James Buckley,
Esq., of Bright, situate at Ovens Valley, near Harrietville,
and issued by the Mines Department in Victoria.
A considerable amount of developmentary work has
already i, on done on the property, from which trial
crush mgs, taken from different levels, up to date, have
given the following results :
No. 1 crushing of 11 tons yielded 74 oz.
Ho. 2 „ 5.) „ 36 oz.
No. 3 „ 17* „ 54 oz.
No. 4 „ 45 „ 131 oz.
Total 79 294
The above is equal to close upon 3} oz. per ton, and as
the gold has realised £4 3s. 9d. peroz., the prospects.of
the mine becoming highly payable are at once apparent,
as it affords evidence of the mine becoming equally as
great a gold producer as some of the mines in the'im-
mediate vicinity, mentioned by Mr. Buckley in his report,
to which particular attention is drawn.
The vendors show their confidence in the mine as to its
permanency by taking the principle cash consideration
out of the gold to come from the mine, the immediate
c.onsidctalion being paid, merely covering the outlay up
to date.
It is considered that the amount which is being placed
to the credit of the company will be ample for the erec-
' 'on of the necessary reduction plant and opening up of
the mine.
Splendid access is afforded to the mine, which, com-
bined with the exceptional facilities for economical mani-
pulation of the lode matter, should enable the company
to treat the ore at a cost of only about 4 or sdwt. per
t in, thus allowing a handsome margin for dividends even
t.pon *oz. stone.
The Vendors have applied for the necessary machinery
f- : tes and water rights which will be available to the com-
pany.
The promoters place this property before the public
with every confidence, feeling assured that its possi-
bilities, beyond what is already known, are practically
unlimited.
A large number of shares have been already applied for
on the field, and early applications are invited io avoid
disappointment.
Shares will be allotted in order of priority of date.
Prospectus and further particulars can be obtained at
the office of Messrs. FEWCOFSKI and HILL, 60-70
Queens-street, Melbourne, where rich gold specimens
from the mine are also on view.
REPORT BY MR. JAMES BUCKLEY.
Bright, Ilth May, 1898.
To Messrs. Fewcofski and Hill,
Melbourne,
Gentlemen,—ln compliance with your resquest, I beg
to submit the following, bearing upon the “ Smoko ’’
lteef and Ovens Valley, near Harrietville, known as
“ Duffy and Gallagher’s ” show.
Without entering into details as to the merits of the
property under notice—which is being dealt with by ex-
pert evidence and opinion—it will be sufficient for me to
mention its relative position to other well-known mines
in the district, in order that some idea may be formed as
to its future prospects.
It is not generally known that the Bright district has
produced close on seven million pounds sterling from its
gold resources, and that there are mines in this district
which have produced immense fortunes; hut unfortuna-
tely for the district, the principal mines have been owned
and worked by small cj-operative parties, and on en-
countering a fault., which is to be met with in all reefs,
the owners—having made their fortunes out of their
mines—deemed it advisable to retire on their good luck.
The property under notice is situated in the midst of a
group of mines which have yielded hundreds of thousands
of pounds to their owners.
For instance, the “Oriental,” situated immediately
north, on the same range, yielded £780,000 sterling, this
enormous amount being taken out in a few years, the
whole of it coming from above the 300 feet level.
The “ United Miners,” situated S.E., yielded over
£250,000 sterling.
The “ London,” situated to the west, yielded £80,006
worth of gold in four years.
The •• Myrtle," “ South Myrtle" and “ Red Ruth" pro-
duced £120,000.
The “ Richardson,” in the same group, yielded £45,000
worth of gold.
The “ Hit or Miss” and “ Shamrock ” mines, situated
south, and adjacent to the property under notice, were
worked with satisfactory results for 25 years.
It is generally supposed that the shoots in the district
are short, and that the reefs are not continuous, but this
is NOT the case. For instance, the “ London,” “ Myrtle,”
“South Myrtle" and “ Red Ruth" were all separately-
owned mines on the one line of reef. The “London"
shoot alone was over 1000 feet in length.
The “United Miners” was worked for over 600 feet
along the line.
The “ Shamrock ” was worked for 25 years and to a
depth 6T600 feet without a fault, engaging up to 200 men
at one time.
“ Bulgarian” was worked by separate parties fora yield
of 6000 oz., and subsequently by a second party for
4 ',OOO oz.
“ Shouldri't'Wooder," on the same range, was worked
by three parties, and was subsequently sold by the third
party to an English company, 20,0000 z. having been taken
out of the mine.
The “t-one Hand," owned by E. Duncan, yielded,
w ithin the last eight years, £42,000 worth of gold.
The “ Monarch," a recent find, and owned by an Eng-
lish company, has reputed to them a crushing of 25 tons
for £3OOO worth of gold.
From a great number of other reefs in the district that
can be quoted, although not in the immediate vicinity to
the one under notice, ft criterion can. be formed as to
a 'mt the district can do in the way of gold-production.
The most notable, the “ Pioneer ” reef, which was crush-
ing for 12 years with 24 head of stampers, putting: up the
marvellous record of having produced 600 oz. of gold within
72 hours.
The “ Bed Jacket" produced over a quarter of a million
sterling in a few years.
The “ Home Line ” of reef has been worked for over half
a mile along the line by different parties, with satisfactory
results, which, taken with others, proves conclusively a
continuity of the lines and the yields, which will surpass
those of more favorite localities. For cheap manipulation
of stone, the district is second to none, there being
abundance of water in most places for milling purposes,
thus saving the heavy expense of engineers and fuel, and
costly driving machinery, and most of the reefs can be
worked by tunnels; saving the cost of winding and pump-
ing plants, and the district is abundantly supplied with
timber for mining purposes.
In conclusion, I might mention the foregoing records
were compiled from the Ovexs axd Murray Advertiser,
district papers, and Mining Registrars’ reports.
Yours faithfullv,
(Signed) JAMES BUCKLEY.
REPORT BY MR. T. R. TOBY.
Harrietville, 2nd April, IS9B.
To Messrs. Fewcofski and Hill,
Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—ln accordance with your instructions, I
have \ isited the mining property near Harrietville, Vic-
toria, known as “ Duffy and Gallagher’s ” show, and beg
to hand you the following report tnereon.
The property consists of one 30-acre lease situated on a
main spur eight hundred feet (800) abo.ve Harrietville
and Bright-road and. Ovens Riier.
There are five lines of reefs outcropping the lease.
No. 1. The lode outcrops for a distance of about twelve
chains, and where opened upon shows a width of three
feet three inches, the stone being good auriferous quartz.
Eleven tons of stone taken from the southern end of the
outcrop gave a yield of 740 z. of smelted gold.
A tunnel has been driven 112 feet, intersecting reef at
one hundred and twenty-two feet helow its highest out-
crop, and being 678 feet above the Ovens River, 'he aver-
age course of the lode being north 4odeg. west with a
S.W. underlay of one in one, carrying well-iieiined walls.
The reef has been here driven on 86 feet N. At 22 feet
from tunnel a rise was put up, and gold met wi;hat 72
feet. A crushing of 5$ tons obtained here yielded 360 z.
gold.
At 42 feet in rise an intermediate drive was put in
north, and a parcel of 17J tons was crushed for 540 z. At
62 feet in lower level, north of tunnel, a rise was put up
to connect with intermediate level, gold being met with
at 23 feet.
From these workings a parcel of 45 tons is now being
crushed at the Harrietville Company’s mill, and stone is
now being broken from the 122 feet level, 25 tons being
at grass.
As proved by developmental work, the chute of gold is
dipping north at an aiule of about one in one.
At 86 feet in lower level, the reef has opened out to
6 feet, and from present indications will reach a still
greater width, gold being obtained from wall to wall.
The four parallel reefs west of No. 1, from surface indi-
cations, will junction at about 80 feet from present work-
ings with No. 1 reef, thus forming one large xold-bearing
formation.
No work of moment has been done on these reefs,
except “ loaming, ’’ gold being obtained in several places
along the line.
POWER.—For milling purposes sufficient water can be
obtained from Ovens River by construction of about 25
chains of water race to drive 50 head of stampers in
summer, and an unlimited number if required in winter,
thus saving all the expense of firewood, skilled engine-
drivers and other expenses.
To connect with mine an incline tram of about 25
chains, and a sideling tram of about 10 chains, could be
constructed it small cost, there being abundance of.
splendid timber for either mining or constructive pur-
poses on lease.
PROSPECTS.—-This property is admirably situated for
carrying on mining operations by tunnelling, and can be
worked to a depth of 800 feet, being limited only by
length of tunnels and expense of driving them, and if
economically handled is well situated for cheap manipu-
lation of quartz, there being an ample supply of timber
on the ground to* all purposes. A sufficient quantity of
water for working a large number of stamps, and no
hauling quartz or pumping water,-the lodes being well
defined, and returning by crushing good payable results,
and when opened out the quartz should be obtained and
handled at a very small cost.
Ail these circumstances greatly enhance the value of
the property, which I believe will pay handsome dividends
for years to come.
I beg to remain, gentlemen,
Yours obediently,
(Signed) T. R. TOBY.
REPORT by J. B. KING, Esq.
Melbourne, 12th May, 1898.
To Messrs. Fewcofski and Hill,
Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—
As requested, I beg to submit my report on the pro-
perty situated at Harrietville, Victoria, and known as
“ Duffy and Gallagher’s” show, and containing 30 acres,
leased from the Victorian Government for gold-mining
purposes.
I visited the above-mentioned property in company
with Mr. Buckley, one of the proprietors, on the Bth May,
1898, and inspected the various workings, with the fol-
lowing impressions, viz.:—
There are three lodes outcropping on the property,
which is in mountainous country.
No. 1 Lode outcrops for a distance of about 12 chains,
width of same 3 feet, one foot of which is proved to be
worth 3 to 7 oz. gold per ton from actual crushing results,
the balance, which is stacked for future treatment, I
estimateTo yield about joz. of gold per ton.
The course of lode north 45deg. west. Underlay west
one in two, carrying well-defined walls.
A tunnel has been driven into the hill a distance of 112
feet, cutting the lode at a depth of 120 feet from the sur-
face, and from this point the reef was driven on about 86
feet north.
At about 20 feet along the drive north from where the
reef was cut in the tunnel, a rise was put up on lode, and
a crushing taken, which yielded 7oz. of gold per ton. At
a distance of 42 feet, driving north at an intermediate
level, a crushing was taken out which yielded 3oz. of gold
per ton.
At about 60 feet in a rise put up to connect the upper
workings, same class of stone being raised, which I esti-
mate will go fully up to the average of stone which has
already been crushed.
At a distance north about 90 feet from where lode was
first cut in tunnel, the lode matter is about 6 feet wide,
of which one foot will average fully 3oz. of gold per ton ;
the balance, I should say, would go about 6dwt. of gold
per ton.
No. 2 Lode outcrops on the surface for a distance of
about 10 chains, width of same about 10 feet. A few sur-
face cuts have been put in places, and lode proved gold-
bearing.
A tunnel is being cut into this lode at about a depth of
40 feet from the surface. On the occasion of my visit
the lode was met with, carrying a little gold. Further
development may prove this a payable lode.
No. 3 Lode.—l consider this merely a surface blow, but
would advise a little work being done on it at a future
date. -
GENERAL REMARKS.—In conclusion, I must say that
it has given me great pleasure to inspect .the property,
which I consider a very valuable one.
There is an abundance of water power for all mining
purposes, as also exceptional facilities for opening up the
mine, and with economical management should prove a
good dividend paying concern.
Yours faithfullv,
(Signed) J. B. KING,
Tasmania.
EXTRACT FROM THE “ OVENS AND MURRAY
ADVERTISER,” 22nd March, 1898.
The reef at Smoko, owned by Messrs. Buckley, Duffy,
Gallagher and Co., is showing excellent prospects just
now, and a large quantity of Stone is being got ready for
the battery. The number of hands has been increased,
and the mine is being opened up systematically at several
levels. The reef was first found in the “ early days ”by a
prospector named Bird, but he got nothing of ariy conse-
quence, and it was only recently that Mr. Gallagher
obtained some good prospects which led to the reef being
opened up. In tracing it along the surface it was found
that there are two lodes of stone forming the reef, one of
which onjy carries a little gold, and this is evidently the
one Bir4 prospected without obtaining anything of a
satisfactory nature. Up to the present all the stone put
through the stampers by Messrs. Buckley and Co. has
averaged 6 oz, to the ton, and what they are saving now
appears to be fully equal to all that has been treated in
the past. 1 had an Opportunity to visit the mins recently,
and found the proprietors are making preparations to con-
duct operations on a more comprehensive scale than have
hitherto been adopted. When the course of the reef had
been definitely ascertained, a tunnel was decided upon,
which—when in one hundred feet—intercepted the line
of reef with about 120 feet of backs. The line was driven
on some distance (about 20 feet), when the chute of stone
was met with, and a rise was pub up to the surface,-with
the result already stated. Stoping is now being carried
on at three different levels, the bottom 80 feet and 60
feet, and the high grade stone is being broken in each
instance. The lode averages a little over 3 feet in width,
and the line of reef has been traced along the surface for
several chains.
This valuable property furnishes a striking instance of
the absurdity of supposing that the quartz reefs of the
district have been all exhausted because some prospec-
tors have travelled the hills in vain for some considerable
time.
Here was a reef lying practically on the surface, not
more than a stone’s throw from the main Harrietville-
road for over a quarter of a century, available .'or any
one who would put in a few surface trenches ; and there
can be no reasonable doubt but that there are hundreds
of others equally rich in the district, in localities which
have been only partially prospected.
Reports have been in circulation to the effect that the
stone now being raised from Messrs. Buckley and Com-
pany’s reef is equal to a return of some score of ounces
to the ton, and though this may he slightly exaggerated,
there can be no doubt about a large percentage of the
stone being extraordinarily rich, and I am able to say so
after having seen several prospects crushed and panned
off, which were taken at haphazard from the reef. Up to
the present all the crushing has been done at the Har-
rietville Co.’s battery, and the stone now being taken out
will be treated there also, but with the large body of
battery stu'” available, the necessity of erecting their
own crushing appliances will be forced on the attention
of the shareholders. The mine is so situated that a plant
would be erected in such a position that the quartz could
be sent down by a self-acting tramway, and there is
abundance of timber for all mining operations. The
company hold a lease of 30 acres, known to contain a
couple of other lines of reef beside the one on which
active operations is now being conducted.
These lines will be tested at various points to ascertain
if they contain any auriferous chutes, but just at pre-
sent they will not be interfered with, as all attention for
some time must be directed to the working of the rich
reef the tunnel has been driven into. The conduct of
affairs on the mine is entrusted to Mr. J. Duffy, one of
the shareholders, and he appears to be utilising every-
thing to the best advantage.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS of
The BRIGHT DISTRICT and SMOKO REEF GOLD-
MINING COMPANY
(To be Registered as a No Liability Company).
Gentlemen, —
I hand you herewith the sum of £ being
application fee of Is. per share on Shares in the
above-named company, which I request you to allot me
pn the terms of the Company’s Prospectus ; and I hereby
Agree to accept same, or any less number that may be
allotted to me, and pay the balance as set forth, and I
authorise you to register my name as holder of the said
shares.
Dated this day of 1898.
Name in full
Address
Occupation
Signature
BRIGHT DISTRICT and SMOKO REEF
(To be Registered as a No Liability Company).
..., 1898.
Received from , the sum of
£• being Is. per share application fee for
shares in the above intended company.
Applications must be made by wire.
LIST CLOSES 30th INST.
Am ii.seme— is.
STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
■*** (Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
83rd \
JVJCJSK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
83rd
WKKK
Tbs Wages of Criipg.
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverlev ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
TTNDER the PATRONAGE of His EXCELLENCY the
GOVERNOR, Viscountess HAMPDEN, the MAYOR
and MAYORESS of Sydney, General and Mrs.
FRENCH.
- TOWN HALL, SYDNEY |-
SATURDAY, 28tli HAY.
COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT CONCERT
—TO —
MiSS Hetty Nolroyd.
The following Artists have kindly promised their
assistance—
Madame Charbonnet - Kellermann, Miss Christine de
Graine, Mr. F. R. Woodhouse, Mr. W. Reginald
Gooud, Mr. J. E. Sykes, and M. August Wiegand on
the Grand Organ.
Committee:
Sydney Burdekin, Esq.
George Holdship, Esq.
Dr. A. J. Brady
P. A. Rabett, Esq.
T. M. Slattery, Esq.
Dr. Arthur Cox
A. J. Riley, Esq.
Dr. Watson Munro
R. T. Carter, Esq.
R. M. Pitt, Esq.
Dr. W. M'Murray
W. T. Moffitt, Esq.
H. O. Marshall Esq.
Whittingdale Johnson, Esq.
Dr. T. M. Kendall
Hon. F. B. Suttor
L. T. Lloyd, Esq.
Dr. R. VVorrall
G. J. Barry, Esq.
Dennison Miller, Esq.
Dr. J. J. Power
Colonel Blanchard
E. W. Perkins, Esq.
Dr. P. J. Kenna
C. W. Little, Esq.
Charles Curtis, Esq.
Colin Caird, Esq.
A. M. Heuisley, Esq.
L. C. Russell Jones, Esq.,
M.L.A.
J. S. Larke, Esq.
T. F. JOSEPHSON, Hon. Treasurer.
H. HAMILTON MARSHALL, 2 Lyons-terrace, Hon.
Secretary.
Plan and Tickets (3s, 2s, and Is) at Paling and Co’s.
IVOLI T HEATIi E, SYDNE Y.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Hakky Rickakds.
GREATEST SUCCESS IN AUSTRALIA !
Miss PBG&Y PRY3DE.
FOREMAN and FANNAN.
MICHAEL NOLAN. THE TILLERS.
Miss LIZZIE KIRK, FRANK LEON, AGNES HAZEL.
WALLACE KING, and THE QUAKERESSES.
TO-DAY, Matinee and Evening, Reappearance of
q. H. WOOD and Miss MARIAN AINSWORTH.
CltlTElilON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Harry Rickards.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES OF
| Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT f
And his BRILLIANT LONDON COMPANY in Sydney.
Thurs. and Friday—A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.
Ami Saturday Matinee, May 28.
Sat., Mon., and Tuesday—THE SQUIRE OF DAMES.
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday—THE IDLER.
Box Plan at Nicholsou'e. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, anu Is.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
POLUSKI BROS.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
J. W. WINTON. Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
Miss ALICE SIMMONS. WILL WHITBURN.
Tljl© Kellino 3F*«»,aaatily.
And Our Great Double Company.
gar PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan's.
Amusements.
«|IHE ATRE It OYA L, SYDNEY!
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS I
BLAND HOLT’S
Gigantic : Speotaoular : Melodrama,
“R UF€ OF PLEASURE.”
Last Nights of the Realistic Battle Tableaux.
NEXT PRODUCTlON— straight from the Heart.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
T YCEUM Til EA I’UK, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Messrs J. & C. MacMahon.
TO-NIGHT (at 8 o'clock) TO-NIGHT
The All-absorbing and Intensely Attractive Drama,
Tbc Orpl>ai) Heiress.
The first production in Australia of this admirable play
has been received with a cordiality that is most gratifying
not (t.jy to the management, but to every member of the
fine company and exceptionally able stage staff engaged
in its representation.
Always the Unique Lyceum Tariff—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d.
TTEE MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
A*. Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), 26th MAY, at 7.45, and Every
Evening until Further Notice,
THE SI6N OF THE CROSS.
MARCUS SUPERBUS .. Mr. JULIUS KMIGHT.
MERCIA Miss ADA FERRAR.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
11E AT K E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
“Two Little VagaboodS.”
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
The Management having engaged Mr. Geo.
Titheradge, that Popular actor will appear in the
Great Emotional Drama, SHALL WE FORGIVE HER?
To be produced for the first time, Saturday, May 21.
POPULAR PRICES 1 ... Plan at Allan’s.
gTIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE FARCICAL
COMEDY,
Dr. BILL
EVERY
EVENING!
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION OF
Miss MYRA KEMBLE.
ELECTRICAL SUCCESS OF
Dr. Bill. - Dr. Bill.
POPULAR PRICES ! Box Plan at Allan's.
Sown hall, melhoukn is.
USth May and 4th June.
SATURDAY
SATURDAY
SHILLING
POPS.
“ POPS.
NEWBURY- SPABA COY.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
FAREWELL SEASON of the Eminent English Actor,
MR. WILSON BARRETT
(Prior to his departure for England).
To-night (Thursday), one night only—BEN-MY-CHREE.
Friday, 27t.h May, one night onIy—VIRGINIUS.
Saturday and Monday, 28th and 30th May —HAMLET.
Tuesday and Wednesday—THE SILVER KING.
PRICES AS USUAL Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Business nnouncements.
The Greatest Oirative of the A^e!
AFTER EIGHT YEARS’ TRIAL, PUBLIC OPiMON
AFFIRMS that it has EFFECTED MORE CURES than
any Ointment or Embrocation in the World. For
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Aches & Pains
it is an • INFALLIBLE REMEDY. For DISEASES in
HORSES, CATTLE, &C.,
there is no equal to it extant. J3F - Purchase a Jar and
Test its Value.
Lumbago Cured.
Desicating Works, Flemington, 11th June, 1596.
Messrs. S. Cox & Co., 422 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —I obtained a pot of Solomon Solution on re-
commendation, and applied it to the parts in which I was
affected with Lumbago, and have found it to be an abso-
lutk curb. I removed that unpleasant disorder on a few
applications. I strongly recommend it to persons affected
with Lumbago, or any complaint of a simiiar nature.
Yours truly,
F. HAIRE.
Wholesale Agents:
IF. R. CAVE Je CO., Adelaide, S.A.
Masers. LEARMONTH & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Sold by Chemists, Saddlers, and Storekeepers.
If nut obtainable in your locality, send 3s. to the
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
SOLOMON COX AMP CO.,
122 BO.RKE ST., MELBOURNE.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
m
‘.lllllllirrl
IgS
tup l "'!
"Hiiniuj. -■ !
;iG! , !!!!!s£li
/nji'iiiiiiiiiiili
"."'.'"•"mi.,,-,,; ,
".'.'l.'.'ijjiiiiii ijjjjn
HHfliiiiiiiiiiif.'im
ItTHHiii'iiiiiifm
«!!!“■
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84'-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&e. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, ludigo dye,
,25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. L.ack Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes,'ls 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211 Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 0. Geuts'splendid Balmoral Boot*,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of press," also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement forms posted ime. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia ot Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts. Blankets,
Bugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or i-dl upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man's Suit, lor 19/-, trimmings included.


MELLIHS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of"all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including.
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B. —We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality ; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes roa.de
from own pattern of .hair and design, 10/6, Best English
Hair Tails from 6/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG JTaITKEN,
NrlW SOUTH WALES BARBERS SUB PLY HOUSE
GBO .V «82 Lieor'ge Street. Sydney.
Ladies. - can and
see our CHi’.AP
MACH IN lit?,, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ' everoffered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc. " ' ' ——'
! S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life ;
A d v e,n!
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdrae-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT OARDB, 3s.
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
(Continental Supply Agency,
I Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
SSV Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
i
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto ltico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d. ;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, Od. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets : 30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. . BOOKS .. . BOOKS ... BOOKS . .
Nrcw Up-to-Datk Publications.
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, or the Girl with Six
Husbands; Sappho, or Life and Love in Paris. These
hooks are very -choice and selling rapidly, each (post free)
Is. 6d. The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes, Is.
post free. Maria Monk, Don Juan, Ovid’s Art of Love,
Is. 9<l. post free. K VV SKINNER,
New and Second-hand Book Arcade, 105
street, Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Should you require any Books New or Second-hand
kindly advise.
“A man whose grammar is defective and
whose methods are curious, but who has the
ability to make money.”—London Wheeling on
Millionaire Hooley, who, by the way, has acquired
the remainder of the term of the Lee-Metford
rifle patents, and is arranging to float them —prob-
ably at a capital of .£5,000,000 or thereabouts.
Rev. Prof. Gosman (Melb.), who is a
Unitarian, stated in a recent lecture that Chris-
tianity was a glorious thing as compared with the
dreary monotony of rationalism which “brought
no comfort to the human heart.” Even the most
liberal of parsons still cling to the pathetic idea
that man is the centre of the cosmos. Prof. Gos-
man’s remark recalls the observation made by
Hagel, the yellow-eyed philosopher, to Heine:
“Do you think then that because you have not
poisoned your father and mother you should be
rewarded with immortality ? ” Or words to that
effect.
“ A.G.P.” to The Bulletin
Re typhoid spread along the Hunter, your correspon-
dent is a hit out. Fact is, every creek and every billa-
bong in N.S.'W. and Queensland is a culture-bed for
typhoid, cholera, or any other bacillary disease. Along
many of the small tributaries of the Hunter the latrines
are built over the creek or gully, presumably so that each
freshet may do the sanitary cleansing. The “other
fellow” gets the benefit, so “our troubles!” I’ve seen
it at scores of places—from Maitland to Allynbrook and
Murrurundi. All the billabongs near the track in way-
back N.S.W. and Q. are used for the same purposes as
above, and hence it seems to me that only for the sun’s
heat and long droughts, typhoid and such would have
swept off every mother’s son from the Lachlan to the
Thompson. The carcases of cattle floating past Bourke
have nothing to do with the epidemic. Travelling once
from Mt. Hutton to Booroonda we got off the track and
the water-bag gave out. We struck a waterhole at night
by following up a scrub-bull at a safe distance. We had
a “ long one,” then, I can tell you. Next morning we
were horrified to find that the “aroma” of the water was
due to 20 odd carcases of cattle in advanced stages. Meat
and drink.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
E.F. : A writer in the Windsor, discourses
upon Australia under the title of “The Imperial
Heritage,” and this is a chunk of his knowledge
concerning one of the heritages, Queensland :
Not even the African jungle has taken its toll of brave
human life more inexorably than the land wherein lies
the dust of Leichhardt, and of Burke and Wills. Truly
to every son of the British Empire, to every man who
values courageous deeds, the spots whereon these men
died must ever be holy ground.
If Mr. Williams, the author of the above gushing
par., will point out the exact spot of “holy
ground” where Leichhardt died, he will solve a
long-existent mystery. Also the combined dust of
Burke and Wills does not rest in Queensland.
The only one of the party of four which blundered
across the continent whose “ dust ” rests in an un-
known grave in Queensland is poor little Grey,
whose death practically lies at the door of the
brainless leader of an expensive mistake. To any-
one who knows the rights of the matter, this con-
stant eulogising of Burke and Leichhardt seems
very silly. Leichhardt, through sheer good luck,
got through to Port Essington ; his way ran
through the best-watered travelling country in
Queensland. After that, he made a mess of every-
thing. He was not at all a heroic character. He
did not hesitate to backbite his companions and
deny them any credit, nor do other acts generally
called mean. Burke —who is always spoken of as
the gallant Burke—also blundered across over good
country by sheer luck. Placed in a situation
wherein an ordinarily good bushman would have
pulled himself and men through, he wilted and
died, never displaying any of that wonderful
heroism of which so much has been said and
written. If Mr. Williams wants somebody’s dust
to weep over, why, perdition is full of better men.
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Pi 4«e, 10s. lid.
Sole Agents:
M
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 George-st., Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working ?ICH IN ERY,
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind 3*lxll S 3,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
£4 Chi fence St..
Sydney.
Tbe Enjpirc’s Leading
Authority.
DR. STEVENSON MACADAM, Consulting
Chemist to the. British Government, writes :
“Analytical Laboratory,
“ Surgeon’s Hall,
“ Edinburgh, 10th February, 1898.
“I have examined by Chemical Tests a
sample of “ Feptonikkd Emulsion sent me
by the Minerva Company. Manufacturing
Chemists and Food Specialists, with the re-
sult that I find the Emulsion to be a first-class
preparation of Cod Liver Oil presented in a
very palatable and agreeable condition, and
rendered doubly beneficial from" admixture
with Alkaline Hypophqsphjtes, and more
easily digestible by the addition of Pepsin.
“ STEVENSON MACADAM, Ph.D., &c.,
“ Lecturer on Chemistry and _
“ Consulting Analytical Chemist.
MINERVA EMULSION is on Sale by ALL
CHEMISTS throughout these. Colonies.
£ Rzcwmviv
AjEJOICAL A\EN
F snPloEjTio^
yVerVov/s —ie'
HEADACHE
»LVpTur
teH&fcsr
Sr%AIHS
(oVGHS (OLPS iS
[Beware of
/mitati°mS
MELBOURNE.
BfflBK?
<MTy POST FREE
yIwtcHes-Clocks- Jewellery-Birthday*
WeddiNg i CriRiSTEiyliric Presents
H'NeWMAISI- 1755177-ELIZARFtP St.
OPPOSITE G:P.O.-
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writ- s a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatmentthat
has re toied so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DU. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter Sc Bligli Sis., Sydney.
Dear Sir, — Please inform your readers .that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years bafara Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
Bee
HIVE"
KNITTING
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
thetvorld for quality, colours,softness and durability.
SEE THIS TRADE /AARK^W
EVERYr,Skein.
IS o
I ade Mai k.llegiad
Estaib ishedl7Bs.
Sa' pie SHADE
IA.RO FREE BY
POST.
A i ' ' oeljivo "
Hos!(> \ &flnd< r-
« nr hi nu 110-
‘lird 1 from i he'
Veeliive WooiSi
J.J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND
Colmane’s
Eucalypti
Extract’
For —v—
Winter Couchs
Colds &
Chest Complaints
USED BY
Earl Jersey
LordCarrincton
etc
PURITY!
What’s in a name ? Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten years Colemane
and Pure Eucalypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
ai.d deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a.name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte ("as
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that -precious
“■"PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice.
Is. boxes everywhere.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
D?ROBERTS’ «
s a?
S/Of/ DISEASEf
and Wounds
or every
Descr/pt/o/F
d?roberts
ALTERA^
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES[
ANOALL DISORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & LIVER .
OF ALL CHEM/STS //// X 2/? EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. BR| DPO R,T.
[THE FINEST TONIC
;FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
an<i enabii g the consti-
tution o resist climatic
inlluences.
Invaluable in all cases o'-
anaemia. Influenza and
general debilit .
Highly recommended for
week and debilitated chil
drtn 'j
LANCIT ■' A beautiful and interesting preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth,
' Sold by Chemists all the world over.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
1>V the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. — Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), living illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :—
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk,
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st. ? Sidney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - J3l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBON N,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Nen/o6S WeakQe&s - . -
AND
Cerebro-SpiQal Disease,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this 'payer when writing.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
gaud Head Noises, no matter of
BliOw long standing! Are the same
'to the "ear* as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable*
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


LOOK TO YOUR HEALTH ! WINTER IS HERE AGAIN !
A WEAK CONSTITUTION MEANS MUCH PAIN AND SUFFERING.
flr. Williams’ PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE
WILL POSITIVELY PROTECT AND FREE YOU FROM THE FOLLOWING, AMONGST OTHER TROUBLES :
Influenza, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, &c., &c.
RHEUMATISM.
A SUFFERER 80 YEARS OF AGE.
A MARVELLOUS AND PERMANENT
CURE.
But for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
Mr. David Robertson, of Byron-street, Kew, Vic-
toria, could not, at the ripe age of 80 years, have
successfully resisted the effects of an 18 months’
war, waged upon him by that dread enemy of
peace and health—Rheumatism. He was attacked
most virulently by rheumatism—first in the right
knee, next in the left hip, and then in the shoul-
ders wrists, hands, knees, and legs. He was
rendered entirely helpless. Every friend he had re-
commended different remedies in turn—sulphur,
kerosene (outwardly and inwardly), citric acid,
marshmallow, fomentations, hot sea baths, several
bottles of a largely-advertised cure for rheumatism,
and other articles were all tried without the
slightest benefit accruing. Ultimately, Mr.
Robertson came to the conclusion that his
ailment was incurable. A little while later,
however, a friend induced him to try Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills. He followed the directions
carefully and patiently, and in about three weeks
or a month after first taking them he noticed a
considerable improvement in his condition ; he
had then taken two boxes. He persevered with
the remedy, and, little by little, his ailment gave
him less and less trouble. He continued in this
manner until he had taken about 10 or 11 boxes,
the time occupied being from six to seven months.
At this stage every trace of rheumatism had left
him, and he was absolutely and perfectly cured in
every particular. He is now quite free from pain.
Mr. Robertson, in-conclusion, said he had recom-
mended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to many of his
friends, and they had received most beneficial
results from their use. He was well known in
the locality, and would certainly continue to re-
commend them.
This case is one which amply demonstrates the
marvellous curative properties of this universal
medicine under the most adverse circumstances.
If an old gentleman of 80 years of age can be
cured of rheumatism, what may not be effected in
tho.se cases in which the sufferer is a much younger
man or woman ? The answer is too obvious to
need insertion.
INFLUENZA.
SHE WAS FADING AWAY, AND WAS AS
PALE AS A GHOST.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS
THOROUGHLY RE-INVIGORATE HER.
Miss Jamieson, a merry maiden residing at
Autumn-street, Ashby, Geelong, Vic., has had
troubles of her own. “They are now past,” so'
she told an inquisitive reporter recently. “ Some
few years ago,” she continued, “ I suffered from
r
<L
a very severe at-
tack of influenza.
I could never get;
rid of its after-
effects until I tried
Dr. Williams’
Pinlc Pills for
Pale People. Al-
though generally
experiencing ro-
bust health pre-
vious to this at-
tack, when at last
I was able to leave
my room I was
almost of ghostly
proportions not
. , _ . at all [like I am
now. And 1 continued in this state for
some time. I did not mind the weakness
so much, feeling sure that would wear off in
time with good nourishment. But in March of
last year I commenced to experience great in-
convenience with pains in my right side. I con-
sulted a medical man, who said that it was merely
the after-effects of the influenza, and I was not to 1
worry myself. But, as the pains continued, I did
worry myself, and went to Melbourne to consult a
specialist. He informed mo that it was partial
paralysis. He put me through a course of treat-
ment that left me as I was, and I returned home
fairly worn out. Whether the worry or the heroic
treatment I had undergone was responsible or not
I will not venture aii opinion upon, but a week
afterwards erysipelas sot in on my face, and for
weeks and months I suffered the greatest agony.
In January, a friend (a Miss Evans, of Eagle-
hawk, near Bendigo) came down to see me, and
one day she bought mo a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. When visiting Melbourne I took them, and
four days after, the pain commenced to go away.
I oontinued taking them for some time, and in
all I used eight boxes, discontinuing them in
August. From then until now I have not had
the least symptom of a return of either complaints
—complaints that I had not been free from for
four years. I am 22 years of age. Scores know
my sufferings, and the means of my recovery I
am only too pleased to supply.”
“ Your friend, Miss Evans, must have felt very
pleased with the result of her experiment.”
“Yes, it was the knowledge that a neighbor
had received considerable benefit from the pills,
in a very bad case of debility, that induced her to
buy me the first box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.”
“ One can scarcely realise the fact of your once
resembling what the departed are credited with,
Miss Jamieson.”
“No,” laughingly, “there is nothing ethereal
about me now. lam nearer 12st. than 9st. Yes,
you can include that, if you like,” and with a word
of thanks the representative withdrew.
-4-
SCIATICA.
HE INTENDED GOING TO THE
HOSPITAL.
BUT DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS
EFFECTUALLY CURED HIM.
Mr. George Hynds, a- well-known resident of
Blayney, was recently interviewed by a Blayney
Advocate reporter about his serious illness and
remarkable cure. He obtained the following in-
teresting narrative, which Mr. Hynds said he
would be glad to have published :
“ About two years ago I fell a victim to sciatica.
I was drawing wood at the time. The complaint
forced me every now and then to take a spell.
The ailment kept getting worse, until at last I
could not even work, and had to go to bed, being
unable to walk. It affected my right leg from the
hip to the ankle, the pain being worse in my
ankle; I also suffered from terrible pains in my
back. I was in bed for four months, during which
time I suffered excruciating pain. I had a doctor
attending me all the time, but he gave me no re-
lief, although he used every means in his power
to do so. My ankle felt just as if it were broken,
and it was always as cold as ice. I used to
be led by my wife to the fire, and there I would
sit as long as I could, warming it. The trousers
I was wearing were all scorched by sitting
over the fire. The doctor put about a dozen
mustard and fly blisters on my leg, which left it in
a terrible state, and did not do me the least bit of
good. At last he told me that he could do no
more for me, and that the sciatica would have to
take its course. I then determined to go to the
Bathurst Hospital, but my medical adviser said
he didn’t think I would get any benefit there.
However, I said I would try it. After being
completely bedridden for four months, and on the
day before I was going to the hospital, I managed
to get into town, and I met a friend and told him
my intentions. This gentleman strongly advised
me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
before I went to the hospital. As my friend spoke
with such confidence about the pilis, I took his
advice, and went there and then to Mr. C. Fer-
guson’s store, and purchased the last three boxes
he had. After the first box I could get about
again, and I went to work again drawing in
wheat for Mr. Robert Marsden. When I had
finished the second box I felt no pain whatever,
and considered I was cured. I then took the
third box at leisure, although there was no occa-
sion for it. I commenced taking the pills last
October 12 months. Mr. Marsden and Mr. Fer-
guson, and a host of other people who knew my
previous condition, could hardly believe the rapid
change which came over me. Some people said
that the sciatica would again return to me next
winter, but I am glad to say I went through the
winter without feeling the slightest effects of this
terrible complaint. I have enjoyed excellent
health ever since I took the pills, and my cure has
been the means of a large number of people taking
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills about here.
“I am certain that the Pills, and no other
remedy, cured me; in fact, the other remedies
did not give me the slightest benefit.”
Mr. Hynds’ wife was present during the inter-
view, and endorsed all her husband’s statements,
both appearing very happy when testifying the
marvellous curative properties of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.
WOMAN AT 45.
HOW TO AVOID ALL PAIN.
A LADY’S GRATEFUL TESTIMONY.
What Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will do for
women at the change of life is shown in a case re-
ported in the Dewsbury (Eng.) Chronicle. It is
that of Mrs. Benjamin Smith, who lives at Han-
over-street, Dewsbury. The change of life had
left her weak and miserable ; with constant pains,
dizziness, and shortness of breath on the slightest
exertion, together with chronic rheumatism in the
head and eyes. The pain in her head was too
acute for words ; she got no sleep either by dav or
by night, and her agony was at times so great that
it took two people to hold her in bed. A skilful
doctor was called in, but did no good. “My
cheeks would swell up as big as saucers,” says Mrs.
Smith; “my eyes were as red as fire, and there
was no getting rid of the pains in the head. I
also suffered from a sluggish liver and a weak
heart, and at times my eyesight was so bad that
objects before me seemed but dim shadows, and
there were none of my friends who looked for my
restoration to health.
“ I saw an account in a newspaper of a cure
sumlar to mine through the use of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pius, and my husband urged me to try
them. Before two boxes were used the pains had
disappeared as if by magic, and the continued use
of the Pills for a little more than a month has left
me enjoying as good health as I ever had in my
life. I consider Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a bless-
Not Like Other Medicines.
The Genuine Package is exactly like this.
D* WILLIAMS’
INK
'ILLS
FOR
LE
Printed in Bed on White Paper.
BEFORE PAYING, look on the cover for THE FULL NAME,
Dr. Williams’ pie! pills for pale people.
refuS V ?V” ds - 1/ without the FULL NAME they are a substitute, and
those who offer you such should be avoided. Substitutes never cured anyone.
Only Genuine Pills effect Genuine Cures.
In case of doubt it is better to send direct to the Manufacturers, enclosing the price 2s 9d
Sydney >OX ’ S " dC ' f° r s,x f' oxes - Address Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s Piacej
Evidence Proves
the undoubted cure by DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE of the fnl
lowing, among other dieses .-Paralysis Locomotor Ataxy, Spmal Disease A n emia P S'
RhV r Hear 'f rTr Oonsmnption and “Decline,’ Gemi.d Debility,’St Vitus’ Dance’
Rickets, Loss of Vital forces, Neuralgia, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Ladies’ Ailments &c
ing, and, as I know there are thousands of women
who suffer in silence from troubles having the
same origin as mine, I am grateful enough for
what they have done for me to tell my story, in
the hope that some suffering sister may be simi-
larly helped ; and you have full permission to pub-
lish what I have told you, which statements can
be verified by any of my neighbors.” This won-
derful remedy is offered to the public with a full
confidence that there is no disease arising from a
watery or impoverished condition of the blood, or
shattered nervous forces, which it will not cure if
the directions are faithfully followed and the
treatment persisted in.
INDIGESTION.
DR. WILLIAM’S PINK PILLS SUCCEED
WHERE ALL OTHERS FAIL.
SHE SUFFERED FOR 15 YEARS.
“For 15 years I suffered from indigestion,”
said Mrs. Boyes, of 162 Dowling-street, Sydney,
to a reporter from the Leichhardt Standard,
“ and,” continued she, “a long, weary time to be
ill, and I might have been suffering still if I had
not the good fortune to drop on a paragraph in
the papers describing a cure by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for
Pale People in a
case very similar
to mine. Though
I always had in-
digestion with
me it came on
much more vio-
lently at times
than was usual.
The attack s
were at first
comparatively
light, but as
years went on
they became
more and more
severe. They
commenced
with a feeling of sickness and a disinclination to
eat, and when I did manage to eat some food it
would lie on my chest in a heavy immovable lump.
The sensation was most oppressive and dis-
tressing, and sometimes I was in such pain that
I could hardly sleep, and often I would wake
up in the night with a start and not get any more
sleep till the morning, and when I did get out of
bed, I would feel depressed in spirits, and quite
overcome by a feeling of lassitude and weariness.
I had voilent headaches, and a most awkward
giddiness when I got up suddenly from a sitting
posture ; I also suffered from a continual bad
breath and an unpleasant taste in the mouth. I
also had bad bilious turns. I was not as you see
me now, but was much thinner, with a pale, un-
healthy pomplexion. During all these long years,
in addition to the attention of doctors, I tried a
large number of other remedies, but none of them
did me an atom of good. At length I tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. The effect was astonishing;
after taking them for only a short time the attack
I was then suffering from was completely got rid
of. I had a sound, healthy appetite, which I
hadn’t had for years, and my sleep was no longer
disturbed. I took altogether about 12 boxes, and
the pills completely cured me of both my indiges-
tion and biliousness.”
1
MEN ANDWOMEN.
AN IMPORTANT PARAGRAPH.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered the public
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a Watery or Impoverished Condition
of the Blood, Shattered Nervous Forces, which
they will not cure if the directions are faithfully
followed, and the treatment persisted in ; they are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly scien-
tific preparation, the result of years of careful
study. They have an especial action (through
the Blood) upon the Sexual Organs of both Men
and Women. It is a well - recognised fact
that upon the healthy activity of the sexual
apparatus depends the mental and physical
well - being of every person come to adult
years. It is that which gives the rosy blush
to the cheek, and the soft light to the eye of the
maiden. The elastic step, the ringing laugh, and
the strong right arm of youth own this same main-
spring. How soon do irregularities rob the face
of color, the eye of brightness ! The blood be-
comes impoverished, the victim pale. The pallor
of the skin is often the only outward mark of the
trouble within. “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People” enrich the impoverished blood and
then vigor returns, and the bloom of youth again
mantles the faded cheek.
The genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold
only in wooden boxes, about two inches in length,
each of which is encircled by a blue warning label.
The outside wrapper has the full name, Dr. Wil-
liams’Pink Pills for Pale People, printed in red
on white paper. They are never sold in bulk, or
from glass jars, and any dealer who offers substi-
tutes in this or any other form should be avoided ;
his desire is to sell you an article upon which he
gets a bigger profit. In case of doubt, it is better
to send direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Com-
pany, Queen’s Chambers, Queen’s Place, Sydney,
enclosing the price, 2s. ltd. a box, or six boxes for
15s. 3d. These pills are not a purgative, and they
contain nothing that would injure the most deli-
CO»t>o*
850,000,000 Pills were Sold duri
WSw
in <>•
&


A common game in the North is the
sponging on hospitals of men who are able to pay.
T’other day, at a Q. bakblox town, a swaggie
spent a month gratis in local hospital, pled
poverty, and departed cured. Forthwith a fero-
cious burst ensued on the part of the convalescent,
accompanied by wild flourishing of sundry
cheques—proceeding duly noted by secretary of
hospital. Four months in gaol as a vagrant-
satisfactory arrangements to be made meanwhile
for payment of hospital dues.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. 11. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Xxij£ Mwai CUOLUMOii a UJiiALIHFOIi B£¥£RAG£l.
(Trade mark)
yv,v<
s<
m
m
m
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND Af HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Puddiug. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam-Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greates' confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Cus'ard. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
q 3
m
miiilliiUlit
>END YwLR ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you,
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the Wo; Id.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a n cnth. Fiom this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small proiit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 tos„ f. o. b. vessel New York Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, Fo inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual ol keys,
ssets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden toned reds, l3stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
p II
W UWST
him MARK
Corset
W'llowa<ST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LEN GTHENS THE WA I ST.
BEAUTIFIES THE FIGURE.
W'u/oWAisr Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
Wii>i>oy/A'ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
wholesale orders taken by
F.w. LEE, Camden Buildings ,
216. GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cooling.
Sp arklizxg.
Fresh.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
THE GRAMOPHONE
is the most recently - invented
“Talking Machine,” and far
excels any other kind of instrument yet invented. Who-
ever buys a gramophone buys a box at the opera, rents
a pew in a city church, secures permanent admission to
the best music halls in the country, can order out the
most dashing military band our army has at a moment’s
notice, can make the great piano-players of the day his
obedient servants, and can do a great many other things
which would have put somebody in danger of being
roasted for witchcraft had they been attempted by our
forefathers.
PRICES :
Gramophones with Six Records and
clock-work motion
Do. do. hand apparatus
Extra Records ... per dozen
£lO 10
7 10
2 8
A. P. SYKES,
227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from t>e Park, Ken-
S 0n ar ens ’ * m P er,a -l Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
moderate tariff.
- Q ueen> s Gate Terrace. London, S.W.
Baker’s Lead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nobody knew much about Jim Baker, except that
he had a claim somewhere out in the ranges. No
one had ever seen it or knew where it was, and, as
he only sold about 2dwts. of gold every Saturday,
when he came in for the week’s supplies, it was
concluded that it was worth nothing more than,
as Jim; himself put it, “ Tucker—and not very
flash at that! ”
When he had a shilling left after laying in the
week’s grub, Jim would drop into the local gin-
mill for a long beer and a yarn, which generally
meant boasting about the rich lead he was after.
But as Jim had the reputation of being able to lie
like a gas-meter, and of not having enough brains
to get a headache, very little notice was taken of
Baker’s lead.
Occasionally he used to bring in a bundle of
opossum and wallaby skins and sell them at the
local store, consequently he was looked upon as a
hard-working fellow' to fossick all day and go
shooting all night, but he reckoned he would
never be able to keep after that lead if he didn’t
go shooting.
It was a sheep country, and, about eighteen
months after Jim’s arrival, a regular dingo plague
broke out. There wasn’t a night that one or
more of the squatters didn’t lose sheep.
And the manner of the killing left no doubt
about it being the work of -dingoes. Hunting
parties and drives were got up by the sheep-
owners, but still nearly every morning word came
of more slaughter the previous night. Then par-
ties took to sitting up all night to wait for the
brutes, but it was no go ; and as sure as morning
came so did news that the dingoes had been at it
in some part of the district where no watch had
been kept.
At last the sheep-owners held a council of war,
and decided to give .£5 for every full-grown dingo-
skin stripped in the district, which offer was duly
advertised. For the first week, however, nothing
came of it, and the sheep-killing went on just the
same. The squatters were getting very down in
the mouth over the matter, when one day Jim
Baker produced two full-grown skins and claimed
the £lO, which was willingly paid, though Jim
reckoned it was hard-earned, as he had to sit up
all night in the ranges to get them. Every week
after that for a month Jim used to bring in his
two or three skins, and it was noticed that the
sheep-killing had ceased. But when Jim brought
in his tenth skin he had to answer a few ques-
tions about how he got them. He reckoned he
had come on the haunt of a pack out in the
ranges, but that he had now pretty well got
through the lot. The squatters reckoned so, too,
so the skin-money was declared off, and Jim
again settled down to digging and shooting.
But about eight months later the dingo-plague
broke out again, and sheep were killed and
mangled right and left. Hunting-parties sallied
out as before, with no success ; but as soon as the
squatters clapped on the .£5 reward again Jim
once more came to the rescue, and in three weeks
he brought in twelve skins. People looked upon
Jim with admiration, though some waxed sus-
picious and wanted to know if he was running a
dingo-factory.
When he brought in the last two of the twelve,
the receivers wanted to know where his camp was,
as they intended paving him a visit in a couple of
days. Jim gave the necessary directions, and de-
parted richer by yet another tenner.
That night, at the railway-station about 15 miles
from the township, a tall, clean-shaved man, lead-
ing by a chain a three-quarter-bred dingo, took
train for Sydney. It was Jim Baker, minus his
long, scraggy beard, and that dog knew all about
the nights Jim and he had had with the sheep of
the district. He it was who had helped Jim work
the “lead,” and Jim called him “ Partner.”
Two days later three of the receiving committee
rode up to Jim’s hut, and as no one answered to
their calls, they dismounted and went inside.
The place was empty, but what struck them as
peculiar was an ordinary shaft sunk in the corner
of the hut with a ladder down it. They descended,
struck a light and fancied they had dropped on an
underground menagerie, for a large room, tun-
nelled and about 20ft. trom the surface, contained
three large cages, built of stringy-bark poles,
fitted into floor and roof, and in each cage was a
dead dingo slut with, in two cases, dead dingo-
pups strewn around.
None of the men spoke. The game was plain
enough. Jim had struck his rich “ lead,” and it
had been panning-out very well till their inquisi-
tiveness burst up the show and compelled Jim to
kill his stud-sluts and growing stock, and do a
timely “ get.” They supposed, and rightly, that
Jim had came upon a litter of pups in some cave
in the mountains, and had reared them and bred
from them. The only thing that puzzled them
was as to how the sheep-killing was done, but they
knew nothing of “ Partner,” or the nights the
pair used to have “ booming the market,” as Jim
called it.
HANS SHOOK.
Transvaal civil service corruption must be
heroic. A Commission of Inquiry has reported
that during the last 15 years .£3,000,000 has been
expended for which not a single voucher is forth-
coming.
Melb. Age approvingly quotes the fol-
lowing observation made by Lieut. Churchill
in his “ Story of the Malakand Field
Force
“ The spectacle of a doctor in action among soldiers in
equal danger and with equal courage, saving life when all
others are taking it, allaying pain when all others are
causing it, is one which must always seem glorious,
whether to God or man.”
The cheerfully-blasphemous way in which the
writer sets down his Creator as an omnipotent
Dullard, who can’t see the huge Gilbertian absur-
dity of such a spectacle, is only paralleled by the
placid impiety of the paper which quotes him.
CHINA, 1898.
She lies, a grave disdain all her defence,
Too imperturbable for scorn. She hears
Only the murmur of the thronging years
That thunder slowly on her shores immense,
And ebb away in moaning impotence !
Giants enduring, she and Time are peers—
Her dream-hazed eyes knowing nor hopes nor tears,
Her glance a langour-lidded insolence !
And though the rabble of the restless West
In her deserted courts set their rash sway,
She heeds them not; as when the Sun, withdrawn
From his untarnished sky, knows it distressed
By storm of weakling stars, that he at dawn
Will wither with one ruthless glance away 1
Maoriland. Arthur H. Adams.
An Old Hand.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The New-comer was evidently nervous, as he
eyed the recumbent figures stretched out on the
low, broad divans. In fact, so nervous was he
that a Chinese light-o’-love, hair-bedraggled and
blear-eyed, poured out a cupful of hot green-tea,
and handed it to him with a reassuring leer. The
Old Hand observing her, advanced hastily, left
the yellow-faced dispenser, with whom he was
arranging some business transaction, and, grasping
her by the arm, spilled the tea.
“ Leave him alone, can’t yer; he’s a gent and
my chum, so none of yer games ’ere, damn yer—
git! ”
So speaking, he secured a small divan, and
taught his companion how to recline on one hip
with a pillow—dirty—supporting the neck; which
done, he resumed his interrupted business.
The New-comer now surveyed at ease the room
and its occupants, and was much oppressed by a
strange silence —a silence only increased by softly
whispered dialogues in Eastern jargon com-
mingling strangely with suppressed Western oaths,
the mixture forming but a vague suggestion
of speech itself. The small oil-lamps placed
between the sleepers showed grotesque and weird-
like forms. A mountain of shadow formed by a
sleeper’s hips was one, and below and beyond it —
a face, of which the flickering oil-flame merely
revealed the nose and the lips. Beyond this lay
more shadow-mountains and more suggested faces,
all veiled in a moving haze of thin blue smoke. A
pipe began to bubble somewhere, but he could not
distinguish the smoker ; the queer blue smoke had
made him lazy, and besides, the Old Hand was
returning.
“ We’re all right now, chappy,” he whispered,
and, placing a pipe and a very small tin tray,
containing a dark, viscous substance, beside the
oil-lamp, he stretched himself on the divan, face-
to-face with the New-comer.
“Now,” he continued, “this being yer first
pipe, I’ll cook a pea and smoke it. It’ll only take
a minute, so watch me well—see! ”
The New-comer assented silently.
The Old Hand now dipped a long pin into the
opium and twisted some around it, and, after
several cookings in the flame, with alternate roll-
ings on the outer edge of the pipe rosette, he
placed the pellet so formed in the pipe and held it
over the oil-flame. The pipe gurgled as he in-
haled, and in a few seconds the pea was smoked.
“Hell! —that did me good,” he whispered to
the now wide-eyed New-comer. “I’ll do all the
cooking, and you’ll only have to suck, and suck
strong. Swaller it down from the ’oiler of the
’and what grips the pipe. Don’t lip the mouth-
piece—the Chows and others won’t ’ave it —but
put yer 'and over it tight, then yer lips into yer
’and, and suck like ’ell—see ! ”
“Yes,” whispered the New-comer. “But I
don’t want to go to sleep.’’
The Old Hand grew contemptuous and slightly
blasphemous.
“ Go ter sleep ! Now, did yer put yerself in my
’andsornot? Yer wanted to see some Weedin’
life, and got me ter show it yer. Am I a-showin’
yer or not, hey ? ”
“ Yes. But is the place safe ? ”
“Safe! Why, I’m with yer! ’Ere’s yer pipe
ready; don’t worry, but put yer ’and ’ere—so ;
now yer lips, and—suck I —suck! —suok I You—
Ah!”
“ A-a-a-a-a-ah ! ” drawled the New-comer, as
the Old Hand took the pipe to prepare it for a
second pea. How comfortable he felt, and how
his heart went out to his new, but dear, dear
friend—the Old Hand !
The light-o’-love sat unrebuked at his feet, and
he pondered awhile on her dream-tinged beauty,
vaguely wondering why he had not noticed it
before. Being a cigarette-inhaler, his first pipe
was wonderfully well smoked for a beginner. He
now lazily noted the fact that a large flea was on
his pillow, and, more lazily still, he touched it to
make it jump—it would be so supremely funny to
see it jump. He touched it —it rolled over and
kicked feebly ; it also was very tired and—drunk.
The second pipe was now ready, and it proved
a great success—so did many others.
** * *
Surely that was sunrise—where was he? Yes!
that must be the back of Sydney Hospital,
and this—the Domain. He feebly sat up, and saw
next him an old, grey-bearded man sitting on a
paper bed, and around him dozens of listless
dossers.
Grey-beard smiled sleepily, but good humoredly.
“ Morning, boss ! Been out on the bust last night,
I see. Two chaps brought you here and laid you
down —said the police might get you. How do
you feel?”
“ Damned queer, my head is hell! ”he sud-
denly yelled as he caught sight of his boots.
Large rents were in each and heels there were
none.
“ Oh, my God! he yelled again, for his
trousers would obtrude themselves —they were
moleskins, very old and very dirty. Half-way
down his back, and revealing a wide expense of
unclean shirt, hung an old “ duck ” coat.
“ How the —who the—what! ”he gasped.
Grey-beard smiled again as he lit his pipe,
puffed awhile, listened, and then proffered advice.
“ Get home, sonny; get home, it’s the best place
for you. What’s the matter ?—well, the way I
foot it is you’ve been bilked, and damn-well
bilked, too. He’s a clever cove is the old ’un —I
thought last night you were a pal of his by the
way he spoke. Your clothes were new, were
they! Poor chap!—well, you’ll be all right to-
morrow if you take a packet of salts and get a good
sleep. But steer clear of that chap in future,
sonny—for he’s qji Old Hand.”
AZOLLA.


Coolgardie Pioneer thus winds up des-
cription of its new premises: “. . . and further
back are the stables and art offices.”
Bitter cry of the disappointed elector,
according to a Moree (N.S.W.) paper
Dear Sir,—You’re a dam fraud, and .vou know it. I
don’t eare a rap for the Bilet or for the niuny either, but
you could hev got for me if you wasn't as meen as muk.
Two pound a week ain’t eny inor to me than 40 shillins is
to you, but I object to bein’ maid a infuril fool of. soon
after you was elected by my hard workun a feller wanted
to bet me you wouldn’t be in the Ouse moren a week
before you maid a ass of yuoself. I bet him a Cow on
that as I thort you was worth it then, after I got your
note say in’ .you deklined to ackt in the matter i druv the
Cow over to the Feller's place an’ told him he had won
her Tha s orl i got be howlin’ meself Iloyse for you on
pole day, an’ months befoar. You not only hurt a man’s
Pride but you injur him in bizness. I believe you think
you 11 get in agen. i don’t. An’ what I don’t think is of
moar konsequince then you imajin. I beleve you take a
pleshir in cuttin’ your best friends, but wate till the
clouds roll by an’ they’ll cut you—just behind the Ear,
were the butcher cuts the pig. Yure-no man ypre
only a tule for a few squatters. An’i don’t (hink yure
much of a grafter either. Go to hel. I lows meself riting
to a shunlt, even tho I med him a member of parlment.
Overcoats, one guinea each. These first-class
garments are of the celebrated Federal Manufacture, and
are built of Blue and Brown Melton Cloths, with velvet
collar ; Grey Sergerettes and Fawn Sergei,'ttes, lined
throughout (sleeves and body) with best Italian cloths.
The materials have been thoroughly shrunk before being
made up. Flaps on four outside pockets, a serviceable
inside breast pocket, deep, and properly finished. In all,
a thoroughly up-to-date, serviceable Winter Overcoat for
one guinea. HORDERN BROTHERS, Federal Clothing
Manufacturers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (only)
Sydney. Sent Post Free anywhere in N.S.W.*
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
St^
%
X
UE
REPUBLI
SLIQi
FRAN
PEARS
& F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Pari 8 Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
The Dons of Spain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Eagle screams at the beck of trade, so Spam,
as the world goes round,
VTust wrestle the right to live or die from the sons
of the land she found ;
h or, as in the days when the buccaneer was
abroad on the Spanish Main,
The national honor is one thing dear to the hearts
of the Dons of Spain.
*>he has slaughtered thousands with fire and sword,
as the Christian world might know ;
We murder millions, but, thank the Lord ! we
only starve ’em slow.
The times have changed since the days of old, but
the same old facts remain -
We fight for Freedom, and God, and gold, and the
Spaniards fight for Spain.
We fought with the strength of the moral right,
and they, as their ships went down,
They only fought with the grit to fight and their
armour to help ’em drown.
It mattered little what chance or hope, for ever
their path was plain,
The Church was the Church, and the Pope the
_ Popie but the Spaniards fought for Spain.
If Providence struck for the honest thief at times
in the battle’s din—
If ever it struck at the hypocrite—well, that’s
where the Turks came in ;
But this remains ere we leave the wise to argue it
through in vain—
There’s something great in the wrong that dies as
the Spaniards die for Spain.
The foes of Spain may be kin to us who are Eng-
lish heart and soul,
And proud of our national righteousness and
proud of the lands we stole ;
But we yet might pause while those brave men
die, and the death-drink pledge again—
For the sake of the past, if you’re doomed, say I,
May your death be a grand one, Spain !
Then here’s to the bravest of Freedom’s foes who
ever with death have stood —
For the sake of the courage to die on steel as their
fathers died on wood ;
And here’s a cheer for the flag unfurled in a hope-
less cause again,
For the sake of the days when the Christian world
was saved by the Dons of Spain.
HENRY LAWSON.
Hiram: “In Melbourne hotel I saw a
wharf-lounger, whose face was strangely familiar.
A beer (with free lunch) at Antony’s brought out
the fact that he was an old acquaintance—a Glas-
fow chemist, who passed exams, for incompetents.
t was an easy matter in those days—an Edin-
burgh candidate would have a Glasgow proxy to
do his papers, and vice versd, not being personally
known to examiners. Pee, .£lO to .£lOO. Result,
wharf-rat.”
Lucretia’s Party.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lucretia was three years old, and the party had
been gcit up by the neighbors in honor of her birth-
day. Rather an ill-timed compliment, perhaps,
with Mick Doolan, Lucretia’s father, away on the
tramp looking for work, and Kitty, his blue-eyed,
dark-haired wife, getting help from the Ladies’
Benevolent Society in his absence, and, even with
this aid, finding it hard enough to live.
But the neighbors meant .well, and, even if their
intentions had been less kind, Mrs. Doolan was
the last woman in the world to decline a dance ;
so she let her cronies please themselves, and on
the appointed evening made her small preparations
with a light heart. When she had taken her
fringe out of curl-papers and rubbed up her high-
heeled shoes, bought with one of Mick’s rare re-
mittances home, she sat down to await the arrival
of the company. First came Mrs. Bates, -the fat
washerwoman from over the road, bringing her
four youngest children and a concertina to supply
the dance-music. Next to appear was Harry
Brown, a great friend of Mrs. Doolan’s.
Unknown to Kitty, her intimacy with this
young man had been hotly discussed at the last
“ Benevolent meeting.” The President, old Mrs.
Boyce, had set the ball rolling by demanding of
the severe “Relieving Secretary” her reasons for
shutting the door in Mrs. Doolan’s face last time
that plausible pauper called for a grocery-order.
( Miss Snip promptly rejoined, in a pained voice,
“ But, Mrs. Boyce! are you aware that the girl
has a friend —a young man?”
“ Yes, yes, I know all about him ! She’s often
told me how good he is to the children. What’s
he got to do with the matter ? ”
“He’s a—boarder!” faltered the’ secretary,
bashfully.
“Rubbish ! What boarder would be content in
a house where there’s only one bed and one chair
between the poor woman and her three children ?”
“Well—er—he shares whatever—in fact, he
keeps her,” persisted the accuser, forgetting her
blushes.
This statement almost took Mrs. Boyce’s breath
away, but she professed to be unable to believe it
without unmistakable proof, and there the matter
had been allowed to rest until next meeting.
Meanwhile, Kitty, ignorant,of the gathering
storm, welcomed her friends without a misgiving.
There was no furniture to move out of the way ;
the visitors brought their own refr shments with
them, and, beyond boiling the kettle in time for
supper, no responsibility whatever rested on the
hostess.
As soon as enough couples had arrived for the
“ first set ” the initial stiffness began to wear off,
and by the time the following waltz was in full
swing all were enjoying themselves. Mrs. Doolan,
flushed and bright-eyed, forgot her out-at-beel
stockings as she “corkscrewed ”in the middle of
the floor with Harry Brown, whose step, from
much ,pr .cl-.ce,- went beautifully with her own.
The musician, enthroned on the bed, got a wonder-
ful deal of sound out of theconeertina, whileperched
at her side Lucretia, queen of the evening, chimed
in with a penny trumpet, Brown’s birthday gift.
Kitty’s only daughter did not inherit her mother’s
food looks. Her small face, like homely Mick
)oolan’s, seemed mostly mouth, and even the joy
of the party brought no color to her pasty cheeks.
To-night, with her scant lint-white locks over-
shadowed by a huge red top-knot, she looked
even quainter than usual; but as her tiny legs
waved gleefully in time to the music, she was “ a
vision of delight ”to her mother. The latter,
while she danced, gazed so fondly at the little
thing that her partner, following her glance, re-
marked, diplomatically, that “ the nipper was
growing a fine lump of a girl! ”
Suddenly a loud knock was heard. The street-
door opened into the dancing-room, and Mrs.
Doolan, still hanging on Harry’s arm, threw it
wide to admit, as she thought, some tardy guest.
Poor woman ! she turned pale with surprise and
horror when a familiar voice remarked, ironically,
“I hope I don't intrude!” It was Miss Snip !
Pursuing her researches into the Doolan scandal,
she had dropped in on the chance of picking up
evidence, and, as she told a friend afterwards,
“surprised the creature in the very act of giving
a ball.”
Strong in the consciousness of paying the rent,
the newcomer immediately ordered the guests out
of the house, and was promptly obeyed, for most
of those present had their own reasons for wishing
to keep friendly with the “ Relieving Secretary.”
Harry Brown slunk off with the rest. He was
out of work at the time, and if the Doolans
quarrelled with the Society he had no roof to take
them to.
When the house was cleared of strangers, Miss
Snip dealt severely with poor Kitty, and wound
up by striking her name off the relief-list. The
culprit turned a bold face to the enemy and had a
saucy reply ready for every reproach ; but when
at last the secretary left in high wrath, she leant
trembling against the wall, repentant and crest-
fallen enough to have softened the sternest judge.
For a week her children had talked all day and
dreamed all night of “ the party,’ and now when
the cup of bliss was dashed from their very lips,
they threw themselves on their mother howling
dismally. She, poor thing ! had no comfort to
offer them. ihe guests, in spite of their hurried
flight, had not forgotten to take their supper-con-
tributions away with them, and now Mrs. Doolan
remembered with a pang that there was not even a
bit of bread in the house. She had spent her last
sixpence on a few candles for the festival, and
where next day’s food was to come from was a
question she could not answer.
It would be long enough before she dared apply
to the Society again, and after their base desertion
she told herself fiercely she would ask nothing of
her neighbors. Angry with herself and everyone
else, she smacked poor Mick, junior, and his
brother Aloysius into comparative silence, but
could not quieten Lucretia, who only yelled the
louder for the punishment.
Finally the mother burst out crying, too, and
threw herself on the bed, hugging the screaming
baby tightly in her arms, while the boys tucked
themselves in at her feet to sob and snuffle in
chorus till they fell asleep.
That night’s disappointment was only the begin-
ning of Mrs. Doolan s troubles. Before the end
of the week, her three < hildren were down with
the prevalent scarlatina, and, ten days after the
party, Lucretia was dead.
When motherly Mrs. Boyce heard of the baby’s
death, she went to the Doolans’ cottage for the
first time since their disgrace. Kitty received her
cold y, but she kindly invited herself in, and stood
gazing pitifully at the tiny corpse, as it lay on an
empty fruit-case neatly covered with clean news-
papers, for the! bed was occupied by the other chil-
1 F u n ' ,-Heatb sometimes comes as a beautifier, but
baby Dooian, dead, was even less lovely than she
had been in life. There was so little of her that
the small figuredooked as if it had been forcibly
flattened down against the box, and the expression
of the drawn mouth was painfully like the fixed
grin of a dead kitten.
While the visitor bent over the little sleeper,
Kitty stood by, pale and tearless. She was worn-
out with watching and worry, but seemed resent-
ful rather than sad.
“ Meningitis—the doctor calls it—must have
been coming on long before the fever,” she said in
answer to a question. “But she was all right
till her party ; she cried herself sick that night.”
“Has a clergyman been to see you?” asked
Mrs. Boyce, soothingly.
“The Sisters came when they heard she was dead
—see, they put this on her! ” And the mother
showed a rosary of tiny pearl beads round the
little neck. “ She doesn’t look a bit like herself! ”
she went on presently, her heavy eyes fixed wist-
fully on Lucretia’s pinched face. “The Sisters
smoothed her hair down like that. I’d tied it up
with her ribbon same as she always liked it her-
self, but they said it wasn’t suitable—she never
did get anything she wanted.”
The mourner twisted the rejected red bow ner-
vously between her fingers as she talked, her
restless glance wandering from the gay ribbon to
her own high-heeled shoes, lying in the middle of
the floor, just where she had kicked them off when
her feet grew' too tired and swollen to wear them
any longer—then back again to the baby’s face.
Suddenly her mood changed, and she cried as if
her heart were breaking, gasping out between her
sobs _ “I wouldn’t have cared so much, if only
she’d had her party ! ”
ALICE MONTGOMERY.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
mwm
Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Uiddiiiess, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
tinbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL (t) VE RELIEF TN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be " WORTH A
GOINPA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9Jd, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO*,, No a; . 0i I .Vr»j .AN ; and DAVID OOHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
Scale o r Advertising 1
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single' Column...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year „ (52 insertions)
Specified Positions, 10s. per inch per insertion, subject to the above discount
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 „ „
By Paragraph
* p j/r- XT ~ vv v vy WWW » V UIUW.UUVi -L'J J. Mllaigictpi
ron Beading Page, 15s. per inch per insertion, nett. On Front Cover, 10s. per inch per insertion
Don’t Delay.
Stop tliat Coug-li !
. . . TAKE . . .
=s=
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S FILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness a*ter Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu-
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION, 1
until it has become
' a Household Kemedy, in all parts of the British
'.Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lung’s.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
ill JV^JI
jmuflonic
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottl s, at I*. lfd., 2s. 9 d., it. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemist., Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading- in the Age of your K Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Bark, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments’
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX ,T
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersi ;ned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong,'and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist; Geelong, Victoria
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. Od. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to anv address
when not obtainable locally.
ITisitors to
-Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankird’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
THE MOST NUT.iiTIOUS.
EPPS’
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO
BItEAKFAST SUPP3R.
er- a BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
I I °,m LO " A v S BILLS AN I) OINTMENT.
* ■ There m not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not .>een
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw OxkorD-st., London p ur
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Rots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford street, Undon, thev are
spurious 1
s
A
or Extract,
BEST.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil
BUY THE
PLATYPUS BRAND
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. aqbnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROL, L + .d.,
O’Connell-streot, Sydney.
Tas.maniak Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.


OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.1..S , Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3/-
OLEftC”
a
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR IBP. PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
WORLD RENOWNED
“ GLYCERINE & HONEY JELLY,”
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat.
(t softens and improves the Hands, i ace, and Skin generally.
Pooling and Refreshing. Still growing in popular favour after
50 years’ use. Beware, of Spurious Imitations, So'd by all
Chemists and Stores i Metallic Tubes, 6d. and If-
‘HEAD (andßath) SOAP,” Regd.
A Pure, Refined and Perfumed Soap. Cleanses, Streng-
thens and Promotes t.'e Growth of HAIR, removing Scurf,
and producing Healthy Action of the Skin. A IStoury for
Bath and Toilet. An Excellent Shaving Soap. Price 6d.
Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen ,
L 19, Golden Square, Regan tSt., Gondon, W. 1
58
YEARS DYEIHG
FOR THE LADIES.
W. o. IHIXjTD-RTiDCKEJ & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltlv S'l'UEEl', SYDffliF
(Opp. Centenary Hal!).
Country Orders by po-<t /rum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SPOOKS &
FORKS
AT
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
<s>HE J^fISBOT
, v^A.\v\\\v\\\V\VAW^m^V^^
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE 81.0 CK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ortljiogtoi) PCirppipg EogiQc Con)paoy
Kirotiiers
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHfNGTON
Sydney, N.S.W,
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ ADELAIDE.
Queensland : McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
GO
■ g
IP* _ I? the Country INI ilk Trade; the Factory System
Xiyiife'olS Oi Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
rim Company Sells only the Very Best Artioles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPi
PAL PLACES
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry,
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING- STREET and 23 ROTAL
ARCADE—for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. — Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF
AG ft NTS EYE i! YWIJ ERE.
c.
D ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
ustovntM ‘NOSaXVd •
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
>
a
0
a
0
‘
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westingliouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smiths Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
. t; • ; ‘ l ' N
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
VIBRATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES,
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES
OSCILLATOR huTtV stitch
fTNG MACTTTTNTPS. UllxAli' O 111 VJJLL
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERT MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
mmi
Tiff OX. VENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thoxnzs
A & Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK:-
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machine* and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price II) 10s, reduced L'3 17s (id each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, eiigiiig-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge' machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price .614, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesand cleaners Complete. Usual price 21, reduced £7l Osea. complete
Cartridges can he supplied for the Breach-Loading Guns at 6 (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must he made payable to VVeadon, Thomas &. Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, 8.8. A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES
Tangent Spokes(alUNickle, Perry's, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid cross)'
Dunlop Valve! (10 - dnz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 (i, Brooke’s
Saddles 66, Bleuinel Cork Handle-tips (10- doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for .trade llhmtra’ted Price
Lht. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tv re BICYCLES
ap to date, 67, £B, £9, £lO, 612, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
A.re tlx e Best.
We have them in Stock :
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
