

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
H. G. WATKINS «&£ CO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& GO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
260
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
w
SEND FOR PRICES ANI) PARTICULARS.
A
A
■
■ •t- *
:
M f<£ .
- ■ . .
mm%
/s%. v
v 2 ax ,
V
V,
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney,
85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
ston, Proctor
STEAM ENGINES
SOLE
AGENTS
FOR
&
c°
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
PUMPS.
3E3QQ3E3Isr'JL“ I .i : -6.X0 3MC-A.O3E3CIJXT3ESS, S-<»JW BENCHES, &C-, dSso.
olonial-made Wire Netting*.
A.ncl sees -tla.£*,-b yox*. gre'fc its.
*2
©/,
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysasfht Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works Chiswick, Parramatta Hiver.
“COURIER'’ BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
oOUOfl^
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invent;
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & 33. CIJHRASr,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst,
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
After all, is the Best.
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
{Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGT& SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Berth, W. Aus-
tralia ; llobart, Tasmania : Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Interesting to Brandy and Whisky Drinkers.
rpHE imports of ease Whisky during the year 1897 amounted to 115,357 cases,
-*■ those of case Brandy to 43,723 cases. These figures exhibit a marked increase
in the consumption of Brandy, and show a strong tendency of the public to revert
to that spirit as their favorite drink. It was thought by many that the consumption
of Whisky was fully eight cases to every one of Brandy, whereas the proportion is
only about 2| to 1.
. . The wholesomeness of
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
BOOMERANG BRANDY,
attested by the highest authorities, and its adoption by the House of Commons, the
War Office, leading hospitals and clubs, etc., has tended to bring about the above
result. In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOK HOTEL*
HOBART^
PR
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
T A^ S THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
JL Price Warung. Is. 3d.
THOP-
mss *
WHISKY.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol 19.—N0. 959. j
[Saturday, July 2, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T>Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
-*-* GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORMUZ.
Oman’s Where Three Creeds Meet, 3s 6d, post 4s.
Moule’s Colossian Studies, ss, post 5s 6d. Symond’s Aus-
tralian Church, 2s ,od, post 3s. Pulpit Commentary, St.
Mark, vol. 2,6 s, post 6s 6d. Essays on Church Reform,
by Gore and others, 10s 6d, post 11s. Wilhelm and Scan-
ners Manual of Catholic Theology, vol. 2,15 s, post 16s.
Henderson’s What is Good Music, ss, post 5s 6d. Beasley’s
The Cabots, ss, post 5s 6d. Waring’s Street Cleaning, 6s,
post 6s 6d. Still’s Alternate Currents, ss, post 5s 6d.
Sewell’s Examination of Horses, ss, post 5s 6d. Du
Maurier’s Satire, Social and Pictorial, ss, post 5s 6d.
Rose and Carless’ Surgery, 245, post 255. Clarke’s Science
of Law, 21s, post 225. Wilkinson’s Nations Awakening,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s. Roberts’ Western
Avernus, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and• 4s. Buchanan’s,
Rev., Annabel Lee, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s. Ber-
wick’s Philosopher’s Romance, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s
and 4s. Blissett’s Concert Director, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s. Crockett’s Standard-Bearer, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
po.tt 3s and 4s. Well's Her Ladyship’s Elephants, 3s 6d,
post 4s. Pickering’s Wanderers, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s
and 4s. Threlfall’s Philippi, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
48. Carey's Wooed and Married, 3s 6d, post 4s.
Just Published. THE MINER’S AND PROSPECTOR’S
POCKET GUIDE. A most useful compendium of in-
formation relating to Mineral Ores, Metals, etc., of Aus-
tralia, with an easy method of Ascertaining Specific
Gravity. By T. R. Suttie, I6mo. 2s ; post 2s 2d.
PICTURES OF 1898. With Numerous Illustrations.
This popular annual, illustrating the pictures of the
London art season, is in active preparation. Every
English artist of note contributes to its pages, and its
popularity increases year by year. There will be upwards
of 250 reproductions of pictures of the Royal Academy,
New Gallery, etc. Is 3d ; post Is 7d.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, A Story
of the Australian Desert, etc. Picture Boards, 2s ;
post 2s 4d.
To Arrive Shortly, Cheap Edition of Lord Roberts’s
Book, FORTY-ONE YEARS IN INDIA : From Subaltern
to Commander-in Chief. By Field-Marshal Lord Roberts
of Kandahar. The New Edition will contain, in readable
type, the whole of the Text and Appendices which are
comprised in the two-volume edition, and will likewise
include all the maps and illustrations. The volume,
which extends to upwards of 600 pages, with a full index,
will be handsomely bound in scarlet cloth, and gilt-
lettered on the back. 8s 6d ; post'9s 6d.
ORDERS BEING REGISTERED.
GEORGS ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
G. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
i Georgc-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to servioes) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
Ask
for
Cameos!
CIGARETTE
The fiag under which reigns supreme —
PEACE! CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE BED PAGE.
YON KOTZE supplies a text—
“ The Ballad of Reading Gaol,” first
stanza,
“ The poor dead woman whom he loved.
And murdered in her bed.”
What awful banality, these last three words!
They jar on one’s nerves, and prejudice at once
against the whole. Reminds me of Heine's col-
lapse when a friend remonstrated with him on
account of his studied use of the anti-climax, and
presented him with the following travesty of his
inaiinerisrn (freely translated) :
“ The night was coming. But ere she died
She gave me one of her locks.
It lies in the drawer, right-hand side,
Just under the razor box. ”
“Don’t publish that, or I’m undone!” quoth
Heine. Still, his effects were cunningly premedi-
tated, artistically arranged, intentionally effec-
tive. But Oscar Wilde—well, there are many
similar breaks : for instance, stanza 58 :
“ At six o'clock we cleaned our cells,
At xeven alt was stilt.”
Reads like an omnibus time-table set to music.
And so forth!
+
And sermons come from various preachers—
Arthur H. Adams : Seems to me that objection
to a poet stating that a woman was murdered
“ in her bed ” —provided that she was not actually
murdered in the kitchen copper—w<mid imply the
complete exclusion of certain words from the
poetic vocabulary— surely an impoverishing of the
poet’s resources ! Bacon made a tragedy turn on
a fictitious cold in the head and a handkerchief ;
Wilde should be allowed to mention such a hor-
ribly prosaic article of furniture as a bed. In
fact, “The Ballad of Reading G tol ” depends
largely for its eiiect upon its naive air of reality.
The contrast between Oscar’s former delicate
feminine style (in which his characters exploded
in a coruscation of brilliant epigrams) and bis
present virile realism shows the chastening effect
of gaol upon a genius. If Tennyson could only
have been given twelve months’ hard instead of
the Laureateship, he. might have cast off that
fatal gift of over-elaboration and written us some-
thing with more red corpuscles in it. It is
“The Ball id’s” air of “having been there”
which gives the poem its full impressiveness.
Such a line as “at six o’clock we denned our
cells,’’ interpolated as equally important as the
details of the h inging, grimly adds to its horror.
The poet naively contrives to show that the hang-
ing is almost part of the prison routine. “The
Ballad” is written inside the prison, by a convict;
unfortunately, critics, as a rule, are not sentenced
to imprisonment for life.
+
J. Le Gay Brereton : In “ The Ballad of Read-
ing Gaol” Oscar Wilde takes a subject which,
though tragic enough, is also commonplace and
sordid. In fact, much of the force of the tragedy
springs from the ugliness and workaday nature of
the environments. We are shown no heroic
Othello surrounded by the pomp and circumstance
of glorious war, but a winebibbing guardsman
who has to “ swing ” for a vulgar murder. The
protruding eyes of sudden Death—horrible, sug-
gestive of infinite mystery—glare at us from a
background of unbeautifnl prison life, mechanic-
ally regular. Throughout there is a powerful
contrast of habitual routine witli the disturbing
irruption of Death. There seems to be little
reason in Yon Kotze’s objection to the lines—
“ The poor dead ivomaa whom, he loved
A:.J murdered in her bed.”
Why are the italicised words labelled “ banality”?
Wilde deepens the gruesomenesß of his effects by
bare statement of commonplace fact, and makes
his picture the grimmer by an almost photo-
graphic reproduction of absurdly familiar details.
Thus there is an artistic motive in verses like
these from stanza ll.
“ He walked amongst the Trial Men
In a suit of shabby gray;
A cricket cap was on his head,
And his step seemed light and gay ; ”
though to such critics as Yon Kotze they may
appear fatally trivial and paltry.
Von Kotze objects also to the unimpassioned
timetable—
“ At six o'clock we cleaned our cells,
At seven all was still; ”
but it is ridiculous to detach it from its context.
Let us only complete the stanza —
“ But the sough and swing of a mighty wing
The prison seemed to fill,
For the Lord of Death with icy breath
Had entered in to kill."
The horror of the one unusual presence is brought
out by this very insistence upon the unceasing
clockwork regularity and monotony of prison-life.
The spectators of the tragedy, the wretched con-
victs, are deprived of everything in which they
can take an intelligent interest, so that their whole
being is saturated with the hideous Idea which
intrudes upon their solitude and silence.
By the way, the minute pedantry which hunts
and scratches for borrowed lines, phrases or
cadences, seems so far to have missed one obviously
“ conveyed ” simile. Says Wilde—
“ And each man’s heart beat thick and quick,
Like a madman on a drum.”
Here the quick thudding is the only point of com-
parison, and the simile is incomplete beoause of a
oonfusion between the transitive and intransitive
use of the word “ beat. ” But about 300 years ago
genial old Tom Heywood wrote (“ A Woman
Killed with Kindness,” Dent’s ed. iv. 4. 23 25) —
“ Astonishment,
Fear and amazement, beat upon my heart,
Even as a madman beats upon a drum. ”
♦
Victor J. Daley : Well ! What if this feeling of
repulsion were precisely that which the author
of the Ballad intends to produce in the minds of
his readers ! But why have done so by means of
Bad Art? says somebody. The answer is that no
Art is bad that achieves its advertised purpose.
And the evident purpose of “The Ballad of Read-
ing Gaol ” was not to tickle the fastidious palate
of the Man of Taste, but to picture the gloom and
horror of prison-life as felt by a Man of Imagina-
tion, who had become a mere number in the gaol
registry.
“ At six o’clock we cleaned our cells, •
At seven all was still, ”
“reads like an omnibus time-table set to music.”
Does it? It is worse than that. It is the time-
table of the monotonous, dreadful, mill-round of
misery in which; within grim walls, human souls
are condemned to tramp day after day, year after
year, while, beybnd the walls, the stream of ever-
changing opalescent life goes eddying by. It is
the hideous regularity of the thing that makes it
so appalling. And the sense of this seems, to the
present writer, most convincingly brought home
by plain, bare statement. The present writer
also fails to see the alleged “ awful banality ” in
the last three words of the lines—
“ The poor dead woman whom he loved
And murdered in her bed.”
Othello not only murdered Desdemona in her bed,
but committed the deed in the least romantic way
conceivable — viz., by smothering her with a com-
monplace conjugal pillow. Yet, so far as the
p.w. knows, not one of the legion of Shake-
spearian critics has seriously objected to either the
bed or the pillow. Moreover, the bed-detail actu-
ally intensifies the horror of the crime. If the
soldier had slaughtered his wife in the open air,
or in some vague, indefinite place, the crime
would impress one as being merely a tragic inci-
dent, within the circle of a great horizon wherein
other incidents as tragic were continually occur-
ring to divert the attention of the spectator from
any one in particular. But this tragedy was com-
pressed into the space of a single room, in which
Murder reigned alone. The eye sees into
that room at a glance and beholds the figure
of the dead woman lying on her bloodstained
bed. There is nothing else to distract the
mental vision. And she was murdered in her bed
—which should have been her sanctuary, her place
of refuge, her last retreat. Nowhere else is a
human being so helpless, so incapable of self-
defence. Finally, the p.w. considers that the
realistic details scoffed at by Von Kotze are just
the features of “The Ballad of Reading Gaol”
which make that production so horribly human.
Without them—and they abound—it might havo
been the description of a damned soul shut up in
some imaginary inferno.
♦
“ Ishmael Dare ” : I’ve always understood that
Heine was a mocker, and now I know it. Fancy
Von Kotze’s taking that badinage seriously ! If
The Bulletin’ still circulates in Heine’s present
abode, he will be enjoying himself immensely.
It’s very hard to get a satisfactory grip of V. K.
He doesn’t dare to attack the use of nude fact in
literature every poet sinoe Cowper could be
brought up in overwhelming witness against him.
But he tries to distinguish between the poet who
is “ intentionally effective ’’ in his use of the nude
and the poet who isn’t : which (as we know nothing
about either poet’s intentions) comes merely to
this, that V. K. has been impressed by Heine’s
trick and hasn’t been impressed by Wilde’s.
Which may possibly be V. K.’s own fault.
For my part, whether Wilde intended it or not,
that
“ murdered in her bed ”
gave me a fleeting, shivery remembranoe of the
great murder in “Macbeth.” There, in the
tragedy, the point is insisted on, reiterated,
clanged upon us like a struck bell—“ Macbeth
doth murder sleep—Glamis has murdered sleep.”
Here, in a ballad, the phrase is as simple as pos-
sible, but the same touch is there. [lt might be,
too, that “ in her bed ” is partly explained by the
line before : the woman lying dead in the place
that had known their love.]
V. K.’s second example seems even less for-
tunate. Between the dawn and the death Wilde has
set for us two emotions —the grimness of mechani-
cal routine and the more awful grimness of the
silent hour that succeeded it. The minutes have
been crawling all the night: in that last silent
hour they crawl more heavily still. The momen-
tary crackling of dry sticks deepens the gloom on
either side. Again one has a far-away vision of
“ Macbeth ’’ and the knocking at the gate.
The weakest points of the Ballad for me are a
line in part 11. :
“ To dance to flutes, to dance to lutes,”
where the “ lutes ” give one a mental jolt by their
absolute unreality; and the third verse of part
111. :
“ The Governor was strong upon
The Regulations Act,” &c.
Thinking this verseover, the chief faultseems to be
in the rhytlpn ; the first and fourth lines are short
and jerky compared wit i those of neighliering
verses, and the uhemphatic run-on endings
“upon” in line 1 and “ but” in line 3 savor too
much of “The Walrus and the Carpenter.” Put
t in side by side :
The Doctor said that death The Carpenter said
was but nothing but
A scientific fact. ‘ Out us another slice.'
There’s not much to choose between them. But
this is distinctly owing to the rhythm, not to the
matter: tlie last two lines, about the chaplain,
are grim enough when one forgets the rest. In
nearly all real tragedies the most tragic part is
the ghastly incongruity of fact and feeling : I can
imagine situations in which an omnibus time-table
could be made tragic beyond description.
-V
Ed ward Dyson : I think Von Kotze errs in the
excess of his depreciation. If tin r • is a fault of
simplicity, Wilde may have slid into it, but
“awfu! banality ” ! Surely this is the verdict of
one to whom abuse is second nature. The second
quotation looks like a deliberate effort to provide
an excuse for the first hasty judgment. Take
the whole stanza, or only four lines of it instead
of two.
“At six o’clock ive cleaned our cells,
At seven all teas still,
But-the sough and swing of a mighty wing
The prison seemed to Rll ”
and the commonplace feel is gone. With the
context it never existed. Picking out half-ideas,
half-effects, and inviting judgment whilst pass-
ing sentence is easy, but what poet would survive
the criticism of bits ? Take an impression of the
Ancient Mariner—
“ The Wedding-Guest here beat his breast,
For he heard the loud bassoon.”
An author, like a mesmerist, demands something
of his reader, who must be a willing subject, be
content *to identify himself in a measure witii the
man who plays upon him. If you go to gaol with
the author of the ballad, and hear the clank of
the condemned man’s chains, and feel the hushed
prison atmosphere, and have intuitive knowledge
of the souls that inhabit the cells, then the
trite touches help to conviction—you feel you
are not in a prison peopled only by gentlemanly
embezzlers. Afterwards go over the verses alone,
hunting for a grievance, and probably you will
find dozens, but it is like examining an oil paint-
ing with a microscope. Of course there are limits,
and I confess Coleridge’s bassoon gave me an
intellectual jolt which I did not experience in
reading Wilde’s first verse. Possibly the jolt was
due to my inability to accept the bassoon as a
serious instrument, perhaps to my failure to seize
the poet’s idea. Tennyson’s oft-quoted triviality
closing “ Enoch Arden ” is agross error, inasmuch
as it diverts attention from a fine idea to the
expensive frippery and theatricality of a respect-
able up-to-date funeral. Tennyson’s art lacked
Attic salt; a decent sense of humor would have
made that line impossible. I find in “ The Ballad
of Reading Gaol” no reason to doubt Wilde’s
humor—humor being invaluable to the artist for
what it represses. Wilde’s descent to simplicity
never excites the suggestion of a grin, and often
carries the story and helps impressions.
Francis Kenna : There is no banality in the first
quotation. Neither is it an anti-climax. To test
it, substitute “in the field,” “ in the wood,” “in
the street,” or any other phrase of locality, and
see what a loss of effect there is. “In her bed”
is pregnant with repressed suggestion. It is em-
ployed with intentional effect, with artistic ar-
rangement, with cunning premeditation. It is a
real climax. Consider the materials of the piece
—a convict of a certain temperament, and the
prison system. Consider also the pent-up indigna-
tion rankling in the heart of “ C. 3.3 ” for two long
years, and then judge of the admirable temper in
which the ballad is written. The repression of
Wilde is a thousand times more eloquent and
forceful than hysterical screeching. The cruelty,
the horror, and the torture of prison life are all
there, in the lines, and between them.
“At six o’clock we cleaned our cells,
At seven all ivas still,”
would have been part of a musical time-table if it
had to bear the burden of what they did at eight,
nine, and ten o’clock. But the selective instinct
of the artist prevented any such catastrophe.
These hours were evidently selected with a two-
fold motive —(1) to carry on the impressive realism
of the theme ; (2) as a preparation for, and to
heighten the effect of, the succeeding portion of
the verse. And so cunningly are the two motives
associated that it is almost impossible to disso-
ciate them.
“ At six o’clock we cleaned our cells,
At seven all was still,
(Now you are ready for it!)
“ But the sough and swing of a mighty wing
The prison seemed to fill,
For the Lord of Death, with toy breath,
Had entered in to kill.”
A realistic poetic narrative of an experience
should never be more than an expression of the
impression produced, plus a degree of individual
interpretation. In the highest artistic produc-
tions the artist should retain his own personality,
or interweave it into his work indiscoverably.
When his own prejudices or idiosyncrasies obtrude
his work suffers. This is just the weakness of
“ Reading Gaol.” And yet the critic aware of
Wilde’s temperament and history isn’t in a posi-
tion to arrive at an altogether just estimate of
this ballad. -To judge it properly, you want
someone who has never heard of him.
“Q.” : Von Kotze’s objection is the essence of
exquisite egotism. The words “in her bed” are
not banal to anyone who can read in them a sug-
gestion of the passionate motif of the squalid
crime and the atmosphere of sexuality in which it
was committed. If such a trifle as that is to be
allowed “to jar upon our nerves and prejudice us
against the whole’’ of such a Soul-holt as Wilde s
Ballad, a holocaust of ballads is inevitable. Begin
with “The Ancient Ml urine?” for ttxe bathos of
the lines,
“ The Weddinn-Quest here heat hi* hr cant,
For he heard the loud bassoon.”
To please Von K. t he line should be altered to
And he cursed the old gossoon.
This amendment will make Coleridge’s poem
inhumanly perfect. The
‘ At six o'clock we cleaned our cells
At seven all was si hi
objection is equally paltry. Anybody who knows
a prison atrno-phere will testify to the importance
of certain tolled hours. Gaol in this respect is
like school : every item in the day’s time-table is
done to a prodigious hullabaloo of bells. These
two lines, simple as they are, suggest the picture
as I have vividly experienced it—the early bustle
of cleaning up anil then a sudden silence as all
ceases, and the prisoners, instead of marching out
to work, are locked up “ to sit in solemn silence ”
because a man is going to be hanged. But Von
K. has never been in gaol, and I decline to take
advantage of him. I’ll “ have at him ” with the
application of his objection to “Eugene Aram,”
which is given “higher rank ’’over Wilde’s ballad,
but which I venture to consider maudlin, melo-
dramatic, meretricious, and artificial in com-
parison. But to the objection : Stanza 1 —
“Four and twenty happy hoys
Came bounding out of school ”
Stanza 9 :
“ The usher took six hasty strides
.4.s- smit with sudden pain —
Six hasty strides beyond the place,
Then slowly back again ; ”
Stanza 19 :
“ A dozen times I groan'd ; the dead
Had never groan'd but twice !”
Stanza 32 :
“ Or land or sea, though he should be
Ten thousand fathoms deep.”
Why 24 happy boys ? why 6 hasty strides ? why
12 groans for the murderer and 2 for the mur-
dered ? why 10,000 fathoms ? It sounds like one
of Lewis Carroll’s mathematical problems in “ A
Tangled Tale.” Such carping is quite in the
Von. K. spirit. It could be done with almost
everything that has ever been written. This
supertine sensitiveness and magnified importance
of technique is not in the spirit of true criticism.


AND
ydney’s Reading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
v.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
1 THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.-A man who has lost hw
committing himself to those habits of d, seipation ot a use th fc exper i onc e of 20,000 men
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Speei • openly endorsed th** treatment of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that tliey P y
rs.
a
Inch has restored then, to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single mam
nt it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
»rj n ~IK , have bsen “Rescued at last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make,
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. IKB It MAIN &
W ALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Tailing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down?
Spots before the eyes?
I)o the muscles twitch?
Have you pains in small of back?
1 lave you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
1 toes your head swim ?
Do your kmes knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes ?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
mii
All Trams stop at the Door .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properlv to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
■ 5
m
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Fanner —in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYI3KTBY.
-tf lease mention this Paper when CoKIIESPONDENCE, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
Bta ,i y „f pRIVATE nervO TJS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches,
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
aversion
dreadful
memory,
enabled
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
£1
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires ad vice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GiBbONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
mmm
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist yon
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescrilns Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by tire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY
Or, if preferred, » The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-llaily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age “of your r Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
1 quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per- I
feotly and rapidly successful under circumstances which |
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. Cd. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
! ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
J DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
j the Government Stamp the name
j of the Inventor —
| Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodwe. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
1 its best recommendation.”
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Liglat and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 llunter-st,, SYDNEY.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENT J II ELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Tm. LANGSTON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
r ATROPHY in Men >
Wafted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit—A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed 6 -tamps. Address-
. J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
V Cor. Bonrke & Liverpool Sts., Melb.
HiiEVOuS PEOPLE.
I'jMM
m
n' 1
'* v fSji'C-
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
the languid, for the
run-down system, for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. Forall
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention—Dß.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a G R A IM D REMEDY
It assists Nature by a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a mild, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE.-Tf Ruptured, send also for “Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W- H. SOUL & CO-, 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS*
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, ITolbart.
Australian Waterloo C. July 12.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
ADELAIDE G.N. HURDLE. August 13.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me sliaresin the above.
Name
Address _
METROPOLITAN S. September 13.
i •
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name n •
Address
CAULFIELD C.
October 1 5
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame ,
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1,
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Prise Hedueers
‘friends of the family 5
—AND—
Up-to date fflerehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Tears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel., Tel..
No. 312. Head Office : No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
AQLENE
“Most Refreshing.
If (Kegd.)
NICE ALWAYS, BUT
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMB.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOUNE” PERFUME.
“ Most Refreshing.”
“AOLINE” TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
“AOLINE” TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
“AOLINE” SACHETS.
Delightful for Handkerchiefs,
Gloves, &c.
“AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
J. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THE CELEBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
A Charming Scent.” — H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
Read’s Liver Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedy for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Tongue, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Smal
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address —
H. READ, 115 Collins-st., Melbourne.
f?ASGARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
bAVAR’S CUB£BS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
bAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSt’S Ail Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, find free from tho ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
gHRaSESRI
QuEuXuS
GO TO HELL-
KIOLANI) for Pretty Stumps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. G<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in. high, or lower, silver dash, com-
plete, with lamps, £8 17s. 6d. SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ; Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES,
70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles, 70s. PARK SADDLES, 68s.
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. Cd. BOYS’ SADDLES
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. SILLIER,
135 & 137 Suss ex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Ilillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order saddles from
this advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colon} r . SENT) /' OH A 0A..1 A hVU «
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 lf»s.,
£8 158., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buekboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
FAC-SiiMiSLi£ Ur
rOR THE
OKO
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMON AL !
TIMONIAL
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
Qjh
,-fot
AA
IffcrfLo
°(hjL Q 9
<U; h. uka, -bjUxOl
to
•i . - n*. &*/!{)*. A~
tin
KOKO^HAIR
Stores *c. THE KOKf
‘FRUIT SALT
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
m
* l
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEVER, PYEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pysemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time 1
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Enos Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it toall “g
patients during convalescence. Its value as a. means of health cannot
overestimated.” — A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by <L C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO S Patent.
LOOK A.T OUR PRICBS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, 16 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l. _
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address : ' N.S.W. Carriage
Send for Our
Manufacturing Co., Brown»s.t., NEWTOWN, Sydney
111 uatrated Catalogue.
Various Verses.
Love.
From out the wonder-country
He rides whose name is Love ;
He little cares if sunshine flares.
Or shy stars show above.
From out the wonder-country
He travels far and fast,
And joy there is in hut or hall
When Love comes home at last.
His reins are Pride and Prudence,
His spur it is Desire,
His horse’s hoofs are shod with ! TopA
Well wrought in Passion’s fire !
No matter what the color be —
Or black, or white, or roan,
Or grey the steed that carries him,
For Love is lord alone !
There is no bolt can stay him,
He laughs at lock and bar ;
The winds are but bis messengers,
The waves his servants are.
He climbs the white Sierra,
He clears the convent-wall,
He clatters up the palace-steps,
For Love is lord of all!
Alas, alas ! the many
Who linger—even as I !
Who wait and watch the live-long night,
And hear Love gallop by !
And grey seems life for ever,
And sad the looking back ;
For come what may, by dark or day,
Love turns not on his track.
Ah, Love ! from out the distance,
I hear the ring of hoofs,
Now loud —now low—now fast—now slow —
And sure toward our roofs.
And comes he here to tarry ?
Or w ill he gallop past ?
0, loyal Love, my master,
Come home to me at last!
M.L.
DORA WILCOX.
At the Crossways.
After long delaying
(Go’den were the days)—
Days of sylvan straying,
A friend and I together,
Hand in hand together,
Faring through the weather
Came upon a lady
Standing at crossways.
A pale and marble lady she
With a slight smile gleaming :
Like lily ’neath a shady tree
In hottest noontide dreaming ;
And her smile was all for me,
Like a silver call for me.
Now, no more together
Go my friend and I
Through sad or sunny weather,
For our hands are parted,
And our lives are parted ;
And aweary-hearted,
The gainer and the loser
Am I,:and this is why:
The lady’s name is Duty, and
She gives infrequent posies ;
But, ah ! though fresh from beauty-land,
There's thorns among her roses :
And so you see wherefore and whence
I long for my friend, Indolence.
RODERIC QUINN
Aspiration.
Where upland rocks were bleak and bare
There 1 ose a sturdy tree ;
Its leaves in hue were fresh and fair,
Its branches strong and free.
Of other verdure all bereft
I saw the ridges roll :
How could thy crest the rock have clSfb,”
I cried, “ my l onny bole ? ”
It seemed,” an answ’ring whisper fell,
1 Beneath the stone I knew,
Though dark was all my tiny dell,
?et skies above were blue.
‘ And so through rending rift I drave
As ploughman drives a share ;
And, whensoe’er my heart misgave,
I murmured ‘ Heav’n is there ! ’
il And fired again with visions bright
I fought anew my way
For all my Being drew to Light
To drink of Life and Day ;
“ And so I burst n.y prison band,
My skyward path I made,
Till rugged rock and weary land
Might slumber in my shade.
“ And dost thou ask me did I quail
To rive my road to air?
\h, no ! How could I fear to fail —■
[ l-nrir that Heav’n was there ! ”
'■i
P. LUFTIG.


TlOstraliao MdtCial „ “ a r ushed 18 i 9
The Oldest Mutual Idle Assurance Society established ■ Ely .
hia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
THOS. Littlejohn P jiso ß^° I T ’w'°i.r A -’ Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT Fan Q ' ’ n’ W ' Mi-EKS, J '-sq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ;
T „„ ’ q ‘ General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
AcoomulatedFunda " ” £ xce ° ds Two Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for tb-OnfYear isqvV ft Fou ) rteen and a - Half Millions .Sterling.
1 ear 1897 (after making- unusually large reserves) amounted to £445.235. yielding
_ Reversionary Bonuses of about £335,000.
Head Office: 07 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Rates i2/&DA?dPiRDS
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “'BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
i ail way. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
as
p 'f;
p*
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses. >
Agents: E. RICH A CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents!
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Bamdfo®'‘& 7 00., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross', Lainkton Quay, Wellington, N.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
PIANOS.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
of PIANOS -
Tl>e apd Largest WarcboOS*
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON S CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
TATTEKSAEL’S HOTEL & CAFE,
SYDNEY.
TARIFF
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER, j MR. S. D. ASHER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery Surgical and Mechanical
and Prosthetics. I Dentist.
r PHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
L with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Mates, by means '*f Itridyen’ovh.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, wilh or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address
98 ICing-st., S T clncy
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
LADIES.- Call and
see our Cll ! '.AP
. . A CH I N KS,froin 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! S. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
m
DINBUR
Trade
Mark
71 _ rnopßitTons ''w- 'I
Company IT :
** ED IN BURGH.
Nw©i
|i” */$/ '"t
!V jk<{i J.* <«'
i, «»A Jr/liul
111' /'^" u “ J///,M
„ fiU fcpi, lirw/t'iy
. * '
Drink
Dloderately.
.lake a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake ”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.C.L,”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant,
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L
THE LAST_ OP SIX.
PRICE Is. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST - - -
CHEAPEST -
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.-W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
HE
BIER
IS
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour - - Try it
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable, in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Manager, Aug. J. Metzler.
Moore Park, Sydney.
Sec., T. H. Jackson.
Facts Respecting Jixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yankee Poodle.
■ The *Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. Hie
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cbatypioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Copqfisror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)t€QQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite MoilOpcPe, Rothschilds.
SoilctllZßi 4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 19.— N0. 959.
SATURDAY, JULY 2, 1898.
Price, 6d.
SCRIPTURE UP TO DATE.—A BIT OF MIXED METAPHOR.
THE WOMANHOOD SUFFRAGE LEAGUE: “For seven years the members of the League, like Jacob, have, been working, and they consider now that they deserre their Rachael."
LABAN, THE WRIGGLER: “The ques ti on of the exten sion of the franchi se to woman will probably be put upon the Ministerial programme, and a bill in support of the measure
will most probably be introduced at the next session of Parliament.”
(Behind, this veil, you Will probably find, Leah. )


The bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the. Australians
1 rinted and Published by William Macleod of
Botany-street, Wav.-rley, for The Bid t.ettn
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales!
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street’ North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ”. 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct, to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—icith postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are si>ecially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and, White.
Anyone supplying to Tiif. Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —W. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. S. Australia,
Westralia and, Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except (Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, ivith
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Oaring to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland wilt be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Tost Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 2, 1898.
Eight Shillings a Week.
A very small strike started lately in Sydney
under no particular circumstances, and pro-
duced no results worth mentioning, and
practically pegged-out almost as soon as it
was horn. The strikers were the “ deck-
hands ” of the North Shore Ferry Co. A
deck-hand is the unskilled— or not very much
skilled—toiler who heaves the rope, and
drags the weighty gangway from 4.30 a.m.
on cold winter mornings and up to midnight
on wet winter nights ; lie also scrubs decks
and helps round promiscuously. There
were 23 of them who rose in revolt against
their kind boss the co., and, as the manager
indignantly pointed out to the public, they
received the splendid remuneration of from
10s. to 17s. 6d. per week—all except one
Very Little Fellow. Th ■ Very Little Fel-
low did the same kind of work as the Big
Fellow, but the co. took a mean advantage
of his size and only paid him Bs. Apart
from the Very Little Fellow, the co.’s story
seems to have been quite true ; the aggre-
gate Big Fellow did get from 10s. to
17s. fid. per week. Seventeen of him got
10s. and one got 17s. 6d., but the
average of the whole crowd (includ-
ing the Very Little Fellow) was just
10s. 10id. per week. The average working
hours were 72 per week with no time for
meals. The men got their magnificent re-
muneration once a fortnight—that is to say,
it was due on Monday and was paid on
Wednesday, so that the wages were always
two days in arrear ; and they were sub-
ject to dismissal without notice. The whole
23, including the Very Little Fellow, after
vain efforts to obtain a rise, struck for the
very humble all-round wage of £1 per week,
and the infuriated management is reported"
as having described their conduct as “ das-
tardly.”
« * * •
The North Shore Ferry Co. doesn’t pay
these miserable wages because of its
poverty. It is a wealthy speculation which
regularly pays 15 per cent, dividends on its
original capital of £40,000. The nominal
capital is £60,000, and the nominal dividend
10 per cent., but £20,000 is really capitalised
profits. It has also a large reserve fund, and
the £1 per week which was asked for by the
employes would have made a very small
difference in the dividends. The co’s only
visible reason for paying such starvation
rates is that it can get men to work for
them, and if these men get tired of it
and quit—well, it can get other men. In the
Jolly and Fat land of New' South Wales there
are so many men—the strikers ranged from
very large-sized boys of 17 to full-grown and
legally-qualified men of 23—willing to make
an attempt at providing themselves with
board, lodging, clothes, boots, and some-
thing over wherewith to take their best girl
to Ckiogee at odd times, all out of 10s.
per week, that the co. really doesn’t need to
pay more. It is a solemn outlook for a pro-
vince which yells incessantly that it is the
richest province in the Australian group, and
a melancholy testimonial to the Jolly and
Fat policy of Freetrade, and to the artificial
prosperity that came of the great borrowing
dodge in bygone days.
* * *
Trades-unionism is no remedy for such a
case. Trades-unionism can do something in
skilled occupations employing a very large
number of workers, though its customary
w'eapon, the strike, is of little use even there.
The mining industry is the one where union-
ism is—or was—strongest ; it spreads all over
Australasia and employs more skilled labor
than any other occupation, and the miners
have probably more cohesion than the men
of other trades—though even that isn’t
saying any too much. And yet in every
mining strike for years past the miners have
gone down. But, as regards the small, casual
occupations, w'here little skill is required and
where the people employed are so few that
they can’t dislocate the country’s business by
leaving work, trades-unionism is just about
hopeless. These people can’t even strike in
the ordinary sense of the term ; it is im-
possible to create a strike-fund out of 10s.
101jd. per w'eek, so when they leave their
kind boss, the North Shore Ferry Co., in
disgust, they have to speedily go and
hustle for some other badly-paid employ-
ment elsewhere, and incidentally, by their
competition, make things worse for some
other poor wretches in other branches of in-
dustry. And while there are, as at pre-
sent, many hundreds of men willing to
take almost any wage because the poorest
w'age is better than none at all, the limit of
wage reduction is bounded by only one thing
the pay must be enough to exist
upon. That offers almost unbounded
scope for reduction, because ten adult
human beings can dwell in a very small
room—in fact, twenty can if necessary, and
they can refuse to pay the rent into the bar-
gain ; also the smallness of the sum for which
some kind of food can be purchased is really
incredible ; and fuel can be picked up ; and
the possibilities of endurance that lie in a
second-hand suit and a pair of hobnailed
boots w'hichare constantly repaired at home,
are almost beyond estimating.
* • * •
There is apparently no hope for the toiler
in casual occupations, and very little hope for
the toiler in any other occupations, save in
the enforcement by law of a minimum wage
for all classes of workers. In New South
Wales the trend of wages has been continu-
ously downwards for years past—within the
last four years the drop has been unusually
rapid. The New South Wales coal-miner
now averages about 225. fid. per week. The
list of wages paid in all manufacturing occu-
pations, published annually by the New
South Wales Statistical Department, shows
a further drop every year. It is not a ques-
tion, in New South Wales, of getting down to
the British level, but of getting below the
British level. Britain and New South Wales
are both run on Foreign-trade principles,
therefore they are both exposed to the com-
petition of the cheap laborers of all the
world. But New South Wales is close up
against the cheapest laborer in the world —
the Asiatic ; Britain isn’t. And while New
South Wales has to pay away about
£5,000,000 a year (nearly £4 per inhabitant
annually) to public and private foreign credi-
tors, Britain receives about £140,000,000 a
year (say £3 10s. per inhabitant annually)
from her innumerable foreign debtors. New
South Wales is the man who is in debt,
while Britain is the man who has a big
accumulation laid by and bringing in
interest, therefore the inevitable tendency
of New South Wales, other things being
reasonably equal, is to get below the British
standard. It is impossible to fix a decent
minimum wage which will be of any use
unless it is fixed for all occupations. And
in all the multitudinous occupations which
are subject to foreign competition, there
seem to be serious difficulties about fixing a
minimum of, say, 40s. per week, if there is
an expert Asiatic next door who is ready to
do the same work for 10s. and ship the
result to New South Wales per cheap
steamer at a freight charge which equals,
perhaps, another Is. The only visible re-
sult would be to kill these industries, and by
turning their employes adrift make the com-
petition in the businesses, which are neces-
sarily of a local character, more severe. The
minimum wage undoubtedly could be applied
to the Very Little Fellow who heaves the
rope on the North Shore Ferry Co. s boat at
Bs. per week, for that rope must be heaved
locally—to heave it at a cheap rate in Japan
wouldn’t serve the purpose in the least. But
if it is applied to the local boot and slop-
clothing industry, where wages are now
down to zero and sweating is rampant, the
most probable result is a diminution of local
manufacture and another big boom in im-
ports. Then the competition for the billet
of the Very Little Fellow would be all the
keener. And the trouble can’t be met for
ever by finding Government jobs for the
unemployed, and paying their wages with
borrowed money.
At all events, this paper votes for a re-
spectable minimum wage to be decreed by
law in all industries and in all the pro-
vinces. And out of respect for the Very
Little Fellow at Bs. per week it proposes that
New South Wales moves in the matter at
once. If that province is, as its politicians
allege, the richest of the Seven, it can afford
it better than Victoria, which is already
enforcing a minimum wage in all its leading
industries. If Foreign-trade creates more
wealth than Protection, as is so loudly
announced, thes .again it can afford it better
than Victoria, % South Wales finds it
can pay a decSfit mipimum wage under its
present fiscal system, then so much the bet-
ter for the system. It would be the greatest
and grandest advertisement Freetrade ever
had if it could stand the enforcement of a
respectable white man’s wage, and a white
woman's wage also, in all its industries,
whether they are of a kind affected by foreign
competition or not, and still show that its
manufactures were steadily progressing.
Anyhow-, the first duty of the State is to
keep its people from sinking into animalism
through sheer inability to maintain the
decencies of life. The only way to do that
is to fix a minimum wage. Whether a
decent, all-round mimimum wage wall square
with the political circumstances of the pro-
vince it is impossible to say till it is tried ;
so the only thing is to try it. And then, if
it doesn’t fit in with the political circum-
stances of the country, the next thing is to
find out exactly which circumstance it
doesn’t fit in with, and alter that circum-
stance forthwith.
The Demand for a Cast-Iron Constitution.
When the N.S. W. Premier, in the speech at
the opening of Parliament, started to define
the amendments which he and his anti-Billious
minority propose to “ cram down the throats ”
of the pro-Bill majority he included a perfectly
new complaint in his list of grievances. What
he desires in the matter of tnis new grievance
is that there shall be “ the same Protection for
the territorial rights of each State as there is
for the representation of each State in the
Federal Parliament.” It is already provided
that the limits of a State shall not be altered
without the consent of its Parliament, which is
a sufficiently cast-iron restriction ; but the
clause which provides this can be abolished,
like any other part of the Constitution, by a
majority of both Federal Houses and by a
majority of the people and the States. Premier
Reid’s further demand is that this clause shall
not be capable of abolition or alteration like
any other part of the Constitution, but that to
alter it there must be a majority of both
Houses of the Federal Parliament, a majority
of the people, a majority of the States, a
majority of the Parliament of the State which
it is proposed to cut up, and a majority of the
voters of that State. At least that is how it
pans out if it is proposed to make territorial
rights as inalienable as the right of representa-
tion in the Federal Parliament. The clause
dealing with this subject in the present Bill is
cast-iron ; the proposed amendment is thick
steel, backed with concrete and granite. Appa-
rently this new proposal is partly Reid’s
answer to the threatened demand of Riverina
for separation, and partly his bid for the
adhesion of the Brisbane Government. The
clause would assure Brisbane that all the
weight and power and military force of the
Commonwealth would be available to preserve
to Brisbane for ever, or as nearly so as possible,
its inalienable right to hold North and Central
Queensland against their will. And it would
make it absolutely certain that for any portion
of a province which has a genuine need for
autonomy there would be no way out
except by the bayonet. This is the phrase
which Reid’s own party applied to the present
Federation scheme and which is quoted as a
reason why that scheme should be rejected. It
applies to Reid’s own scheme even more for-
cibly.
J * * * *
When there is a demand for secession, as
there was many years ago in Queensland and
Victoria, and as there is now in North and
Central Queensland, and as there may be some
day in the Riverina and in many parts of Wes-
tralia and elsewhere, it is always the minority
which wants to break away on account of the
real or fancied injustice with which it is treated
by the majority. For obvious reasons it is
never the majority which wants to secede. The
dog which is on top is always satisfied with
things as they are, or if he desires a change it
is in the direction of getting the underneath
dog even more effectually down than he is at
present. The demand for a radical change of
circumstances always comes from the dog
underneath. No one can imagine Brisbane or
Sydney or Melbourne and the populations im-
mediately adjacent thereto, which populations
generally form a voting majority of the pro-
vince, ever willingly listening to the demand of
a remote part of the province for separation,
no matter how well-grounded that demand may
be. The size and weight and wealth and
consequence of these cities depend mostly on
the size of their attached territory. If it is
enacted that no part of any province can ever
get separation except with the consent of the
rest of the State and the State Parliament, that
means that no minority can get separation unless
it is a majority. And when it becomes a majority
it doesn’t need separation, for then it will be top
dog. North Queensland wouldn’t want to part
company with the arrogant South if it was a
majority ; it would simply shift the capital to
Townsville, and spend all the loan money in
the North, and have low railway rates in the
North and change high ones in the South lo
makegood the loss, and-let Brisbane lake a
turn at vainly howling for the right of seces-
sion. Therefore, Reid’s proposed amendment
practically means that there will never, while
the Constitution remains, be any readjustment
of State boundaries allowed, no matter what
the necessity may be. And that is too vast
and brutal and comprehensive, and too danger-
ous to boot.
* * * *
The only legitimate process of government is
undoubtedly by the will of the majority. But
even the majority may be curiously “ faked ”
by extraneous circumstances. If Austialia
were forcibly annexed to China, and then the
whole new Austral-Chow empire was blessed
with one man-one-vote, the four millions Aus-
tralians would be lost among 400 million
Chinese, and the blessings of majority-rule
wouldn’t appeal to them worth a straw. If
the handful of North Queenslanders, who never
had any voice as to whether they wanted to be
joined to South Queensland or not, are allowed
an equal vote, it doesn’t help them much
further forward. In the agitation for Victorian
autonomy, all the country south of the Mur-
rumbidgee was more-or-less favorable to sepa-
ration. But an outside authority fixed the
boundary at the Murray, and the Rivet ina was
thrown in with N.S.W. without its own people
having any voice in the matter. Similarly,
the people of far Western Victoria were never
asked whether they wanted to belong Lo Ade-
laide, which is near and convenient, or to Mel-
bourne, which is far off and inconvenient. If
any district deliberately becomes part of a
particular State then it is bound to let its des-
tinies be decided by the majority vole of that
State. If it is attached to a State without any
consent of its own, and is forced to let its des-
tinies be governed by the wrong majority, the
situation is wholly different. If a free and
independent community of three aboriginals
were to kidnap George Reid, and give him
the same franchise as themselves, it would
about express the situation. His very natural
reply would be that he believed in majority
rule, but he wanted to exercise his franchise in
a very different community, and to be ruled by
a different kind of majority, and to have a
voice in deciding which majority he would
attach himself to.
» * ♦ *
The proposed amendment would mean that
the welfare of Australia in general is to be sac-
rificed even more than it is sacrificed already
to provincial vanity and the interests of a few
big cities. It would mean that North and
Central Queensland were to be permanently
exploited for the benefit of Brisbane —unless
they grew strong enough some day to shift the
capital up North and take a turn at exploiting
the South instead. It would mean that Wes-
tralia was to remain a tremendous, unwieldy
province existing for the benefit of Perth and
Bunbury and Fremantle. It would mean that
N.S.W. would retain the power, by its railway
policy, to force the trade of the far South over
450 miles of line to Sydney and deny it access
to the port that is only one-third of the dis-
tance away; and to keep the far West a desert
because it couldn’t afford to furnish railway
communication with Sydney, which is far off,
and because it is contrary to provincial policy
to facilitate trade with Adelaide, which is close
at hand. And it means that when western
Victoria fills up it will be sacrificed for the sake
of Melbourne in exactly the same fashion.
These things may be good in a small way for
the present State capitals, and the exploiters
and financiers and traders who live there, but
they are very bad for Australia, which is of
vastly greater importance.
• • * *
The Bulletin is content to be Australian ;
so long as Australia is Australia, and is pro-
sperous and contented under a strong central
Government, the mere accident of .State boun-
daries matters nothing. It is of absolutely no
importance, provided the national interests are
served to the best possible purpose, w hether
N.S.W. consists of 300,000 or 159,000 square
miles, or whether what is now Queensland
is one State or three, or whether Westralia is
one State or six. If the division of a State
will hasten its development in any way, then
it ought to be divided ; the two States will be
Australia, and their people Australians, just
as much as the one was; and if our pride is
in our country and not in any accidental frag-
ment of it, then no one can be injured by the
transaction. Australia is a vast country with
few good sea-outlets. The natural tendency of
each part of it is to have its political and
trading centre at the nearest good outlet, and
if, in the utterly absurd drafting of the old
artificial boundaries, any portion of the country
is attached to a State which doesn’t supply it
with the best outlet, its right to secede should
be fully recognised. Also, if it w’ants to set up
a political and trading capital of its own be-
cause it is nominally attached to one which is
too remote to be useful, its right to secede
should be recognised in that case also.
* » * »
There is very little fear of the process of sub-
division going too far on the Australian main-
land, where sea-outlets are so few. No
district is likely to want to shake off its
allegiance to any existing capita! if that
capital is its shortest road to the sea, or its
nearest and most convenient commercial centre.
Provided the Commonwealth supervises the
apportionment of liabilities when a subdivision
takes place there is no possible objection to any
readjustment of boundaries which is geo-
graphically desirable, and about which the
people of the readjusted district are sufficiently
unanimous—none save parochial vanity, and
the desire of the newspapers and politicians and
statisticians of a few bloated cities to boast
about the size of “our” parochial territory
and the vastness of “our” provincial popul,.


tion For the sake of Australia in general it
would be better to see two prosperous capitals
grow up in Northern Queensland and two or
three or ten more in the North-west and North,
than that Brisbane and Perth should grow to
be two huge cities with a comparative desert
behind them. And the best thing of all would
be if the Commonwealth Government could
begin by wiping every existing boundary oti the
map, and peg out the provinces afresh on com-
mon-sense principles. But as that can twe >e
done the obvious course is to leave the question
as open as possible, and let it be settled the
best way it can when occasion arises, tor the
Commonwealth to begin by pledg-ng itself to
use all its power to for ever squash the demand
of North Queensland for autonomy, no matter
how good reason it may show for its demand,
and to squash all similar demands w hich may
arise anywhere, at any time, from any cause, is
too vast an undertaking. Also it is ghast y
foolishness to suggest that the parochial vanity
of this generation should prohibit the nee,< u
readjustment of provincial boundaries hun-
dreds of years hence, and that the dead barn
of the dead politicians who are buried and with
the worms should block the way for ever
But it is a huge and utterly unscrupulous bi
for the adhesion to the Commonwealth ot the
ruling gang in Brisbane, and the argument
about the rule of the majority, on which it is
based, looks specious. But, then, the mere
provincial majority isn’t everything. 1 iere
may be occasions when the Australian majority
requires to have a voice.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mixed.
Sydney Telegraph’s latest cry of woe is that
the mission of Barton at the coming Js .S.v>.
election is to split the Foreign trade vote ar L < l
to let Lyne get into office by a side-wind. It
is a pretty crude lie, and shows that the D.I.
isn’t in good form. Barton goes to the N.S. W.
electors on the Federal ticket alone, and he
asks the support of the people as the most
trusted and most consistent leader of the
Federal party, as the man who has been a
Federalist all along—not a recent turn-coat
who took up the cause to save his billet, and as
the man who was definitely entrusted with the
job by the whole province when it put him at
the head of the Federal poll. If his party
comes into power lie promises to leave the
tariff entirely alone ; his whole object will be
to bring about the establishment of a fair and
workable Federation and to hand the fiscal
question over to it. He might have done
this already but for the things which Reid
helped to put, or absolutely insisted on put-
ting, into the present Bill. Reid goes
to the country also as the man who is
going to leave the taritf alone, except that
he is going to put a protective duty on
sugar. Therefore he has no more claim to
support on fiscal grounds than Barton. The
only difference between him and Barton is
that Reid asserts he is the better Federal
leader of the two. And in proof of that he
can proudly point to the fact that he
voted in the Convention for the three-fifths
majority, for the equal representation of the
States in the Senate, for the method of amend-
ing the Constitution —the one which he says
makes it a cast-iron Constitution and incapable
of amendment, for the arrangement which
leaves the division of the surplus after the first
five years to the Federal Parliament, for keep-
ing the debts in the hands of the States, and
for the railways settlement; and that he then
came back to N.S.W. and implored the people
to vote against the Bill because of all these
things which he had helped to put in it. In
fact, Reid’s claim is that he has been the one
consistent wobbler and unwavering turncoat in
the crowd. And Lyne goes to the country
on the ground that he wants two things—Pro-
vincial Protection, and a Federal system which
will abolish Provincial Protection ; also that
his first desire is to put up a fiscal barrier be-
tween N.S.W. and the other provinces, and his
other first desire is to pull it down ; and
he wants, above all things, both to get
the fiscal question settled in the local Par-
liament and to get it removed out of the
local Parliament altogether. As for the Labor-
par ty, it believes in Federation, and, so far as
the present session has gone, its members have
consistently cursed Barton, apparently because
he is a Federalist. Altogether, the election
promises to be a lovely four-cornered shindy,
and, when the four parties all come back from
the election, N.S.W. will need a ton of ice to
put on its head as it sorts things out.
♦
Want of Confidence.
As a howling farce, and a pathetic sham, and a
feeble slab of imbecility, Lyne’s motion of cen-
sure on Reid in N.S.W.’s worried and anxious
Parliament occupies a high place. It almost
looked like a pre-arranged affair between Reid
and Lyne —each of them knowing that a large
portion of his followers were inclined to break
away, and feeling, therefore, that it was advis-
able'to raise up the old party light, and get
them once more into the habit of voting on the
old party lines. Reid and Lyne were on the
same side all through the Federal campaign, so
it was good policy to get people out of the cus-
tom of regarding Reid and Lyne as represent-
ing one side of the province’s politics and
Barton the other. What both parties wanted
to impress on the country was that there were
only two parties, and Reid was one and Lyne
the other, and that there was no such person as
Barton —the man who badly licked them
both when all N.S.W. was polled at the Con-
vention election and again on Referendum day.
The motion couldn’t do Reid or Lyne any
harm. Lyne, to all intents and purposes,
moved that he and Reid were the two
individuals who must run the whole
Federal movement, and he asked the
House to affirm that it would rather
trust a Lyne Government in the matter
than a Reid Government. Obviously the Free-
trade party would rather trust Reid, and the
Protectionist party would rather trust Lyne;
if either crowd changed its allegiance it would
get mu equally bad Federal leader and a more
oli finable fiscal leader, so the parties were
bound to rally up on the old party principles
and close, to some extent, the breaches in their
ranks. If the motion had given the House a
chance to say whether it preferred Reid, Lyne,
or Barton, there would probably have been a
wonderful break-up—but it didn’t. The Legis-
lature was really asked to decide whether it
would prefer to be hanged or drowned ; and it
had no chance to vote that it would rather
remain alive than either of them. W hichever
way the vote went, one of the two provincial
leaders would be able to say that the country
had, through its elected representatives, de-
clared itself wilh him ; the vote was so arranged
that there must be a victory lor provincialism
either way. If Reid won, he remained in
office. If he lost, he went to the country for
its decision, and he had to go to the
country in any case, so no harm could be
done to either man, while both got some advant-
age by rallying up their disorganised parties.
Then Reid had a chance to point out that the
only man who had any right to succeed him
was his noble-hearted friend Lyne ; seeing that
he can lick the slow-going Lyne much more
easily than the alert and brainy Barton, he
naturally desires Lyne to he his only possible
rival and successor. And both sides got a
chance to slander and malign and jeer at Bar-
ton (who, not being an M.L.A., couldn’t be
there to defend himself) and to get their slan-
ders spread all over the country by the news-
papers carried at the taxpayers’ expense. As
Barton is the only man who is likely to
deprive Reid of his billet, and Lyne
of his reversion of the billet, and as
his party seriously threatens the seats of
about 70 members out of 125, the unanimity of
the Assembly in expressing its disgust at the
alleged awfulness of Barton’s character was
not surprising. And, as all the four great
leaders of the Federal party are outside the
Assembly, Lyne’s sham motion of censure gave
the provincial party inside a chance to do a
shriek about the sinfulness of the late Bill
without any serious opposition. Altogether it
was a mean and pitiable pretence. I lie two
men who professed to be fighting each other
for the Premiership forgot even to pretend to
hit each other in their anxiety to throw mud
at the man who was absent.
The Case of William Whitton.
Sometime in the middle of ’96 an ex-Queens-
land farmer, named Schutt, was robbed of
,£512, in Melbourne, by two confidence-men,
one of whom is now serving a sentence of four
years in Pentridge for his share in the game.
Lately a man named Whitton was arrested
at Albury as being the man’s confederate. He
was brought to Melbourne, committed, tried,
and found guilty. At his trial, farmer Schutt
swore positively that Whitton was the second
of the two men who had robbed him. He also
swore that he saw him in Melbourne a week
afterwards —which is where he made the mis-
take. An Albury constable also swore that, in
Nov., ’96, Whitton admitted to him that lie
(Whitton) had been present when Schutt was
robbed. Accused then swore equally positively
that he had nothing to do with the robbery,
that he had not been in Melb. since ’93, and
that, though he could not remember his where-
abouts on the day of the robbery, on the day—
a week afterwards—when Schutt said he saw
him in Melbourne, he was in the lock-up at
Germanton, 40 miles from Albury. Schutt
then said it might have been a day or so later.
On this evidence, the jury convicted. Whit-
ton still protested his innocence, and
said that, for some time immediately sub-
sequent to the Germanton episode, he
was employed at Clifton station, near
Germanton, and was present at the muster-
ing. Judge Hood, not being of a cocksure
turn of mind, postponed sentence, and directed
that further enquiries should; be made, the re-
sult being that it was clearly determined that
Whitton was present at the Clifton mustering
the day after the Germanton affair, and re-
mained there for some time afterwards.
Schutt’s evidence having been thus clearly
disproved, the Administrator of the Govern-
ment, on the recommendation of Judge Hood,
has been pleased to extend to Whitton
the prerogative of mercy ! After an in-
nocent man has put in nearly two months
in gaol, part of the time with the prospect of four
years’ hard labor hangingover him, the Governor
is pleased to show “ mercy.” There is no word of
any compensation for those lost two months
and for the anxiety and degradation after con-
viction. Yet it would have been quite as easy
.to test the man’s statements before his trial as
afterwards ; but, until instructed by the Judge,
the police took no action, whatever. They
weren’t concerned as to the man ; all they
wanted was a conviction —of somebody. And
had the trial taken place before almost any
other Judge, another Suffield case would
have been added to the long list, and another
man would have been rotting in gaol for a
crime he never committed.
♦
A Syndicat.
The struggle between the Maoriland Govern-
ment and its great Buee octopus, the
Midland railway syndicat (the accent falls
on the “cat”), still rages, and the end of
the trouble seems even yet afar off. In the
genesis of the affair the Midland syndicat
agreed to build and own and work a railway
to the West Coast, in consideration of a tre-
mendous land-grant in Canterbury and else-
where. That was so long ago that the begin-
ning of the Midland scrum seems almost too
far hack for the memory of men now living.
The agreement provided that if the Co. failed
to carry out its contract the Government might
take possession of and finish and work the line ;
the net revenue was to be credited to the co.,
and it was to be debited with the cost of com-
pletion, and the bill for the amount owing by
the co. was to be presented regularly. If it
wasn’t paid, things w T ere to culminate, after a
long rest, by the absolute forfeiture of the con-
cession. The Midland co. w'as a gaudy fraud
from the beginning—a thing of champagne and
boodle and big c'gnrs and tremendous pomp
and glory and belllopper. It refused to put
its own money into its own speculation ; the
amount of capital actually raised was in-
finitesimal, and it was mostly spent in the
London office. The line was commenced with
money borrowed at high interest, and continued
with money borrowed at higher interest ; and,
as huge cracks began to yawn in the co.’s
credit, there came a time when it could hardly
borrow at any interest at all. Its liabilities
grew so ponderous before the railway was well
commenced—mainly by reason of the crowd of
expensive parasites living and drinking on the
scheme in London —that no possible earnings
could have made the Midland line pay. lhen
the doormats of the Ministerial oilioes were
worn thin by the big aggressive feet of the co.,
and the loud, aggressive voice of the co. blew
through every Ministerial keyhole demanding
concessions. It got permission to vary some
parts of the contract and to abandon others.
It collected its land-grant by instalments as it
went along, and howled for more land to be
granted in advance. It demanded large assist-
ance in cash and a guarantee of its debenture
interest, and wanted the earth generally.
Later on it stopped payment of its debenture
interest, and gave up even pretending to con-
struct the railway, and, when the State took
possession in terms of the contract, it demanded
huge damages and forced an expensive arbitra-
tion, in which it was most deservedly licked.
After that, it lay low for a wdiile and contented
itself with attempts to wreck Maoriland loans
that were put on the London market, and with
calling the Seddon Government a defaulter
and repudiator. The very latest phase of the
never-ending trouble is that the syndicat s
unpaid debenture-holders —partly on their own
account and partly sooled on by the syndicat
—demand that tlie Maoriland Treasury shall
pay the money which they lent to the awful co.
and which the co. blewed so royally in London,
and a stupendous law-suit is pending. And by
the time all these things are finished, and the
costs are paid, and the ownership of the frag-
ment of railway is definitely settled, and the
syndicat and the Government have ceased
dragging out each other’s hair over the land-
grant, and the old politicians who let the pro-
vince in for this lamentable transaction are
dead and their bones comfortably planted
beneath a five-ton monument, Maoriland ex-
pects to be full up of British syndicat. Leery
province which experiments with British
syndicat gets full up of it before long.
Another Syndicate.
It is a good sign of the awakening of a Demo-
cratic spirit in Westralia that the Government
inclines to kick against the monstrous monopoly
of the great Jarrahdale Timber Co. This awful
British steal first got its claw on the rich lands
of Westralia in 1874- In those days W.A. was
a Crown colony, and was regarded as fair
plunder for every Bull adventurer who chanced
that way. The Jarrahdale concern got a lease of
250,000 acres of rich timber-hind, close to Perth
and Bunbury, on the South-Western railway.
It uses this land for timber-growing purposes
only, and the rental is just £5O a year. It has,
among its still unexpired claims, the right to a
14 years’ renewal of its lease on payment of
£5OO, and another renewal of 14 years on pay-
ment of £3OOO. This carries its stupendous
monopoly up to 1930, and, including the rents
and the payments on renewal, the Jarrah-
dale grab will cost the grabbers an aver-
age of £ll2 a year, or about one-tenth of
a penny per acre per annum. The Jarrah-
dale co. blocks progress over 300 square
miles of the richest country in Westralia, right
at the back door of the capital, in a region
which, but for its presence there, would be the
most thickly peopled part of the province. It
is located there for another 32 years. Its divi-
dends go almost entirely to England, where the
boss vultures hang out, and where.the boodlers
are gathered together. It prohibits all settle-
ment within its lease on any terms, and keeps
the land a wilderness. It owns a private rail-
way through its domain, but it refuses the
public the right to travel thereon at any fare
whatsoever, though it is expressly provided in
its concession that its railway shall be open to
the public. The co., in its lofty contempt for
the sandgropers and the old sandgroping ways,
has simply and cheerfully damned the public
and damned the terms of its contract, and if
any ordinary individu il has business inside the
300 square miles which it owns at one-tenth of
a penny per acre per annum, and the co.
doesn’t " arrest him for trespass —well, he can
walk. The most it will do is not to charge him
a heavy rent for being found on its property.
There is no town on the Jarrahdale lease ; the
co. prohibits the laying out of towns in its
domain. This was good enough in the old,
slow days; but now Westralia is filling
up, and good land is wanted, and
£109,000 or more a year of golden revenue
is being lost to the State by the
co.’s big grab ; therefore Westralia begins to
kick. The one thing which is certain is that
the absurd bargain made by the foolish old
fathers of the land can’t last. It will probably
cost the province about a dozen times as much
to get rid of the co. as it ever received from it,
but that is the end of most syndicate trans-
actions. The average Bull co. persuades some
fool of a Government to let it have a decent-
sized principality at £5O a year, and pays £5OO
for ten years’ rent, and then has to get £50,000
to induce it to leave.
More about the New Guinea Steal.
The great Papuan land swindle is still alive,
and, judging by present appearances, it seems
an open question whether it won’t pull through,
despite the disunited opposition of this un-
federated land of fragments. There is no cen-
tral government which can speak with a loud
voice for all Australia, and the small falsetto of
even the biggest single province doesn’t amount
to Very much in such a case. Meanwhile, this
huge British swindle (like most schemes for the
introduction of foreign capital to “ develop the
resources of the country ”) keeps looking uglier
and more vicious the more closely it is in-
spected. The following propositions about sum
up the situation :
(1) Governor Hitt M'Grkoor has constantly and em-
phatically warned off Ausl ralian land-buyers on the
ground that large land-sales were “contrary to the
policy” ot the Papuan Administration. The present
deal stamps this statement as untrue. It is only land*
sales to Australians—the people who pay the cost of run-
ning British Papua—that are objected to. Land-sales to
British grabbers and Htealers are evidently all right.
(2) The Vink and Lowles British syndicate is to have
250,000 acres at 2s. an acre. It has also extensive powers
of additional purchase and enormous miscellaneous
powers. Till it gets its 250,000 acres nobody else has ft
right to buy. . ,
(3) The only way the Government can obtain land to
sell to the swindle-cat is by purchase from the natives. The
latter don’t want to sell. It has taken over 13 years to
buy 40,000 acres. At this rate it will take 66 more years
before the syndicate gets its full 250,000 acres. And till
it is satisfied the miserable Ausiralian who is paying for
the maintenance of the pro' nee can’t get a look in.
(4) The local nigger keeps asking higher and higher
prices for his land, and he will probably want ss. or more
per acre long before the contract is finished. Then the
Papuan Government will either have to buy land at ss.
an acre and sell it to the awful shindykitat 25., or else
give up buying land altogether. In the latter case, all
white settlement is blocked. Even if the Papuan Govern-
ment has to pay the nigger 20s. an acre for his land, and
sell it to the shindy kit for 25., it has to give the shindy kit
its full 250,000 a. before it can sell to anybody else. It
doesn’t matter even if other people were willing to give
30s. an acre instead of 2s.
(5) Somebody has to make up the loss, which will
probably be a big one, on the deal.
(6) The Papuan swindle co. is authorised to maintain
armed forces of its own. And the clumsy incubus who
runs the province actually forgot to specify the nation-
ality of this force, or of the co., or of the directors. The
grabbers may sell their rights to a Russian or German or
French co. if enough money is offered to induce them to
part, and the new grab may maintain an armed Russian
or German or French force in this British-Australian pro-
vince.
(7) The Queensland Governor and Ministry boss New
Guinea. They are Bill M'Gregor’s official superiors,
but it is specially provided by law thatN.S.W. and Vic-
toria are to be consulted as the other two biggest contri-
butors to the support of British Papua. And both these
provinces were illegally sold by the Queensland Govern-
ment, or some part of it, acting, presumably, in conjunc-
tion with M'Gregor, for the above'steal was put through
without either of them being informed. Therefore it is a
purely illegal steal, and N.S.W.’s “natural ally”—or
rather the ruling gang in Brisbane —seems to have acted
a pretty low-down part in the matter.
(8) The Papuan grab was hatched in England in the
Jubilee time. Some fearful job is always put up on
Australia when its Premiers go to England at a Jubilee
time. Lowles, Vine and Q. ex-Premier Nelson came
back together, and it is admitted that Nelson knew all
about it and cordially approved. Present Q. Premier
Byrnes also knew, and if he didn’t approve he at least
kept dark. Nelson promised to consult N.S.VV. and
Victoria, as provided by law r , and he didn’t. Byrnes lay
low and allowed N.S.VV’. and Victoria to be illegally kept
in the dark, even if he didn't actively assist in suppressing
the truth.
Australasia has liad a good experience of the
hig, benevolent Bull swindle-cat which brings
out British capital to “ develop the resources
of the country.” The Australian Agricultural
Co. in N.S.VV., the South Australian Co., the
Jarrahdale Co. in W.A. (with a lease of 300
square miles for over 50 years at one-tenth of a
penny per acre per annum), the Midland Rail-
way Co. in Maoriland, and the "Vine shindykit
in Papua, are fine examples of the blessings
which Brilish capital has squashed down on the
head of this miserable community. A law for
the summary execution of every British syndi-
cat which comes within 100 miles of any pi>rt
of Australasia would do a vast amount of good.
Some extracts from Jack Want’s speech in
N.S.W. Leg. Council, 21st. July, 189/ :
I think it only right I should say that, as one of the
recognised opponents—l might almost sav tiie arch-
destroying angel—of Federation, I feel deeply indebted
to the bon. and learned member . . . these wrong think-
ing enthusiasts who are trying to force Federation down
our throats. ... I, as well as others, had always pro-
nounced myself an anti-Federatioiii.-jt pure and simple
... 1, who oppose Federation. . . . lie will find a
Federation of those who, having been enemies before,
will now stand shoulder to shoulder and fight side by
side to brush away this interloper on our Constitution, to
destroy this fashionable vermin, and to leave this country
utilranunelled, unfettered, free and independent, and far
above all these fal-fals of Federation which, by its proper
name, ought to be called “ federation.” [Dr. Cullen (in
the course of an interruption) : “ It is perfectly clear now
that he has thrown down the challenge as an arch-
destroying angel.” J. Want : I never -said-1 was one "
(Hansard, page 2102). J. Want, a few minutes later,
vide same Hansard, page 2111: “/ bpgm by saying. I
was the arch-destroying angel.”] . . . The greatest in-
tellects of this colony' have always opposed measures
of this kind. ...It is a provincialist who ist speaking.
. . . Now we see it (Federation) in all its nastiness. . . .
If we could get a Federation in which we should have the
preponderating voice, in which we should have the con-
trol of the revenues and railways and tfie control of the
Parliaments of the, other colonies, I would be a Federa-
tionist. . . . instead of one flag it will be one folly ; in-
stead of one people it will be one pborhouse,; instead of
one destiny it will be one damnation for the whole of
this colony. . . . Is there anything in this question of
Federation more than a mere fed ? Is there .anything in
it but vain glory, bombast and trumpeting?
The Reid Government has just taken King
Cabbage-tree hack as a pledge of its sincerity
in the matter of Federation. And when it goes
to the country the people who vote for it will
also be voting for Jack Want, the gentleman who
made the above remarks. And Premier Reid
says he and Jack are now of one lhindj Whose
mind are they of ?
A threat is abroad that the gas of Justice is
to be cut off from Albury if juries there persist
in using their brains. N.S. W. Attorney-
General’s office has sent out a several-barreled
instrument of public disorder which Albury
juries will do well to reload and send hack.
One barrel complains that for a couple of years
past Albury jurors, serving at the Circuit
Courts there, have failed to find guilty in num-
bers of “clear” cases; another barrel directs
the 'Sheriff to revise the jury panel, taking
care to put on the “ intelligence ” of the dis-
trict ; and a third intimates that if more con-
victions don’t follow, the Circuit Court will be
withdrawn from Albury altogether. First,
what are “clear” cases? Probably, cases
“ clear ” to the prosecutors. But juries exist to
get between these and accused, and to see as
“ clear ” for the prisoner as for the prosecutor.
Second, what is the new “ intelligence ” to be ?
Is the panel to be made up of the straight-
backed, glossy class who believe that all men
in moleskins and corduroys are horn criminals?
Third, if the Attorney-General withdraws the
Circuit Court without reasons intelligible to the
whole community, Parliament will likely with-
draw the Attorney-General.
Commander Dawson, R.N., speaking, the
other day, before- the United Service- Institute,
stated tliat the British sailor gemis was-decreasing
at the rate of 1300 per annum. Also, Dawson
averred, there were employed, in the mercantile
marine 30,000 European foreigners, and 30,000
Asiatics. Further, this awlaeiciits Jsea-dog had
the temerity to assert it was high time-- there was
an investigation »jnto the causes of the 2000 sud-
den deaths per annum -at -sea—a demand that
doesn’t seem very unreasonable tc> an Australian
who has been watcjhjng recent local shipping
casual i ties.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
.. .. 4 of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ...
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during. 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W, DARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
Telrphonb 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD for
[ifelike an J Artistic Portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OYER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
5 E
MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston 8t„ Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“ White Heather.”
Her Majesty's “The French Maid."
Lyceum “Indiana.”
Royal Standard. Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nancy.”
Buou “ His Terrible Task.”
Or era House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Lemmone Conceit Co.
A drama containing some great possibilities
and a real steam-engine and circular saw is
“ Indiana,” at Sydney Lyceum. It is a rather
remarkable play, with streaks of tragic force in it,
and streaks of very depressing foolery and weak
irrelevance. A young candidate for the Congress
of that great land where the artificial egg hangs
out comes to Rising Sun with his beery political
mentor looking fur votes, and like any other young
candidate he falls in love with the wicked, lovely,
dark-eyed girl who is the mystery of the village.
The old German boot-repairer objects to the can-
didate because another man of the same name
stole his daughter 20years ago; and a casual work-
house girl drops into the story. Said girl admits
that she was fired out as being too bounceable and
not sufficiently humble for the workhouse. There
is a gap between acts just here, and when the gap
is over it transpires that the candidate has married
the very bad girl, and left her because she has
another husband living, and is about to marry the
workhouse girl, who has been tried and acquitted of
attempted murder in the interval; but can’t
wed her because she proves to be his own ille-
gitimate sister, and the daughter of the boot-
repairer’s lost child. Yet Act 111. finds him
married to her, it having transpired in another in-
terval that she isn’t his sister —only his cousin.
Also the candidate has suddenly discovered he
can’t prove that his first wife’s first husband is
alive and that his first marriage isn’t legal after
all; and he is in a cold perspiration about bigamy
—and all these shocks and weddings have hap-
pened so suddenly that the election is still pend-
ing. Certain uncouth, comic people named Haw-
kins, who had no previous connection with the
drama, cast a cloud over the candidate’s happi-
ness by coming to dinner in Act 111. and putting
their muddy boots on his dinner-table. He begins
to quarrel with his wife—any man would quarrel
with a wife who had comic friends that put their
boots on the dinner-table. And about this time
he tries to lock the first wife up in his mill for
safety, but her other lover—whom the second wife
had shot in the loose part of the back of the pants
—ties him up under the circular-saw, and while
his second wife is -rescuing him the first wife
escapes and harangues the electors so successfully
that he only gets five votes altogether.
• • » *
Afte* this the candidate packs nis various
nightmares in a carpet-bag, and goes wandering
over the face of the globe for three years looking
for his wife’s first husband, so that he can prove
that he himself was never legally married to her
but is lawfully wedded to his second wife. And
when he comes back in despair he finds another
unaccountable funny man crying for whisky on
his premises, and identifies him as the missing
husband. The chief objections to “ Indiana,” are
that it is no use for the candidate to find out that
the workhouse girl is his sister when she isn’t;
and that the girl’s coarse friends who come in and
put their feet on the table turn what was a very
fine drama into stupid burlesque. For two acts
“Indiana,” is far above the average; then the
cheap boorishness of the funny people named
Hawkins reduces it to the ordinary level. The
very bad girl of Miss Bensusan is one of the best
things that clever actress has done up to date.
She is a tempestuous savage with bright eyes and
vivid lips and vivid clothes —a mixture of the
tomboy and the bull-ant; and, regarded as
a bright, original, glittering Sin, she is superb.
Harry Diver makes a strong, manly hero ; and
Miss Watts-Phillips, as the good, plain, little girl
whom the candidate marries after he has abjured
his painted Sin, struggles coinmendably with a
rather hard part, and shows a good deal of girl
through a large tear in her frock. The rest of the
show, from an acting point of view, consists of
Frank Hareourt with the glare of countless cock-
tails in his nose. The Hawkins family requires
prompt extirpation. Its comedy is wearisome,
and its remarks about how it doesn’t wash itself,
and about its inflamed corn, and about the. piece
which the dog bit out of the least respectable part
of it, require to be put down by cannon. “ In-
diana ” never gets the show it deserves after the
Hawkins family comes into it and starts to be
amusing by putting its cowhide boots on the table.
** * *
By tbe time this appears in print,
Napoleon will have ceased tottering on his throne
at Her Majesty’s, and the Julius Knight co. will
be half-way through a hasty spell of the
“ Prisoner of Zenda,” and the “French Maid”
will be just about due. Bert Gilbert and Miss
.Ada Reeve make their last re-appearance on
Saturday. The Firm will probably be through
with this clearing sale of remnants in another
week, and-will then break out in a perfectly new
blaze of glory. At time of writing, however, the
Napoleonic play supplied enough blaze for all
reasonable purposes, and the roar of Waterloo
was still disturbing the peaceful drinkers in all the
public-houses for half-a-mile around.
*# # *
“White Heather,” a drama which is quite
new to Australia, starts business at Sydney Royal
on Saturday. Therefore, the guillotine will thirst
no more for Baker’s neck after this week, and the
red headed man will cease from troubling, and
Miss Gill, who is shaken to death on the sandy
coast of Algeria, will be at rest. The Bulletin
never knew any lady to be shaken more cordially
on the .coast of Algeria, or anywhere else, than
Miss Gill has been in Bland Holt’s late drama,
but it devoutly trusts that she is none the worse.
** * *
The Peggy Pryde boom at Sydney Tivoli
gathers weight every night, and by this time
three-fourths of the local push would sacrifice its
girl cheerfully—the girl with the red hat and the
large beast in it, and the high shoes, and the
cheap ring, and the speckled apple which she eats
between the acts —for one smile from the daughter
of the old-time “ Vital Spark.” As an evidence
of Miss Pryde’s popularity, there was a small
trouble in the gallery of another theatre one night
last week ; and, in the course of it, a gentleman,
who claimed that Peggy was the best variety-lady
who ever visited Australia, seriously bit another
gentleman who had doubts upon the subject. As
a real proof of popularity, this episode goes a long
way. George Beauchamp, the Terry Sisters, the
ever-popular Winton and George Woods assist to
keep the boom„nfroving, and to preserve the lustre
of Harry Rickards’ affluent top-hat unspotted
from the world.
#* * *
The “Powerful Organisation,” at Sydney
Royal Standard, has at last finished with “ Fun
on the Bristol,” and all that is left of that injured
combatant has retired into a corner to recuperate.
At latest advices the co. was heaping up a drama
called “A Cruel Wrong.” The writer, after a
long experience of melodrama, assumes that ho
wouldn’t marry the girl, and she put on a long,
dun-colored cloak, and took her shrieking infant
under her arm, and went forth to drop the large,
round tear of woe in the ash-box late at night. If
that wasn’t the exact nature of the wrong then
the assumption is that the will was stolen so that
the heroine and her husband suffered great priva-
tion until the fifth act, when the funny man pro-
duced the document from inside his dog-skin cap.
“Hands Across the Sea ” is the next production
at the Standard, where the huge cordial paw of
British loyalty will probably find itself consider-
ably crowded on the very small stage.
** * *
“Alcestis,” adapted to modern endurance
by Prof. Marshall Hall and Dr. Deeper, the War-
den of Trinity College, was staged at Melb. Town
Hall last week for one consecutive night only. A
revival of this unique experiment is promised for
next Easter. Ten months interval is a long time
from a financial point of view, seeing that the
receipts (about ,£450) from the first performance
didn’t cover the expenditure on scenery, dresses
and fixings ; but from a Greek artistic standpoint
the period of waiting for some more “ Alces-
tis ” seems not too long. Dramatic action in
ancient Athens was a slow and stately matter. It
moved at the rate of about one yard per minute,
and its charm lay in a classical determination not
to be rushed. In the diffusion of restful senti-
ment the hybrid musical spectacle at the Melb.
Town Hall scored a complete success. It breathed
the spirit of an age when civilisation cultivated
dignity as a fine art, and the first duty of man
was to strike an attitude.
* * * •
The “ Alcestis ” which Euripides gave to a
tired world in 438 b.c. was brought somewhat up
to date. Marshall Hall had operaticised the
tragedy, and it was acted on an early Grecian
stage to a flowing accompaniment of rich music,
interpreted by a full orchestra of 80 Liedertafel
choristers, whose singing from the sides was sup-
posed to be the outcries of 13 silent posturers repre-
senting a Greek chorus. The combined effect of
music, stage picture, orchestral lighting, and
measured movement in the play was very fine at
times. The present paragrapher, quoting from
Pinero, would “ wish to speak of great things with
gratitude.” Being persuaded that “Alcestis”
was rather a great thing, he is not disposed to
ask whether the performers spoke good Greek, or
otherwise. He knows little about old Athenian
language, or pronunciation, but he will swear
that the display filled him with a strange desire
to clothe himself in a sheet and stretch forth his
arms towards Marshall Hall, and the learned
Leeper, and architect Annear, who built the
solemn scene, and cry “ Hail to you 1 ” after the
manner of Mrs. Brough in “ Niobe.”
• » • *
Yet the fact that a work by Euripides
could be produced last week in an attractive form
doesn't prove its alleged worth. Old Greek
dramatists were allowed any amount of scope for
tragic narrative, and they made very little use of
their opportunities. “ Alcestis,” for instance,
is the story of a Queen who gave her life to save
her husband’s. The Fates had doomed King
Admetus to die unless he could find a respectable
substitute. His aged father refused to peg-out to
oblige his offspring, neither would any of his
uncles, cousins or aunts undertake the sacrifice.
So his wife, Alcestis, having taken a tearful leave
of the family, and the best bedroom furniture,
died in the kindest manner possible. Death is a
leading character in the plot, likewise Hercules.
Hercules, out of friendship for King Admetus,
who allowed him to get drunk in the royal palace,
engages in a Graeco-Roman wrestle with Death
for the body of Alcestis, and puts the “hammer-
lock ” on his adversary, and wins the lady back to
her husband. This crude work of imagination is
famous merely because it happens to be a relic of an
early literature, and the small minority of pedants
conversant with its dead language are always con-
spiring to over-rate the importance of their
knowledge thereof. Give the modern Pinero,
Sydney Grundy, or even plain Henry Arthur
Jones the license that Euripides enjoyed; give
them permission to introduce such stage charac-
ters as Death, Hercules, Envy, Hatred, the Sun,
the Moon, and the Milky Way into a tragedy’
together with a guarantee that the plot will be
taken seriously, and how would “Alcestis” com-
pare with their efforts ? Euripides had the luck
to be born 8.C., whereas Pinero and co. live in
telephonic times.
Several of the Trinity College students
played their parts gracefully. D. J. Bevan made
a picturesque King, whilst Miss Towl, a thought-
ful-looking lady, sang her dying remarks in a
strong soprano voice, and was duly intense. Miss
Lambert shaped well as a chief waiting-woman
who conies down the steps of the Palace and talks
vigorously to the chorus ; likewise, C. F. Webster
and W. G. a’Beckett left a good impression. It
is easier, no doubt, for intelligent male ama-
teurs to get through in Greek costume, with
the assistance of a long stick, than to appear
natural on the stage in sac suits. When in doubt
re the disposal of their arms they hang on to the
long stick and look classically composed. The
god Apollo was an unheroic libel on Greek sculp-
ture, and Hercules ought to have been half a foot
taller, anyhow. But as a set-off to these weak
suggestions of mythical items the management
could point to a spirited figure of Death by G. M.
Long. Death amounted to a caution. His painted
face, black robes and bearing were all right. He
walked more eerily than any professional Ghost in
any “ Hamlet,” and his appearance at the head
of the funeral procession was a supernatural suc-
cess. Nature must have intended him for an
undertaker. “Alcestis” was cut up into three
acts. Said Marshall Hall in a Proem printed on
the programme : “ The introduction of pauses be-
tween scenes—which occurred at the decadent
period of Greek Art—and which in modern days is
considered essential—must be regarded as an indis-
pensable evil, a sop offered to British barbarism.”
But there was no need to offer barbarism such big
doses of sop. Marshall Hall took about 20
minutes for each of his two decadent periods.
Presumably he went downstairs to suck refresh-
ment through a narrow straw.
** * *
John Lemmone’s new concert co. disclosed
its virtues at Melb. Town Hall, last Saturday,
and a crowded audience found it a select as-
sortment of artists. Madame Alva, the prima-
donna, is a tall and handsome vision, her voice
being tall and handsome to match. A mezzo-
soprano organ more suited for the leading part in
“II Trovatore” than for concert singing, it
comes as a surprise nowadays, and will re-
mind many people of the Ciuti and Tagalavia
whom Sitnonsen imported with his first Italian
opera co. a dozen years back. Samuel Masters,
the tenor of the co. (there is no baritone
with them), is also capable of making the
welkin ring with his top note on occasion. His
strong, sweet tones may lack something ol the
mellowness and “ breadth ” of Newbury’s popular
tenor, but he sings admirably ; though, as a rule,
the woids get clipped by his teeth ere he lets them
go. The combined ages of Madame Alva and
Mr. Masters can’t be much more than the indivi-
dual age of some visiting singers, and their throats
seem to have taken kindly to the new climate.
Lemmone and his welcome flute took a very smalj
part in Saturday’s proceedings. A very large
portion of the success fell to Miss Adela Verne, a
young pianist who may be expected to repeat
the Hambourg sensation. Miss Verne, in a
’Murkan way of speaking, is a “daisy” at
the box of music. She travels to and from
business in a cheery, unconventional manner,
and is a charming performer not less than
a wonderful executant. She started her Austra-
lian career with a Fugue (Bach-Liszt), confirmed
everybody’s good opinion of her by playing a
Be rceuse and Polonaise (Chopin) to perfection,
and finally she “ knocked ” the multitude into en-
thusiasm w th a Concerto (Saint-Saens), her sister
taking the orchestral part on a second piano. A
pair of sturdy arms and exceptional wrists enable
the damsel to put a man’s force into her attack.
She is especially clever with her left, and she has
her own particular method of slipping in her
right, but when she cares to tease the keys she’s a
true girl. So, taking one consideration with
another, the new concert company looks likely to
flourish. Only four concerts in.the first Melbourne
season—to-night (Thursday) and Saturday finish-
ing the series.
** * *
Nothing fresh at the Melbourne theatres
this week. “The Little Minister ”is leaving the
Princess’s on Friday, and on Saturday the double
bi lb “ Sweet Nancy ” and “A Bit of Old Chel-
sea,” will be set up for the last six nights of the
Pattie Browne season. After which Temple and
Moulton’s musical comedy, “The American
Girl.”
** * *
Darkness prevails at the Royal. Tither-
adge farewelled there last Saturday, when in the
snow-white wig of Wilfred Denver he stated that
he was going to the World’s Market with his wares
and would probably come back, sooner or later, to
the land where he has made his home, friends,
and reputation for 15 years. Tith.’s speech was an
effective finishing-touch to the Holloway season,
which had started in a quiet sort of way at Xmas
and gone on prospering ever since. The Royal
re-opens on July 9 under Rickards’ management,
with Cartwright and co. in “The Middleman.”
#* * #
The Bijou was to be resumed by Myra
Kemble on Monday last for a few more perform-
ances of “The Alhambra Girl,” public interest in
that breezy tale of mother-in-law not having been
exhausted when the M.K. co. gave place to the
“Perichole” amateurs. On Saturday they will
take some new forces into the business, and tackle
a weighty comedy-drama, “ His Terrible Task.”
** * *
John Coleman, and the stranger who dances
in top-boots, are this week’s new goods at the
Opera House. Also, the Poluski Bros, remain as
good as new, and the Tiller Quartetesses have
grown dearer than ever, owing to their approach-
ing disappearance. These are the last nights of
their four bright smiles and winsome whirls.
Biondi is coming. The exact date of Biondi is
not yet announced, but it will happen shortly, and
when it does happen Melbourne will get a thrill.
** * *
Harry Coghill’s show at the Gaiety is ring-
ing weekly changes on a number of old favorites,
and the little hall gets a full load of humanity on
Saturday. Another hall, St. George’s, will open
(July 2nd) with an opera company at less than
popular prices, and “Maritana” will test the
general feeling of the community re this new in-
dustry.
At Poverty Point.
m It seems that Bob Love’s alleged statement re the circus
tiger and the Chinaman are not quite according to facts.
The Chow, in the first place, was told to clean out the
animal's cage with a broom pushed between the bars,
instead of which he went into Ihecaire and unconcernedly
put things straight. Love, on hearing that the heathen
had no fear, decided to give him the run of the cage,
with a view to his “ working the tiger,” and appearing
]t 'sently as a Great Mongolian ’Lamer. But next time
]• Chow went in with liis broom he carelessly knocked
it against the tiger’s leg and the beast threatened an
attack. Whereupon the almond-eyed intruder smacked
him on the side of the head, saying “ Wlioffor?” and the
tiger slunk away dismayed.
The frequent presence of Miss Florence Schmidt at
towns visited by Premier Byrnes during his political pil-
grimage in N.Q. tended so much to add a lustre to the
proceedings that no one wondered to find the sweet
singer invited to take a hand at the tightening of the
silken bonds on the occasion of the great Warwick gift
shivoo. In between the bursts of oratory Miss Schmidt
gave the banqueters “The Minstrel Boy” and “Home,
Sweet Home.” Parliament does not open till July 22,
and unfortunately Miss Schmidt farewelled in Brisbane
29th June, so that her services cannot be obtained for the
opening of Parliament. It is a pity. The first night of
the political show would be looked forward to with much
more interest if the recital of the weary opening speech
could be interspersed with a little music.
“If The Bulletin were a sassiety paper I would say,”
writes our London correspondent, “ that Mr. George
Darrell, actor-aulhor-manag'er, is taking the waters —and
their concomitants—at Romano’s in the Strand regularly,
moderately and medicinally daily. As it is not, I shall
merely mention that the ‘ Sunny South ’ with the ‘only
George ’ will scorch up South London in August. One
Cohen—lsaac, by the way, of the Pavilion Theatre, the
East End Drury Lane—wanted the piece for immediate
production by a stock co. ‘ Not without G.D.,’ came the
reply ; ‘no Darrell, no “ Sunny South.” ’ So the South
didn t go East.”
“ Marie Elster (who is married to a brother of the
Larnach who won the Derby) is singing with Chevalier’s
co. at St. James’s Hall,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent. “ The coster vocalist’s exclusion from
London by agreement with agents and managers has now
expired, and pending the procuration of a theatre he is
‘ Old Dutch ’-ing and ‘ Wot Cher ’-ing it until he gets one
and ‘ Knocks ’em in the old Kent road’ silly anain. But a
second success for the great Albert is very doubtful, and
I’m afraid he is now labelled a ‘ back number.’ ”
The grey charger which so ably supports Julius
Napoleon Knight Bonaparte in “ A Royal Divorce ” and
poses so effectively that many people doubt its being real,
has a long professional career in standing parts. When
not extra-professionally engaged she is a good draw in a
Sydney cab, and studied and acquired the art of standing
on the rank by Sydney poor-house. It is claimed that
she is the oldest cab-horse in active work in Sydney, also
the most docile and intelligent.
“ Scribe ” : A Melb. daily says Miss Eloise Juno imitates
the Scotch dialect well, in the “ Little Minister.” Same
paper said, many years ago, that her dialect was not good
in the “Bonnie Fishwife ” ! A junior managed to edge
that in. The blood of everybody in the office ran cold.
He became a Distinguished Pressman.
“ T.’’ : How those auld sayings appeal to the Scots 1
Other night when Lely sang “Auld Lang Syne ” an old
fellow in the gallery stood with doffed hat and an expres-
sion of patriotic exultation upon his face that made me
wish I was an artist —or, better still, the Scot of
memories himself.
Wallace Brownlow, who seems to find more profit in
hotelkeeping than in personating gay Henry of Navarre,
is the vocal idol of Weslralians. If any singer from the
East, or elsewhere, ventures along, some prosperous
mining-man is certain to back Wallace B. to sing the
head off the newcomer, whether tenor, bass, or baritone.
And the local people seem to regard Brownlow’s refusals
as the acme of foolishness.
“T.D.” : To give entertainments on the Lely system
would mean speedy ruination if one employed his natural
voice in the lecture portion. Lely talks falsetto, as oper-
atic tenors generally do. But even that trick must have
its evil effects upon the singing production, ’’alk or sing
—man cannot serve two masters.
George Beauchamp, of the<London ’alls, had to appear
at Sydney Tivoli an hour or two after arrival, and
knocked the gods with a broad item. But the newcomer
did not understand essential differences between this
country and Cockneydom, and an appeal that the ladies
should sing the refrain by themselves resulted in a con-
vincing silence. The Australienne doesn’t mind listening,
but—oh dear, no—she wouldn’t repeat the rorty thing
for worlds.
Add to the list of doctors who have taken to the stage,
Frank MaeVioars, who plays the part of chief elder in
“The Little Minister”at Melb. Princess. Mac was for
some years house-surgeon at St. George’s Hospital, Lon-
don, but abandoned medicine for mumming.
The personage who scribbles musical criticism in
Melbourne Age (writes a Bulletin correspondent) alleges
that Marshall Hall plagiarised the opening of Beethoven’s
Funeral March (in the Eroica Symphony) in his “ Alcestis”
music. The silly man had not sense enough to under-
stand that the very obvious suggestion was deliberate,
and intended to heighten the sombre effect. Wagner
“ plagiarises ” a German folk song in Die Meistersiriger,
Mendelssohn “ plagiarises ” in the same way in the
Scottish symphony, and Beethoven himself, in the Eroica,
“plagiarised” old melodies and worked upon them.
This sort of “plagiarism” is the compliment an artist
pays to ihe greatness of his predecessors and the intelli-
gent imagination of his audience ; but little criticaster
persons think they discover theft, or lack of originality in
it. Perhaps a member of the orchestra ought to be set
apart to chalk quotation-marks on a blackboard when
such passages are played.
A. Willard was the original Spider in “Silver King,”
and now his namesake has been playing the part at
Melb. Royal. But where there’s a Willard there isn’t
always the same way.
A Silver-Salver Ballet is expected to make a big hit in
the coming “American Girl’’show. The salvers, imported
from ’Ome, are tuned to certain notes, and a pretty
musical effect is got by the dancers clashing them.
Unmistakeable evidence that W. and M. have scored a
solid London success with “ The Belle of New York ” at
the Shaftesbury is found in the fact of Cissie Loftus
(at the Alhambra) mimicking various members of the
“ Belle” company.
“ For twelve long, weary years I’ve not been to a Sunday-
school picnic.”— Old prisoner, in “ La Perichole.”
(Continued on page 28.)


Gilfillan and M‘Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
ZOLLIMER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining:, Water Supplies,
Ventilating:, Sluicing:, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
SIR JOHN
Power’s Whiskey.
A. E. 60LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. & Attwood., Solo Proprietors
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MBRGHAITTS,
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining' Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
... 98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mklbournk ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Curriest., Adel. ; QueeTV-st., Brisk.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
They do things differently in the United States.
When the 3 per cent, war loan of £120,000,000 was issued
lately, it was cut into bonds of t's and upwards, so as to
reach the very small capitalists of the community, and
applications for bonds were received at every post-office
in the States. Also, these securities were exempt from
all State, municipal, and local taxation whatever. That
is a strong reason why the securities will always have a
tendency to remain in’ the republic. Taken to any other
country they become at once subject to that country s
income and property taxes, therefore they will depre-
ciate in value ; the place where they are exempt from tax
is the one where their value must be highest. They do
things a lot otherwise in Australia. Here the State
securities that are held locally have income-tax charged
on the interest, while those that are held abroad are
exempt. It is the blessed absentee thfit Australia yearns
after ; the mere local Australian doesn’t count. There is
certainly a 1 t to be said for the Yankee idea of exempt-
ing loja ,y held State securities from all taxation. Any-
thing that encourages Australia to be its own creditor,
and tends to reduce the lien that Bull has on its body and
soul, has advantages about it.
» » * •
Under Sunday Brunker’s promised N.S.W.
Friendly Societies Bill it is stated that “ provision is made
for the appointment of a responsible person as inspector
and examiner of the accounts of the various societies.”
In other words, there is to be a State audit of friendly
societies’ accounts. Why not of life-insurance accounts
also ?
* * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania, a respectable
little concern which never boomed much (its biggest div.
was 8 per cent.), or suspended, or reconstructed, or did
anything very unusual, reports a profit for the half-year
ended 31st May of £4129. This is equal to about £4 14s.
Bd. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds, which
is above the usual average of bank earnings nowadays.
The profits of this steadv-going little concern for the last
few years have been as follows :
30th Nov., 1892 .. £5382 30th Nov., 1895 .. £4136
31st May, 1893 .. 4776 31st May, 1896 .. 4299
30th Nov., 1893 .. 4701 30th Nov., 1896 .. 3534
31st Mav, 1894 .. 4618 31st May, 1897 .. 4012
30th Nov., 1894 .. 4695 30th Nov., 1597 .. 4127
31st May, 1895 .. 3989 31st May, 1898 .. 4129
These figures look as if the National of Tas-
mania had got round the rather bad corner which it
struck at the end of ’96. The usual 5 per cent. div. and
income-tax absorb £3991, leaving £l3B to the good. The
business shows an increase all round, and it is con-
siderably larger than it was in ’93, which is con-
trary to the usual experience of Australian banks.
The cash reserve (tT16,074) equals 28 per cent,
of all liabilities to the public ; this is distinctly above the
average, and the National of Tasmania looks a very sound
institution all round. Its weakest point is the reserve-
fund, which only amounts to £22,500 ; and the profit-and-
loss balance of £lB7O makes a total accumulation of
£24,370 as the result of a blameless existence of 13 years.
In ’93 the reserve stood as high as 37,500, but £15,000
was written-off to cover losses. Since then the National,
through paying 6 per cent, when it should only have paid
5, or 5 per cent, when the case only justified 4, has cut
things so fine that it has only accumulated £3O0 —which
isn’t much to show for four years, and is an exceedingly
poor attempt to repair the big hole in the fund and to
provide against future possibilities. Also, the humble
£22,500 isn’t separately invested in State securities, but is
buried in the general business, where reserves are very
hard to find when wanted.
• • • *
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department still keeps, in point of size, a good second
place (next to the A.M.P. Society) among Australasian
life offices. Its business grows steadily in good times and
bad, and, considering that it is restricted to one small
province with a population of some 700,000, whereas its
rivals spread over all the Seven Provinces, and some of
them over all the world as well, the steady growth is
remarkable. Some figures of the M.L. Government Insur-
ance Department are as follows :
Premiums. Interest. Total Income.
1891 .. £234,496 £96,399 £330,895
1892 .. 241,965 100,651 342,616
1893 .. 253,574 108,109 361.653
1894 .. 254,204 115.274 369,478
1895 .. 266,032 119,980 386,012
1896 .. 270,720 124,265 394,985
1897 .. 269,688 128,433 398,121
The Maoriland Govt. Department is thus the
only one among the six large life assurance offices of Aus-
tralasia which can claim that its interest earnings and
its total income have both grown steadily larger every
year for the last seven years. Last year it added £133,764
to its funds, making them £2,725,106. The interest
earned on its invested funds during the year was £4
16s. 7d. per cent., which is a shade above the average for
the Australasian life societies. The expenses absorbed
£l4 17s. 2d. per cent, of the total income, a smaller pro-
portion than any other Australasian office, the A.M.P.
Society only excepted. The assets, too, look remarkably
sound. The M.L. Government Department has a far
larger proportion of its assets in State securities than
any other office of the Seven Provinces, and these
are the only securities (barring loans on the surrender
value of policies) which are practically free from risk of
depreciation. The item, “ Properties acquired by fore-
closure ” represents only £24,867, which is a remarkably
small item against £933,000 worth of mortgages, and
says a great deal for the good condition of the securities,
arid overdue interest is only £482. Altogether the
Department shows the best record among the life-assur-
ance institutions of Australasia.
It would be interesting to know if there is any
valid reason why this institution should not extend its
business at least as far as Sydney and Melbourne. At
present its operations are confined lo one small province,
and it has to compete on its own narrow ground with a
number of Australian and other private institutions which
have the whole world to do business in. Even under
these disabilities—disabilities from which no other office
suffers—it has put up a remarkable record, but the pre-
sent writer can see no reason why it shouldn’t spread
itself a little further. The M.L. Department is the only
office which is both State-audited and guaranteed by the
State, and in addition to these two advantages, which
make it vastly more reliable than the very best privately-
managed institution ever can be, itcharges lowerpremiuins
than the great multitude of private offices. And, if the
slow-going Governments of Australia won’t extend the
advantage of State-guaranteed insurance to their pro-
vinces, an extension of the M.L. Department to Australia
would be a blessing of no small dimensions.
• * * *
The Scottish Metropolitan Life Assurance Co.
publishes a balance-sheet, particulars of which appear in
the Insurance and Banking Record. This little pro-
prietary concern came all the way from Scotland, for
some reason not fully explained, to do business in Aus-
tralia, but it is so very small and weak that it is a wonder
it didn’t die and get thrown overboard on the voyage.
The whole income of the life department for 1897 was
£77,083, and of this £29,172 was added to the funds, mak-
ing them £333,001. The Scottish Metropolitan is 22 years
old, so its progress isn’t very rapid. Expenses in the life
department, including dividend to shareholders, were
over 17 per cent, of the total income—a much heavier
expense rate than that of either the A.M.P. or Maoriland
Government Department. The accident department
had an income of £29,569, and saved £1157
of it, and at the end of the year the whole
accident insurance fund was only £5 t(i4. Com-
pared to a concern like the N.Z. Accident Co., with
its £38,000 of reserves, this looks like a very small finan-
cial fly-speck on the far horizon. The Scottish Metro-
politan, at its last three investigations—in 1885, 1888 and
1893 —was apparently unable to declare any bonus. Its
surplus in 1885 was £4030. In 1888, apparently by de-
claring no bonus, it managed to increase this little margin
to £4196. In 1893, its surplus had dropped to £2342, so,
seemingly, the life-assurance business during the inter-
vening five years was an actual loss. And to produce
even these very humble results it had to estimate future
interest on its invested funds at 4 per cent.—a rate that is
beginning to be regarded as too high in Australia, and is
much too high in Britain. The Record announces
that it is now proposed to issue 10,000 new £5
shares at a premium of £2 10s., and, if the
transaction conies off, this will leave a profit of £25,000.
Part of this, or possibly all of it, is to be put into the life
assurance fund—presumably so as to enable the co. to re-
duce its estimated future interest to 3.1 per cent., or some
other reasonable figure. The Bulletin has no idea how
this transaction is getting on, but it seems a pretty big
contract to get £7 10s. for £5 shares in a co. which only
yields 6 per cent., and which, with so much more capital
to pay dividends on, probably won’t pay 6 per cent, in the
future. And, if the life assurance fund can’t stand on its
own feet without getting assistance in the shape of a big
contribution from shareholders, it is very bad for the
fund. The Scottish Metropolitan’s next investigation is
due at the end of the present year, and the above financial
device, coming just now, vaguely suggests that it is con-
sidered necessary to do something rather decided before
then. Altogether, there are no very cheering features
about the Scottish Metropolitan, which looks a weak con-
cern of no particular promise.
The Liverpool and London and Globe, a large
English co. which does life business in Australia, and over
most of the world as well, publishes a prosperous-looking
balance-sheet. The premium-income for 1897 was 6242,140,
and interest on investments yielded £140,050, making a
total income of £382,220. The life-insurance fund, at the
end of the year, was £3,719,260, and the annuity fund was
£1,470,985. The interest realised on the funds during the
year was £3 16s. 7d. per cent., which is a reasonably good
figure as things go in Britain, especially considering that
the Liverpool and London and Globe has only a very
small proportion of its funds in mortgages, and invests
mostly in safe but low-interest-bearing liquid securities.
A particularly good feature is that expenses are kept down
to about £9 ss. 4d. per cent, of the total income, which is
very close to the A.M.P.’s figure of £8 15s. per cent., and
much below the record of any other Australian office.
* * * *
A gloom has been cast on Melb. lawyerdom.
Two Supreme Court Judges have recently said straight
out that they, at least, will have no monkeying in con-
nection with opposition to wills. It has been the fashion
to lodge a caveat against probate on the flimsiest of
grounds, work up a lengthy case, and get the costs of
both sides paid out of the estate. Justice a’Becket lately
came down heavily on certain obstructionists, and the
other day Justice Williams went one better : “ In any
cases I have to try, and where I find just and equitable
wills unnecessarily opposed, I will make the unsuccessful
party pay the costs of both sides, as I have no hesitation
in doing in this one. It is quite time the frittering away
of these small estates was put a stop to.”
• * * »
Now’s the time —when a solid English demand
for Australian oranges is beginning to make itself felt—
for the exercise of that stringent care in selection and
packing without which a really good thing will be knocked
on the head. Present season’s demand from N.S.W. is
expected to total 30,000 cases ! S. A. and Westralia, which
grow splendid oranges, should have a small pull over
N.S.W. in the orange-export trade by reason of their closer
proximity to Europe. ,
“ Texas ” : Re no Chinese making money out of
tobacco in Australia. On this river (the Dumaresq, Q.)
there are hundreds of them. Not only do they make
money themselves, but they make what you might call
mean whites rich also. We have several who drive their
buggies here and never do a day’s work —they let the
Chink do it for them. Set Chinamen to grow, say, 10
acres of tobacco for you and give you from one-fifth to one-
third according to circumstances, and you can sit back and
smile from ear to ear. Tobacco sold here this season up
to 7£d. per lb., and it is a poor crop that will not run half
a ton to acre. I have seen a ton per acre. The Chow has
almost completely monopolised the tobacco business here.
The chairman of the S. A. Fire Brigades Board
(Mr. T. H. Smeaton) has publicly announced himself in
favor of compulsory fire insurance under Govt, auspices.
There is a special significance in this fact because he is the
Govt, nominee on the Board.
* * » *
The Kingston Govt.’s proposed establishment of
a State fire-insurance department—the Bill is now being
introduced—is welcomed by Adelaide merchants, who
complain that since the death of the S. A. Insurance Co.—
the last of the local co’s—foreign institutions have com-
bined to greatly increase rates.
A money-lender who provided the powder to
enable a speculative litigant to sue an Australian news-
paper for damages for alleged libel wept a year’s grime off
his face when the jurv returned a verdict for defend-
ant. “ The first time,” he sobbed, “ I do dot risky pizness,
but no more, no more, any times.”
• * * *
“ Rap.” : That the Louis-Napoleonic-looking
David Henry’s funeral-procession last Sunday contained
every hook-nosed “ financier” in Melb. is most probably
due to the fact that nine-tenths of them wanted to make
sure that David had been buried beyond fear of resurrection.
For years past he has been a thorn in the sides of the
lenders, who yearn for the young and inexperienced bor-
rowers “ mit eggspegdations ” who desire to go the pace
at any cost. That advertising was the keystone of his
success he freely acknowledged. What traveller is not
acquainted with the pictorial ads. on the Melb. railway-
stations ? Of the many, perhaps “ The Blind Beggar ” is
about the most familiar and the most appropriate for
those who took advantage of his “ money-to-lend ” invi-
tations.
That the ex-church deacon who backed and pro-
fited by Henry in his early days was absent, is not sur-
prising ; but there are scores of Melb. men vyho believe
that David often spoke truly when, in pressing for his
usury, he pleaded that he would willingly let them off
more easily but that the money wasn’t his, and that, his
principal insisted on the full pound of flesh. St. Kilda
will miss the two-horsed covered landau which every Sun-
day was tooled to the Bluff by a gold-laoed coachman’
and which invariably returned via St. Kilda Esplanade in
the nick of time to see the scores of his well-dressed bor-
rowers taking an airing after church.
An idiosyncrasy of Henry’s was his invariable
practice of getting a receipt for cash, and a signature on
the back of his cheque as well, for any moneys paid, and
then to take the cheque back and give casli for it. In
many quarters there is a “ funk,” lest tire executors
should claim on both receipt for cash and receipt on
cheque. Anyhow, if his “business” happens to be
wound-up, there will be trouble amongst those who have
for years past simply “ renewed.” In his favor, it may
be said that he worked his way up from a sailor,
that he was once the best amateur swimmer in Melb.,
saved many lives from drowning, and never forgot a favor.
His estate, it is said, will probably be worth £BO,OOO.
« * * •
There seems to have been very slight solid
foundation for the recent little sprint in the silver (metal)
market. The U.S. Senate proposed to coin four million
dollars of silver monthly, taking the £2,400,000 profit for
war purposes. But the Representatives promptly threw
the scheme out; and on this occasion the western Silver-
ites don’t seem to have had nerve enough to fight for the
absurdity. Also, at about the same time, it was an-
nounced that the India Office hadn’t done anything
further in connection with the suggested introduction of
a gold standard to India. Before that announcement
was made, the British Bimetallic League had issued a
circular, addressed to “ the producers of Australia,” urg-
ing that, as a further fall in the prices of commodities
might be expected to result from the extension of a gold
currency to India’s millions, and as Australian producers
are interested in maintaining such prices, colonial Govts,
should be moved to protest against any change in the
currency of India. The India Council has intimated that
it proposes to introduce gold simply because it despairs of
the nations again setting up silver into a position of
stability.
» * * *
The Australian Metal Co., a mostly-German
concern which has purchased the 100,000 tons of zinc
“tailings” from B.H. Block 10, has been experimenting
with a view to the local treatment of the material ; and
the prospect has been good enough to justify the co. in
acquiring a plant-site handy to the mines.
* * » *
Adelaide shareholders begin to kick at the mis-
management of the B.H. Junction. But it would have
been more to the purpose had they kicked when the
directors, on their approval, and in order to sustain the
divs., tore out the rich ores at a rate which did not per-
mit adequate timbering and staying to be done.
* * * *
An innocent Australian-in-London suggests
that N.S. W. Govt, should take steps to protect British
capitalists from being swindled in connection with mining
flotations. Imagine Minister Sydney Smith applying his
mighty intellect to the problem of how to protect British
capitalists from —themselves 1
* * * *
The luck of mining ! The speculator whose lot
of 10,000 Lake George shares was forced on the market
the other day, was the holder of a large parcel of Mt. Lyells
at bed-rock cost, and he disposed of these, and put every
cent into Lake George. On his Lyell holding he could
have commanded a comfortable competence ; now—alas !
* * * *
On page 28 of this issue is advertised the pro-
spectus of the Mt. Molloy Copper Mining Co. ; capital,
£24,000 in 960 shares, of which 480 issued to the public
are all allotted. The mine is 22 miles from Port Douglas,
N.Q., and the average return from 897 tons ore treated
at different places has been over 28'6 per cent, copper.
* * * *
Croydon items : —At latest, No. 7 N. Golden
Gate was crushing 300 tons for estimated yield of lOoz.
per ton, worth nearly £3 per oz. Prospects of mine ex-
cept! vi ibly bright. Several good leases be'ng shep-
herded on Croydon. Mo lus is to take up a lease, apply
for exemption on grounds of “time requ'red to form co.
and procure machinery.” Then groun 1 is forfeife 1 in in-
terests of friendly applicant, an 1 the same old game is
played over and over again. -Warden Tonner lalely re-
fused further exemption to Golden Gate Consols, and now
they vvill have to go to work in earnest. Late crush-
sings : Harp of Erin P.C., 13 tons, 790 z. ; Iguana 2 West
Block, 115 tons from a big reef gave 1550 z. Croydon
Consols cvanided first week in June, 245 tons tailings for
3390 z., bullion worth 15s. Bd. per oz. No. 5 and 6
Golden Gates mines—a good reef has been found.—Un-
favorable reports received from Rogers’ Golden Gate.
To keep up yield, mine has been, and is being, pig-
rooted.
• * * »
The latest idea of the Chillagoe Proprietary Co.
is the utilising of the Barron Falls in works for the treat-
men t of Chillagoe ores. Minister for Lands Foxton lately
visited the locality and seemed not unfavorable to the
co’s proposals. The Chillagoe folks will bear watching.
In the first place, it would be a burning shame if they
were permitted to ruin the attractiveness of the Falls-
one of the none-too-plentiful beauty-spots Australia is
possessed of. The American power companies have suc-
ceeded in making one side of Niagara about the most
hideous place in a big continent. Foxton weakly re-
marks that he doesn’t object provided the co. doesn’t
want “an absolute monopoly”—and, of course, no co.
ever does. Rights up to 10,000 horse-power will satisfy
them—for a time, and apparently nobody in Bananaland
cares a rap whether they get them or whether they don’t;
Wages are good in the North ; it’s infernally hot most of
the°year—and what’s the good of bothering about any-
thing?
* • • •
Mt. Morgan has just paid a 7d. div. Seven
years now since the co. paid tnorb than a 6d. div. Before
that the monthly Is. div. had been a delightfully monoton-
ous occurrence.' Then came the (id. payment and corres-
ponding fall in shares. The 6d. era has run from ’9l' to
present date. On a million shares the additional penny
represents about £4009. The 7d. div. (be it noted) is de-
clared when the month of June is only two-thirds over.
Does this signify a possible return to the old Is. glories—
or what ?
* a * ♦
Pearl-sheller Clark asserts that there are about
1200 Japs on Thursday Island. “ Things are so bad,” he
continues, “ that it is' a question now of my firm being
wiped out or the Japanese.” Clark suggests the buying
out of Japanese boats and the re-selling of them to our
own people. Whether this be deemed advisable or not it
is certainly high time the Japs were denied proprietary
rights. Both South and Western Australia will not allow
an alien to own a boat in the pearl fishery, and it’s about
time Queensland followed their example. Clark laughs at
the idea of Queensland gaining compensation from
Japanese trade. The poverty of the Japs, with whom
16s. a month is good wages, effectually prevents this.
Said an intelligent Jap, recently : “ We like woollen
clothing well enough, but are too poor to be able to buy it.”
• * * *
Gympie is humming, metallically ; on June 21st
18,756 shares were sold on the Exchange. A record for
the year.
• * * *
Clermont holds the premier position in Q. for
’97 alluvial returns. Population of diggers has been
trebled and yield of gold has advanced from 12,6830 z. to
22,0660 z. Warden estimates population at 4350, out of
which 3600 are actually digging. Ravenswood has in-
creased its output for the year to 20,1760 z. Eidsvold,
however, shows up badly for the last 12 months. The
leading mines are held by four co.’s with £23,000 capital.
During the year these have paid no divs., but their calls
amounted to nearly £6OOO. Stone put through batteries
amounted to 2696 tons yielding 87200 z. gold—an average
of loz. Bdwt. 16grs.
• • • •
What a revolution has taken place in the gold
industry ! All the larger Q. goldfields (the Etheridge ex-
cepted) have railway communication with the coast, and
Govt, has now to provide but one gold-escort—from
Georgetown to Normanton. As for sticking up the escort
or anything of that kind—it’s all over. Enterprising
spirits find it pays better to stick up the Treasury.
• * * *
The Q. gold-output for ’97 was eminently satis-
factory, but nearly every other mineral showed a decrease.
Tin has gone down from 1554 tons to 1203 tons ; silver
from 279,2840 z. to 234,0350 z. ; lead from 618 tons to 385
tons ; coal from 371,390 tons to 358,407 tons ; copper from
580 tons to 288 tons. Opal produced at Fermoy is valued
at .£6000; Duck Creek (near Thargomindah), £4OOO.
Under-Secretary for Mines thinks opal-mining can never
become an important factor in mining industry as “ from
our present knowledge of the occurrence of the stone, its
winning can never rise much above the level of fossicking.”
* • • •
They are talking about pyrites records at Ben-
digo. A clean-up from a tribute in the Specimen Hill,
Eaglehawk, has just yielded 28oz. 6dwt. per ton ; the stone
from which the pyrites was taken gave very poor returns.
But in the past there have been a few yields of over 300 z.,
Lansell holding the “record” for this as for many other
things in connection with Bendigo mining.
* * • *
In the first 24 weeks of ’97 Bendigo had an
excess of calls over divs. of £20,825 (£63,088 and £83,913).
In the first 24 weeks of ’9B the excess of divs. over calls
was £21,470 (£96,800 and £75,330). And the improve-
ment continues. Yet, though the field gives about one-
third of the province’s divs, frequently no more than
three of the couple of hundred of shares quoted on the
Melb. Exchange are Bendigo stocks. Bendigo pouts
about it ; yet one is inclined to say “ Happy Bendigo ! ”
» # * •
Moorabbin (Vic.) Shire Council has a plan of its
own for making owners of boom allotments pay the rates
they owe. It advertises their names in the Age. That
fetches ’em.
* * « •
A clause in the law controlling Vic. Mining
Boards declares that no payments are to be made to mem-
bers excepting when they sit for three days. Result, a
terrible strain upon the intellects of members to devise
ways and means of making half-an-hour’s business extend
over three days, but they invariably succeed in their
patriotic effort.
* • » *
Castlemaine has hopes again ; the Spring Gully
Co., at Fryer’s, has unearthed a prospect equal to any-
thing found in that district this last quarter-century.
* * * »
Menzie’s Barossa, the much-boomed S.A. mine
which failed to crush any gold, is to have another trial, as
shareholders have decided to put through another 250 tons
before liquidating. Menzie, the promoter, sank the whole
of his Westralian-made fortune in the mine.
* * * *
Cruel ! Hawker, lecturer on mining at Ade-
laide School of Mines and Industries, reports that he took
the students to Menzies’ Barossa the other day and pointed
out “ how a mine should not be worked.”
* » * •
Of all the wild foolishnesses of the recent little
boom in Tasmanian silver specs., the Dora foolishness
seems to have been the wildest. Every disinterested visi-
tor to the Dora “ field ” gives it a bad name. A bad name
is the fate of every show that gets boomed from behind
hotel bars, as the various Doras were.
* * * »
A little but pertinacious crowd at Kalgoorlie
begins to make a determined “ set ” at the policy of Work-
ing seven days a week at the Boulder mines. Strangely
enough, though, the opposition rarely comes from the
working miners in such cases ; it is the owners who
usually first discover that it does not pay, especially as
the workings get deeper and the ventilation more defec-
tive.
* * * *
Kanowna alluvial rush has corneas a godsend to
the whole of the Westralian fields ; and the huge tribe
which, a few months ago, was living on J. Bull’s cham-
pagne and truffles, has bought a shovel and put clay on
its pants and corns on its hands.
Said that Hooley’s interests in purely mercantile
ventures in Westralia are so large that realisation by his
trustees in insolvency is sure to cause more than one col-
lapse amongst the now seemingly-prosperous businesses
of that province.
If the production of the first five months of ’9B
is maintained, Westralia is now the boss gold-producer of
the Seven Provinces. Figures up to May: Westralia,
359,9420 z. : Queensland, 34i,2900z. ; Victoria, 312,3220 z.
* * * *
Of Westralian goldfields Kalgoorlie is easily
first in point of aggregate production ; it has yielded
515,547 oz., an average of 2 oz. 9 dwt. per ton. Murchison
comes next with 152,080 oz. ; average 1 oz. 4 dwt. Then
Coolgardie, 147,215 oz. (average 2 oz. 3 dwt., thanks to the
early days of Bayley’s, Wealth of Nations, etc.); and
Menzies, 84,6 8 oz. (average 2 oz. 4 dwt.). Norseman’s
aggregate is 8454 oz. (average 19 dwt.)
* * • *
Coolgardie tradespeople in desperation offer on
their own account a reward, guaranteed, of about £l5OO
for the discovery of a substantial deep lead within 4Jt
miles of the township.
* • • •
Already they quarrel in the far West over rival
claims to the discovery of the goldfields. Down to date
the facts seem to be that the first find of gold in quantity
was made at Enuing by Anstey, whose mate was Payne ;
they received • 500 from the Govt, as a reward. Bernard
Oolready and H. Huggins found Golden Valley ; they also
got £5OO as reward. After that T. R. Riseley and R. M.
Toomey found Southern Cross, and claim to have named
it ; they pegged out the Golden Pig on Feb. 8, ’B7.
Parker’s Range (found by Parker and Hickey), and others
westward followed.
* * • *
Generally held among the alluvial diggers on
Kanowna (W.A.) that the leads there are the bed and
tributaries of an ancient river that at one time ran into
the Gordon lakes, eight miles distant. The main lead has
been traced some miles north of the township in the
direction indicated. These lakes, which extend east and
west for some scores of miles, are themselves believed by
many to be the remains of a great river destroyed by vol-
canic action. _ _ .


d
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
Fii*t Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
CKORGE
& BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
rpilE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of
the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Agents
and invites apptieutions from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Countty Districts in A eir South,
Wales and Queensland; also in Sydney and
/Irish a u e.
Liberal terms to those possessing l experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to i 11.4 AM <; I; it,
/'*>!uitahle Jluitdiny, Sydney.
The Famous Fre ich
Chocolate.
CHOCOCITDIEIIIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
Wm. Cameron <(J Co.,
240 Georye-st., Sydney.
Society
[?]
B[?]
COCHAO
Some of the friends o’ he late’y-appqiufcjd
Australian K.B.’s suddenly stopped jubilating
when they d scoyered that a K.B. falls so terribly
short of a G. or K. C. M.G. in pomp and circum-
stance. A K.C.M.G., for instance, marches
abroad with a star, a ribbon, a mantle, and other '
fixings ; hut a K.B. is entitled to wear no em-
broidery distinction whatever. Again, the com-
pany of K.tCM.G.’s, to keep it select, is limited
by charter to 200 members, whereas there may be
as many K.B.’s as there are sons of Adam. The
K.B. simply carries the title “ Sir,” and his Mrs.,
among the-.courteous,, may be called “Lady.”
But the most galling affront in offering a man a
K.B. lies in the historical fact that when needy
James I. sold titles for cash lie charged up to
<£looo for wha,he called titles “worthy of a gentle-
man,” but handed over K.B’s for sums down as
low as £5. ..
* * * *
Curious that most Governors sent out to
Australia nevrr seem to learn anything of the
character, tastes, and. opinions of the people who
pay them salaries. Vio. Gov. Brassey is a
shocking case in point. -He has seized the oppor-
tunity provided by his being temporarily at ’Ome
to urge the Imp. Government to impress upon
Australia the propriety of keeping up a force
of 50 0 mounted rifles, “ who ,could be called
on for service abroad wherever British require-
ments demanded military assistance—in India,
South Africa, or elsewhere.” He also advises
that a subsidy of £2O per head should be paid for
each man available for foreign service, and evi-
dently thinks that he has suggested a valuable
future addition to the Australian export trade.
Prime Australian mercenaries ought to look well
on an invoice. Pity they couldn’t be frozen or
tinned. When Lord B. is not falling off some-
thing, or has just fallen off something and is laid
up for a day or two, his diseased mental activity
shows itself in the strangest shapes.
* » * »
Mrs. Freeman Thomas (Gov. Brassey’s
daughter) confirms the stories to hand rc the wreck
of the China. Bhe tells her London friends that
she was giving a “cheery supper-party” when
the vessel came to grief.
The Women’s Temperance Christian
Union recently started a superior hash-mosque in
Perth (W. A.) with the object of saving bibulous
and susceptible youth from the danger of dining
at places wli tc the der-rink is sold. Under Wes-
tralian law all eating-houses have to be licensed,
and the keepers thereof have to come before the
Licensing bcich and demonstrate that they are
of good character, in the same way as the mire-
generate publican. The representative W.C.T.U.
lady did this and was granted a license, but was
horrified to learn from the bench that under the
license the establishment would be compelled to
provide beer for dining customers should it be
asked for. The bench, with fine humor, asked the
lady whether, if he dined at the establishment and
asked for beer, it would be supplied, but the
scand disod lady, with an emphatic “ No,”
gathered up her skirts and fled with horror from
the court.
* * * *
W. D. Traill, in Literature, commends
the Australian press for its “liberality” in en-
couraging young poets. Where does the liberality
come in ? The Australasian, for instance, never,
or hardly ever, pays for verse. Do any of the
other papers, Bulletin excepted?
♦ * i m
Apropos the Queensland Govt.’s complaint
to South Australia that Chinese are in the habit
of overlanding from the Northern Territory and
sneaking over the border at Camooweal, Murif,
the overlanding cyclist, tells how he encountered
one such party, near Newcastle Waters, equipped
for the expedition with three packhorses, well
loaded with provisions. His inquiries led him to
believe that, although generally moving in similar
parties and fairly well armed, not more than about
a-half of those who leave the coast get through to
the border. Blacks spear many of them ; and
naturally, on account of their undertaking, they
don’t seek police protection, but rather avoid those
places where police influence is most felt.
* * * «
Miss Elsie Margaret Robertson, of Mel-
bourne, departed on a three months’ trip to Bris-
bane, last Saturday, with a Mr. and Mrs.
Eddington. This is not a sassiety item, but a
piece of legal intelligence. Miss R., who will soon
be 2i), is being administered by the Vic. Court,
and when she wants to journey beyond the con-
fines of the province, her executors appeal to a
Judge, and the Judge (like Chancellor Brough, in
“ lolanthe ”) sits in his court all day, so that the
agreeable girl can go away. Justice Hood was
the paternal administrator last week, Mr. Topp
appeared to state the case on behalf of Miss R.,
and Mr. Weigall held a brief to the effect that the
damsel’s executors “consented” After listening
to arguments on both sides and satisfying himself
that Miss Robertson merely wished to net out on
bail, as it were, his Honor made an order for her
trip to Brisbane, likewise he increased her allow-
ance by another <£loo a year, on the distinct
understanding that she shall be escorted back to
Melbourne by “a suitable companion.” The
Bulletin’s idea is th<* . ::be should travel under
the care of a Legal Commission, costs to be
charged to the estate.
“ Southerner ” ; Only
one of our Protestant clergy
hears Confessions, so his lady-
penitents can’t affect ignor-
ance of his ghostly identity.
With them, as with all R.C.
members of small communi-
ties, confession amounts to a
barefaced giving of themselves
away to a meaty man.
OBTRUSIVE.
SUNDY-SCHOOL TEACHER (to class) : “Now, dear chidren, what great Terewth do we learn
from this beautiful story of St. Stephen, who was stoned to death?”
SAMLL BOY FROM SURRY HILLS: “ Ter keep in wid the push if [?]er don't want ter get
dealt wid!"
Administrator-of-the-Government Madden
and his fair belongings must have felt
quite happy after conferring their patronage on
“Alcestis,” at Melb. Town Hall, last week. A
large orchestra and Liedertafel chorus honored
them with two big doses of “God Save,” one on
their arrival, and another when they trooped out.
It is beautiful to observe the clean-shaven fiance
of “the engaged Miss Madden ” participating in an
all-round enjoyment of Family Greatness. He
seems to be softly whispering to himself —“ What
price me ! ”
* * * *
The Cinderella is coming along nicely.
Perth papers record with appropriate awesome-
ness that when big John Forrest was in London
Lady F. took him to the church of St. Andrew
Undershaft, at the corner of St. Mary-axe,
London, where lies buried one of her ancestors,
Sir Hugh Hammersley, who died in IGI7. Now
a photo, of the church and a water-color picture
of it have been sent out—no doubt to remind the
family of the crimson bonds, John not having
had much success at 'Oine with the other sort.
* * * *
S.A. Oppositionists aver that they intend
to assail the Kingston Ministry on its Hospital
administration. This is no surprise to those
people who believe that these hoary old troubles
—they began over four years ago—will outlast the
present generation. The original Hospital staff
disappeared long since, and the last trouble was
between Ramsay Smith and Morrison, t«o
of the imported doctors. As showing the
bitterness of the trouble, most of the old staff
still maintain expensive nursing establishments
rather than allow cases to go Hospital wards.
Most people have, however, completely forgotten
what was the original cause of the dispute—ex-
cept that a woman and a tennis-match were indi-
rectly connected with it.
* * * *
About the most original humorist among
Australian doctors is wastii g h uiself at Broken
Hill, where he is attach d to the hospital.
Once, a little time ago, having had a slight differ-
ence with the Govt, medical-officer as to the
latter’s right to conduct the post-mortems and
pocket the fees therefor, he circumvented the
enemy after the death of an accident ease by
promptly removing the injured part of the spine
and substituting therefor a piece of wire rope.
Now a patient who had signed the usual guaran-
tee-form having died, the same doctor re-
fused to give up the body to the funeral party
which came to bury it, claiming that the hospital
had a lien over the corpse till the maintenance-fees
were arranged for. The hearse had, therefore, to
be driven away empty, and the mourners dispersed
until the question of the lien was settled.
The extensive ramifications of the Spanish
legacy swindle can be gauged by the fact that 11
letters from the Land of Garlic addressed to
obscure citizens mostly “dead” or “left,” now
await claimants at one small Queensland P.O.
F.U. : Went
through Pent-
ridge, the other
day. What a
nice, clean place
it is, and how
much better
many of the con-
finees are than
if outside, and
the few we saw
seemed to be
pleasantly em-
ployed tailor-
ing, weaving,
mat-making (on
one half-finished
mat was worked
the name of a
well-known Mel-
bourne h o t e 1),
carpentering,
gardening. And
the. farm looked
so nice. Really,
quite a favor to
be allowed to
work on that
farm, with its
charming view of
the hills beyond,
and the healthy,
outdoor life, and
so forth. But
never a word of
the men of the A
division in the
silent cells 23
hours a day, the
other hour each in
a yard by himself
wearing’ a mask;
never a word of the
“ solitary ” system with its brain - breaking
silence and enforced idleness and its starvation ;
never a word of the punishment-cells underground
where no light, no sound can penetrate ; never a
word of the hand-cuffs and anklets and waist-ring
and chains worn day and night when a prisoner is
sentenced—Star-Chamber fashion—to be put in
irons ; never a word of the triangles. No, a visit
to Pentridge is a farce—they dare not show the
hideous system in all its nakedness.
* * * »
A party of officers from the Japanese war-
ship recently paid a visit to Sydney University
Medical School. In the dissecting-room, what
struck the professional members of the party most
was the fact that in S) dney a “ head and neck ”
is allotted to two students only. In Europe,
“ subjects ” are so scarce that it is usual for eight
men to be at work on the same one. Elesh and
blood are cheap in Sydney. Look at the eleven-bob-
a-week twelve-hours-a-day of the 15 per cent,
dividend North Shore Ferry Co. !
* * * *
It is not generally known that when the
Confederate vessel Alabama was at Melb., during
the American civil war, some local Federal Yanks
formed a plot to blow up the ship. It was frustrated
only by an attempt to get the assistance of some big
American merchants, who, while sympathising
with the North, weren’t taking any personal re-
sponsibility.
• ♦ * *
Up to date, the queerest Yic. explosive-
case was where Green was tried and acquitted for
sending a little fig-box, which exploded under the
chisel of Mr. Reynolds, of Reynolds and English,
carriers. The matter was never cleared up.
Green was an American gentleman who had had
business relations with Reynolds.
BIS JOY WAS NOT YET FULL.
FIRST: “One thing I've found out, anyhow, this
comic paper gush about mothers-in law is all
rot. Why, mine's a perfect angel."
SECOND: “Lucky dog! Mine's not dead yet.”
The last important Vic. will-case of alleged
priestly influence, a Collingwood affair, had the
present Chief Justice Madden for the defence.
He said : “ Your Honor, everybody is aware that
the doctrine of the church does not sanction the
interpretation put on it by the other side.” His
Honor: “The question is what the ignorant
believe.”
* * * *
The North Shore Ferry deck-hands only
get an average wage of 10s. 10|d. each per week.
Bub see what a lovely harbor they are working on!
» * * *
Apropos “The Screen.” In Darlinghurst
prison church, a man condemned to die is brought
to the services—Butler was the only exception—
and placed behind a screen secure from observa-
tion ; he cannot even see the parson or priest who
preaches at him.
SUCH SHEEN OF HAIR
FOR THE BULLETIN
UCH sheen of hair hath Phyllis fair;
(J Such smiling wonder-wise ;
Such chin of dimpling daintiness t
Such deep o' dew-bright eyes ;
Such merry mischief lurking there
Behind their blend of blue —
I pity those who love her not,
l weep for those that do.
When Even conies the Witch doth set
Her Lamps of Love aglow ;
A nd we, a tribe of silly moths ,
We flutter to and fro ;
In vain—in vain ye bid us pause.
What reck we who may rue ?
O, luckless moths that love not Light t
Ah, hapless moths that do !
A nd those who tell her o'er the tale
How laughing eyes allure.
She bids them ware the deadly snare
And wend away, secure;
But who could heed such cruel best
When red lips smile anew ?
When, though she bids us love her not.
She draws us till we do ?
Now some there be who suppliants come
With lover-lute to sue,
And list—with silv'ry laugh she mocks
The mesh-entangled crew !
A nd some there be who come to scoff
And then remain to woo — 'Qj
A lack, for those who love her not /
A las, for those that do /
And yet, despite the wrongs we dree ,
She holds us so in thrall
That voices raised in malison
In mellow blessings fall ;
And so, the vengeance we invoke
Is but that Cupid too
May kindly move her yet to love —
A nd speed her if she do I
©
P. LUFTIG.
READY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fate leads me by a stormy way,
But if I'm in a battle
I’ve always one to share the fray
When fast the bullets rattle ;
I’m sure of one to make a stand,
Of one to hold me steady ;
She’s first and last at my right hand,
And so I’ve called her Ready.
She’ll smile beneath the hail of blows,
Nor hate the hand that makes it;
She’s like a little wind-toss’d rose
That scents the blast that breaks it.
And when the day seems still and fair
New love-waves round me eddy,
Till I can almost drown despair—
And hope with my sweet Ready.
Maybe your Ready’s just like mine—
A mate for aye, and after !
Then don't secrete the simple sign
That links her heart to laughter;
A tender word, a kindly deed,
Each day to her discover ;
So shall you keep your friend-in-need,
So shall she know you love her.
Parramatta.
LESLIE QAKES.


S 3
mhAvE You
' FoROOXTEN
TITi i, iiTH P Mi. ?' ’
JSOSE’S CELEBRATED
iiJYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
(or ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirliane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
TJ\r TWa vlr-Hro 1 178 William-st.. Melbourne;
Xly. lYiarKWaia, n Pitt-street, Sydney ;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
Some N.S.W. member should call for a
list of the deadhead State-railway travellers since
Parliament went into recess. Queer names will
be found upon it.
m • * * *
“ Kifwa ” : “ Scotty the Wrinkler’s ” sug-
gestion as to collecting funds in churches is nothing
very new ; the late shepherd of an up-the-line
Anglican Church used to supply the choir-boys
with coin to put in the plate every time same
went round. This was specially marked, and re-
moved in the vestry, and used for the next occa-
sion, and so on. In fact, the good clergyman used
his choir-boys as decoy-ducks.
* * * *
A prominent feature of old-time Wes-
tralian journalism was that the scribes were
chiefly drawn from the ranks of talented convicts.
This is not now the case, but the idea that any
sort of treatment is good enough for journalists
still prevails. This humorous par. from the West
Australian (Perth daily) of 8/(>/’9B is evidence of
the status of the pressman in Forrestland, and
suggests incidentally that there is a wild and un-
controllable mutiny on the staff of that journal:—
Officers’ Quarters at Mundaringl— A statement was
made by a Northam correspondent in a letter which
appeared in Friday’s issue of the West Australian in re-
ference to the extravagant expenditure by the Public
Works Department on erecting camps and official quarters
for the engineers employed on the waterworks at Mun-
daring. The Director of Public Works supplied one of
our reporters with an explanation of this at the beginning
of the week, but in our reporter’s hands the explanation
became so unintelligible that it had to be returned to
him. So far, our reporter has not furnished us with the
corrected version.
Hie!
* * * *
At Broken Hill, t’other day, the police,
after a 3-years’ slumber, raided the local shop-
keepers and detected nearly 100 in possession of
unstamped and light weights. The cases were
taken in batches. The P.M., dealing with the first
lot, fined the unstamped-weight folk 20s. and
costs, and the others 40s. and costs. The trades-
men had a meeting and protested, apparently in
all seriousness, that the police should have warned
them of the intended raid ! And when the second
batch of cases came before an honorary bench (the
P.M. being away) the intelligent unpaid fined each
offender (whether for light or unstamped weights)
Is. and costs ! And now the offending hucksters
have the front to expect the Justice Department
to remit all the fines. The Jay pee system— it
stinks. It always has stunk.
* * * *
The Sydney constable who recently ran-in
a stricken-down cabman might have been excused
for not knowing paralysis from merely “ paralytic
drunk,” but men in charge of lock-ups should cer-
tainly possess sufficient rudimentary medical
knowledge to prevent the possibility of a delay—
as in this case—of 12 hours in the discovery of
the true state of the case.
* * * *
The costs on a recent case, lasting 11 days,
in Brisbane, totted up to the tidy total of £2OOO.
Lawyers’expenses principally, of course, but the
time occupied in the trial was probably the chief
cause. Fancy a Judge, in this era of progress,
having to take notes of evidence in long-hand !
Wouldn’t the employment of a decent staff of
shorthand-reporters and typewriters be really a
big saving in the long run ?
* * * *
A Sydney livery -stable-keeper has got
some of his whips labelled “ For that Tired Feel-
ing ! ”
Sydney Dail.
Telegraph : “ Ta-
hiti must be a little
heaven below, judg-
ing from the de-
scription of the na-
tives and their
manner of living
given by the Bri-
tish Consul.” Then
follows an enume-
ration of the Tahi-
tian attractions,
culminating in the
luscious statement,
“ Morality is at a
discount.” Which
is very Mahomme-
dan for a respect-
able Sydney paper.
W kstern Mail
(Perth) commences
a few words of
warning to the
Shrieking Sister-
hood with the in-
formation that
“ Adam was made
first,” and, there-
fore, man is the
boss of creation.
No shrieking sister
that The Bulletin
ever met was smart
enough to throw
back the obvious
retort that the pig
and the worm and
the eel were made
before Adam, so,
if the thing that
was made first is
the boss, the worm
and the eel have a
long start, and if
the thing that came last is the most perfect, then
woman tops the poll- or else Genesis has been
drinking.
“To what base uses” may not the noble
descend. The other day, when the papers pub-
lished the news of the demise of Britain’s fore-
most statesman, a Queen-street (Brisbane) draper
improved the shining hour by putting a portrait
of William Ewart in a conspicuous position among
his mourning goods, with an intimation that
never could the weeds of woe be bought cheaper,
or grief be indulged at less expense.
* * * •
Cabled is the portentous intelligence that
the Prince of Wales, as Grand Thingabob of
Whashernames, “ has appointed Mr. J. G. Davies,
Chairman of Committees in Tasmania!! As-
sembly,” to be District Grand Triton of Minnows,
or something. Such are the inflictions under
which we groan at breakfast - and all apparently
because the prosaic Mr. Davies (of whom the
prosaic Prince of Wales probably never personally
heard in all his life) is one of the Australasian
press-cable syndicate.
* * WV- * *
“ Engliraustralian ” : The weak response
of the Victorian Scots to Melb. Mayor M‘Each-
arn’s appeal for a kilted regiment indicates either
that the Seotch-parented Australian is Australian
first and Caledonian afterwards, or that his yearn-
ings for bare knees and philabegs and things are
not in it with his interest in gee-gee-ing and
ball-bashing. In fact, despite the “ clannishness ”
charged upon those of Scottish parentage as well
as of Scottish birth, the sScoto-Australian is a lot
more genuinely Austral than either his Anglo or
Hiberno-analogue.
* • * *
In a lazy, disjointed fashion Justice Wil-
liams told some home-truths in Dr. Strong’s Aus-
tralian Church the other Sunday. His Honor
was talking on the administration of the criminal
law. The illogical diversity of the sentences
passed on men committing precisely the same
offence, under similar circumstances, he did not
hesitate to style a social blot. Also, Judge Wil-
liams considers crimes against the person much
more heinous than those against property. “If a
man batters me in a brutal fashion,” says his
Honor, “ I would feel it more than if he stole my
watch.” Best of all, however, he thinks that
before a Judge is competent to give solitary con-
finement to a prisoner, he ought to have seen men
undergoing that particular class of punishment.
Judge Williams believes in solitary for old
offenders, and in mild solitary for first offenders,
as a preventive against their coming back for a
second dose. “I once saw a woman,” said the
Judge significantly, “ who had just undergone a
month’s solitary confinement at one stretch, to
which she had been sentenced by one of the Judges
in this province—l won’t mention names. I never
want to see such a sight again.” Tell us— who is
the Judge that sentences women to solitary con-
finement? Also, does he flog women? If not,
why not ?
J * * * %
One sees a queer witness in the box occa-
sionally. In No. 2 jury court, Sydney, one day
lately, counsel was trying to extort evidence from
a benevolent-locking old gentleman (who turned out
tobeHy. Clark, the esteemed M.L. A. for Bega) as
to his client’s sobriety. “ How long have you
known ? ” “ All his life—so years.” “ Did
you ever see him drunk ? ” “ No.” “ Would you
regard him as a temperate man, then ? ” “ Er—
er—well—er—I think—er -moderately temperate.”
[lt recalls the A.N.A.’s “moderately moral.”]
Counsel (despairingly): “That will do.” Sup-
posing the poor fellow had got drunk once every
25 years, what would the brilliant old gentleman
have called that ? How many years would a man
“GORSE LANGUAGE.”
FAIR GOLFER: “My club always slips. What ought Ito do?”
COLONIAL-MADE CADDIE: “ W'y, spit on yer ’ ands !”
have to keep from the accursed drink to be called
very tempe rate !
* * * *
In a recent Melb. divorce-case in which
the love affairs of all parties were remarkably
promiscuous, his Honor wondered if the parties
could not be induced to come to a settlement. It
is presumed the Judge meant a Mormon settle-
ment.
♦ * * *
Pcntridge prison, Vic., has run out of
stone-masons and bricklayers, and this is a serious
matter. Great additions were being made to the
prison when suddenly all the prisoners competent
to do the work gave out, and the operations
have since been suspended pending the arrival of
more masons. But masons refuse to arrive, and
now the authorities have their choice of two
things : they must either pay to have the work
PROSPECTS OF A CHANGE UP NORTH.-A LONG
WAY UP.
NEW ARRIVAL: “Is it always as hot as this up here?”
ACCLIMATISED SETTLER: “ Och, yah! Mosd dimes, and mosd
dimes ’e vas more varmer.”
done by free mechanics, or give the police a fat
bonus on all the stone-cutters they can rope in.
Anyhow, it is now advisable for Melbourne
masons not to venture out of doors after dark.
* * * *
Burglars break in and steal from the homes
of several Melbourne parsons. Silver plate and
“ quantities of gold jewellery” in each case. Now,
if the burglars were humorous enough to contri-
bute their loot to the fund for the relief of the
famished back-block parsons, over whose hard lot
there has been so much wailing and teeth-gnashing
of late ! “ Lay not up treasure,” &c., &c.
The treasures of this world of pride
That lure the sinful crowds
Which parson here will put aside
For others —in the clouds ?
The reverend’s faith is great (we know
That by the texts he quotes).
Yet luxuries he will not spurn,
E’en though he’s given in return
God’s promissory-notes !
* * » *
The two witnesses to Snells’ will, which
Judge Holroyd decided was a forgery, have
promptly challenged the Crown (by a letter in the
Argus), to test the matter in the Criminal Court.
* * • »
Will somebody please to take a week’s
holiday and explore Tasmania ? A steamer, lately
philandering round the coast of the flyspeck in
search of a missing prospector, discovered a fine,
broad, navigable river which nobody had heard of
previously. The captain of the steamer promptly
named the stream the TJrquhart, as a tribute to
the Tas. Attorney-General, who has the reputa-
tion of being both broad and deep. The oldest
and smallest of the Australias offers the best
chance to an explorer.
* * * •
What woman-franchise has effected in
Maoriland. A Dunedin newspaper clipping :
City Police Court.—Before Messrs. J. Carroll and H.
Calder, J’s.P. Maintenance.—Alfred Myers, a young man,
was charged with, on the 14th inst., leaving Dunedin
without making provision for the support of his unborn
child, of which Sarah Sparks was the mother. Sergeant
O’Neill asked for a remand till to-morrow with a view of
having the matter brought before the stipendiary magis-
trate. Accused, who was employed on board a steamer,
was about to leave for Sydney yesterday. The mother
was afraid he would not return, and she had a warrant
issued for his arrest. The remand was granted accord-
ingly, bail being allowed accused in his recognisance of
£2O and two sureties of £lO each.
Which recalls the Gilbertian hero who, to carry
out his imposed task of committing a daily crime,
disinherits his only unborn son.
* * * •
Lead-poisoning manifests itself in a score
of different ways ; but one of the saddest is
mental derangement. Yet, at Broken Hill, which
owes its very existence to silver-lead miners, there
is no provision outside the prison for such cases ;
and only the other day one unfortunate sufferer,
who had been taken in charge by the police, died
in the gaol hospital!
• * * *
The Cosme Monthly announces the with-
drawal of William Saunders, ex-village-chairman,
from the Communist settlement, along with
another weary enthusiast. Also, the arrival from
England, of William Lane, whose zeal is ap-
parently unabated. But then, William spends
most of his time in the old country in
propaganda business, consequently, he doesn’t
drink the Communistic cup down to the bitter
dregs. Bananalad took back to her broad bosom
50 ex-new Australians in the year ’97 —weariful
idealists sick of quarrelling over the great washing-
up question.
• * * »
In Melb., recently, Judge Casey flattened
out, with <£s damages and costs, the mis-
creant who cuts oil-cloth on the footpath and
leaves the rolls lying around to capsize the un-
wary. And Sydney Judge Backhouse has put his
foot down, to the weight of <£3l and costs, on the
gay youth who dashes around, firing 9-inch shells
of “ great dailies ” among the lieges. Life was
indeed a lottery when the deli very -carts were bom-
barding the news-agents.
The new Melb. postal ar-
rangement which gives the mail-
men free tramway travelling to
and from the G. P.Q. and their
respective suburban districts, is
proving a wiser economy than
was expected. Melbourne —not to
mention the rest of Vie. —is in
a state of postal barbarism, all
the same. The suburbs have no
evening delivery of letters. It
costs twopence to post a letter
from the G.P.O. to Parliament
House. And the provincialism of
the new Act is a satire on the
Government’s Federal longings.
No newspaper published outside
the province can be mailed in
Victoria for less than twopence,
and the cost of sending a Bulle-
tin to one’s pious old aunt in
Hingland is— fourpence.
. * *
Lib. : “ Best Melb. subur-
ban library is the Prahran one, a
state of things entirely due to
the libra*ian who recently re-
signed owing to miserable screw.
Open 10 to 10. So it is neces-
sarily left at times in charge of a
youth, for which reason a sapient
councillor opines that two youths
would do the work. Municipal
intelligence can never distinguish
between a librarian and a care-
taker. To the successful huckster-
person the former is merely a man
to dust the books and be becom-
ingly subservient when said h.p.
honors the library with his pie-
sence.
* * *
Asa general rule, when one
man quits a responsible post his
successor has already been be-
spoken. So universally is this be-
lieved that when Fitzgibbon va-
cated the position of Town Clerk
in Melbourne not a single ap-
plication was received by the City
Council in response to the lona-
tidc advts. published in the daily
papers. A fresh advt. had to be prepared, pro-
longing the appointed date of commencing office,
and assuring the public that there was nothing
cut-and-dried about the matter.
* * * *
Two S.A. legislators recently visited the
Q. white leper station in Moreton Bay. A grue-
some extract: —
The inmates of the hospital were 11 in number, or two
more than in ’96. so that leprosy among the white popu-
lation of Queensland is evidently on the increase. But
the leprosy curse is a much more widely-spread evil than
is here indicated. It must b ■ remembered that there are
considerably over 100 colored lepers isolated on Friday
Island, while all Chinese infected with the disease are
sent back to their own country. There is also a white
female leper confined on Peel Island. . . . The terrible
disease was to be seen in all its stages. The horribly mis-
shapen and distorted features of one poor lad were puffed
up in an extraordinary manner. The fingers were twisted,
several toes had dropped off, and the throat was so
affected that the voice was almost inaudible, with a pecu-
liar huskiness. But the sight that made our hearts grow
sick and a feeling come over us as if the blood were
freezing in our veins, was when the doctor look us to the
bedside of a little boy who used to attend one of the
State schools. The ghostly appearance appalled us, and
can never be forgotten. The flesh had been eaten away
from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. We
were gazing on a breathing skeleton. The whole body
was the color of a piece of raw meat turning black with
decay. The features had disappeared, nothing being left
but the bones covered with large, repulsive scales. He
could not suffer the bedclothes to touch him and was in
constant pain. He scarcely ever slept, and the appetite
was almost gone. Yet he was exceedingly patient, but
anxious to die. He had no fear of death. The voice of
the sympathetic doctor trembled as with averted look 1 e
questioned the poor boy, and told him he would give him
some more morphia. We quickly left the room, and it.
was with feelings of relief that we learned from the doctor
that the boy could not possibly last much longer.
* * * *
Melb. : At St. Kilda police court, tli s
week, there has been another case of the tnag’s-
terial all - round remedy, “ Let him marry the
girl!” The girl frankly refused to marry Ik r
seducer. She had lost all confidence in him. “ I
will never marry the man who deceived me.” The
mercenary plaintiff only wants money for the sup-
port of her child !
* * * *
Nothing like new goldfield to brcel
tolerance. At the induction of a Presbyterian
meenister at Kalgoorlie the other evening, Angli-
can, Roman Catholic, and United Methodist
clerical representatives lent a hand in the pro-
ceedings.
* * * *
Usual distinction. In Melb. recently two
women (“ respectable ’’) were fined 40s. for
prigging ribbons from a draper’s shop, and same
day a woman (“disreputable”) got six months for
annexing a ring of trifling value. Police-court
justice practically does take the bird by the
feathers.
* * * *
By a curious coincidence, on the same day
that the trustees of the Elder bequests in Adelaide
were discussing, with persons interested, the plans
for disposing of the =£25,000 left for the provision
of workmen’s homes, the aldermen of the holy
city were touring the quarters of the unfashionable
Totties. The competition in Adelaide is particu-
larly keen, and the squalor consequently intense.
One black-eyed sexagenarian or so apologised for
the lack of furniture in her hovel. She had just
started for herself, and her entire stock-in-trade
consisted of a dilapidated bed. Some day, "per-
haps, some other practical philanthropist will be
bold enough to leave <£20,000 to provide quarters
for the Totties ; and the subsequent experiment
will be worth watching.
* * * *
Two Tasmanian advts. :
YYTANTED—Woman to Housekeep, fond of children.
' v No Misses. Apply, &c.
YYTANTED—A Boy, about 14, to assist in the house ;
' * able to read and write. Apply by letter in own
handwriting, with stamp enclosed, to .
• * * •
Many of the match-selling women in the
streets—who often stop at their corners till late at
night—carry infants aged one or two years, pre-
sumably as a spur to charity. What chance have
these exposed mites —many of whom are hired —of
keeping out of the hospitals later on, or ever be-
coming strong and healthy ?


Comparisons
CALLAGHAN & SON,
are absolutely necessary before merit can be
determined. Take our line of Gentlemen’s
Tan Lace Boots at 22/6, for instance. The
only way to determine their merit is to
compare them with other makes at 22/6.
You perceive at once how superior is the
Callaghan Boot. If seems strange, con-
sidering that we have all the newest tan
colors too, that any gentleman should feel
satisfied to pay 22/6 for any but a Callaghan
Boot.
393 George-st., Sydney.
GLOBE TEIS
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney
have NO Equal.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 28, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
Government House lent itself to the Girls’
Friendly Society for a tv.o days’ bazaar last week.
Subject to the rain, a garden fete was to be held
in the vice-regal grounds, but the wet weather
drove the fete to the verandah,, and kept it there
Monday and. Tuesday. The youngest and pret-
tiest society girls sold pin-cushions and bootees
at bazaar prices, and served tea in a marquee on
the lawn, and the tract stall sustained the correct
note of sobriety in the midst of all the levity and
worldliness. The public poured in heavily each
day, and strolled about the gardens, and sniffed
the rare atmosphere of the upper strata, and
endeavoured to wander casually by mistake into
the vice-regal interiors. Mrs. Willie Mitchell
bought jam lavishly in a blue serge sac coat and
skirt, and humored fashion’s latest whim by wind-
ing strings of pearls round her neck. Men were
at the usual bazaar discount. The two little fair-
haired aides, and the tall, pale, languid Lord
Richard Neville, who is the very lord of a school-
girl’s dreams as far as looks go, were the only
noticeable black-coats.
The central attraction of the fete was the toney
bicycle ride on the tennis court. This wa3
headed by Miss Dolly Brand in a cold white
blouse and cycling-skirt, with sailor-hat, pink tie,
and bicycle decorated with pink ribbons and
flowers. Pretty Miss Nea Mort, in another shade
of pink, won the prize for skilful riding, and ten
society eyclistes divided blues, yellows, and rose
colors among them. The prize for the best-
decorated bicycle fell to Miss Atherton, who had
contrived a Frenchy-looking wheel of deep rose-
colored baby-ribbons and tiny brass bells. These
ribbon adornments are not just the simple little
matters they appear to be. I am told that to
make your machine anyway smart, nearly 300
yards of ribbon are indispensable.
The Tempe Ball is always one of the biggest
Charity dances. The camaraderie of the Church
makes a good attendance a certainty. This year’s
dance was just an imperceptible shade less radiant
than others, perhaps, but was well-groomed and
quite “society.” A few fancy dresses speckled
the horizon, not too successfully, .for fancy dress is
a quantity that needs to be laid on regardless if
the picture is to be a striking one. The three sets
of fancy dresses had the Swedish dance all to
themselves. The prettiest of these was Mrs.
Prondergast’s Gainsborough circle. As far as I
could see, the Swedish dance is a mixture of Sir
Roger and the lancers and that scene from real
life of long ago, when a man goes down on his
knees for his lady’s hand.
Somewhere after supper-time, Peggy Pryde and
a gay company of Ti volians appeared, and dancing
flagFpd suddenly. The ball resolved itself into
knots ; conversation ceased ; and everyone gazed
at the fair little woman in black and red who
holds the public heart in her hand just now. And
those who could never know where the Tivoli
locates itself, were as happy as if they had been to
the Tivoli without paying.
One of the smartest dresses in the room was
a lovely creation of black net over turquoise
silk, heavily embroidered in jet and silver. Mrs.
Prendergast wore a pretty frock of white brocade,
with epaulettes of turquoise velvet. The other
secretary, Mrs. Brennan, wore a lemon shade of
pink. Miss Austen, in cream silk, draped her
fichu ingeniously, and made an artistic success of
one of the most difficult items of a woman’s ward-
robe. Before closing this notice, I would like to
shed a word of pity for the men who took part in
the Federation set. Big white badges hung round
their necks, and marked them even in the darkest
corners.
Next night, the welfare of the Boys’ Brigade
was danced for by a merry company in Needs’
rooms. Without being too terribly toney, this
little hop was, perhaps, the brightest of the
season. Mrs. Gullet, the treasurer, worked hard
for her good cause in white moire and black velvet
trimmings. The secretary, Mrs. Playfair, had an
un.secretarial appearance in a telling arrangement
of black brocade and jingly steel trimmings.
Then there was the very tall and very pretty girl
from Bananaland, who did credit to her native’place
in banana-tinted crepe-de-chine-; and the inevit-
able suburban belle, in the inevitable pink and
black of the suburbs. A poet could not but be
gay in such a jocund company, and I noticed the
latest exotic, Mr. Arthur Adams, from Maoriland,
tripping gaily with brown eyes and a brown
beard.
The Freemasons’grand festivity takes the shape
of a ball at the Town Hall, on Thursday, July
28th. This will not be quite the ordinary dance
ball, as an organ recital and a grand procession of
the craft in its aprons and sashes are thrown in
before dancing proper begins at nine o’clock.
Rosehill is not yet the fashionable racecourse
Randwiok is, and Society can’t find its way out
there without a strong lead. But a partv from
Govt. House journeyed to the Rosehill Cup on
Saturday, so a large body of Society people fol-
lowed quietly. Miss Alice Brand, in a purple
coat and skirt, performed the ceremony of the
day, and presented Kiteware’s master with the
triumphant silver trophy. Kiteware himself
kicked out briskly at the crowd hanging on his
heels, and ate grass in silent scorn of all cups that
were not buckets. Miss Elliott Page walked
round with His Ex. in a long braided cloak of
prune cloth and a big black hat with a little white
veil. A frock of flaming red sat in the corner of
the vice-regal box with its head down, and I can-
not tell you who was inside the vehement coat of
black, white, and red—possibly Joseph. I noticed
two young brides reproducing each other unwit-
tingly in vine-green tailor-costumes, with violet
hats and feather boas. I also noticed, with awe,
the happy forgetfulness of various ladies who
plucked large bunches of blossoms between the
races and carried them home, undaunted by rules
and regulations and similar trifles.
But surely afternoon-tea, at Rosehill, is a vainer
thing than need be ! Unless cake of a bygone era,
washed down with acute essence of tannin, is in-
tended to uphold the picnicky aspect of the pretty
little course. In fact, sweeping innovations arc
needed at all our racecourse tea-rooms. The
Rand wick tea-cups would let a horse’s head in,
and three bites of a horse’s teeth would make no
impression on the density of the tea-cup walls.
The same remark may be applied to the bricks of
seed and currant-cake that hurried waitresses
throw at your head at their own sweet will.
Just think of asking a man to a party to meet
his own wife ! Don’t you think it was an artless
idea of the Ladies’ Club to invite Admiral Pear-
son last Friday to meet Mrs. Admiral Pearson at
the Club’s “at home ! ” The Admiral might have
replied that he would be meeting his wife at
dinner that evening, and had already breakfasted
and lunched with her early in the day. However,
his naval bravery bore him across the water, and
enabled him to stand round in the Salon rooms for
an hour or two, and even induced him to don the
expression that belongs by right to the wives of
other men.
After a sleep of nine years roller-skating has
roused up again and is going to enter, into the
ranks with cycling. The Hampden Club is lend-
ing its very nicest patronage to the-ample old
Darlinghurst Skating Rink, and I believe the pub-
lic is to be let in next week. Thus one more
chance is offered to those pincushion persons who
can fall without making a noise. And, speaking
of expansive parties, reminds that a scraggy
Johnny was heard inquiring plaintively of his
tailor the other day, “Do you make Reid’s clothes
regardless of expanse ? ”
Mr. Burns Walker’s invitation concert was a
heavily patronised affair that gave the debutante,
Miss Alice Braund, the advantage of a large hear-
ing. Miss Braund is yet another lady of the rosy
locks, and according to backers of red-haired
songstresses, ought to set fire to the Thames some
day. Her organ is a big soprano not yet quite
under control, but full of possibilities. The popu-
lar Burns Walker, who is responsible for Miss
Braund’s pleasing style, contributed two songs,
though suffering from a relaxed throat.
A sad theatrical tale tells that the Firm has
forbidden all its members to bike. The various
smash-ups of Ada Reeve and Bert Gilbert are
said to be the reason of the mandate.
The Firm was also largely responsible for the
success of the charity matinee last Friday. An
enormous crowd seethed up the back stairs and
down again, and changed its admission money
from two shillings to three, and from three to five,
all in vain. Hundreds of people were turned
away. The zeal of those who stood for four hours
without seeing, hearing, or breathing when any-
one else was breathing, is a remarkable example
of Sydney’s veneration for Shakespeare. Every-
body knows that the desire to hear another Romeo
commanded by another Juliet to swear not by the
same old moon was the reason of the mighty army
of women, who paid five shillings rapturously for
their negative joys.
As it happened, Romeo had a cold, and Juliet
could not be heard beyond the front stalls. There
was that much mitigation in the martyrdom.
Julius Knight made a heavy, handsome lover,
without a spark of passion in his voice. Miss
Elliot Page played Juliet as a lovely worldling in
white with nut-brown hair, who wooed her Romeo
as knowingly as a society woman bringing down
her millionaire, and flashed coquettish teeth at
him, and treated him and herself as though they
had both been out some seven seasons.
The most popular feature of the programme was
Peggy Pryde. A red-hot reception greeted the
sprightly little figure, in its funny coster frock,
big white gloves and hat trimmed with one rose
that nodded furiously from the top of a two-foot
stem. She sang a lively ditty about her sister
Sally’s wedding. When she' reached the line
“talk about the Duchess of Devonshire’s fancy
dress ball, my dear—no class, no class ! ” she
twinkled her merry eyes towards the vice-
regal box where Lady Hampden and her party
were beaming on her fun. After Peggy, the house
took a long time to settle again, and when the
curtain had acquired an ache in its backbone from
bobbing up and down so often, and the demand
for more Peggy was as eager as ever, she flashed
out for a moment, and explained she was suffering
from a terrible hoarseness. When she had kissed
her hands to everyone for several minutes, things
settled down once more, and the rest of the pro-
gramme went slowly towards its end. The only
other noticeable feature was Mrs. Maesmore
Morris as Marie Louise in the “ Royal Divorce.”
She cried “Oh!” with a pretty round mouth
that seqmed made to cry “ Oh ! ” on the slightest
provocation.
The gifted Florence Blair, well-known as
“ Cleo ” and “Victorian Girl,” was married in
Melbournelast week toMr. Archibald Bavistock,an
Englishman who is occupied with business in great
waters. It does one good to hear of a bride who
refused to shiver all a winter’s day in midsummer
muslin and orange-blossom, and decked herself
warmly in a deep red cloth costume. Mrs. Bavis-
tock intends to make tier home in Melbourne.
Another daughter of old David Blair wedded a
Sydney journalist last year, and settled down in
Sydney. Both Mrs. Bavistock and Mrs. Hunter are
notoriously brilliant conversationalists who talk
as brightly as they write.
The eloquence with which even the diffident
advertisement will denounce bold bad man and
all his wicked ways, was strongly in evidence the
other day at Circular Quay. She acted demurely,
but glanced invitingly, as she tripped to an
opposite seat on the wharf. He presently loitered
along, and an ocular artillery commenced. They
were too deeply occupied to detect the adjacent
amusement caused by Him and Her respectively,
making conquests of each other directly in front
of a fine large advt. board, bearing the legend:
“ Assurance Coy.”
The funny little dodge of a school marm is here
recorded. Chiefly for the sake of other school-
marms who may like to follow where someone
else has led successfully. Every, year the junior
exam, asks its candidate to write an essay. Of
course the subject of the essay is a dead secret
until the English day comes round, but have you
ever noticed that the supply of subjects suitable
for school girls’essay is—well, just a little limited?
This clever school mistress has sent up many
pupils, and has been through the whole gamut of
essays, from Friendship and Bush Fires down to
Truth and War. And each year she picks out
half-a-dozen likely subjects, and sits her down,
and writes out half-a-dozen essays, which she gives
to her girls to learn by rote. And generally
favored by luck and the weird limitations of
girly-girly matter, she hits the right subject, and
passes her girls with big A’s.
But, hold ! How comes it, if several girls learn
essays by rote, that they can each of them palm
off the self-same essay upon the examiners as an
independent effort ? There is a hole in this story
somewhere.
Another quaint but plaintive story comes from
one of our own suburbs. Two poor old school-mis-
tresses found that their little shilling-a-week
school was not adequate for their bread and rent.
In their straits they tried to sell a handsome
mantle, relic of a moneyed past. The mother
of one of the pupils was induced to purchase. She
named her own terms. Time payment at one
shilling a week. The sisters agreed. An extra
shilling a week was full of meaning to them.
But suddenly the child of this same mother
stayed away from school. Days and weeks passed,
and she still stayed away, and her weekly
shilling with her. The mother continued her
payment until her debt was cleared off. Then the
shilling for the mantle ceased and the child re-
turned to school. And the mother got her mantle
for nothing. The child did not lose much. And the
poor little school-mistresses, who are not as good
at arithmetic as at “accomplishments,” are still
pondering over the profit and loss of their trans-
action.
For a long time the innumerable little weekly
magazines for women have been pouring out pages
of the most appalling instructions for the manu-
facture of health and complexion, and golden hair
and long eye-lashes. A lady who calls herself
Aunt Homebody has, at various times, issued
prescriptions that make doctors’ hair stand on
end. And sometimes she orders sulphate of zinc
instead of sulphur, and strychnine instead of
quinine ; and next week, when the patients are
just about settled in their graves, she corrects her-
self with a calm dignity that snares her a fresh
load of victims. But a sensible book has been
written at last on the science of Beauty Culture.
Ellen Browning, the author of the work in
question, knows her hygiene down to the toes, and
whenever she feels her knowledge shaky, is quick
to say so. One of her hints for a speedy refresher
has been followed by thousands of those hard-
working society women who never have time to
rest from their enjoyments. Hold your face
over a basin of boiling water for five minutes,
covering the head with a towel to keep
in the steam. Then wash first in tepid, then in
clean cold water, tie a silk handkerchief over the
eyes, lie down flat on your back for twenty
minutes or half-an-hour, and you arise a new
woman, with the spine and nervous system rested,
and the tired lines gone from the face.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ At the Greek play a dressy crowd filled the best
seats and wished Euripides was a shade less long-
winded and that “ Greek roots’’learnt at school
had more bearing on his tragedy. “One touch of
nature makes the whole world kin,” and it was
delightful to see the audience smile as one, when a
mourner, as frequently happened, uttered that
well-known word “ Eheu ! ” Acting-Governor
Madden and a joint quartette of daughters and
aides gazed fondly from the balcony on the plump
posturing of son and heir Guy. Across the hall
the Bevan parents tried not to show sinful pride
in their sonny-boy as hero Admetus. White tunic,
purple mantle and chestnut beard were the strong
points of the latter’s royal array.
“ Doctor Beeper gave his classical gentry ever so
much more skirt than was indulged in by Wilson
Barrett or Julius Knight in similar rbles. Claudian
and Marcus Superbus, you remember, affected
thrillingly brief kilts and undressed their legs in
the Highland manner. But the Trinity collegians
wore nice, decent petticoats to the knee and from
that downwards, clean white stockings. Elastic-
side prunella boots would have just put the lacking
touch of perfect propriety to the picture. Nothing
pleases some people. A girl in the audience that
night complained that the rear-view of ‘poor Mr.
Bevan’s tunic was just horrid, exactly like a night-
shirt.’ Come to think of it, it had rather a down-
tailed, betwixt-and-between air of the archaism
referred to. Most of the clothes were made by a
clever lady-sympathiser. Among her few failures
were those green (baize) decollete blouses and
three-quarter-length skirts to match, worn by a
brace of lie-attendants, topped by smoothly-parted
unclassic heads of hair, and freshened up,by white
Stockings down under.
“ A new chapter of the Deeming horror is Kate
Rounsevell’s appeal from Scotland to Melb. police
authorities for valuable love-tokens given to her,
in dear old Australian days, by her scaffolded
sweetheart. Local paragraphists wonder at the
heroine’s hankering after what was virtually the
price paid for the pleasure of killing her by her
would-be murderer. A Melb. girl who, during
the Deeming trial, chanced to chum-up unknow-
ingly in a railway-carriage with the heroine of the
hour, is less surprised at the fair exile’s hard-
heartedness.
“ That day, says her late travelling companion,
La Belle Kate vvas radiant in the best of navy-
blue cashmere and satin, plumed picture hat of
bridal white felt, gold-topped parasol and spick-
and-span gloves and boots. This was to have
been her ‘going-away ’ attire, so she explained,
when breaking the news of her identity. Her
fellow-traveller, nervous after influenza, hopped
off the Deeming topio every time, like a cat
on hot bricks, only to be determinedly dragged
back again by the gruesome prattler. ‘ The handle
of your fruit-knife reminds me of one he’s got,
she would say, ‘but his is as sharp as a razor, and
such a big blade.’ Shuddering listener tried to
seem grateful when her new acquaintance pro-
mised her ‘one of his autograph poems.’ This
literary gem, it seems, began ‘ Oh, Kitty, dear,
and did you hear the news that’s going round ? ’ to
be sung to the tune of ‘ The Wearin’o’ the Green.’
Miss Rounsevell also extolled herself highly in
conversation, because, so she said, she had never
treated her sometime fiance to a kiss, though, she
added, many a ‘society girl ’ would have willingly
linked her fate with his, even in the condemned
cell. At this time the arch-murderer’s mash was
a comely girl with a flawless rose-leaf complexion.
Her weak point, facially speaking, was a bare
build of forehead, her hair growing scantily on the
temples in spite of a fringe at the same time
touzled and weedy.
“ Monday, June 20, Pattie Browne and Frank
Mac Vicars took a cup of tea at the Austral
Salon. The former looked pale, pretty, and
bright-haired in greycoat and skirt, cream brocade
facings and revers, and cornflower-blue hat. Her
escort scored heavily as a typical Scot of the
auburn type—you know ‘ Macs ’ are all either red
or black. Anyhow, off the boards 1 the lang
elder’ is big, raw-boned, blue-eyed, caller-com-
plexioned and govvden-curled. * Wha wadna
follow the Taminas Whamond ? ’
“By the way, the Little Minister’s stage
coiffure, like Babbie’s, is ‘ ginger for pluck.’ At
the Salon that afternoon, winsome Hilda Frazer,
of the Kemble co. gave a comic Caledonian reci-
tation called ‘ M-m-m-ph ! ’ Eh, mon ! aren’t we
all getting Scotch ? Miss Frazer, you remember,
is the daughter of a local Presbyterian shepherd.
She looks just as sweet and almost as pretty as in
her skittish school-days when she reckoned up her
Scotch victims by scores.
“ A bike-prohibition clause in theatrical engage-
ments has been on the list of things inevitable for
months past. Manager Lemmone nearly suffered
an accident to the successful Hambourg season
when younger brother Jakoff ‘ coasted ’ against a
snag and damaged his valuable arm. Since then
the Firm has actually lost money, no doubt, through
the upsets of Mr. Bert and Mrs. Ada Reeve
Gilbert, and henceforth any valuable performer
who gets hurled violently from any breed of
‘wheel’will sustain a compound fracture of the
contract in any case.
“ Re that accident to a widely-esteemea widow
thrown from her horse t’other day : life-long ad-
mirers almost regard the mishap as a providential
intervention to check their favorite in a new and
mistaken course. For long enough, she has been
prized as a rare relic pf the nearly-extinct type of
staid, motherly matron, almost superseded in
sassiety’s topmost layer by the biking, shooting,
capless grandmother. Considering all things, 16
did come as a shock to read of one’s ideal society-
leader, barely out of her year of widowhood, riding
to the hunt and carrying off the brush, especially
as during her married life she never exactly posed
as a sport. Not that the broken bones are the
direct result of horsey recklessness. A quiet
family ride served, strange to say, as the instru-
ment of Fate.
“ A Melbourne penstress devotes about six
inches of reading* matter to an awful exposure of a
Bulletin error re the title of the first Baronet
Clarke’s widow. The Bulletin didn’t consult its
red morocco-bound volume of Burke and Debrett
ere presuming to state that William’s decease
left his Lady Clarke with the same name as be-
fore. Circumstances over which she had no con-
trol have enforced the distinction of the Christian
name upon the amiable lady, it seems. Burke
and Debrett leave no room for doubt. Had
widowed Lady C. been the mother, or grand-
mother, of the new bart, or were he a bachelor
she might have continued to enjoy the old form of
address, but being the step-mother of her late hus-
band’s heir, she has become Janet, Lady Clarke.
This form, says authority Burke, is ‘imperative."’
The penalty of disputing an ‘imperative’ social title
is .£5, or a month, perhaps. It will be safest to
give all widowed stepmothers their Christian
names for the future. So look out for such items
as ‘ Eliza Mrs. Jones looked nice in launder and
black.’
“Nowadays, the ‘nicest’ children Wear their
hair ‘ well-braided and neat ’ like Gilpin’s cloak.
The touzled mop framing the face has gone down
in the world. Nursery tots, at present, are per-
mitted a single row of clustering English curls,
too short to hang into the eyes. Senior lasses band
their smooth, silky tresses with a yellow fillet, and
all together, the tiny maiden of to-day may hope
to grow up with a better head of hair than her
predecessor of the period when the very infants
wore their scanty scalp down in nightly ‘ pins ’
and nurselings of both sexes were more inured to
curling-tongs than to soap.
I arson Fitehett is called ‘ papa ’ at his college
by all tlie inmates and is much esteemed by them
Not long ago a girl who had just come from there
was telling me all about ‘ papa,’ whom I imagined
e “ er^a,^ ier - As the latter is a dairyman with
401.) cows I wondered how he found time to
write, read, teach, supervise and pray, and, when
of/™LT’d, my fl ' iend Baid ! ' ° h ’ you ’ re thinkin S
“ A young Melb. matron, who went poultry-
mad for a while, invested all her substance in a
chicken-farm, and devoted herself, body and soul
house and home, to the craze. She even made
room in her neglected piano for a choice clutch or
two, and was absolutely violent to an unsuspecting
pul-friend who, starting* to strum, drove the
brooders to such frenzied flapping, fluttering and
cackling, that before they could calm themselves
all their prize eggs were addled.
“A young Melb. sassiety matron, meditating
some alterations in the family mansion, had in a
well-known and rather rugged contractor to make
estimates. In the course of his measurements he
came to a small, luxuriously - fitted bedroom,
which he said would have to go. “Oh, Mr,
Plaster, this can’t go. It’s my brother-in-law’s
room. He is a bachelor, you know, and so par-
ticular ! ” “Can’t abide bachelors, mum.” “Not
like bachelors, Mr. Plaster? Why, they’re ever
so much nicer than married men.” “Maybe,
mam ; but when yer sees a marrid man yer knows
the woman as belongs to ’im, but when yer sees a
bachelor yer danged if yer know who she is ! ” He
didn’t get the job.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
■5?
saw
CIGARETTES.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners.will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Anagram. Federation: “ One fat Reid.”
On July 3rd Dean Cowper, Sydney-born,
will enter upon his 89th year.
Sunday, June 26, was the 37th anniversary
of the deaths of Burke and Wills, the explorers.
There are two N.S.W. ex-Attorney-
Generals who do not claim silk —B. R. Wise and
G. H. Reid.
The N.S.W. anti-Federalists are led by
Want and Necessity. Reid is Necessity, for
‘ Necessity knows no law.”
(( The father of the Federal leader—
“ Toby ” Barton —was a Bluecoat boy, and Toby
is the tenth in a family of eleven.
The two oldest medical practitioners in
Sydney are Dr. Hansard, (1839) of Burwood and
Dr. R. D. Ward (1842) of North Sydney.
June 15 was the 55th anniversary of the
first general election in N.S.W. Only one of the
then elected is now alive—Charles Nicholson,
resident in London.
Forrest, the Westralian, is now the only
non-lawyer Premier in Australia. Byrnes, Reid
Kingston are barristers and Turner a solicitor.
And Forreßt is wobbling on his perch.
Attorney-General Isaacs—who, it is said,
ia retained for the R.C. Church in the Crotty will-
case—attended the consecration of St. Patrick's,
and was charmed with Cardinal Moran’s sermon.
The strain of the Federation struggle has
temporarily proved too much for Argus editor
Willoughby, who is ordered complete rest and
ohange, but is at present too unwell even to leave
his home.
ANSWER—ASK J. WANT.
“You're going to vote FOR the Bill, aren't you?”
“Yes, I’m for it. I don’t want those other bloomin’
rotten colonies joinin’ in tho’. Why don’t
New South Wales federate on its own?”
Significant of the depth of the unrest in
the gold-rusher that among the first men to leave
Westralia for Klondyke was “ Bob ” Martin, who
had not so long before brought in the 400 oz.
Monarch nugget.
Bishop Reunion, lately of Adelaide, has
scandalised some of the ancients of Bath and
Wells by making his diocesan visitation on a bike,
and remarking that, for the first time, he had
found gaiters an advantage.
Despite the dispute with Premier Kingston
over the Harrold Bros, case, it is said that Insol-
vency Commissioner J. G. Russell is a “dead
bird” for next S.A. Supreme Court Judgeship.
Federal ambitions put Symon, Q.C., out of the
running.
H. : I anticipate that Victor Daley’s book
of poetry—it is poetry—will be the first successful
Australian one of the cosmopolitan type. An
Australian poet has as much right as any other to
appeal universally— to be, if he can, a Shelley
rather than a Burns.
A well-advertised Australian “ explorer ”
has not. yet paid the man, an ex- Argus scribe,
who wrote his (the “ explorer’s ”) last book. That
book is the best that the great “ explorer ” ever
brought out, which is not bestowing on the
Aegus man all the praise his work deserves.
“Melb. Mac.”: Thu Bulletin’s convenient
way of sticking an official handle in front is catch-
ing on. The headline “ Mayor Shoppee’s Candi-
dature ” appeared recently in Melb. Age, which
would formerly have laboriously captioned “ Can-
didature of Mr. Shoppee, Mayor of Ballarat.”
Leslie Thomson, the sick Little Minister
(he has been crippled with rheumatism at Menzies*
hotel ever since he arrived in Melbourne), and
Leslie Thomson, the painter of the picture
“Summer” in N.S.W. National Gallery, are
first cousins. Artist L.T. belongs to the Glasgow
school of painting. His strong point is a Dutch
fidelity to detail and careful observation in land-
scape.
Dear Bulletin. —Can any of your readers
say what became of Frederick Vern, who was
third in command at Eureka Stockade, and who
was afterwards chairman of the Local Court or
Mining Board at Forbes in 1862 ? I saw him last
on the Macquarie River in '64. He was a very
old friend of mine, and one of the best fellows I
ever met.—W. E. Harcourt, MooneePonds. Vic
24/6/ ’9B.
Significant that eight years ago it was Pre-
inier Parkes who was selected to Jay the founda-
tion-stone of the Trades Hall at Broken Hill, and
that now (the building not Inn ing been proceeded
with before) Ben Tillett does the same job—the
first of the kind, he says, that he has undertaken.
The father of ex-Premier Bryan O’Loghlen
(Vic.), who turned his 70th birthday, last week,
was the first Roman Catholic to receive, through
the provisions of the Catholic Emancipation Act,
a judicial appointment under the British Crown,
lheold Bart, was appointed Master of the Rolls
in Dublin.
More Goat-Gorgeousness ! From a Broken
Hill paper:—
D Sr°?7f ner: L ' H - M - AVERY, P.M.U.G.L., N.S.W. :
P.M.M.M.M.G.M.L., N.S.W. ; Pres. 8.8.G.M.L., N.S.W.:
Z.5.G.0., N.S.W. ; G.5.8.5.G.0., N.S.W.
Man of Letters ” with a vengeance !
Mrs. Morwitch, an old Scone (N.S.W.)
identity who was buried a few weeks ago in
the Jewish portion of Kalgoorlie (W. A.) cemetery,
attended the opening of that cemetery, and ex-
pressed the hope that she would not be the first to
find a grave there. She was the first Jewess, it so
happened, to take a plot.
Miss Clara Fielding is stated by Yic. rail-
way authorities to be the most capable contractor
for the removal of gate-houses with whom they
have ever dealt. She has a first-class equipment
of teams, cranes, jinkers, and screwjacks, all
belonging to her own presumably pretty self. An
ideal wife for a Tired man !
Among the valuable papers, the produc-
tions of local authors, outlined to be read at the
lay and clerical congress with which Cardinal
Moran proposes to close the century in Sydney,
one, which has already • been enthusiastically
begun, is, according to repute, entitled, “What
Brewers have done for Christianity.”
The many correspondents of Premier
Kingston who have suffered in their intellects
through trying to decipher his handwriting are sub-
scribing to buy him a type-writer. President
Chaffey Baker, M.L.C, is, however, absolutely the
worst caligraphist in S.A., ex-Attorney-General
Henry Downer running him close.
Queensland Assembly habitues will miss
Nelson and Tozer this session. Nelson’s irritating
cough, when some member on the other side was
trying to convince him of his iniquities, and
lozer s dramatic gesticulations and amazing self-
contradictions, when bowled out by one of the
Labor men, did much to liven things up.
A mounted-rifle corps is being formed at
Charters Towers, Q. The greatest enthusiast
and captain-elect is an ex-sailor, whose knowledge
of equitation is limited, but who boasts that as he
was trained to ride a spanker boom in a gale of
wind, he'll “bet no blooming horse can throw
him. The first parade is eagerly awaited.
Burne-Jones, head-master of the British
“ greenery-yallery ” school of art, died last week.
He was a fine, dreamy painter, and his female
creations had the longest idyllic legs of any women
m the canvas world. The Bulletin has some-
times dreamt, over a pipe, that the kingdom of
Heaven must be like unto a Burne-Jones ballet.
President Richard Chaffey Baker (S.A.)
was 56, and Premier Richard Seddon 53, on
Wednesday, June 22. Premier Kingston, who is a
great admirer of the second Richard, telegraphed
congratulations to Maoriland, but it is to be
feared that he did not send a messenger across
the road with birthday wishes to the other fellow.
Recently-deceased John Gibb, of Ballarat,
was a pioneer of 40 years ago, and, starting as a
millwright, worked his way up to the head of a
big manufacturing business. He was an import-
ant factor in Ballarat’s industrial progress, and
was besides a good fellow and a universal
favorite. Yet Ballarat Courier, after solemnly
recording the drowning of one of the wallabies
intended for Queen .Victoria, passes Gibb out with
the mere formal intimation that he has been duly
“planted.” J
Mr. F. E. Rogers, Q.C., has been once
more moved from N.S.W. Supreme Court to the
District Court Bench. The Reid Govt., in
shuffling Judges and barristers like cards off and
on to the Bench and up and down from major to
minor, is, probably without meaning it, demon-
strating that there should be no such difference
between the functions of the two Benches as the
present law-forms maintain, or between the
capacities and abilities of the occupants of the
Benches as their fixed salaries and pensions indi-
cate.
Broadhurst, the
Sydney Q.C., used,
retirement from practice,
old-time
after his
to attend
the courts pretty regularly as an onlooker. And,
as often as not, he would fall asleep. Once, when
Darvall was addressing the Full Court in an
appeal case, the old man awoke with a start and
cried out, “ Your Honors will find the case in ”
Then he paused, rubbed his eyes, and exclaimed,
“ God ! the ruling passion strong in sleep ! I beg
your Honors’ pardon. I dreamed that—er—yes—
humph,” and off he toddled to get a glass of
brandy-and-water.
These grand old veter-
ans are grand old liars, as
Snazolle observes in his intro-
duction to Bill Adams. A
London D.T. notice of the
death of Henry Greenwood,
at Hampstead Workhouse In-
firmary, stated that the aged
pauper, who had undoubtedly
been a London figure in the
ornamental pearl trade 60 years
ago, was Mayor of Ballarat
during his subsequent adven-
turous career. Greenwood pro-
bably persuaded himself and
the workhouse world in general
that he was an ex-Mayor of
Ballarat. But it seems that
he left the golden city before
it had a municipal govern-
ment. On the diggings,
Greenwood was merely a sly-
grogsman disguised as watch-
maker and jeweller. Harry
Josephs, J.P., remembers him
for the comparative grandeur
of his tent, wherein he dis-
pensed illicit brandy and cul-
tivated the taste for liquor
which finally brought him to
grief.
Told of a deceased Yic.
Supreme Court Judge—notori-
ously fond of the petticoat—
that on one occasion his asso-
ciate, happening to surprise his
Honor in dalliance with a dame
not remarkable for good looks,
was fain to beat a hasty retreat.
Shortly afterwards, as the asso-
ciate was walking down street
deep in thought, his Honor
met him. “ Ah. Mr. ,”
saidthegiddy old chap, “what,
may I ask, are you thinking
about so earnestly ? ” The as-
sociate looked up. “Why, your
Honor, I was thinking that it
was strange such an excellent
Judge should have such bad taste.”
Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart, who cele-
brated the “diamond jubilee” of his priesthood
on June 9, was born in “ swate Kildare ” 83 years
ago, on Waterloo day ; graduated at Maynooth ;
had charge of an Indian college at Mutiny time,
and ostentatiously stacked a heap of borrowed
rifles on the balcony of aforesaid college in-
order to bluff the benighted heathen. The Arch-
bishop read the burial service over Dan O’Connell
at Genoa. A man cannot have been 60 years a
priest without having a good many close shaves ;
but the closest shave the venerable prelate had
was 'When he just missed sailing from England in
the ill-fated London.
Melb. : “Tom Monahan’s will comes up
again on a side-issue. He was a groom and
public-house knock-about man, in this city, over
half-a-century ago. Contrary to the usual, he
saved money, and got the site at the N.W. corner
of Swanston-street and Flinders-lane, where he
built the Queen’s Arms, still bearing his. name at
the top. As a good Catholic he had the satisfac-
tion of making the kitchen of the establishment
out of the first Wesleyan Church or Sunday-
school built in Melb. Up to his last illness he
took a plunge in the ocean, at Hegarty’s Baths,
St. Kilda, first thing every morning.”
Leslie Stephen Dudley, the soap-and-Sal-
vation apostle who got gaoled in Melb. the other
day for a fortnight—having refused to pay the
fine inflicted—for preaching in Bourke-street and
soliciting subscriptions for soap, runs a relief
institute in N. Melb., one of whose quaint regula-
tions is that all persons relieved shall wash them-
selves before going away. Charity can be very
cruel when it chooses. Strange to state, however,
L.S.D.’s establishment is well patronised by the
vags. of the city, who look upon soap as an epi-
dermic poison. Perhaps it is the spice of danger
that attracts them ; perhaps it is the soup that
precedes the soap.
Former N.S.W. Principal Under-Secretary
Halloran used to write “poetry,” and could never
understand why it didn’t go. One day, walking
along deep in thought, a neighbor hailed him.
“ Hulloa ! Halloran. How goes it ? ” Halloran
looked up and glared. “Sir,” said he, “if it is
any satisfaction to you to know it, your rude and
vulgar salutation has lost me a
Great Thought! ”
“ FOR EVERY WHY THEY HAVE A
WHEREFORE."—Butler's “Hudibras. ”
MISS TOQUE : “It does give me the fidgets to see a
man with his hat on one side.”
MISS SPOTS: “ Oh, then can't help it—it’s their heads
that aren't level.”
Singer Madame Alva, whom John Lem-
mone has brought out, is married to an old Cock-
ney journalist, St. John Brennan. He was a
violent Irish patriot in the Fenian era, and, since
then, drifted into Tory society journalism. He
edited the defunct Piccadilly, and brought an
action against its aristocratic proprietors for re-
covery of arrears of salary. Brennan floats on
that semi-Bohemian lagoon that divides perpetual
hardupishness from the “hupper suckles,” and
has a varied experience of the journalism that per-
tains to that domain.
STICKING OUT A MILE.
MR. DOOGOOD : “And where does your father work, sonny?”
SONNY: “He don’t do work at all—he’s a perleeceman !”
James Thomson, who represented the for-
gotten electorate of St. Vincent in the first N.S.W.
Responsible Parliament, 1856, was banqueted the
other day in Shoalhaven. The ex-politician, now
in his 66th year, talks of those as the days of the
giants. He and W. B. Dailey began their political
careers together, being about the same age, and,
in the opinion of many, of equal abilities.
Parkes’ prophecies and observations about
Reid, at the time when the latter jockeyed the old
man out of the leadership, are being bandied
about at present. How wrathful the old warrior
was when the choice of N.S.W. Freetrade party be-
came known ! Reid, always a thorn in, as well as
on, the Freetrade side, was the last man expected
to be selected. Parkes’ fury was boundless. “If
they wanted another captain, there was no neces-
sity to put a pir-r-r-ate in my place!” he screamed.
Some of the Melb. papers have been
giving portraits of the orators of Victoria. Pur-
porting to be instantaneous photos., they am
manifest posing and posturing. Forinstance, here
is Trenwith, in a crucificial attitude, with the
palms of his hands as if flattened against a
window-pane. All the times he has been heard in
public he has either had both hands in his breeches
pocket, or feebly paddled with the right. As for
Deakin, Burke impeaching Warren Hastings is
nowhere, but the ill-concealed grin shows it is
put-up.
Something worth hearing is Hancock,
M.L.A., at a smoke night imitating a speech of
Gov. Brassey. John has exactly caught the
wooden Excellency’s voice, and without over-
doing it he intersperses the haiangue with just the
correct numbah of um-um-um’s correctly intoned.
An apology for “ the absence of Lady Hancock as
it is um-um-um washing day ” is followed by an
appreciation of “ this glorious um-institution.
And continues Bra'sseock —“ I shall have
pleshah in assisting this um-um-um worthy
object and I will give um-um-um—l will give
um-um-um I will give—ah— my presence whenevah
it will advance its interests.” ‘ The realistic touch
of Brassey giving his—ah—presence fetches the
crowd every time.
Some Melbourne pressmen actually run
to broad-cloth and bell-topper ! ! Two seen in the
law courts in connection with recent libel actions
were tailored to the last degree. Full froekeoats,
fancy vests and brilliant silk hats ! The jury
absolutely stared when one of these mounted the
witness-stand and swore to being a journalist.
How times do change ! It makes a man think of
the good old Sydney E. News days, when the
deputy market-reporter, who had just had a
smoked pig’s-head presented to him by a grateful
produce-dealer and was walking home in triumph,
heard behind him stealthy footsteps and took to
his heels : he thought that another member of the
staff was stalking him, in quest of half that pig’s
head.
District Court Judge Murray, who has
received charge of the Royal Commission to
inquire into the criminal accusations of Levien,
M.P., against Sleath and Ferguson, Ms.P., takes
top place among N.S.W. public men for the
number of special Government commissions en-
trusted to him. A few of his late prominent
appointments were Local Government Commis-
sioner, Commissioner for dividing the Electorates,
Commissioner for reviewing appeals under Land
Tax Assessments, and Commissioner to inquire
into the charges of Varney Parkes against the
administration of the Public Works Department.
He is a graduate of Sydney University, a mathe-
matician rather than a rhetorician, and pains-
taking over minute details.
Perth (W.A.) is laughing long and loud at
Vosper, the hirsute vaporer of Kanowna. This
modern Absolom is now running the Sunday
Times (started last year by Edward Ellis, late of
Sydneyside), and the other day his paper pub-
lished a “pome” bearing the harmless, unob-
trusive title of “A Fireside Reverie.” An ob-
servant scribe on Perth News next day pointed
out to that sleepy city that the “pome” was
really a rather clever single acrostic—the first
letter of each line forming the uncomplimentary
sentence—
F. C. B. VOSPER IS AN APE !
The office of the Sunday Times is still redolent of
sulphur and burnt hair.


“ THREE GOOD THIWGS ”
Madh is England.
Holbrook’s Worcestershire
Holbrook’s Pure English
Holbrook’s Pure Malt
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES I
Holbrook's Pickles AEE
SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook's Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN,
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.
AND
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
fip miltei cocoa.
0^
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt,
Aboriginalities.
‘ 4 Yarrum ” : The other Saturday a young
half-caste, carrying a sugar-bag containing several
dozen oysters, was half-way across Minamurra
(N.S.W.) bridge when a fast milk-train suddenly
came along from the opposite direction. The
darkie had either to jump 95ft. into the river or be
mangled. He jumped,.and swam a hundred yards
to a point, where, in an exhausted state, he landed
with the oysters. A fellow never knows what he
can do until he has to.
• * * *
Great commotion in Central Q. chemist’a
shop. Yells and smashing of glass. Bullocky
bolts wildly out of shop, with dental instrument
hanging out of mouth. Chemist in hot pursuit,
catches him in middle of road, trips him up, falls
on him, digs knee in chest. Grasps instrument,
grinds it in and jerks out ancient molar amid the
plaudits of crowd and blasphemy of subject.
* * » *
“ Yarrum ” : A friend of mine on tho
South Coast (N.S.W.), an alderman, suffered
much some years ago from indigestion. One
day he noticed a horse rolling, and, being
a thinking man, he concluded that the animal
was perhaps assisting digestion —as it had
just had a big feed. Every evening, after
dinner, since then he (the alderman) has
rolled, and is now the healthiest man about town.
He gets at it in the backyard; and in the
“altogether,” as clothes hinder the movements.
•‘Let a man,” he says, “eat pollard and roll
plenty, and he’ll be full of health.”
* • • •
Scene—Durham Downs shearers' camp.
Usual subject—Gins. Shearer No. 1: “Nin-
pinya is a lot the best gin.” Shearer No. 2 : “She
might be the best to look at; but you can’t beat
Bullocky milky to talk to !"
.* * * •
“Mallee” : Turkey-shooting is a precarious
institution. Writer once went out with a friend
in a sulky to bag that guileless bird. We spotted
a hatter on a big plain, and, after circling round
him, got within range and I potted it. At the
sound of the gun our horse bolted ; we were get-
ting to an ugly belt of timber, when Bill, who was
hanging on all he knew, yelled, “ No good, I can’t
hold him—shoot him !” I shot him just behind
the ear, but we didn’t allow for the unanimous
way he’d stop, and, when I picked myself up a
few chains ahead, I was minus pants and half an
eyebrow. After emptying the grass and saltbush
out of my mouth, I cooeeyed for Bill. I heard a
polyglot row in a tree a few yards away, and found
him jammed sideways in a fork, head and feet on
one side, and —well, he was close to “the alto-
gether.” I levered him out with a forked stick,
and his language didn’t show unqualified approval
of the method. We ripped a chaS-bag we had in
the sulky in two, took half each, cut holes to put
our legs through, and secured the slack round our
waists with the reins. We didn’t go back for the
turkey ; and, the whole six-mile tramp home, Bill
varied the monotony of cursing his brother —who
had “ run ” us that the horse was broken to the
gun—by discussing the possibilities of sneaking in
the back way so that the dogs wouldn’t set on us.
* * • *
More wallaby-track :
The swaggie who never looks for graft, but travels
on the “ game,” is to be met with everywhere in N.S.W.
After he has successfully “touched” you for tobacco
you may chance to see his swag open on the ground and
containing perhaps hundreds of small pieces of “ weed ”
similarly “ cadged.” Sometimes he will offer to sell you
a pound or so of the collection. Came across one of these
old “ river-bend campers” once on r> creek near Bunda-
"PAASING IN HIS CHECKS.”
berg, Q. He was Ashing with a stick, a strip of green-
hide, and a bent pin. Had caught a dozen small Ash of
the mullet species, too. Assured me he had thus existed
for three weeks, being stone-broke and in a place where
you can't cadge. Knew another of the tribe one Sunday
to get some Aour and plums from a station, make a
“ pudding ” in an old bag, cut off half a leg of his
moleskins, and boil the pudding in it with the ends tied
up. The half-leg was afterwards washed in the pudding-
water and sewn on again to be worn.
• * * *
The Old ’Un : Re use of kangaroo-tail. It
seems to me to act as a sort of rudder, because I
have often noticed that when moving sharply the
creature brings its tail to the ground with a smart
thud. Another use. On Broken River once, a
half-bred greyhound of mine was ohasing a big
’roo down a hill and made a dart for the root of
his tail. The kangaroo turned, and the swing of
the tail caught the dog in his ribs and knocked
him over. The beast got away for the time; but
looking over the river-bank, I saw the old chap up
to his shoulders in the water with his head pushed
under the bank. I had a light axe with me.
Leaned over to knock him on the head, but when
he turned his eyes upon me I couldn’t strike. He
was crying like a child, and if ever there was
piteous appeal expressed in a creature’s eyes it
was then. I have never hunted kangaroos from
that day. Which may be sentiment, but is fact.
* * ♦ *
The average bushman is full of strange
oaths, and takes it for granted that all the rest of
the world has the same cuss-vocabulary as him-
self. A far Western station, where the daily
outlook is pine-ridges, belts of mallee, mulga, red
sand and crows, was run by a bachelor squatter,
whilst the nearest station, 25 miles distant, was
blessed by the soothing influence of matrimony.
The eldest daughter of the latter establishment
and the governess, lady-like girls who would cer-
tainly never use a big, big D under any pressure,
one day drove over to call on the bachelor bull-
raiser and borrow a few stores. On their way
back, just as they left the station, they took a
wrong turning. This was noticed by old Sam,
the stockman, and, jumping on his horse, he made
after the buggy, explained their mistake, and set
the visitors on the right road home. The boss
was at the stock-yard, and Sam mentioned the
circumstance to him. “By Jove, Sam 1 it was
INTEREST VERSUS INTELLECT .
MR. MONKEYSHAVE: “Bless my soul, sir, die that bull toss you over that fence?
Astonishing!”
MR. DONTCHERKNOW : “ Now, my good fellow, do you think for a moment I tossed that
beastly bull over that fence?”
mcky you saw them. I wonder what they would
have done if they had kept going ? ” Sam gave
his opinion. “ Well, I suppose,” he said, “they
would have got as far as the Eight-mile gate, and
then they would have known they were wrong,
and then Miss Flo would look and say, ‘ By G—,
here’s a pretty blanky go ; we’ve took the wrong
blanky road, and now I suppose we shall have to
travel the whole blanky way back again.’ ” And
Sam walked off to the men’s hut, with his saddle
on his head, quite convinced that he knew ex-
actly what a lady would say under the ciroum-
stanoes.
* * * *
“ Ponte,” to Thb Bulletin :
Your portrait of “ Scotty ” has intensified a long-felt
doubt. I met six of him on the Murrumbidgee, but none
bore any physical resemblance to your photo. The first
one lived in a tumble-down hut that had once been the
station dairy. He made up dam measurements “and
settery,” and was kept in flour and tea. He fished and
shot the remainder of his provender, and I remember
that he held mountain crow to be the “gamiest” of all
game—far ahead of woodcock or grouse. Blue crane was
a common dish, and on several occasions that I dined with
him I got rid of my dinner on learning what had formed
the basis of his inimitable ragouts. He was a 0.E., and
spent his time working out a set of logarithms. It was
only during his quarterly burst that he disclosed his
Identity with “ Scotty.” The next one was flourishing a
oopy of Thb Bdllrtin when I saw him, and in the act of
consigning the whole staff to the uttermost depths of the
lowest inferno, because of some alteration in his “copy.”
The sub. had tried to bring the story to the level of the
ordinary reader, and even then it was as mysterious and
intangible as “ Scotty’s ” personality. When I met the
sixth I concluded that “ Scotty ” was as composite as the
editorial “ We,” and I cannot but doubt that you have
been imposed on as well. Till I meet him in the flesh,
and have him audited and certified to, and his correctness
vouohed for by unimpeachable witnesses, he is a vague
entity to yours£truly.
* * * *
E.M. : Safe way of dingo - stiffening.
Poison a marrow-bone and hang on limb in
locality frequented, with sheets of bark spread
beneath. The heat melts the marrow, which
drips on bark, whence it is licked by the dogs.
Another way : Use the paw of a dog to scratch a
hole and plant therein poisoned meat, scratching
dirt back again with paw. Dingo smells paw-
marks, and thinking he has sprung a fellow-
robber’s plant, gobbles the stuff without hesi-
tation.
» * * *
“ Queenslander ” : In the second number
of the new magazine, the Wide Would, there is
an article, by M. L. Lindsay, on “ Tree-blazing.”
M. L. Lmdsay accompanied his brother on the
luckless Elder expedition. The paper is illustra-
tive of that heroic struggle through the pathless
waste, and contains photos, (and good ones, too)
of trees marked by different explorers met with
by the gallant band. Naturally, the place of
honor is given to a tree marked by D. Lindsay, at
an early stage of the journey. The literary part
of the article is so amusingly ingenuous that it
might have come from the pen of the Rev. Mr.
Barlow, of “ Sandford and Merton ” fame. The
argument seems to be that explorers, in what is
called “ the awful wilderness,” mark trees so that
the next explorer who comes along may know that
there’s water about. Of course, if there isn't any
water at the time of year when explorers 2,3, 4
and 5 come along, they are likely to die “a hor-
rible death.” How the first explorer gets along
without any marked trees is not stated. Extracts
from the journal are given, showing the terrible
fate overhanging the party when their boots wore
out and the soap ran short. Here is one remark :
Of course, it need hardly be said that the head of an
expedition of this kind needs to be a born leader of men,
so great are the difficulties to be overcome.
Then there is an extract showing some of these
great difficulties : “ Had to tar some of the camels
for mange.” “Soled my own boots with green-
hide.” These are termed “ typical notes from
the journal ” of the born leader of men. Here
are some Lindsay-journal extracts not quoted in
the magazine article:
Friday, November 20 —Camp 85. —At seven miles we
oame to a paddock (post and wire-fence) in which was
(sicj two stone tanks with water and some horses. As
the gate was locked with a pair of handcuffs I concluded
it was a police-paddock, and that a township could not
be far off.
Another:
Monday, November 23. —We then went out into the
street and walked up to the next store, where an account
had to be settled. I saw that everybody was mounted,
and asked them if they were right, to which Mr. Leech
replied: “Yes; we are all right.” I mounted, and,
amidst the cheers of the assembled crowd, I took my
place at the head of the caravan, and we moved off along
the road towards Golden Valley or Knutsford.
How’s that for high? The awful wilderness and
the pathless waste!
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Be what dingoes will
venture. I have seen them run a Chinaman shep-
herd from the sheep-yard into the hut. It was
during a severe winter in the coldest part of New
England. Also, I have known them, in broad
day, rush a mob of 2000 travelling sheep ; myself
and Buchanan, of Warring station, having some
difficulty in driving them off. This was near
Pallamallawa, on the Big River, and can be
amply corroborated. —Harry Heney.
* » » *
“Scotty the Wrinkler ” : Your “Un-
deserving Poor” was anticipated by me in a
lecture given to two idiots who worked the sheep
on a Castlereagh station. They had a constant
job, and cursed the drink when my mates and I
got on the tangle and left them to do double and
treble the work. They were both prayerful
youths, and by fair argument I got the younger
and greater driveller to insert a petition “Send
down lots of beer and grog, because without them
Ben and I would get the awful sack, and men
like Dubbo and Scotty would be put on.” His
prayer up to date has been answered.
* * * •
“ E.S.S.” on some way-back incidents:—
The most pitiable object I ever met on the track was a
lad of 14, staggering under a bundle as big as himself,
with a jam-tin for a “ billy.” He’d been working for a
selector, at Bs. a week, for three weeks, when the bene-
volent cockie professed to knock off 35., on the plea of
insufficient payable work to keep him going. But the
little chap didn't see it, and took to the "track. I smiled
when he asked the distance to the next place—“ makings
of a good battler,” I thought—and “ what sort of a bloke
was the storekeeper?” Another pathetio sight was an
old woman, bending under a bran-bag half-full of indis-
pensables. Had on a pair of heavy bluchers, a felt hat,
black skirt, and a blue dungaree jacket.. Had been house
keeping at an out-of-the-way squatter’s place, and had
quarrelled with her mistress. Her husband and 15-year-
old daughter were rouseabout and nurse respectively on
a station 190 miles further south. “ Maybe we’ll be able
to live together now,” she said. “ We’re better off ’an we
were a year ago.” Then she pulled out an old black pipe.
“Can ye spare me a bit o’ baccy, mate?” Same day, I
met a full-blooded aborigine, with three gaudily-
dressed gins, in a spring-cart drawn by two horses,
with about 60 dogs following. The turnout was his
own private property, bought with the savings
of his wages. He was going to Yalpunga races.
I have frequently met black and half-caste couples riding,
gins with side-saddle, habit and all complete, and-driving
pack horses. Ahead of and behind them, ragged white
men humping bluey. . . . Saw a notable couple once on
the road from Milparinka to Wilcannia. A burlv, six-
foot man and a chubby girl of 14, who carried the billy
and water-bag. She was the man’s wife , and she had left
a baby with her mother in Tibooburra. They were look-
ing for a job. . . . On the Barcoo once met a Chinaman
in quest of a cooking job. The sole of an old boot was
lashed with greenhide and string to each foot. Carried
the customary “ jonkin,” or bamboo, on his. shoulder,
with swag dangling one end and tucker-bag and camp-
ware from other. Putting his load down, he said, “ You
savee Tambo?” “Yes.” “ How mnehee far—how
long?” “Oh, 20 mile yet.” “Oelise!” He picked up
his load again and went off at a great bat. . . . The most
ludicrous spectacle I ever saw on the track was on a road
west of Bourke. A city youth, not yet tanned, in long-
tail coat, hard-hitter and canvas shoes ; a carpet-bag and
gingham in one hand, and tin-whistle in the other. He
was turning round as on a pivot, and playing to a mob of
cows that were running after him. Seeing me, he
pocketed the “ music” and grinned, lie didn’t want to
know anything about roads or rations. Wasn’t even look-
ing for a “job,” but —“remunerative employment!”
Casually inquired what street I called this—the Milparink .
IN “PUSH" SOCIETY.-SAME THIN[?]
THE DONAH: “How is it I never see yer knock[?]
round with Kitty now? Hev yer chucked
her?”
THE LAD: “ Naw; married her!”
road 1 Also asked, “What’s the price o’bed and meals
’ere ? ” 1 told him best thing he could do was to play
“ I’m for slitherin’ back to town,” and slither. . . . I once
met an old fellow pounding along with a gingham over
his head, a fly-veil over his face, and a water-bag in his
hand and behind him a big, powerful dog loaded witli
swag and etceteras. This dog would bring wood in his
mouth for the fire, and fetch a billy of water from the
oreek. Good judge of a sheep, too, and would single a fat
one out of a flock in quick order, and hold it until his
boss came along. Swaggie mostly bought them in the
flock in order to practise “ Tracker.” The shepherds
greatly admired the dog, which, while the sheep was
being dressed, would scratch out a big hole, into which
he would drag the skin, head and other waste, and cover
them up. When the old chap told me he was never short
of meat I believed him.
* * * *
P.J.L.: Overthe mark ! “Don’tyouride tlu:
colt to night, lad,” mumbled the old man ; “ he’ll
do you a mischief.” “ Not ’e,” lanky Tom an-
swered ; “’e can’t shift me. Gord ! I’ll give ’im
the ’ooks if ’e starts.”
“Meet me after the dance to-night,” said
Mary to me; “I’m full up of that three-aciv
cockey ; he’s got a rat.” “ But what about him
taking you home? ” I asked. “ Oh, I’ll start rac-
ing as soon as we get out of the paddock. The
colt will bolt, and.he can’t hold him. Then we'll
go home by the creek.”
Inquest at the chief pub. next day—Tom and a
stump. Verdict: “ Accidental death.”
I always take Mary home by the creek now.
* * * *
In the good days, when sly-grog shanties
abounded “out-back,” an affable old woman, who
kept a roadside house near Bourke, was known to
do a big liquor-trade, but, despite all police efforts
to catch her, she always came out on top. Once,
two young troopers—new to the “ foorce ”—re-
solved to capture her. Disguised as shearers, with
packhorses, swags, etc., they rode up to tin;
shanty and asked if they could camp for the night.
The proprietress took them in unsuspiciously, and,
after tea, when they hinted at being thirsty, she
innocently produced several bottles of assorted
spirits, and served up drinks in style. The de-
lighted “traps,” imbibed freely, got a flask each


Messrs. John Hunter anti Son Ltd. are
doing a tremendous business with cycling shoes
made of “ kangara,” a leather which is unequalled
for wear and appearance, and looks splendid in
gentlemen’s lace and button boots and also in
ladies’and children’s boots and shoes of all descrip-
tions. “ Otto Herz,” too, is a make with which
John Hunter is holding the attention of those who
desire to be artistically shod. The American
factories are constantly watched by the firm’s
buyers, and the latest, handsomest and most
durable stock is constantly obtained for the Aus-
tralian trade. At present Mr. John Hunter is in
England; therefore Australian people may rest
assured that what is best in boots and shoos there
will be secured by “The Australian Boot King.”*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
6. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
At some recent low-tides it has been pos-
sible to walk right round the hull of the Maitland
—the Sydney-owned steamship wrecked by the
May gales, on her voyage to Newcastle, with ter-
rible loss of life. The unlucky vessel broke amid-
ships, and the accompanying photo, shows the
position of the stern-part, from which the sur-
vivors made their way ashore in the teeth of the
breakers. The inquest of the shipowners’ Marine
Board on the corpse of the ancient Maitland
resulted in the familiar act-of-God verdict. The
Bulletin is glad to notice, by the way, that Pre-
mier Reid has definitely promised that the
fossilised and discredited Marine Board will
shortly be swept away, and a more impartial and
enlightened tribunal formed, as recommended by
the Public Service Commissioners.
“ Wahirini” : The Bulletin talks about
W.A. mal-adminiBtration. Did you ever hear of
the Govt, locomotive that got lost? Was left on a
siding one night and wasn’t found for months till
the man who had been using it for his own private
purposes ran it back. Did you ever hear of the
firm that consigned by rail half-a-dozen ploughs to
a customer at Geraldton, and received a letter
some time after from Singapore, stating that the
ploughs were on the wharf there? Did you ever
hear of the contractor who was twice paid his final
payment on a contraot —somewhere about £BOOO ?
You never heard of the meat-truck despatched
from Perth which was not detached from the
train till it got to Coolgardie. Nor, perhaps, do
you know the following: A consignee made a
claim on the customs for two boxes of butter
wrongly delivered, and by which his shipment was
short. “ Here,” said an official, “ take this crate
of bent-wood chairs and call it square. We can’t
find an owner for ’em.” Do you know how the
W.A. telegraphs leak all over?
“ How can two brethren, in the relative
position of lender and borrower, pray together? ”
Wesleyan.
A N.S.W. legislator declares that the
“ preju-juices ” against teetotalism are very
strong. So they are—overproof.
Bull backs down again over the Niger
by giving France various territories in return for
towns and kingdoms seized from time to time in
the face of his indignant protests. Fact seems to
be that the Britisher has bitten off more than he
can chew. His numerous protectorates and
hinterlands, with their daily fighting and dreaded
fevers, are a constant drain upon his military
strength (which is none too boastworthy) and he
is, possibly, teaching the niggers and brown men
how to use Maxims and Martinis to his own
ultimate cost.
The American Archbishops of the R.C.
Church are daily praying that their country may
wallop Spain. But, seeing that Spain put in first
claim to the Blessing of the Saints, and is dis-
tinctly under the protection of those early pietists,
the Western section of R.C. faith can’t have any
influence worth mentioning to back it up. The
Saints are now being tested for what they are
worth in a civil-war of superstition. If they don’t
turn up trumps for the Dons it will look as though
their venerable bones and other relics are played
out.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Senior,
chemist, George-street Sydney.*
SoftCaQVaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per J4-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHEUS ,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for th
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
“ for the road ” on the morrow, and retired to
dream of early promotion. When they settled
with her next day the hostess only oharged for
“ bed and feed,” and omitted the drinks. This
didn’t suit the troopers at all, so one of them re-
minded her : “ We don’t want to take you down,
missus,” he said—“ you’re forgetting to charge for
the grog.” “Oh, no," answered the old lady,
nonchalantly; “ I never charge the police for
drinks.” And the two promising young “cops”
went out into the solitude of the bush and kicked
each other heartily.
* • * •
S.S. : A Gippslander tells of the origin of
his “ rise. ” “ One day over there at the foot of the
ridge I picked up a stone to throw at my dog
who’d been chasing sheep. Spot brought the stone
back again, an’ dropped it near, an’ I picked it up
to have another shot, but saw gold glistening
where the dog had wet it with his tongue. It was
a half-ounce specimen, an’ set me hunting for the
reef. I found it in half-an-hour and, and—well
here I am.” “And the dog?” “Oh, I had to
shoot him, he was such a terror for worrying
sheep.”
* » • •
“Snell”: Sometime ago a young fellow
was tried in a Victorian town for the alleged theft
of a watch and chain, the property of his em-
ployer, a boss cockie. The case was very black
against the boy. It was shown that the owner
had hung his vest, in the pocket of which was the
watch, on a fence while felling a tree, and
that no other person but the boy had come
near the place in the interval between the
hanging-up of the vest and the disappearance
of the watch. The accused protested his
innocence, and as the watch was undis-
coverable he got the grudging benefit of the
doubt, and was told to “clear,” and be more care-
ful for the future. Some time after the boss lost
a cow under mysterious circumstances, and sent
for a vet. to hold a post-mortem. The cow was
duly opened and thoroughly inquested, and in the
course of his investigations the medical officer dis-
covered that the animal had died of pleuro. What
do you think of that ?
• * * *
A Chiltern (Vic.) vigneron was hauled be-
fore the local bench lately on a charge of hawking
wine. He was fined £2 and £2 2s. costs, and his
horse, cart, and wine-vessels were confiscated.
Hard lines on a man who was doing his humble
best to push an industry which will be the salva-
tion of Victoria sometime or other. That Chiltern
man was supplying a long-felt want. In the good
days coming, the liquor-seller will call around on
his customers as regularly as the baker or milk-
man, end supply them with beer, or wine, or rum,
or whatever other accursed drink they may re-
quire. And steady respectable citizens will leave
their jugs on their window-sills for their morning
revivers. And there will be an extensive tick-
system, and every other citizen will be genial and
stoush any of his neighbours who are not genial
and mellow. And the sun will rise every morning
in glazed-eyed glory and set with a red face of the
color of rum. And everything will be Gay.
THEO-GASTRONOMY.
MISSIONARY (to dark lady) : “Oh, how can I reach
the heart of that evil man, your husband? ”
DARK LADY (with a toothy smile): “Well, sir,
this book says that the best way to reach a
man's heart is through his stomach.”
Northern kanakas are getting squeamish
about their employers. A number of Bundaberg
“ boys ” objected, the other day, to engage them-
selves to a certain planter per medium of an agent
—they wanted to see the principal. On the
planter presenting himself, they promptly refused
to engage on the grounds, “No like ’em that
fellow-boss’s looks ! ”
POSSESSED OF A DEVIL .
THE REV. GABRIEL: “ Tut, tut! my man, this
will never do. Directly you receive your
weekly allowance you — ah—dispose of it in
the procuring of intoxicating liquors. You
must he possessed of a devil. ”
SWIPES : “ Where devilsh (hie) you meet my
wife (hie)?"
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Wilcannia: That brings us back to the old ques-
tion : How far a lawyer who knows (from his client)
of that client’s guilt is justified in carrying the defence.
Berowra : As a rule, the weak spot in the story
of Australian centenarians is the date of their landing
here. They were nearly all of them, by their own show-
ing, middle-aged persons when they decided to emigrate.
Australia, in the ’4o’s, had no attractions for the middle-
aged. V.K. : “Grass-seed” sent for illustration
Jimmie P. : Would use, but that it would be gratis advt.
for article Cherub: Horse-yarn tame A.G.W. :
Will all go in eight lines O.P. : Received. “ Ode to
Reid” as shifty as the subject Treb :Of course, the
turbaned gentleman is as anxious as the pig-tailed to keep
out competition with himself as a flourishing Australian
industry. Being-a-Chinaman is at present the best-
protected N.S.W. industry F. H. Bowman : N.S.W.
Permanent Artillery, 18 to 40, not under 68in. high, for
five years; 15s. 9d. per week; all found. Vic. and Q.,
same ; except Q., term three years .....Jaques : un-
adorned steal. We like embroidery with our thievery
J.J.H. : Ideas too evidently evolved from rhymes
B.E.T. : Painful truth, doubtless; but would need very
different treatment .... Tricks : Fight as tame as the
Spankee war A.C.T. : Corrected in this issue Rena :
Dream-within-a-dream idea often been used Darjeel-
ing : May be all true; but it’s mostly the “ Dr. Fell ”
argument that carries the point in such cases. The
white man who can’t say exactly why he detests the dingy
alien abhors him all the more for that. Case is one in
which instinct is probably a surer guide than reason
W.G.B. : Don’t care for it A.H. : No, thanks. T. :
Deeming reference won’t pass ; a guaranteed verbatim
copy of inscription might, as a tomb-curio W.P. :
Even re-written it doesn’t hit us hard enough Leich-
hardt-tree : One unknown-quantity declined .. . J.D.
(Lithgow): Good moral, bad story S.F.P. : Be com-
forted :we wrote worse at 10 J. 8.0.: “The days are
passing bye.” Yes; we fear we’ll have to dy Tohn :
Your machine minces the material, but what awful
material . J.S.C. : Not up J.J.C. : MS. returned
Girl G. : Certified insane and duly asylumed Les. Q. :
No good A. to C. : Less good G.R. : Little interest
Melb. : For years Thh Bulletin has contended that
juries ought to fix sentenoes within the legal bounds pre-
scribed by the judge, as in America. In a word that when
they say a man is guilty, they should say exactly how
guilty they estimate him to be. The late County Court
Judge Trenoh, of Ballarat and Melb., thought strongly
on this matter. He wrote much concerning it in these
columns and embodied his views in a pamphlet D.P. :
Tub Bulletin doesn’t publish “ papers." “ Paper” means
debating-society. This rag is purely oracular Lex :
Thanks ..Les. O. “R”: .Will print Geo. S. (W.A.):
Yes, if the theatrical stuff is of general Australian in-
terest Goodall: But you can’t expect us to print such
things L.B. : Barrett, when we saw him in London,
was not subdued and mellow C. : A soft yarn about
an incident which probably didn’t happen C.C.S. :
Lonsdale was never the “Governor” of Victoria. He was
only the resident J.P. ..A.C.T.: Ranji’s foolishness should
protect him from further remarks upon it D. 8.0. :
Were sorry to have to print those words, but it was quite
unavoidable —the thing had to be put down in plain
English. “ You can’t make revolutions with rosewater.”
Kati-Kati: Some of your fables held for illustration...
F.C. : The women had gone and the Chinamen taken
their house. In a word, Sin was there, but not the sort
of sin he was looking for Frank W. (Melb.): Muse in
crinoline too tough and eWerly Wonga : One on the
point settled it J.P.M.: Bleferred to author Rupert:
Poem like a yellow cow with no animosity named Samuel
Johnson T.Q.R. : Notup H.G. (Brisb.): Pathos and
oayenne shouldn’t be passed in a soup-plate W.J.O. :
Bourne J.S.N. : Too many cantos spoil the poem
H.8.P.: You haven’t fairly gripped idea F.T.G. :
Wants force George: Just sworn at you by you
Prob. :No merit N. : “Chanty” may go ; magpie not
bright R.H. (Nar.) : You sent those verses to another
paper, which also published them. That’s the second
occurrence of the kind Argus: Then it evidently takes
little to “cause great amusement” among the Melb.
merchants Jiff : Thanks J.G.M. : Write John Web-
ster, Cooina, N.S.W., re “ Pilgrim and Shrine.”...G.L.W.:
Possibly “ Dod Grile ” was Ambrose Bierce’s early pen-
name. We’re not sure “ Bierce ”is not a pen-name—but
it’s practically the only name of a writer now very well-
known, who no doubt wrote that fable. Would like to
borrow that book if you’ll send in registered cover
W.H.D. : Trans, received ; will deal with on opportunity.
H.H. : ditto J. McD. : Where are boots called
“bookies” out of nursery-land? H. Lee: Victor J.
Daley born Navan, County Armagh, Ireland, sth Sept.,
1858 John Farrell born Buenos Ayres, La Plata, 18th
Dec., 1851 T.M. : Received E.F.D. writes (replying
to 5.0’8.,'28/5/’98): “ The air to which ‘A Wild Colonial
Boy ’ is sung is The Somersetshire Poacher, a favorite with
farm hands all over England.” Which seems to date this
wonderfully-vital song way back in convict times Nil:
Trans, received A.E.H. : Ditto Banool: Thanks ;
will use 0.J.: Crowded out J. J. O’M. : All in good
time. ■ “Finer Feelings,” considering Calrossie : Too
magniloquent, but promises well E. Crawford: Capital
study, but interest too feeble P. M. Emery: Defunct
digger duly entombed A. J. G. : Verse, irresponsible
metre. Prose sketch no spirit Craig E. : Nicely writ-
ten, but over-conventional in diction Ranji: Cheerful
sort of cannibal, anyhow! Helen O.: Idea good, but
treatment rather amateurish.. ..Nemo : Pathetic incident,
but the little you make of it doesn’t show any literary gift.
W. Delandre : Nothing in it Padd\ r : Neither any
good Wilfred: “No matter”—no manner either !
L. W. : Pretty fair work—but too blushful for this nice,
domesticated little paper Gertrude F. : Infantile
C. Casimir : Sorry none suitable, though “ Fate ” nar-
rowly escapes being poetry Mallee : Already appeared
in “B.” Jimmie P. : Good! Tin Lip: Clean lie;
filthy joke E. Mac : Items received ; also allocution—
for which accept our blessing! Alley B. : No 1 begins
well but falls rapidly to pieces. ...Kurilla : Faintly funny.,..
Leo: Lacks the necessary remarkableness. .....T.B. .
“ Estralia” as a new name for N.S.W. ! Same old ring-
ing of the changes on the one hackneyed name. If the
European ancients had been as poor in ideas Germany
would be called East France ; and Spain, South France ;
and England, West France ; and Belgium, North France ;
and Austria, New France . ...Aloz : Story about His
Reverence’s horse wants point F.P.M. : Rot. (You
asked us to “ put it in one word") Jinda : Too gory.
Too blanky. Too crimson. Too much vivid cuss and
slaughter .... Isaac Deeno : About as funny as Jib. of
steak Snooks : The butchery of baby Harry is a.n un-
comfortable and inartistic horror Scot Williams :
Merely amounts to the fact that Joe came home drunk
Ethel Mills: Excellent story Alley Bord : The men
who don’t wear pants look wildly improbable. Will pro-
bably use all the same Yokel : Feel almost like pub*
lishing it R. Gus : Clever, but unprintable ........
Jack Walker : Everything you say on the tote question
amounts to “ Walker !” We fear muchly, Jack, that you
are more or less related to Ikey Mo Rapho : Will illus-
trate “Sorceress” —and inquire about other Anony-
mous writes : “ Sir i am sendervyou piece off Potry if its
suts you i send some more there lot off i ofen see i culd
send you peeple says im a ard case so if you put this on
in thee paper i send some more abot a girl Sined gorge
Reed preetner—
“ hup boys let Us hav fedration
Australia mity nation
hup boys too you duty and Let Us mak men
an wen the pegg out Let Us mak them agen
we got aney mount off wimen anuff
wat we wance is thee Genun stuff
too Carey thee sord
an pray too god
So thee Kangroo too the frunt an pop it on ruff."
Distrusted Reader : When every other paper is talking
conventionalities (because those conventionalities are re-
spectable) and worrying a stock theme to death, that is
the time you see The Bulletin avoid that particular sub-
ject : as we said, Gladstone practically died when he last
left office. The Bulletin doesn’t trouble more than it
can help about what happens outside Australasia. It
leaves that business to the other papers Looking For-
ward : Poor skit. May be honest as well as poor, but its
honesty is of no use to us Zeehan : “ Fedralia,” as a
title for the Commonwealth, is seven times worse than
awful. The only new idea in nomenclature this country
ever gets is to take the last two syllables of “ Australia ”
and fix a new front on them ...De Caps: Peggy Pryde
never did us any harm that we should publish your ode
to her J.A.W. : Poem nearly got there, but the waste-
paper-basket overtook it in the last furlong Hermes :
Banks can’t, and don’t, “at any time create periods of
prosperity or of depression to suit their ends.” The ordin-
ary banker has no more brains or foresight or political
economy than other people, and just gropes his way
along like anybody else 11.5. R. : “ What’s the use of
gold-mining if gold can be made from silver by the
Etnmens process?” Well if it can gold-mining is
of no visible use. But, after all, there seems to be
nothing in the Einmens process E.W.S. : Bulletin
isn't supplied gratis to any public reading-room. This
paper isn’t printed in order that it may be read free. Its
owners are unanimously of opinion that anyone -perusing
it on the cheap should get seven years .1. Desson :
No, for in England seduction by a married man under
promise of marriage is false-prGtence or representation
WRECK OF S.S. MAITLAND.
Photo., F. E. Pousty. Elackwall.
punishable by two years imprisonment T. H. Ham-
mond : Reoeived. Both will be dealt with in due time.
Felix H. : Impressive ; but too elaborately worded
for B F.B.M. : Too crude ; paragraphed T.D. :
Bulletin doesn't want to Jump on dead-beats, because
it presumes nobody follows that profession from choice
Hospital Hogs.
“ Hermes ” upon the above subject:—
Publio opinion was recently very much shocked because
Broken Hill Hospital held a corpse as security for paymen t
of maintenance-fees ; yet in one Australian city hospital I
know of—perhaps the same thing happens in others as well
—greater outrages are inflicted upon the living. It is a
common thing for the dispensary department, without
wamtng, to stop the medicine of out-patients, no matter
how painful and dangerous their disorders, because they
have not the necessary shilling to renew their tickets at
expiry of two months’ period. Small though the sum is,
it is often more than the poor patients happen to have at
the time, and though presumably the department has
authority for its action, it is a very rotten brand of
charity that rakes in thousands of pounds by subscrip-
tion and subsidy for the relief of the sick poor
and then cuts off a perhaps dangerously - sick
patient’s physio for the sake of a shilling! Taken
on the whole, the dispensary staff would be much im-
proved if somebody wiped the floor with it and injected
beneath its official hide a little sympathy of manner and
delicacy of feeling. Doubtless among the out-patients are
many objectionable characters, male and female, but
there is always a fair proportion of decent people among
them, and this is how they are sometimes treated : A
dispensary-official oalls a patient to the medicine-window
—a shy girl of about 18, evidently of good up-bringing
and retiring manners ; he pushes out bottle of medicine
and paper packet, and, in a strident voice, instructs her
how to use it with the enema three times per day. The
poor girl almost drops as the ribald crowd around
guffaws brutally at her piteous embarrassment. All such
instructions are supposed to be appended in writing to
the bottle or packet. Again —same hog calls up a woman
old enough to be his mother, and demands : “ What are
you taking these pills for?” “Because the doc-
tor told me, sir,” simply replies the confused woman.
“Are you?” asks hog, and then loudly pro-
ceeds to inform her—and all the other patients
as well—of the exact action of those pills. And
for no other reason, apparently, than that he just feels
that way. Then a football scrum is not in it with the
way the patients are allowed to crush and wrestle round
the medicine-window. No attempt to keep order. As
long as they do not cheek the dispensary people the
strong are free to thrust the weak brutally aside, and
feeble patients, in their endeavors to pierce the crush
when their names are called, receive many an effective
shove along the road to dissolution. Seems a pity that
an institution with indoor arrangements so admirably
conducted and honorary doctors doing such splendid
work, should allow its reputation to be grossly sullied by
the brutal mismanagement of one department.
. v
Flinders Petrie’s latest Egyptian excava-
tions, of 3400 years ago, show that beer was the
national drink. Herodotus says the Egyptians
made no wine.
Dr. Herman Lawrence, of Melb., lectur-
ing recently on “ The Toilet,” quoted the case of
a woman in America (you bet !) whose hair had
grown to 18ft. in length, and was habitually used
as a bed-quilt by its owner on winter nights.


THAT VOTE OF CENSURE.
THE TWO SMALL MEN : “We hereby agree that the leadership of the N.S.W. Federal movement lies between US. This big mem doesn’t comet. There is no such person."
(If the reader will examine the two small objects in the lower right-hand comes with a magnifying glass. they will be recognised as No- Yes Reid and Double Yon Jay Lyne.)


W,^
MR. JUSTICE WILLIAMS AND
CRIME.
A judge
of the Criminal Court need not be possessed
of very much law, ."but ho required to have
certain other qualifications. Among these
were patience, calmness, common sen?!’, a
wide knowledge of the world and hu-
manity, a keen sense of responsibility, a
thorough acquaintance with the working
and administration of our penal establish-
ments, and certain fixed principles upon
which to assess sentences?.
The diversity of sentences wad a
.matter deserving of public criticism, and,
indeed, public disapprobation. For similar
offences they oftea found different judge#
«a§siy < g very .different sentences.
Another remedy wquld be to have one judge
fitting on the criminal bench for a year,
instead of four or five sitting In rotation
each month. He (Sir Hartley VViJJiams) j
would not, take that criminal judge's billet-
Jor .t) 10,000 a year; but if the blot were to |
he wiped off, that was one way of. doing j
• J '' v ' , ' to »&»
** '*>%?
/V&siic.y';— a?7<l
A^s^s : ~ >s°^
Deer; qorpe, 115
|{fe or&\)V?j
" of Ju^eV)^^/:-
“ijJeYe Ve differ.
MLtK a*™?
o-pe J^igp
sdg
firfd/yKer: -
fi<ii)C«sss KsK vigb^
Second ditto : Wer'c.jy^A,
yb*ra> -rffoK **s
\y\ si? CoTnedi**?, f^Wty
\tlfyo j)lzys "
In weather such as we are having now |||§a| JJ>!^
k|||P travellers by the Sydney express train irmst||laW
k§|P appreciate lho foot-warmers introduced thtefegg t /
¥§||| wool; for‘the first time on this side of t h e llf'
at any
'? ll ' , ’n
k k kWM^^^^B
%«
C%JHK
Hk7
5# t * w
ae
kvf "■
“ X( JA/ ag . "’Oil!,; s .„
bo a : j i
s# e . |
'^3°jo
Lj
life/
Bp 0
iv
m
W’StSi'- aie
V \ S ? ‘fe ’<jc£Sy
y
jw©
Hpfjpfeipier Jurfyer.—
Wlufeij v ece &*£/ 7
>s C(oiT?3. oj>£7) S c sy 01 2
\ AJ?&
Njjolicv -Joa J9U-s+'
XlooK.'rfje
xll Vaof
NX 4° W V : ~,
? en <le ,l ,»s«ey r ,
#
'* »nn f arl *r
' °
•\
-eft- Aof\
S* S&fJfeSSftfi
**& MV , tw ■ 4 %e d o ®.
, sSat *
vts** *****
* ® *3
Victor ( cljol^awf^ctpol^^
V 1? cajrlierJi
oHv/o Ve prefer redder)./
'Well! itaOl debepds 01? V l^
v|on. rfeceWe py •*
u|> op Sisley
jtetfjy °fi I>^s
fir
MELBOURNIANA.


No Humbug' Here.
AUSTRALIAN ENDORSEMENT IS WHAT
COUNTS WITH AUSTRALIANS.
“You can’t fool all the people all the time.”
They will find you out at last.
Every time one is fooled
Another sceptic is made.
Many the remedy that makes the sceptic.
They fail to fulfil their promises.
Warner’s Safe Cure brings renewed faith.
It cures the sceptic.
Plenty of proof of this at home.
Reliable Australians say:
“ It cures backache,
Cures kidney disorders,
Cures diseases of the liver.”
Conviction for sufferers.
Rev. R. A. Caldwell, Presbyterian Minister, Mt.
Gambier, S.A., writes “ I have much plea-
sure in saying that I have used several bottles
of Warner’s Safe Cure, and derived benefit
from it. I have also heard others bear similar
testimony to the good effects reaped by the
use of it.”
This reverend gentleman does not testify to
the remedial value of “ something just as good.”
He used Warner’s Safe Cure.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The loudly-expressed conviction of the
N.S.W. anti-Bill party that it is the duty of Bar-
ton to run against Reid for King Division is a
pretty conspicuous trap with the hook and the big
hunk of tainted meat visible on the surface. No
army puts its general—the one man whose loss
may mean ruin—in the front rank of the forlorn
hope. Reid never considered it his duty, when
the fiscal issue was on top, to abandon his safe seat
in a Freetrade constituency and go and fight Lyne
among the solid Protectionists of the Hume. Not
much !
S.A. Oppositionists mourn the fact that
Symon, Q.C., their only possible leader, and a
bitter enemy of Kingston and all his works, is not
in Parliament. Downer is a conspicuous failure
as Opposition leader, but the other prominent
Oppositionists are riven by petty jealousies, and
decline to follow each other. Symon devotes his
whole time to his big legal and wine-making busi-
nesses, but the Federation movement has kindled
within him a desire to resume politics. The
general election next May may therefore see him
in harness again.
Premier Kingston announces that he is
determined to carry his long-shelved Law Reform
Bill through S.A. Parliament this year. He will
have a very warm time. Kingston has been
prominent in the Harrold insolvency litigation,
and, rightly or wrongly, is accused by his enemies
of having a finger deep in the pie. The S.A.
Premier now proposes, inter alia, a simple exam-
ination for legal aspirants, admission of women as
solicitors, and abolition of “precedents” and
“ case law.” Most S.A. lawyers live in dread of
cheap law and the destitute asylum.
The Age allows a correspondent, with the
honors of leaded type, to exactly describe its own
attitude towards Federation, while discussing the
remarks of the American press with regard to the
prospects of a British alliance. Says the corre-
spondent :
One can imagine a newspaper, or papers, writing an
occasional article that their citizens do not approve of,
but when they are not approved of by their citizens, the
papers do not go on continually writing matter that is
disapproved of generally.
This is what the lawyers call a “ damaging ad-
mission.”
By a vivid description of that hideous all-
night orgy in N.S.W. Assembly S.M. Herald
would have ruined the chances of many of the
E resent members for re-election, and so would
ave helped the Federal party. But the Herald
isn’t built that way. Also, had it been less stodgy
and TiMES-y in its methods—did it but possess
the modern methods, the verve and ginger and
500-horse picturesque lying-power of the rival
Daily Telegraph —it might have done much to
whip up the balance o£ the needed 80,000 Federal
votes. Alas ! the Herald only suggests a cross
between Divine Revelation and the Maitland
Mercury.
The Co-Operative Wool and Produce Co.,
Ltd. —During the coming wool season the magnificent
stores of this successful company, at Central Wharf, will
be taxed to their uttermost. The sampling floor (300 ft.
by 100 ft.) is the finest in the colony as regards equal
diffusion of light and absence of all obstructions. Receiv-
ing and delivering of wool can be carried on with the
greatest possible speed and efficiency, and clients of the
company, growers and buyers alike, may rely on their
nterests being in every way well looked after.*
The N.S.W. liquidarity Labor - party,
after banging into George Reid for four years,
after describing him as politically worthless ex-
cept to ratify its desires, after pounding the
breath out of Gould and Sydney Smith and occa-
sionally jumping on the pious Brunker and the
melancholy and nervous Young, now recognises
that in the Govt, success lies its only salvation.
Consequently, the Reid party is now mainly
defended by Labor members, and described as all
that is good and noble. No doubt Reid owes
much to the Labor-party, for he copied from it
his now famous feat of speaking one way and
voting another.
H. M. Nelson’s voice in the famous
M'Gregor-Nelson correspondences re Papua talks
thusly:—
The concessions will settle I li<* Papuan labor question,
for the native New Guinea labor being required at home
Queensland will have to look elsewhere.
Just fancy old Nevermind jubilating to think
the Papuan wouldn’t be' violently wrested front
the maternal apron-strings ! T. J. Byrnes an-
nounced the other day that he would strenuously
oppose the concessions because the syndicate pro-
posed to cultivate sugar, and thereby compete
with the Q. planters. Interesting to compare the
varying points of view taken by great men on the
same question.
Always leave a loophole in your” matri-
monial engagements ; it saves a lot of law-costs
and damages and worry. The English papers
tell a story of a Kentish farmer, recently deceased,
who became engaged in 1870. He thought he
loved the girl well enough to marry her, so they
became engaged, and he promised by letter that
the wedding would take place as soon as lie had
finished threshng a certain stack of wheat. Then
he began to hesitate, so he left that particular
stack over till 1871. In 1871 he found that he
was hesitating more than ever, so he postponed
the stack indefinitely. It was still waiting to be
threshed when he died in January, ’9B, and the
girl was still waiting also. She made one attempt
to sue him for breach-of-promise, but the lawyers
considered the saving clause about the stack of
wheat, and decided that she had no case.
HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excellent flavor, which, while
maintaining all the due stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been mellowed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
The war between America and Spain
could easily have been prevented by a concert of
the European Powers. Neither nation, nor both
combined, could have dared raise one word of dis-
sent to the concerted arbitrament of Europe.
What a triumph it would have been for civilisa-
tion had such a humanitarian project been initi-
ated and carried out! If all had known the merits
of “ Our Chief ” Tobacco all would have ended in
arbitration and the pipe of peace.*
In Palestine drunkenness is known as
“the English disease.” Britishers may not b ;
more unsober, as a nation, than, say, the Russians;
but they travel more, and carry the Gospel of
Drink to the uttf rm wt ends of the earth.
THE INDIAN ARMY.
The officers smoke only Ogden’s Guinea Gold,
an old established favorite with all military men]
The society smoke.*
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
Gold Bangle set with 9 Beautiful Opals and
16 White Pearls. 50s. each.
Our New
Twin
Bird
Brooches
Plain Gold,
78 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
Gold set with one finest quality, Amethyst, Topaz,
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
Gold Twin Swallow Brooches.
Full Size, London-made, 9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d pair.
Our New Gold Bamboo Bangles,
22s 6d ; Broader, 32s 6d ; Children’s Size, 14s
Our 1898 Registered
Novelty
Bird Brooch,
Extra Strong.
ED
REG
9c. Gold,
15s
pair.
16c. Gold,
203
pair.
Gold Pin and Chain Pendants.
Gold Pin and Chain Pendants.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6. Smaller size, 6/6.
„ Lucky Bell 7/6. „ „ 4/6.
„ Heart 7/6. „ „ 6/6.
~ Cross 8/-. Larger size, 10/6.
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s6d, 10s
Real Amethyst
Heart Pendant, 2/6
Swallow and
Amethyst
Heart Pendant
Brooch.
o
Real Amethyst
Button Hook, 2'6
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED
SLIPS OF NOVELTIES.
9c., 10s 6d ; smaller,
6s 6d.
16c., 12s 6d each.
POST FREE.
Lucky Shamrock
Pendants.
Genuine 4-leaf between
2 Crystals, Solid Gold
Mount, 10s each.
tftr'c
u>
NOTH—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Rebellious Coal-Mine Owners.
The coal-mine owners of the three N.S.W.
districts, associated for this occasion only,
have introduced a brand-new political method
to the province. The greater part of a year
and a half ago an Act was passed, after long
and hard battling, to better regulate the work-
ing of their mines ; and among tlieprovisions was
one to the effect that where men *were paid by
the ton for hewing the coal every “ skip ” or
truck of the mineral should be weighed. It
was a plain, straightforward, unmistakeable
provision, and it was adopted by Parliament
deliberately. The Assembly mostly, it is true,
went home to bed while the measure was being
talked about; but in the Council every line
was fiercely searched before, in a much-amended
form, it was agreed to. Now, 15 months after-
wards, when miners ask that the Act should
be set going and the weighing provision en-
forced, the owners issue an official warning
that if anything like that is done they will all
shut up shop. And as these three districts
provide about four-fifths of all the coal that is
burned in and exported from Australia, they
would be bosses of the situation if they could
do what they say ; and if they could go on
doing it long enough Parliament w'ould have to
crawl down. (This is assuming that the enor-
mous size of the crisis didn’t make the nation mad
enough to pass an Act confiscating the coal-mines
bodily, and thus fire the owners out. When a
whole nation is kicked at one time by a mere
handful of owners it may get angry enough for
anything). If there were internal dissensions,
that would, of course, spoil the scheme ; and dis-
sensions might possibly be helped on by Govern-
ment proceeding to open up a few coal-mines
on its own account with extraordinary vigor.
There would have to be faced the awkward
fact that the province has already got rid of
almost every desirable coal-mine site, so far as
present knowledge goes ; yet the Government
experiment, if thus rendered costly, would, at
any rate, probably make a scatter in the other
camp.
r * * * *
However, matters have not yet gone so
far. Whether every coal-skip ought to be
weighed or whether the present system should
be continued is a comparatively small matter,
and not worth fighting about. Weighing-
machines would cost something, but not much ;
and the objection of the owners on the ground
of that expense is mostly sham. Just about as
ingenuous is the miners’ demand to have every
truck weighed. A few scandalous exceptions
apart, their troubles about the weighing 1
What they really do want is to be paid
for all the coal they break ; while, as the
rates have .been fixed on the basis of pay-
ment for only big or “ round ’’-screened coal,
payment for everything, small coal as well as
big, is really what the owners kick against. If
the provision were enforced and all coal had to
be paid for, the owners say that, the basis
being altered, the hewing-rate would have to
come down. But attempted reduction of
hewing-rate would mean a strike, and, since
competition became keen, owners have de-
veloped a habit of going back on one another
in such crises. From their point of view,
therefore, it- is wise to avert, by bluffing or
otherwise, the action that would put a strain
upon their loyalty. Whether they are likely
to be any more loyal in an actual strike against
Parliament cannot be stated with any degree
of certainty because, as said before, this is a
brand-new idea. And yet it is only new so far
as the alleged unanimity of the rebellious
owners goes. Every time a Govt, has proposed
to tax absentee landlords, for instance, it has
been threatened with the “ withdrawal of
capital from the country.” The Government
has not, as a rule, cared much, because at the
worst the land would remain ; and if
the landlord were contumaciously inclined
and would not allow the land to be
used the prospect of a still stiffer tax has gener-
ally led him to the penitent-form. Something
in that way might be done now, no doubt—if
the Govt, were game.
» * * *
The question is, What sort of a chance
in the un-reformed Legislative Council would
a Bill have which proposed to thus bring
the rebellious owners to a sense of the
supremacy of the Parliament that represents
the people? And still, if Parliament isn’t pre-
pared to assert itself, the rebellious owners
must win always provided they hang to-
gether. But suppose Parliament does not
assert itself, preferring to announce that it
is now satisfied that it made an ass of itself
and passed impossible legislation ? The answer
is obvious. To weigh all coal isn’t impossible ;
what may be impossible (and that point cannot
be settled off-hand) is either the continued pay-
ment of the current hewing rate or the main-
tenance of only the current selling-rate under
the new conditions as to weighing. And, as
the miners say that, for their part, they are
willing to take the risk of the former, there
seems no reason why the Government should
call Parliament an ass on its own account
and keep the law inoperative. Anyway,
before it crawls down it ought to be ready with
a first-class excuse. The Australian working
men, who seven or eight years ago began to
look to firesticks and battering-rams and other
tools, were only turned aside from that policy
by the vigorous preaching of the gospel of sal-
vation through Parliament ; but if they now
find that, employers having had time to take
the measure of tilings, Acts of Parliament can
be defied by them just as effectively, and more
comfortably and more economically, and with
far less danger of a ruinous burst-up in their
own camp than when workmen were defied, the
chances are that the discarded idea will be
taken up again. Government and Parliament
may then crawl down if they like ; but they
will have to take a pretty big risk of making an
unpleasant dust when they land at the bottom.
True, there will most likely be an unpleasant
dust, anyhow ; for though the law can compel
owners to weigh their coal, there isn’t, unfor-
tunately, any law which will even indirectly
prevent them from insisting upon a reduction
of the rate for hewing it.
The 9th Axiom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No, I oan not understand,” the woman said.
“You tell me that ‘The Manxman ’ is a tragedy.
It may be, but I have read, looking eagerly for
greatness in it, and all I know is that though it
is now several days since I finished the book, I
have still a nasty taste in my mouth.”
The man looked up at the woman and smiled.
His smile distinctly said he was sure that some
day she would think differently, and understand.
But the woman did not see the smile. She sat
above the man lying on the grass, and looked
straight ahead.
“You do not understand,” he said slowly,
measuring each word.
“No; and I don’t wish to. Kate and Philip !
Pete’s struggles! Self-sacrifice; forgiving nature !
Sickening ! All of it! ” She shuddered.
“ I can understand close communion in thought
and word, appreciation of each other’s efforts,
healthy and enjoyable companionship, trust, re-
speot. But this other that makes a woman to be
as Kate ! ”
She shivered again.
The man lying on the grass turned over, and
took up a paper.
“ All right,” he said. “ The writer of the book
in question is by no means my favorite author,
but the play of passion is well worked out in
4 The Manxman,’ and I used it to show you that
the sensual is stronger than the intellectual.”
He reached over and touched her hand.
She smiled.
“No, we will not quarrel,” she said.
He looked at her. True, she did not under-
stand. The touch of his hand was to her the
index of a desire to be friends.
He turned over again, flung away the paper, and
began to talk of “ Sesame and Lilies.”
“Ah ! I never knew wliat a woman’s influence
might be until I read ‘ Sesame,’ ” she said, with
enthusiasm.
He smiled again, but differently.
“ And ‘ Marcella,’ ” she said. “ What did a
woman do there ? ”
“From Ruskin to Mrs. Ward,” he cried,
mentally. “ The vagaries of woman’s mind !
Made a fool of herself, and interested nobody,”
he answered aloud.
“Who made a fool of herself—the writer or
Marcella ? ”
“ Both.”
She did not answer.
“Do you not think that mere interchange of
thought is cold comfort ? ” he asked presently.
She smiled, but again she did not comprehend.
“Listen !” he said. “Up there, through the
trees, are the sun and the sky ; and the sun is
warm, and the sky blue, and there’s a sense in
them and in the air that fills one’s veins. The
insects are humming and buzzing, the birds in the
trees are singing, and twittering, and loving and
mating.” He paused a moment, then went on :
“ And the low of the cow from the meadow, does
it call to the sire on the hill ? ”
He paused again.
“ Motherhood ! How infinitely sweet to
woman 1 ” he exclaimed, as speaking to himself.
She looked at him with cold, wide-opened eyes.
He went on : “Of the beast, beastly ; of the
earth, earthly. You need not speak. I know
what you are going to say. But man has evolved.
He is the highest creation. Single affection ;
spiritual, intellectual, sensual, in one, is the plane
on which he stands to-day— love— in its full
sense 1 ”
He put out his hand again. She did not move
hers. She let it lie, and merely looked at him
with curiosity.
All nature was meeting in love that day, and
these were two of her creatures, yet—how dif-
ferent 1
Later, the work of life separated them from daily
association.
“ I miss your arguments,” she wrote, “ though
I never understood, or agreed that you could, in
ever so small a degree, be right. One thing, how-
ever, I must admit, interchange of thought at a
distance is not so agreeable as when together. Is
there anything that establishes the correctness of
your theories in this admission ? ”
The man read, and agreed ; but he did not
answer. While daily association had been theirs,
the intellectual had sufficed him, because a dor-
mant influence had underlain. In himself he
knew that it had only slept at his will; it slept
consciously. Apart, he drifted away. In her the
influence was both dormant and unconscious ;
therefore she did not change, be he near or far.
Months passed. She did not hear from him.
She missed him, but did not suffer. She com-
muned with herself and became daily more intro-
spective.
One night she leant over the balcony of a sea-
side hotel, watching the moon’s long white way
over the waters.
The night was warm, and the lights and shades
were intense.
Voices reached her from a garden-seat below.
She had thought herself alone. She started. One
voice she recognised.
“ There are no theories in this, little woman.
We only know. ”
It was he. Standing in the moonlight she saw
him. As he spoke he took a round, warm, little
woman in his arms and kissed her again and again.
Then the woman on the balcony understood.
The sensual had permeated and become one with
the intellectual.
The whole is greater than its part.
A.G.A.


“ Melb.” : Coroner Youl departed for
Elijahland without fulfilling his mission of putting
down the cheap and tindery flannelette. I got a
fright over it, in my own household. A cuff
caught fire, which flew up to the elbow in a
moment.
From an “ Australian ” tale in Windsor
Magazinb : “ Montague told his story in full as
they walked along deserted Circular Quay and
round to Milson’s Point, where the trading vessel
lag.” Rather a frisky walk up the “deserted”
(ye gods !) Quay to the Point devoted to the use of
the giant galleons of the North Shore Perry Co.
H. : “An Indian lady interested me more
than anything, at Melb. Old Colonists’ carnival.
I think she is the only one in the city. Petite
and eminently graceful, she was not a mere lay
figure, but, knowing English well, transacted the
business of her Oriental stall in bright style. Her
tiny leaf of a hand was a glove-size smaller than
any other in the place.”
The sons of W.A. stick closely to
the old blood-and-horror methods of the day when
their brutal ancestors were lagged. Recently, a
prisoner, age I 22, doing five years for a small
theft, climbed over the wall and broke away ; he
was re captured, and sentenced to wear 251 b. irons
for 12 months. Also, a two-line par. in a daily
paper states that a prisoner, who had just been
flogged in Premantle gaol, is dying. Prisoners
die pretty fast in Premantle gaol, especially after
a rousing W.A. flogging.
]| Qold Ujatch for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E N*W_ W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address —
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
j)r. Mackenzie
Expanding Shoulder
BRACE for MEN.
In bringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, and
for Clerks, Accountants, and more especially Cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are such a protec
tion to the lungs
and kidneys the
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity without the
slightest danger
of catching cold.
DR. MACK 'NZIE'S Celebrated Shoulder Brace.
These BRACES can be obtained nowhere but from the
DR. MACKENZIE CORSET COMPANY, and are not sold
by anyone but ourselves, we having the patent rights of
the goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Send for Circulars to above Company. Address—Dß.
MACKENZIE, 89 YORK ST., SYDNEY ; 1478 COLLINS
ST., MELBOURNE.
Mrs. FRAZER, Frankville Terrace, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Reader. man Hollow Ground
iftiPP RAZog*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
~,n p in VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADE^
MAD Pn black and ivory handles.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & GO.. LONDON. V
NEIV
ol
o
STAr*:
Q>
O
A
O
*
1
'*s
o
eti
y
<
03
o
<k
&
&
\*
Oreo
MAY
Of Highest Character.
MINERVA TONIC is a tonic of the high-
est possible character. Minerva Tonic testi-
monials are testimonials by the best-known
citizens of Australia.
MR. Cr. D. CLARE, the gifted mouth-piece
rtf the great Temperance Party in New South
Wales, writes from the Grand Lodge in the fol-
’owinef eloquent terms :
8 “ May Ist, 1898.
“ I have pleasure in stating that, having
tried Minerva Tonic, I am decidedly of
opinion that it is most helpful in clearing the
brain, stimulating thought, and making work
a pleasure.
(Signed) “G. D. CLARK.”
Of all Chemists, or direct from any of the Aus-
ralian Depdts.
THE MINERVA CO.,
Manufacturing Chemists and
Food Specialists,
London, 15 and 17 Fore st. Avenue, E.C. ; New
York, Kemple Building, Whitehall-st. ; Sydney,
56 Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Elizabeth-sfc.:
Adelaide, 98 Currie-st. ; Brisbane, Taylor and
Colledge, or 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st.
A large, hairy individual recently applied
to a Vie. country town registrar for an elector’s
right, and the usual question was put: “ Are you
a natural born or naturalised subject of her
Majesty ? ” “ Wha-a-t?” said the hairy one, and
the question was repeated. “ Well, d ——-n it all,”
burst out the applicant—“ if I am illegitimate, I
don t see what the deuce it’s got to do with you ! ”
It is better to be an Indian, who scrubs
dirty linen for a living, than a common white
person “on the land”
A N Indian Laundryman wanted, 20s. and keep.
A Farmingman wanted, orchard, eto., 12s.
A Farmingman wanted, milk, etc., 10s.
A Farmingman wanted, milk, plough, 12s. and keep.
SIMMONDS, 188 Oastlereagh-st.
£3l 10s. recently paid at auction in Lon-
don for “ the spear that killed Khartoum Gordon.
That’s what they said it was, at all events ! here
are people who would confidingly give a fanojr
price for “ the sextant used by Noah in the Ark.
Marconi’s wireless telegraphy now faiily
launched as a commercial undertaking—is so far
not “ wireless ” that a wire is necessary at each
point of communication, raised vertically to a
height dependent on the intervening distance
but not increasing in the ratio of the distance.
The law probably is that the distance increases as
the square of the increase in height.
Freab,.
Cooling. SparlilirLg.
VELTEN LAtSER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEEE.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
WfIIWST
lARK |
Corset
Wiw-oWAisr Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS WILL BE WORN.
PERFECT IN SHAPE.
LENGTHENS THE WAIST.
BE A UTI FI ES TH E FIG URE.
W'U'OWa'ST Corset
MAfIH
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE* STYLE.
ask for
W'wtowA'ST Corset
OF AU. DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS*
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F. W. LEE, Camden Building 9,
aia, GEORGE STREET, SYONEY.
Dr. TARRANT,
E.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.8.C.5.1., L.M.R.0.P.E.,
- >■ 1
L. *
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
woild-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulas formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every traoe of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo Mian. or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in P e ' f f°^AWr "work
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRAN X ts exnaustive worn,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark drc ed Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels - Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely WTo Charge
. rVinsnltation • but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
rdaint fncluS’Special Complaint Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
FSiatota Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion P Hp Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles Coughs
Neuralgia and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving bona fide, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
datedat Dr’ TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
T , „„„ hp vou voun „ or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRAOT? who vrill give you? case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
— I THE
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
. Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, i t
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you '
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your .Tor eph son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you “feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eaual to JOSEPHSON S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. _ .
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will fina
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENR*
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1836.
Baron Berzilius’=
—=—Buchu Bitters
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronio
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. Ithas a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveners.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the publi • to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called 12s DI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW S YOU LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
Uke ROW’S STEANE’P WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. Aa an anti-febrile is unsur-
passecbj^ioN.— when you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from l lie Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgiu-st,, MELBOURNE.
GENERAL ELECTION!
. . The C’rect Political Tip . .
XJKTA.KTIM; 3XJS VOTE !
TOPS THE POLL :
HF
Bitty teh.
Qood Second : GOLDENIA. All others nowhere.
EMORMOUS MAJORITY !
G-ranuma & Fodali.
Dead Heat.
In every Constituency, both Before and After
the Poll.
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
In much request.
Sole Proprietors and Agents : JAMES INGLIS & CO
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY. Wholesale Only.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
ifci &m-
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Same old George- - always different.
“Federation is in the hair.’'— Parkes.
Now, George Reid is bald. No hair, no Federa-
tion.
Presidents of disjointed Australian Re-
publics, a la South America—Reid, Turner, Kings-
ton, Forrest.
Premier Reid is a man of many parts.
But the hole he has got himself into now is greater
than all the parts.
The foxes have holes, and the birds of the
air have nests, and No-Yes Reid is keeping N.S.
Wales Agent-Generalship open for himself in case
of accident.
The 80,000 minimum was imposed by the
votes of 78 members of N.S.W. Legislative As-
sembly, representing many thousands less than
80,000 electors, and 28 members of the Leg.
Council, representing nothing in particular.
A free and independent elector at Narra-
mine (N.S.W.) was asked “Are you going to
vote for Fed eration ? ” “Freddy who?” “For
Federation.” “Blasht Freddy Reardon ; my
mahn’s Morgan ” (the ex-member for the Bogan).
A BROKEN REED.
Gorgey Porgey, glass in eye,
Joined the Federation cry ;
But when the people went to vote,
Georgy Porgey turned his coat.
“Kati-Kati” : What good would America
be to Britain in the event of an immediate war ?
“ Latent resources ” are of no use against a nation
that is ready, and unless you can defend latent
resources you cannot rightly be said to possess
them.
Last week’s proceedings of the dying pro-
vincialist Parliament of N.S.W. presented a loath-
some example of provincialism, where the little
Freetrade parochialist fought his little Protec-
tion parochialist brother for the last scrap of the
mangy corpse of fiscalism.
Treas. Holder, of S.A., threatens to over-
shadow Premier Kingston, though, when Parlia-
ment gets fairly into session
the latter will soon prove
who is the strong man
there. Holder has, how-
ever, made much pro-
gress lately, and was
a stronger pro-Fede-
ration factor in S.A.
than his chief. Till
lately he simply
poured out unbrok-
en streams of argu-
ment upon his lis-
teners with a Meth-
odist - pulpit man-
ner ; now he is
cultivating a patch
of humor which he
has discovered, and
so becomes about
the most generally
acceptable and forci-
ble speaker in the pro-
vince.
The latest inven-
tion in Maoriland
politics is that the
Government in-
tends to sell the
Bank of N.Z. to a
syndicate and retire
from State banking
in disgust. The
chances are about
60 to 1 it’s a lie.
Considering the ex-
cellent results which
the B. N. Z. has
shown under State
control since that
memorable day when
Private Enterprise came
and grovelled to the Seddon
Govt, to drag it out' of the mire,
there is only . one thing that could
make the State want to get out. And that
is the beastly ingratitude of Private Enterprise
which, as soon as it was dragged out, started
throwing mud at its preserver, and has been doing
it more or less ever since.
N.S.W. Opposition-Leader Lyne, who has
been mostly anti-Federal, and Premier Reid who
has been anti-Federal all his life, are now so
agitated about the sacred standard of union that
neither can think of leaving that pure and noble
thing in the hands of the other fellow.
The Judge highest in position in France—
corresponding in status to an Australian Chief-
Justice, but administering law over thirty times
the population of N.S.W. or Victoria—draws a
salary of ,£llOO per year. Less than one-third of
what Sam Griffith voted himself in Queensland.
Is the Australian native in Queensland
always a Tory ? This question is forced by the dis-
tressing spectacle of the Northern branches of the
Australian Natives’ Association abasing them-
selves before their new-born, peerless Panjandrum
—T. J. Byrnes. Will Australia have to import
her Democracy to supply deficiencies in the native
crop ?
N.S.W. Protectionist party has missed a
splendid chance of killing two political birds with
one stone—first, relieving itself of the incubus of
Lyne ; and next, consolidating itself on the legiti-
mate side of Federation. In attempting to cover
Lyne’s retreat, it has taken upon itself the burden
of his blunders.
Of the 125 N.S.W. electorates, 122, at the
late Referendum, recorded informal votes running
from Ito 19. The five distinguished for a perfect
poll in this respect were Balmain South, Gundagai,
Sydney Cook Division, Sydney King Division and
Yass. In four of these latter, the vote was for
the Bill; in Yass, against.
The worn and weary Queensland politician
is knocked down mostly for £lOOO. Nelson =£looo,
the late Palmer £lOOO, Tozer <£looo, Hume Black
-£lOOO, Cowley £lOOO. The various Queensland
billets valued <£looo seern lo have been so devised
to keep the ex-great men from being jealous of
one another in their past-active days.
John Norton, M.L.A., had been in
N.S.W. Assembly just four days when he was
hustled outside by the Speaker’s order for saying
t apropos of nothing in particular.
John, judging from his maiden speech, evidently
finds the atmosphere of Parliament very different
from that of the hustings. His first speech, as he
himself admitted, fell flat.
The Vic. Ministry says it has decided not
to renew the bounty—if it can be called one—
granted to the local coal industry in the shape of
reduced freights. That alleged bounty, and the
dead certainty that it was going to be renewed
and increased, were among the choice lies with
which the N.S.W. anti-Billious persuaded the
blinded local voter on June 3.
In the Far Northern agricultural areas
such progress has been made that Chinese capi-
talists can afford to hire kanakas at 15s. a week—
rather more than many white men are receiving
at present from the cookies. By-and-bye the
kanaka will sub-let his job to the mean white,
J a P e > a feeble sort of way, the grandeur of
the Chow contractor who bosses them both.
Lord Kilmorey is in Adelaide waiting for
Parliamentary sanction to a big outer harbor
scheme at Largs Bay. It is a peculiar fact that
the nature of the concessions Kilmorey alleges he
has obtained from S. A. Govt, has never been pub-
lished. -Ihe scheme will be opposed by the
Laborites and many other Ms.P. who object to
such works being controlled by a private co.
Westralian Govt, promises that all the
uniforms needed on its railway and other services
shall be made in the province, and is considering
the idea of establishing a State factory for their
production. State Socialism is finding its way
into the far West, and the Sandgroper is beginning
ONE OF “ NATURE’S LAWS."
FOND PARENT OF NEW INFANT (for the hftieth
time, to male friend ): “And isn’t the darling
like his pa, don’t you think?”
MALE FRIEND (absently, and rather tired) : “ Yes:
if he isn’t he OUGHT to be !”
to dream of things that were unheard-of in the
sandgroping philosophy of a dozen years ago.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott's suppression of
John Norton when, on taking his seat, the latter
complained that a member of the Leg. Council
had taken part in a recent election for the Leg.
Assembly, left a constitutional point in doubt. A
member of the House of Lords is not permitted to
interfere in the election of members to the Com-
mons, and Speaker Abbott, instead of suppressing
John when half-heard, should have taken the
whole tale and set at rest a point doubtful in Aus-
tralia.
A CHINESE PUZZLE.
INTRTPRETER : “He says he left his shovel outside, and larrikin
come along and ”
LEARNED COUNSEL : “ Now, now, note, Interpreter, he did not say
all that.”
INTERPRETER : “ Well, just you ask him yourself.”
Premier Reid promises, before the House
dissolves, to pass a Bill providing for a Referendum
on the N.S.W. fiscal question. Naturally, he
will impose his minimum of 80,000 on the Protec-
tionists, who have to show cause for the change.
And, of course, Opposition-leader Lyne will vote
for such a minimum on the fiscal question as he
did on Federation. He owes this to his con-
sistency.
Batchelor, M.P., has been elected leader
of S.A. Parliamentary Labor-party. He is by
far the ablest man in the Labor ranks, but, like
M'Pherson, will probably prove a poor leader.
With the secession of Charleston, M.L.C., the S.A.
Laborites lost the only man who was popular and
influential outside party ranks. Batchelor is
Kingston's senior in the representation of West
Adelaide.
“That tired feeling.” A few days ago a
bush elector rode into Narrabti (N.S.W.) and
found great excitement. He pulled up his horse
and cocked one leg over the saddle in a reposeful
attitude. “ What’s up here ?” he enquired. “Don’t
you know ? Why the general election, of course.”
(Sounds of cheering in the distance.) Bushman
reflectively: “General election, eh! I s’pose
Charley Collins ’ll get in ? ”
Sydney pressmen are of opinion that the
uproar in N.S.W. Assembly on Friday morning
last surpassed anything they have ever seen.
Between 30 and 40 members were on their feet at
once, and, when Chairman M‘Court opportunely
remembered the breakfast-bell, five or six fights
seemed imminent. The onlookers blame Mr.
M‘Court for the rumpus, as he completely lost
control of the House early in the sitting.
A fable. It was in the Zoo. Some of the
animals were criticising the pelican :
“Don’t think much of that for a bill,” said the ass;
“you couldn’t very well eat thistles with it.”
“ Or munch meat,” said the bear.
“ Or catch fleas,” said the monkey.
“ It would be in the way when one was creeping," said
the tortoise.
“ Or crawling,” said the snake.
“ Or sleeping,” said the owl.
“ Or browsing,” said the goat.
“ You’ll excuse me, gentlemen,” remarked the pelican ;
“but this bill is a very good bill for what it was designed
for ; but nobody expects an ass, a bear, a monkey, a tor-
toise, a snake, an owl, nor a goat to see the value of it.” &
Now the animals that made these remarks are
second-rate politicians who had billets to keep.
“Locust ” : Visited N.S.W. Assembly the
other night. M'Court in chair. Sixteen members
all speaking at once, like a German ladies’ kaffee-
klatch. Occasional alarums and incursions by John
Norton, followed by a chorus of imprecations from
Labor benches. Awful language used nearly all
round. Premier Reid apparently asleep, except
for an occasional interjection of “It’s a lie, and
the hon. member knows it! ” Every one, accord-
ing to the version of everyone else, was either a
liar, a rogue, a murderer, a thief, a gaol-bird, or a
police-court solicitor. Chairman M‘Court sat as
if paralysed, and Sergeant-at-arms Harnett looked
like a man struck by lightning. However, the
conduct of the strangers’, the ladies’, and the
press galleries was exemplary.
Suppose Reid carries his fiscal Referendum
—the Upper House consenting—and N.S. Wales
gives a majority for Protection, will he simply
change the policy and go on governing ? Suppose
the province returns a Protectionist majority to
the House and votes for a Freetrade policy by
Referendum, which is possible according to pre-
sent electoral arrangements, and in the absence of
the second ballot, what will happen ? Will Reid re-
sign and let Lyne come in, to bring in a Freetrade
policy with his Parliamentary majority, or will
Reid remain and attempt to govern by a. minority ?
There are infinite possibilities in the Referendum
without the second ballot in the constituencies,
and with the constituencies all manner of different
sizes. The probability is that the Upper House
will decline to pass the fiscal Referendum, and
Reid will resuscitate his old cry and add it to his
programme.
The threatened Separa-
tion movement in Riverina
(N.S.W.), with a view to mak-
ing a new province which can
federate on its own account,
while the stump of the old
Botany Bay State stands out,
has aroused the Sydney pro-
vincial party to scoff a very
loud scoff indeed. Yet one
of the Sydney provincialisms’
worst grievances against its
late lamented friend, Feder-
ation Bill, was that there was
no provision for secession.
They were as solid as a granite
rock on the inalienable right of
every State to secede when-
ever it wanted to. And, if
one-fourth of a Commonwealth
has a right to secede, one-third
of a State surely has it also.
To throw an invidious
side-light on Barton, R. E.
O’Connor and Bruce Smith,
N.S.W. Parliament will
under various pretexts, the
long- wi n ded M ‘Shar ry case and
the fees disbursed to the arbi-
trating court. Even lawyers,
who themselves put their arms
to the shoulders in the public
pocket when they can, will
white - facedly denounce the
rapacity of the men named,
hoping thereby to give the
Convention Bill a black eye.
For cold-blooded cheek
and brazen hypocrisy it would
be hard to beat the Q. Govern-
ment: Minister ,T. R. Dickson
wrote a long remonstrance, the
other day, to the Premier of
South Australia, re the influx
of Chinese from the latter pro-
vince into Bananaland re
Camooweal. And, a few days
after, nearly .i5O Japanese laborers landed at N.Q.
ports, and N.Q. planters openly bragged that other
cargoes would shortly follow.
J. L. Parsons, S.A. Consul for Japan
(formerly member for N. Territory in S.A.
Assembly) is now in Japan arranging with Jap.
capitalists for the purchase of a large area of land
on the Victoria River for settlement. If terms
are arranged with S.A. Govt, it is proposed to im-
port a large, number of. cheap Japanese laborers.
Premier Kingston is violently opposed to the
scheme, but it is believed his Cabinet is divided
on the question.
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly should insist that
the Attorney-General of the new Ministry shall
have a seat in the Lower House. The Attorney-
General’s official actions intimately concern the
public, and in many debates a direct statement
from the law-officer of the Crown would save time
and temper. The shelving of him in the Council
deprives the working House of an essential part of
his services, and this is the less excusable as, with
the Col. Secretary, he is the highest paid officer in
the Cabinet.
The Federation poll shows up the rotten-
ness of Vic. electoral system, and exposes the
reason of the wholesale disfranchisement of
ratepayers. Under existing machinery, a rate-
payer, after settling in a district, cannot get his
name on to the electoral rolls for about 18 months.
If the new arrival builds, his property has to be
valued, then assessed, after winch the rate is de-
clared. This takes about six months. But after-
wards there is a long rigmarole t the making out
of new lists, submission of same to the registrar,,
printing of lists, and a lapse of months to permit
of the lodgment of objections. Then follows the
revision-court work, and finally the manufacture
of the certified roll, and, 18 months after settling,
the citizen, if he has luck, finds himself endowed
with a vote. A Russian Finn or the wild man
from Borneo would not have to wait much longer
to qualify. Premier Turner promises reform, one
of these days.
The tremendous shindy in N.S.W. As-
senibly last Thursday morning—it mostly had its
origin in the refreshment room—recalled the old
drunken, roaring times of a dozen years ago, when
N.S.W. politicians wiped up the sacred precincts
with each other, and debate was mostly incoherent
yell and blasphemy, and the member who insisted
on sitting in the Speaker’s chair with a waste-
paper basket on his head had to be removed by
main force amid much loud hiccup. In those
days the Cornstalk Legislature was so famous that
a Maoriland bard rose to inquire :
Is it lagdom in the blood
Of a convict-gotten brood
Ever breaking out like scrofula in language loud and
lewd ?
Or what is it that ails
These men of New South Wales
That they emulate the rhetoric of the bagnios and the
gaols ?
Things have improved a little since then, but a
good stock of the old gaol rhetoric is still on hand
and ready to break out at the shortest notice.
YALE! FEDERATION.
The Australias have all agreed
To give up Federation ; , '
They see no way to get round Reid
Save circumnavigation.
R.I.P.


3XT©w System or Healing!
The Polypathic Institute and its Remarkable Work.
With absolute certainty of locating disease, they cure beyond reasonable doubt in all cases.
29 Yorls Street, Wyayard Square, Sydzxey.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Thousands
Cured
Annually,
Db. WILLIAM FLETCHER HALL, The Eminent Diagnostician, of the Polypathio
Medical Institute, 29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Diagnosis of Disease.
Without looking at the Tongue, feeling the Pulse, or any previous hnowledge of the ease .
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting' the good and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has formulated
special treatment for itself in all chronic cases ; it prepares its own medicines, and applies them in the light of
nineteenth century progress.
THE POLYPATHIO MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY, where more capital is invested, more physicians
arSSmW’ more patients treated, and more CURES made, than by any other System in the world. 29 YORK
STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
You are earnestly invited to come, see, and examine for yourself their institution, advantages, appliances, and
success in curing the chronic ailments of suffering humanity.
Their patients are numbered from all parts of the world, and so remarkable has been their success that one
pauses in wonder at the superior qualifications of a man who can, FROM A STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE
™E STRUCTURE OF MAN, TELL DISEASE AT A GLANCE, WITHOUT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS,
LOOKING AT THE TONGUE OR FEELING THE PULSE.
WRITE. WRITE.
IF YOU CANNOT COME TO INSTITUTE FOR CONSULTATION, WRITE FOR
LIST OF QUESTIONS.
Enclosing Stamps for Reply and EIVE SHILLINGS.
_ *
Hundreds Successfully Treated Every year by H|ail.
WE HAVE THE MOST PERFECT SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT BY MAIL EVER
USED IN THE COLONIES.
The Management of the Polypathio- Medical Institute have leased the entire building, 29 YORK STREET,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY. This building has been most thoroughly re-modelled, and is now fully equipped,
and furnished with Reception Rooms, Consultation Rooms, and Laboratories, all complete. All of the Polypathio
Institutes are presided over, in the Medical Department, by fully qualified medical men, whose credentials are second
to none in the medical world, and they are fully registered by the Medical Boards of the colonies in which they
practice in full compliance with the medical laws.
The Polypathio Institutes have the Largest Private Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the
Vi orld, and they are also presided over by expert chemists, fully registered by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the
colony in which they reside.
: ♦—
Polypathic Medical Institute,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Hours of Consultation —10 a.m. to 4 p.m. DAILY.
EVENING CONSULTATIONS—TUESDAY, THURSDAY and SATURDAYS, 7.30 to 9 p.m.
%
A PRETTY FOOT
... IS SOMETHING,
KANGARA
and a Pretty Foot in a Pretty Boot or Shoe is a good
deal more. But a Pretty Foot in an ill-looking,
ill fitting Boot or Shoe is worst of all. The
FOOTWEAR we make and sell will make a pretty
foot prettier, or a less attractive “understand-
ing ” neat and trim. We have the neatest shapes,
all widths, all toes, and in price we can suit any
purse in town, and
FIT ANY MAID BUT A MERMAID,
and we’d have a big try to fit even her. In fact, we
have the LARGEST STOCK of Foot-beautifiers
that has ever been seen in New South Wales.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY, SUBURBS, AND COLONY.
Do yoti Waijt to Btiy
. . . ai) ASSISTANT?
We will sell you a metal assistant, who will stand in a prominent part of your
shop and hold up a sign in his hands, showing everyone what a customer has done
—whether he has paid cash, bought goods on credit, paid something on account,
received money, or had a bill changed. An assistant who will prevent anyone
from making mistakes, and give you a record of the entire day’s business.
This assistant costs but a small sum a day for the
first year, after that you own him. He draws no
salary, and is always on duty.
There are over 130,000 of these Metal Assistants
in use in retail shops all over the world. Give us an
opportunity to explain his good points to you.
Here he is
You will hear more about him by sending your
name and address to
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.,
Head Office for Australasia: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Telephone No. 2976.
P.O. Box, 1035.
You can Buy
at PALING’S
Catalogues post free,
HI. ff. Paling I Go.
Ltd..,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSI©
VIOLINS
AOeORDEONS
AUTOHARPS
CORNETS
BANJOS
FLUTES
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
Mouth Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS
AND
FITTINGS
For
every In-
strument
Cheaper and better than
any other house in
Australasia.
A Matter of
Importance
TOURING
To be enjoyable wants to be undertaken
free from all tyre troubles and misgivings. The
rider must have confidence that his (or her) tyres
are reliable, and capable of standing rough usage on
the roads. This feeling of safety can only be secured
when the rider is mounted on the best tyres, and the
World’s Verdict is
Duniop Tyres
are the
best for
Touring 1 .
They always give satisfaction, and are
to be relied on.
always
Beware
of
Imita- f
tions. '
Caveat Emptor !
All Dunlop Covers
and Tubes
bear this
Trade
Mark.
to Tourists.
m
First in 1888 . . .
Foremost Ever Since
THE PUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. LTD.,
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
mill. Wont to P'ete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
per. month.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. 3.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
au\^j\ssuxme
U
m£ ad o FF t«er
Intersection Hunter, Blighand
Castlereaqh
• SYDNEY •
h Establishes - 1873. ,
>% £
Office in Austr* v '*’
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed£2oo. ooo Sterling .
]J Silver Hatch Free.
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases-,,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
vve will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of ourmarvelloiic
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
3/S
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed'envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real Silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
frimds and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer w'hich
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Colmane’s
Eucalypte
Extract"
For —•—
Winter Couchs
Colds &
GhestGomplaints
USED BY
£arl Jersey
LoroGarrincton
' ETC
r*URIXY!
What's in a name? Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten years Colemane
and Pur 3 Eucalypte
have stomp hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte (as
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
'"’"‘PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice.
Is. boxes, every where..
j IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness and its cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
CURED
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
FORTUNE
r J KLIjING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s : celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
vou ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.
SECRET
Photos,
(2i Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
OUIBELL’S Dipped W 00l trumpets itsownfame
Realised top price, 12jd., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 15Jd., London, ’9B—both greasy.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <Sb Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used hi the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December, 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Bathe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-dp .. .. .. £2,074,80J 40s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 BisJtopsrjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Baymaiket., Gosford (with agency at VVyong), New-
castle ; with Blanches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
'l'lie CASH BONUS, viz., <£B2lo, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
pava 1 i!e* on renewal of nolieies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lot*' 1 n.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp, tiiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
CEU
URDERUIEH
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts,'Cycling Shirts, etc.
m- CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Oavid graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG I
PORTLAND j
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Saturday, July 2, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 9, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAItOO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, July 12, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, July 12, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
lionoowarra, Saturday, July 2,2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, July 5, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 9, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Konoowarra, Saturday, July 2, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 9, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKKIiNT FA It US TO ALT FOISTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Building’s, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until us< d, and Saloon
Passengers can break, their 'journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
Q& -VIA-
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMIJIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
f usiness Announcements.
PE
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or jrood reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinees in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING-, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable .Address— ltlKMSElL. TELEPHONE No. 690.
Code- Mousing & Neal, etc. Box No. 337, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges oi
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLFA, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers ,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
DICKSON &. BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidoe,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QTJEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SU IDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, July 5.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, July 12.
ALBANY, 'i
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. „
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, July 5.
S.S. Marloo(from Melbourne)
Tuesday, July 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns .
S.S. Wollowra, Tuesday,
July 12.
Best & Cheapest lie ate to GoldJieL.s.
G. S. YUILL and CO., I /i’D., Agents, >
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY!
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 4 65rto 1110.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [iae
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S. t.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Cmrer.t Rates.
MESSAGEITEFIARmIE^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Indi'a, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, 4.25 to 170
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. -ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles Erglish interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
HPlluiraith, [if ‘gafsharn & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1394 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A- U- S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly. _
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktowu, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
passenuev Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A
FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS
OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE,
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18S 6d;
*.5-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 201.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ;
15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d,
Wsp:Mm2
No. 139.
Oct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d ;
15-ct., LI 10s ;
Silver, 4s.
No. E864.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6d.
No. 111. —New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 582.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, Horseshoe
and Whip, Ivy Leaves, £1 10s.
No. E 550. —9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6d.
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s 6d.
No. 208.
L5-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds,
18-et. Gold, £4 17s 6d.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£l l2s 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct.. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d.
15-ct.,
set Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18-ct. Gold,
9-et. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
No. 141.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 398. —Heguit Electro-Silver Bread Fork,
7in. loncf, 9s 6d.
No. 245. —Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s
No. 396. Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long;
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
No. 285.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416. —Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7 s 6d.
No. 361.—Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Cruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 6s. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish, 3£in. long,
10s 6d.
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £1 10s ; 15-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
No. 386.—Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6d.
> T « 402.—Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Pish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
lush Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to £1 Is.
n
No. 414.—Elegant Clock
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, high, £1 Is.
No. 369.
Elegant “ CJueen Anne ” Electro-Silver Afternoon 1 ea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
am ■
BI
BBS®!
383
Doug
QMil
IMS
SEeib
ESnNsMI
UmfflBSPM
m
m
No. 364.—Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
No. 84721.
SolicJ Silver Manicure,Set, in case, £2.
NOTE.—The various
forwarded (carriage paid) c
illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may lely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
n receipt of remittance. New Booklet oe Specialties (80 pages) Post Ikee.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


W'--
V-
BICYCLE DONT’S FOR 1898.
DON’T buy a wheel that you never heard
of before.
DON’T buy a wheel assembled from parts
which can be bought for a few shil-
lings per set (all parts-wheels are
cheap wheels).
DON’T buy a wheel because a friend re-
commends it to you ; the friend gets a
commission.
DON’T buy a wheel from a firm which re-
commends a new make every few
months.
DON’T buy a wheel without a direct factory
guarantee ; you want some security
for vour money.
DON’T buy a cheaper wheel than the Black
Bird at £l6 10s., unless you believe in
cheap clothes and things.
DON’T buy a wheel which is consigned to
agents. It generally sells for £23 when
sold in this way ; £lO is its proper price.
DON’T forget that Red Bird Special, Red
Bird No. 1, and Black Bird Cycles are
all manufactured, sold, and guaran-
teed by—
ill
ill
THE GOOLD BICYLE CO. LTD.
Australasian Branch— 04 King-st., Sydney.
245 Collins St., Melbourne (Vic.); 221 Bundle St., Adelaide (S.A.) ; Edward St.,
Brisbane (Q.) ; Harris St., Wellington (N.Z.)
Factories- Brantford, Canada.
-7\
% -f\
*
"f
*
'f
*
S (AMERICA).
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works |
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality ”
fteduced
LADY’S
GEKTT’S cfc/25
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
There was a record attendance, as well as record
fields, at Rosehill on Saturday last, and, although out-
siders collared the first two races, warm favorites got
home in the last three, and sent backers home a “ bit
in.” The hitherto disappointing Lady Macbeth won the
Maiden Handicap, starting at Bto 1: while Bashful (0 to
1) accounted for the Nursery. The June Handicap went
to a country horse, Ailie, who was best favorite at 5 to
2; and North British won the Welter from an equal
favorite in Robin Hood.
• • • •
Sweep considerations had, no doubt, much to do
with the large field (39) sent on their journey for Rosehill
Cup. It was a good betting race, Oban starting favorite
at 5 to 1, and the ultimate winner, Kiteware, was amongst
the next division at 12 to 1. At the distance the favorite,
Earl Rosebery, Flower King, Alemene, Cin, and Eos were
in front, but Kiteware, getting a run in the centre, rushed
by his horses and won by three lengths from Oban, who
beat Eos by a head.
* • * *
- In Rosehill Cup owners who were not offered by
the drawers a slice to nothing of “Tatt’s ” sweep did not
hesitate to scratch their prads. For one reason or
another, several well-backed horses were withdrawn at
the last moment, including Vigorous, Robin Hood, Tele-
graph, Brazen Lad and Scrathroy. The owner of Kiteware
takes a substantial lump of the sweep from the sweep-
holder of that horse.
••* ' *
W. Forrester scored his first win since Melb.
Cup in the Nursery Handicap with the appropriately-
named Trident—Modesty filly, Bashful, who just managed
to scrape home from the unlucky Argo, with Foy’s Auld-
Lang-Syne (a promising looking youngster) third.
• * * *
Poor Daimio has found his bearings at last.
After well-meant, but unsuccessful attempts to gain lau-
rels on the English turf, he decided on returning to his
native heath, and accordingly, being somewhat “ stiff,”
travelled not per R.M.S. anything, but in a common cargo
wallah. Here his universal good qualities won the golden
opinions of all on board, from the skipper to the cook,
and a large assembly gathered open-mouthed to watch
the mastication of his morning bran mash. Ten days
from Melbourne, when stormy winds did blow, his tem-
porary stable gave way to repeated attacks on the part of
the briny, and the final collapse caused fatal injury to his
spine. A hasty consultation was called at 2.30 a.m. and
his destruction decided upon. The present scribe was
aroused from his balmy slumbers at 3 a.m. by repeated
revolver shots, and at 4, to the musical accompaniment of
the engine-room telegraph, his body was committed to
the deep, under the instructions of a deep-voiced salt,
newly turned out of his bunk, and thinking more of his
morning coffee than of Daimio’s big cross-country record.
The hoofs were eagerly sought after as souvenirs.
* • * •
“ A native-born Australasian wins the ‘ Darby ’
with a 100-to-l • rogue,’ and 120,000 people curse at Epsom
sufficient to make Jeddah shed his shoes,” writes Tub
Bulletin’s London correspondent. “ With a 2-to-l
favorite and a 7-to-2 next-best, it was nevertheless a very
open race, though few expected 25’s for a place would be
Ist and 3rd. It is a pity that old Don Larnach, the M.L.
squatter, is not alive to hear that his eldest son’s chestnut
colt won the Epsom event at a price that breaks all re-
cords. Previously in favor, Jeddah was beaten in the
Guineas and disgraced in the Newmarket Stakes, and
relegated to the stable’s second-string, now to be dis-
carded for the blue riband. And the Prince and his
noble and ignoble pals, the johnnies, the bounders, the
costers, and the Heathers ‘ came down ’ one awful con-
glomerate * wop,’ and there was much corn in Israel.”
* * • *
Newhaven and Winkfield’s Pride frightened
everything out of Epsom Cup but three others, which
included Merman and the actual winner (writes Tub Bul-
letin’s London correspondent). No one questioned that
the battle would lie between these two, and so it did,
though another snatched the bone of contention. Bay
Ronald at 9st. 61b. with them, and on 81b. worse terms to
Newhaven than when the latter made his electrical d£but
in the City and Suburban, was relegated to tens ; wh.lst
the Irish horse, with his reckless gambling stable behind
him, was at 11 to 10 on, and our horse at 2’s. Merman,
with Bst. 101 b., was outclassed and last, but Cooper's
crowd piled the nuggets on Newhaven, and there must
have been several little Mt. Morgans on the result. The
duellists fought from the jump ; but at the mile, after a
tough fight, “-our” horse won and sailed for home. This
was Bay Ronald’s chance, and, tackling a hard-tried
horse, he won on a final turn of speed easily. Pride was not
quite up. Newhaven will be better, especially over more
than a mile and half, and the Bay was fit.
* » « *
The Dubbo, N.S.W., trotting-club has at last
made terms for the use of Kensington (Syd.) Ground, and
the country club’s fixture has been dated for July 22.
There are four trotting events on the card, together with
a couple of pony races; and Mr. Buckland will let
Sydneyites see Australia’s champion trotter, Fritz, do an
exhibition go. Trotting owners should make the most
of this opportunity, as, if a success, the meeting may lead
to better things later on.
• * * •
Getting pretty well known that when a certain
crack horseman puts his “ friends" on to back one of two
of his animals when two run in same race, it’s good
business to back the untipped one.
• * * *
A couple of months ago the Miller stable looked
like winning both the Nationals at Flemingyin July
meeting. To-day there doesn’t seem to be a tvump-card
in the pack.
* * * *
“V.S. Could have bought Truth (the
horse now running in Sydney) when a yearling for “ fifty
bob,” with his dam thrown in as well. Didn't want him
—worse luck. Saw him once win a “ drinks for the
crowd ” race, with 22 stone up ! We had been dancing
all nuht in the local church, and at daylight, Truth, who
had been tied to the fence all night, was backed to run a
cockie’s horse, “ from the river to the gate,” a little over
a quarter mile. Truth’s owner thought so little of the
other moke’s chance that he double-banked his neddy,
putting an list. “ cobber ” of his up behind ; notwith-
standing which Truth finished, hard held, 6 lengths to
the good.
• * * *
When Charmer, the well-known trotting mare,
was awarded a prize as a brood mare at Sydney show,
there was much discussion as to whether she should have
scored, in face of her having a hip knocked down. Opai,
winner of the Auckland (M.L.) Grand National Hurdle
Race, is out of an obscure-bred mare, named Polly, who
had a hip knocked down. In addition to Opai, Poily was
the dam of Strephon and Uranus, the latter winner of
Auckland Steeplechase, ’B7, from which it would appear
the knocked-down hip was no detriment to her as a brood
mare.
*•* • •
A well-known N.S.W. trainer was once running
a trial on a suburban course. It was a moonlight morn-
ing go, and every care had been taken to dodge the
touts, but after the horses had been taken to the start-
ing-point a figure was discerned crouching close to a
handy fence. The trainer’s man, after conferring with
his principal, walked over with a heavy quarter-sheet
over his arm, and found that the watcher was a well-
known tout, who affably cracked the usual joke about
the “ early bird.” Then he put a watch into work as the
horses started, and smiled away until the cattle were a
furlong from home, when Dick, who had shaken out the
quarter-sheet, threw it right over the man’s head and
upset him, and when he recovered his feet and sight the
horses were pulling up, and winner and time were out
of his ken.
• * • •
If the handicapper is nob too ungenerous,
Levanter, Maoriland’s rep. in Vio. G.N. Steeple this
winter, will be a certain starter. He competes at the
carnival, anyway. Captivator’s son is to be given ample
time to get trimmed up alter his trip across. Under
12st. 101 b. he ran fourth lately in Auckland G.N. Steeple,
conceding stones to some of his opponents. He had won
this race twice previously, the first time by a nose after a
3i-mile journey.
• * # •
When threatened with bankruptcy, a while
back, a cute M.L. ne’er-do-weel entered a palpable “ no-
chancer " for a pony race, and got confiding friends to
back it for him. There were three others in the race, and
he finished fourth. Then he objected to the other three
because they were over standard height. Measurement
proved this correct, and he scooped the pool.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Rand wick played an “off ”
match on Sydney Cricket-ground on Saturday. Rand-
wicks were without several of their regular team, and
played half-heartedly, with the result that Wallaroo ran
over them by 29 points to 3.
• * • *
As was expected, the only Badge match played
in Sydney, on Saturday last, on the Agricultural Ground,
between University and Pirates, proved a tough battle.
During first-half Pirates had the ill-luck to lose the ser-
vices of Kllis, who had a rib broken, but before the acci-
dent University had scored a try. The second half was
considered by many the best bit of football seen this
season, and when time was called University had scored
a win by 8 points to 5.
* * * *
For in-and-out running the average racing pony
isn’t in it with a Sydney senior football team. This
season Sydney has beaten Wallaroo and played a draw
with ’Varsity; Randwick played draws with Wallaroo
and’Varsity; beat Sydney and were beaten hyPi rates,
who have been beaten by both Wallaroo and University,
yet have beaten Sydney. Puzzle : Find the leading team
in the competition.
• • • •
In M.L. this season football is increasing in
popularity, but ferocious play- characterises nearly all
contests. At Dunedin,-six first-classers have been im-
peached for roughness and fighting; matters are worse
at Wellington ; and one alleged match on the West Coast
savored of the prize-ring, with a cursing contest thrown
in. Unions are now passing out the bashers.
• • • •
Recent football-match, Cairns versus Cooktown.
Cooktown team, on arriving home, found that they had
forgotten the ball. Wired to Cairns about matter.
Answer came to the effect that no one knew anything
about it. Cooktown wired again : “ Our ball was seen
being played with after we left Cairns.” Cairns : “Have
not seen your ball. Did not know you ever owned a
ball.” Cooktown wrathful : “If choose to steal our ball
—do so.” And so the little duel went on until Cairns got
called \ den of thieves, and a Cooktown footballer, who
had waxed eloquent per wire, was expelled from his club
tc appease the indignation of the alleged felonious Chow-
towners.
* * * •
On Saturday night last, in Sydney, Jack O’Brien
and young Sandy Ross fought eight rounds with
gloves. Sandy was untrained, and it is this sort of
11 go” that should be discountenanced by the police and
followers of the game. The effects of a “ knock-out”on
a trained athlete are not lasting, but to a man in Ross’
condition, a knock-out has a good show of proving fatal.
In the interest of the game, and themselves, proprietors
of boxing resorts should not permit untrained men to
box “ for keeps.”
• * * *
Jack M'Gowan, who recently beat Tweedie in
Brisbane, is out with a challenge to meet any fist. 41b.
man in Australia. The Queenslanders should give
Tweedie another showing with M'Gowan, when a big
house and a rattling set-to might be relied upon.
Tweedie had all the best of the final go, whilst it las'td,
until M'Gowan got in an unlooked-for “ knock out.”
The Sydneyite must have a weak spot in his defence
somewhere, as he was knocked out in much the same
way in America.
• • » *
Tradition reversed. Out of 13 hares coursed at
Wagga club’s recent meeting, only the 13th (and last)
escaped.^
« « t *
Adelaide laorosse matches are provoking much
exoitement this season. North Adelaide, erstwhile pre-
miers, have suffered three defeats, leaving University at
present at the top. Similarly, Melb.’s last year’s pre-
miers, University, have been beaten three times, whilst
Melb. is undefeated. S.A. v. Vic. eventuates in Melb.
Aug. 6, and the former province will not this time repeat
its run-away victory of last year.
• * • •
Porta and other well-known racing cyclists,
finding the “ game ” at a low ebb, have been putting in
time on the Kanowna (Westralian) gold-leads.
* V • *
When the irrepressible Randolph Bedford was
in Sydney recently he ordered a bicycle to be sent to his
hotel for a few days’ use, and next morning was horrified
to find a machine with sassiety handles, saddle far in the
rear, and mudguards and a gear-case and a brake lum-
bering up the jigger. “ What’s this for,” demanded the
irate Randolph at the bike-agents’ a few minutes later —
“ a blooming elephant to ride, or what ?" The assistant
looked reproachful. “ All the aristocracy ride with their
machines that way,” he explained. “ Then,” said the
ex-Reckless, “ shift that saddle forward, lower those
handles, and strip off that luggage ; I’m a blanky
Socialist 1 ”
* * * *
The cabled news that Gov. Brassey has bought
another yacht may be taken as confirmation of the fact,
published in Tub Bulletin some months ago, that Uncle
Tom is desirous of selling the Sunbeam. It would not be
surprising to hear that he has found a purchaser for the
famous craft ere he returns to Melbourne.
* * » *
Jack Lyons, leviathan hitter, contemplates a
book of cricket reminiscences. Title, “ Cricket Lyons at
Lord’s.”
* • * *
Hayward, the most reliable and graceful bats-
man in Stoddard’s late team, made 64 and 85 for Surrey
against Essex, May 17. In same match Richardson’s
bowling was knocked about. For Derbyshire v. Notts,
Storer made 109.
* * * *
Stated in a Melb. paper that billiardist Dawson,
who will tour Australia shortly, couldn’t get John
Roberts to play him for a money-stake. Did he challenge
J.R. to meet him on even terms ?
* » * •
The Vic. Govt, has entered into a large con-
tract with the Massey Harris Cycle Co. to supply bicycles
for the pillar-clearers, letter-carriers, and telegraph-
messengers in Melbourne and suburbs, and, if this experi-
ment proves a success, the bicycle brigade will be en-
grafted on every branch of the public service.*
• * * *
Brisbane newspapers gave much notice to the
Austral Cycle Agency pacing-teams. One prominent
paper had a column interview with Williams, the team’s
manager.*
* * * *
The Dutch Govt, has issued an order that all
the cycles for its military service shall be fitted with
Dunlop Tyres.*
* • • *
No cyclist should be without the Dunlop Midget
outfit for tyre repairing.*
a a » a
Mdlle. Serpolette, the French cycliste (who has
since been much damaged by colliding with a bike) made
her first appearance in Sydney last Saturday, at the Cricket-
ground, when she pedalled round on a motor-cycle. The
crowd was not enthusiastic, and plainly showed it
was “ not taking any." Contests, man against man, or
woman against woman, are the only cycle shows that can
rouse the blood of a Sydney assemblage.
The action Cowlishaw v. The Bulletin,
wherein <£2ooo is claimed for alleged libel on plain-
tiff in connection with the loss at sea of the collier
Atacama and 13 of her crew, will not be heard until
22nd August, no N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge
being available during vacation.
Piles and How to Cure them without opera-
tion—a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Cannalin.” Sent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “Cannalin” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
In view of the vagueness of the London
salesmen’s stereotyped reply, “ Not suited to the
trade,” the Pastoral Finance Association has had
a number of mutton carcases reimported, as speci-
mens of what is most likely to hit the taste of the
British consumer, which carcases will, during the
Sheep Show week, be on view for the benefit of
exporters at the association’s freezing-depdt, North
Sydney.
Dear Bulletin. —Be carrying of live stock
on passenger-steamers. A Melb. steamer, by
which I travelled lately, leaving Adelaide for
Fremantle, had on deck 120 sheep, 17 horses, 4
bullocks, and a quantity of dog. The passengers,
2G9 in number, had, during the heavy weather in
the Bight, simply to wade in liquid manure.
Think it’s about time the s.s. co.’s stopped this
game.—T.S., Perth, W.A.
Be recent mysterious disappearance of
half-a-dozen locomotives from the Vic. railway
stock, the theft of engines is comparatively com-
mon in America. The private ownership of rail-
ways there has given rise to bitter feuds between
some of the concerns, in connection with which
sheds have been burgled, engines fired up and
driven along the intersecting lines to the stealers’
sheds, perhaps 1000 miles away. Next day the
stolen article would be taken to pieces, and so
transfigured that only the original builder would
know it again. Happily, the different gauges of
the Australian provinces preclude Victoria from
suspecting her neighbors—about the only good
thing that ever has resulted from the disparity of
gauge
Vic. Acting-Gov. Madden was promptly on
hand with his usual letter of sympathy to the
friends of the sufferers in the recent powder
magazine explosion. His Ex. runs Her Gracious
close as champion perfunctory condoler. Which
again recalls the miserable foolishness of plastering
the cable-column with such announcements as that,
for instance, the Duchess of York and the rest of
’em forwarded condolatory messages over the
recent wholesale launch-drowning. Of course they
did ! —it’s part of their business ! —but it’s stand-
ing the thing on its head to expend a lot more
cable on such a mere mechanical matter-of-course
than on the details of the catastrophe itself. But
flunkeydom is satisfied with its “ one poor half-
pennyworth ” of humanity “to all this intolerable
quantity ” of royalty.
“ C.P.” : George Loyeau, who died in Q.
the other day, was a well-known figure about
Adelaide in the middle eighties. Also, one of the
few Bohemians in the local Bohemian club—which
was quickly crammed by suburban saints, and
perished from sheer holiness. Loyeau had no
literary capacity—was of the trebly-cursed brand
with the scribbling itch and nothing to say ; but
his experience as digger, bushman, etc., would
have been a small silver-mine to a Favenc or a
Beoke. He edited Gawler Bunyip on a pound a
week; then took to editing “Men of Mark,”
“ Representative Men,” and so on. After collect-
ing as many guineas as possible, he would issue a
dingy volume scarred with unsightly “ cuts.”
His latter days were spent in dribbling awful
doggerel to admiring Maryborough donkeys. A
kindly, inoffensive old chap—said to be related to
a peer -probably was, as he seemed ashamed of
peers.
The one great sensation of the sham
motion of censure in N.S.W. Assembly was the
charge of attempted murder heaved by Levien,
M.L.A., against the two far-West Labor-mem-
bers, Sleath and Fergusson. Levien, a reckless,
hot-headed gentleman of the kind who habitually
wears his hat over one ear, undertook to prove
his assertion. But what a lot more interesting it
would be if Levien would only accuse Sleath of
suicide and prove that ! A clearly-proven charge
of suicide against Sleath would remove a
very dull and painful bore out of N.S.W.
politics. A Parliamentary Commission has
been appointed to look into the matter, and at
time of writing (Tuesday) it was getting on with
gradual rapidity. First sitting, Levien didn’t
turn up. Second sitting was mainly spent in a
muddled effort to decide exactly what Levien had
accused Sleath and Ferguson of doing, and what
he had to prove against them. The wild shriek
that sounded so alarming when fired off verbally
on the floor of the House by a hot red man, with
agitated coat-tails, looked very vague in the cold
print of Hansard, because Hansard doesn’t yell
and jump. And the average Parliamentary accu-
sation is mostly yells and jumps. This is probably
the reason why the Levien-Sleath inquiry is prov-
ing a very slow affair.
H. : “ The only Bishop who ever resigned
office and emolument because of the growth of his
sceptical opinions, was Hinds, of Norwich.”
On 18th June, 1898, for the first time in
its history, the Australasian said “ Damn ! ”
likewise “ Blasted ! ” No stars —no dash —no dis-
guise 1 And the yarn is by a Mabel, too !
A pathetic little story is related in connec-
tion with the recent Melb. shell-fatality. The
slain man, Cowley, was a widower with six child-
ren, and the youngest, a seven-year-old boy, was
heard to say, between his sobs, that “Mother
must have wanted father more than us! ”
“ Back bl ox Junior”: Barton runs a big
risk in standing for this place (Bourke), which is a
hopelessly roads-and-bridges constituency—and
what does Barton know of Warragul culvert? He
could easily find a city or suburban seat. Anti-
Billite Millen, the sitting member for Bourke,
will not easily be displaced, although the elec-
torate did vote for Federation ; for he is per-
sonally much liked and respected, and already the
voters are carrying him round on their shoulders,
They won’t try to carry Barton.
“D.E.N.” : Near eastern end of Little
Flinders-street (Melb.) at lunch-hour saw a lorry,
laden with packing-cases, drawn up at kerb.
Solitary sweating horse with nosebag on. Driver
munching sandwich between front cases. Nose-
bag slips off, and driver, flinging sandwich into
roadway, jumps down with “ Half a mo., cocky,”
and fixes nosebag on again. Then he feels for
another sandwich, and, finding that he’s flung
away the last, stands watching his horse feeding,
with evident pleasure. Ought to be president of
a Society for the Encouragement of Kindness to
Dumb Animals.
The “ Long Arm” again, a. cute solicitor
got a “ lady ” to write to one of his clerks,
making an appointment at a doubtful house,
during ordinary business hours, so as to get
a chance of sacking him. The clerk did not
fall in, but anonymously exposed the trap in a
paper to which he was a contributor. The lawyer,
who had tried the same trick before with others,
was wild to think his game publicly exposed, and,
knowing the clerk to be a writer to the paper in
question, offered him .£1 Is. to find out who wrote
the par. Clerk took the £1 Is., and promptly
produced the pay-slip sent to himself by the paper
for the very paragraph in question.
At Bid leaden village, near Ashford, Kent,
an annua: distribution of quartern loaves and
cheese, likewise embossed “ penny-rolls,” has been
proceeding for the past 760 years. The emboss-
ment on the rolls is a crude representation of the
“Biddenden Maids,” who bequeathed certain
land (worth .£lO a year in modern rental) to the
parish church, with the stipulation that every
Easter Day bread and cheese should be served out
to all-comers by the parson and churchwardens.
The maids, born A.D. 1100, were of the Siamese-
twins order of architecture, joined together by
the hips and shoulders. They lived a pious life
for 35 years, when one of them expired. The
other sister, wisely refusing to be hacked from her
faithful partner by a mediaeval surgeon, died six
hours later, and they were duly buried in the
parish churchyard. Biddenden is such a very
quiet spot that the story of the joint maids was
never noised abroad till seven centuries had rolled
over their memory, but of late years it has got
into the metropolitan newspapers, and nowadays
the Easter ceremony is rushed by gaudy biking
tourists from London who fight for the souvenir
rolls, and cluster in knickers and “rationals”
around the tomb of their virginal benefactresses.
Dear Bulletin. — Re your comment on
the heterogeneous nature of U.S. population, I
should like to point out that the governing powers
of the States are now, and always have been,
essentially of British origin. Take the Presi-
dents, for instance. From Washington to M‘Kin-
ley they have been, with but two exceptions (Van
Buren, Dutch, and Buchanan, Irish) of British
descent. Same with the Cabinets of the various
Presidents. In M‘Kinley’s Cabinet the Attorney-
General, M'Kenna, has a name suspiciously Irish,
but all the rest are of either English or Scotch
descent. The members of both Houses of Con-
gress are almost exclusively of British origin.
During the War of Secession, again, all the prin-
cipal commanders on both sides (with the ex-
ception of Sheridan for the North, and Beau-
regard for the South) were of British extraction.
Same with all the leading statesmen the U.S. has
produced ; so that I fail to see why the idea of an
Anglo-American alliance should provoke a smile
from The Bulletin. The majority of the U.S.
people are of our blood and kindred, and an
alliance with them would be conducive to the
world’s peace and prosperity.— Trotter Bethune.
[This is mostly based on the assumption that every
man’s national'ty can be traced by his name—
which is absurd. The English language prevails
in America, and names get anglicised for one
thing. Also, plenty of names are common to a
lot of countries. —Ed. B.]


A quarter-oentury’s service of the Mutual
Life Association was considered by the staff
thereof to entitle its chief executive officer, Mr.
J. 'C. Remington, to a mark of special recognition
in the form of a luncheon at the Association s
offices on Thursday week last. All the other
principal members of the staff were present, and
the proceedings were genial even to enthusiasm;
the esteem in which Mr. Remington is held being
further shown by the heavy fire of congratula-
tory letters and telegrams to which he was sub-
jected. He will, however, it is expected, survive
for the admiring contemplation of his entire staff,
pietorially assembled in the handsome album with
which they presented him.
“ Ricardo ” : Gladstone leaves an estate
of about iJ1.0,000 a year, through his careful
management. It is entailed on his eldest grand-
son. Here is Gladstone’s Toryism, as pronounced
as that of Scott in trying to found his family at
Abbotsford. Viceroy Dalhousie said he reckoned
his brilliant Governorship of India of less honor
than belonging to the family of Ramsay. 1 itt, as
Premier of England, was not considered a good
enough mark as husband of Lady Lleanor Lden,
who refused him, on the instruction of her father,
Lord Auckland. All this shows the hollowness,
the windbaggery of political achievement, the
neglect of the Substance for the Shadow. Your
Dibbses and Berrys can lecture on it.
By the death of 0. H. Croaker, Wagga loses
a white man, and its poor an unobtrusive friend.
“Charlie” bossed Dibbs’s committee when that
long politician pervaded the Murrumbidgee. In
>B9 when Dibbs took office and went to the coun-
try, only to be defeated by Parkes, he returned
to Wagga on a Saturday afternoon, dead beat
from a week’s travelling and spouting. The elec-
tion was on the following Monday, and, as he was
sitting at lunch in that sweet calm engendered
by thinking the campaign over, Croaker came m,
and, after the usual inquiries, said, “ Look here,
Dibbs, you’ve to deliver an address here to-night.
“ Damifido. Why, man, my throat’s like a brick-
kiln ; I can hardly whisper.” “ Can’t help it, old
boy, it’s announced ; here it is—” putting before
him a copy of the local Advertiser. L>ibbs
wearily reached his off his forehead, and
read “Mr. Dibbs will address the electors of
the 'Murrumbidgee from the balcony of the
Criterion Hotel to-night, at 8 o clock. At the
conclusion of his address, the Premier will sing
that well-known song ‘Just Before the Battle,
Mother.’ ” [The Bulletin had recently published
a picture of Uncle Abigail doing that same.] Dibbs
tore the paper to shreds, and fairly lost himself m
a maze of heartfelt curses, beside which his after-
efforts at Chicago were not a circumstance and
when he dropped back into his chair, still ( b' a ®"
phemous but exhausted, Croaker said coolly. It s
all right, old man. I went down to the IISER
office with Coleman, and, when they finished
printing, got them to lift out a paragraph, insert
this, and strike off a couple of copies. So, don t
worry —you won’t have to tell any more lies to-
night.
Things adore: Locks, Hinges, Door-
knobs, and Knockers. Pointed facts: Tacks,
Nails, Screws, &c. A short cut: Lawn Mowers,
Scythes, Sickles, and Reaping Hooks. Around
the Globe: Chimneys, Wicks, Burners, and Lamp-
ware. The only Federated Hardware lirm, we
can supply any of the above lines at rock-bottom
prices P M ‘LEAN BROS AND RIGG LTD.,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, and George-street,
Sydney, and Perth, W.A.*
Kaiser William’s presentation of a gold
wreath, or something, to a British regiment in
memory of the Battle of Waterloo, was the hol-
lowest of attempts to aggravate anti-British feel-
ing in France. The pernicious bauble should
have been sent back to William per next post.
Veteran White, of Bathurst Free Press,
now rapidly nearing his end, arrived at Adelaide
exactly GO years ago, and built with his own hand
the first Wesleyan church there. Mr. White was
at one time a great believer in Henry Parkes—
raking in by his personal exertions over <£looo for
the “ Empire fund,” but was afterwards so treated
by Parkes that, when a subsequent fund was
started. White “ wasn’t taking any.”
Randell, the present alleged Minister for
Education in the great and glorious West, is the
same bright spirit who recently lamented in pub-
lic the “immorality” of English literature,
winding up with the astounding hope that ‘ one
day Shakespeare would be re-written.” A Ran-
dellised edition of the works of William the
Wonder re-written by, say, the President of the
W.C.T.U., is now within the range of preposter-
ous possibilities.
Percy Spence, the well-known Bulletin
artist, has, on arrival in London, found plenty of
work at his hand. Already he is doing black-and-
white for Pearson’s, Blackie & Sons, the Gentle-
woman, and the Naval and Military Gazette.
His painting, “The Buster,” has been sold; also
a number of his small pictures. The Fine Art
Society of Bond-street is going to engrave his
cow picture, “Sundown,” one of his best and
most distinctly Australian efforts.
MASSEY-H AHRIS
After careful investigation The
Victorian Government
has selected the superb
Massey-Harris Bicycle,
and the Massey-Harris only, for the
exacting service of its Post and
Telegraph Department.
The approval of the Government ex-
perts goes far in substantiating our
claim, that while there are other good
bicycles, none are so easy run-
ning and serviceable as
the Massey-Harris.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS Co. Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters, William St. Melb.
New South Wales Branch :
385 Geobge stbeet, Sydney.
DEPOTS and Agencies almost everywhere.
M
A
S
S
£
Y
/
H
A
R
R
I
S
-MASSEY- HARRIS
m;
a|
s
s
E
y
/
H
A
R
R
I
s|
Toowoomba possessed till lately a School
of Arts encumbered with an old debt and some
very old literature. T’other day, a providential
fire swept the old shop out of existence, and as it
was pretty well insured nobody wept. Of tie
2500 vols. in the library only one was found un-
damaired —and that was a Bible. Fifty years ago,
parsondom would have preached on such an oc-
currence till all was blue—but now never a sky-
pilot thinks the circumstance worthy of notice.
•Til Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, I Os. Gil.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
& Aitlten, 630-632 Gaorge-st* Sydney
Craig
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
1 ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE '.('UKSCIi.VI'," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
it m|, h > Kin i>-st r<‘<‘i Collet' Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - * * GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
ttte are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
VV we know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date. BENNETT & BAR KELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SY DNEY.
&W Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cj'des; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
" DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH .. RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J, McDermott,
General Agent, for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE..
||]olf American KighflrtCycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gents
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. US' Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American g'cgeles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-clats Makers.
SANSPAREIL f ~\ MA CK LIN
WAVERLEY J 1 HENLEY
CRESCENT 1 f GRIMLEY
WEARWELL 1 ’ QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
Sterling Cycles!
After Two Years’ Experience STERLING riders
proclaim that the STERLING is the BEST wheel
built—no broken Forks, &c., &c. Why risk your
life on crocks ? Westwood, or Wood, rims.
Any make of Tyres.
New Haven Cycles!
Country Buyers, where no agents are appointed,
supplied at WHOLESALE PRICES ; money
returned if not approved of.
Cycle Repairs a specialty.
JOHN~D. PATTISON,
Sterling Cycle Depot, 75 Elizabeth Street, Sydnej'.
The
*+ Austral Cycle
Agency rfj
TO
A
A
Saticfctefcw
Strength
Service
Skill
SjjeeA
Suctess
Style
Safety
A -Swift Federation
sway
Are you in favour of
riding »Swirr» Cycles
fitted with Dunlob Its
YES
life
V not she H shunt you
for a traitor.


impure Blood
Suffered for three years
Mr. F. Westall of Mitcham, So. Australia,
sends us his portrait which shows a smooth
and healthy condition of the skin. But he
has had the following experience :
9
“ For the past three years I have been suf-
fering from an eruption of the body. I had
medical attendance and had medicine to take
and a lotion for outward application, but they
did not do me the slightest good. In fact I
tried all sorts of medicine and nothing seemed
to relieve me. My life was a burden. I had
no appetite and I could not sleep. I was
strongly advised to try .
DR. AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
ny a friend who had received great benefit
from it. I did so, and after taking only two
botiles the itching left me and I felt better in
3very way. I continued taking the Sarsa-
parilla and altogether took six bottles. lam
now free from the eruption and can eat and
deep as well as I ever did in my life. Itis
now about eight months since I was cured, so
I am sure I can say the cure is a permanent
jne.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
ivitH Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
SEGOND-H/VND
AND
KEW FURNITU IE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER .CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully nO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georere-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
ftHEI
.deaf]
ITS?” “Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
i Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
|comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
Igerous) wire or metal attach-
rment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, A^ent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/R each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ye per oz.
We are the eheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.Wigz'll.
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attenbiongiven to Country Orders.
A young man, tried for assaulting the
“ conshtable ” in the execution of his duty in
Melbourne the other clay, pleaded that he was
subject to “fighting fits,” and had been seized
with one when the policeman arrrived. Possibly
the defence was a true bill. Writer once knew
an amiable little Irishman who was subject to
fighting fits, in which he would attack anything,
from a man to a brick house. The fact that he
always got woefully licked was proof of the
genuineness of his fits.
The drolleries of municipal government.
At a recent meeting of Preston (Melb.) Shire
Council it was moved- “ That this council having
lost confidence in its representative on the Met.
! Board of Works, Cr. Howden be requested to
'send his resignation to the chairman.” But the
’) motion was lost by 5 votes to 4,. “ Cr. Howden
j himself voting with the majority,” His own con-
i fidence in Howden had not been shaken by
• adverse comment.
“ Mclb.” : Our crack evangelist, a man of
fire, complains of the lack of workers. They
so soon pair off for the work of matrimony.
The evangelist gets about .£lO a week. His
workers cannot even make the supe’s answer to
Macready. Says Mac.: “Why can’t you do this
; asldo ? ” Super : “ Because if I did I’d get <£3o
a night, instead of 30s. a week.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
! safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
: yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
I bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
i She was young and rather pretty, and her
pet amusement was replying to matrimonial advts.
There were four girls in the family, and the pa
thereof was a very sanctimonious and respectable
old gentleman. The other three sisters, being
decidedly plain, didn’t take kindly to their dear
Evelyn’s adventures with strange men in search of
a wife; but the climax came one morning when
she burst into their room and showed them an
advt. : —“Gentleman, middle-aged, with means,
desires to make the acquaintance of a young lady
who will not be averse to living in a country town.
One who can play and sing preferred. Reply to
Confidential, G.P.0.” “There, girls,” exclaimed
Evelyn, “what do you think of that ? It’s in-
serted specially for me and I’m going to reply to it
right away ; but, of course, as you all seem so
scared, I’ll sign another name, and if anything
comes of it, I can tell him the reason after-
wards. ’ The three scraggy virgins remonstrated
in vain. Evelyn, wrote her letter, and received
a very nice typed note in reply, saying he
would be delighted to see her, and if she i
could meet him at the Manly ferry wharf at a I
certain time on Thursday night, they might be :
able to come to some satisfactory arrangement. ;
“ Wear a white rose in your dress,” he added in a j
postscript, “and I will wear a geranium to enable '
us to recognise each other.” The poor girl was in a .
flutter of excitement as she stepped out of the ’bus •
at Circular Quay at the appointed time, and when i
she saw a man with a red flower the size of a
dinner-plate in his button-hole coming towards
her, cast down her eyes, and only raised them
when he was bowing and scraping before her. It
was her own dear papa. Then she remembered
that the saintly old gent did own a house in the
country.
1 Silver Watcb
BSW GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE
IM*V*R B* W*T*o*T A W*T*H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir. —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
T English Watch & Jewellery
Uompany,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
“ LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
m
.
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS” Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women,
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOMa
FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with
guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject a!! Substitutes.
hatee
Macquarie,
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
i ve prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace E^otel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of Mt.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
or. .a., qtxhkt,
LOWER DOMAIN.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
SB
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. J3F” All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
jgJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
wFM POLE’S GEORGE H OTE L, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
BOOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
';
s-QrJJWi
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G. P- O.
THE
CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.O.
E STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
3NT ortlx Queensland.
James Walters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WALTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
“ Tales of the System.”
m eltina; Cso- of Australia
(LIMITED),
DA.PTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYDUBIT.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PEtODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
. . . .
a??
■
t/m
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ IS-LAWiMi”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
urel.Msors of all classes of G3I.D, fBILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD B JLLC H
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
Miralljn formation regarding Rates, etc., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable ”
London Medical Record.
FOOD
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere,
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVAU
AND
THE AGED.


Herr Hasswiussevi, Celebrated Herbalist,
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Paling Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no donht, of
neglected disorders, a hi eh
Have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE' CU R E
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
■Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging 1 to
Business,
•M
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th < Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ON E SHILLING! per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which, keeps
them i n doors
throughout the
'year, while they
drag - wearily
a n.d painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into,
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
:> v\
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh' and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSS€N’S Medical Pag?
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the iilfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER EELT BETTER in their lives.
.m/i
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALPALIME
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
\\
“HOW GAMES!' THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ”•— Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa ine
Fat-Red acing Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
sho u Id they not
uualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
O
r
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is.; posted, Is. 6d«
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifD,
their complexion sutler-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves. , a „
The Alfaline Universal- Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
lNy_r/RWJ?
wm
'gr*
F-ir~
-'i
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICA.L PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the woriy
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
t *
M
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him, by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
0
How to Obtain Free Book.
AST When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
riON, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
iddressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
ir to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
a vaA l
&V*'’ " / J
ff
■■«s 6
■.
K
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WES'j
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at tbe same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s. •
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 38. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l(3o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street ; .
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street ; -
Coolg'ardie —Bailey Street ;
Kaigoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, o o any of his Inlercolo
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy sake
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS. CONTAINING
MONEY, W THOUT 'At .


CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites
for SALOONS and
Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
Amusements.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Director, Mr. WILLIAM COSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Miss MYRA KEMBLE’S COMEDY CO.
—IN —
The A.Uaam.'bra CSrlrl.
SATURDAY NIGHT, 2nd JULY,
C. RETRAC’S FOUR ACT DRAMA,
His Terrible Task.
For the First Time in Melbourne.
POPULAR PRICES ! ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
£3RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Musical : Comedy : Season!
OPENING NIGHT— SATURDAY, 9th JULY.
“ Tlx© A.merican Grirl.”
Libretto by Mr. H. Temple.
Music composed by Mr. Alfred R. Moulton.
COMPLETE COMPANY of LEADING ARTISTS.
Press Representative, Stage and General Manager,
Mr. Ciias. W. Taylor. Mr. John Wallace.
ALVA-VERNE Concert Tour of Australia
(Under the Management of John
Madame Alva, Prima Donna Royal Italian Opera
Covent Garden; La Scala, Milan ; Opera, Naples; Doni-
zetti Festival, Bergamo; London Philarinonic Society, &c.
Miss Adela Verne, Solopianiste, St. James’ Hall
“Pops” ; Queen’s Hall Orchestral Concerts, &c. Samuel
Masters, Principal Tenor Ballad Concerts, Queen’s
Hall; St. James’ Hall, &c. John Lemmone, Solo
Flautist. Miss Matilda Verne, Accompanist*.
OPENING 1 Melbourne, Thurs., June 80; Satday, July*.
NIGHT/Sydney, Saturday, 16th July.
SHORTMMD
thoroughly taught by post.
F W. JONSON, 20 years’ Certi-
ficated Teacher (of River view
Cof.~S~TshHekf and Petersham Government Technical
Schools). Sydney Shorthand School, 21 Elizabeth-street.
Telephone 3015.
Amusements.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlercairh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
SSth \ HENRY’S \
MEEK f DRAMATIC COMPANY J MEEK
HANDS ACROSS TN€ SCR.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thnrs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
YCEUAI Til HA I'ltE, SYDNEY. _
Under the direction of J. and C. MaoMahon.
The Dramatic Success of the Day and of the iear.
READ THE PAPERS.
(Indiana, ors Roman’s Vengeance.
By Messrs. ARTHUR and ROSANQUEST.
PRICES—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at Nicholson
and Co’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
Miss PEGGY PRYDE
THE SISTERS TERRY.
Mr- Geo- H- Wood- J- W- Winton-
FOREMAN and FANNAN.
Miss MARTAN AINSWORTH.
AND OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Mr. D. H, CASTON. Mr. JOHN COLEMAN-
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
Miss NETTIE WAITE. Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
Mr. WILL WHIEBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
p o L XT S K I B R O S.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS!
LAST 2 NIGHTS !
“THE LITTLE MINISTER.”
FAREWELL to THE LITTLE MINISTER.
And Australia’s Favorite, Miss PATTIE BROWNE,
{g" SATURDAY, 2nd JULY—SWEET N A IN CY-
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
by
JOLLY’S "DUCHESS" PILLS'
FOR PALB FACES
&
A
Positive
CURB
for
Price
2/6
a Box
Post
Free.
ANEMIA
Langour, Debility, Nervousness, Skin Eruptions,
Loss of Appetite.
Absolutely free from vegetable or mineral poison.
2/6 per box, or 6 boxes for 12/6, post free.
THE BRITISH DRUGGISTS, LTD.,
H. H. Warner & Co-, Ltd., Melbourne,
Sole Australasian Agents.
Amusements.
EJI HEA T R E ROY AL, SYDNBI
TO-NIGHT! SATURDAY, 2nd JULY, 1898,
BLAND HOLT’S
First Antipodean Production of the Greatest of Drury
Lane Successes,
THE WHITE HEATHER
Written by Messrs. Cecil Raleigh and Henry Hamilton.
With suggestions by the late Sir Augustus Harris.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel
Cigar Store.
H~ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS !
“Tbc PriSoijQr of Zeoda.”
SATURDAY, 2nd JULY,
The bright, entertaining, and merry musical comedy,
Tlxe French. Maid,.
Plan, Nicholson’s. S3T PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
THE
* Plum ’
Pin
THU
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find tlieir Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial: This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
_ • I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 1 Os. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 218.
irnce n „] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sole
Agents
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks op Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
TERMS : From 25/- a Week.
Grand Hall will accommodate 500 persons.
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
TTOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY,
1 The WHOLE of the SHARES having been allotted.
PROSPECTUS
mounT fnoccoy coppeßminmo compnny no unoiciTy
(Near) PORT DOUGLAS, QUEENSLAND.
Capital— £24,ooo, in 960 Shares of £25 each, fully paid-up.
480 Shares to he issued to the public at £25 each. JfiO Shares to be issued to the vendors.
The whole of the proceeds to be placed to the credit of the Company, less £6750, which is the balance remaining
to be paid for the property. Brokerage and preliminary expenses not to exceed £l3OO. When allotment of shares is
made priority of application will be strictly adhered.
DIRECTORS :
WILLIAM RROOKS, Esq. GEORGE 0. KELLY, Esq.
ISAAC WHEELDON, Esq. JOSEPH ENGLISH, Esq.
J RANDELL, Esq. C. NORMAN ARMITAGE,
MANAGER:
A. J. PEACOCK, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
Esq.
AREA.:
125 Acres, held under Application Certificate, 783 Mineral Lands Act, Queensland.
Mount Mollov, 22 miles from Port Douglas, Queensland, which is an important shipping port. The mine is about
half-a-mile from the Port Douglas and Mareeba coach road, and 13 miles from Biboohra railway station.
Cost of carriage to Port Douglas by road, £1 per ton. ~ ...,
An abundance of water is obtainable all the year round, with a very small expense for dams, and timber suitable
for mining purposes abounds in the immediate vicinity.
Operations at the Mine.
Work has been carried on at the mine in a desultory way for about seven years by small parties of men.
Quantities of copper were sent to England, Aldershot, and Sydney, for highly satisfactory returns The following is
a summary ofall the original “ ore purchased notes,” showing an average of 28.6 per cent, from 397 tons treated at
the of the “ Smelting Company of Australia, Sydney,” “Queensland Smelting Company,’ Aldershot, and at
Swansea, EngIand SUMMARY OF ORE TREATED.
Tons. Cwt. Qrs. Lbs. Per Cent,
Certified to-S. J. WARNOOK, P.I.A,V„ Publio Aooountant.
Fraulein Fusch, though still a mere “ flappet (latest
naval slang for maidens of tender years with flowing
locks), plays with expression and finish, and displays a
wonderful amount of aplomb for one so young—far more
than Jakoff Hambourg did, for instance. The violin is
truly compared to the human voice, inasmuch as it can
afford the most exquisite pleasure or the most hideous
torture. Fraulein Fusch handles the instrument with
the loving touch that seems to come naturally to all
genuine violinists.
“Haresfoot”: Rickards says that Ugo Biondi, his
Proteus, to open at Mell). Opera House in about a fort-
night, beats a whole company. Single-handed enter-
tainers seemed all at once to have gone out when
Fregoli and Biondi sprung up, carrying the business
to unheard-of lengths. Sam Foote, of the last cen-
tury, would have been struck dumb, with all his clever-
ness ; but yet, I fancy, nothing comes up to the elder
Mathews, in his own peculiar field of changing his per-
sonality without any aids whatever. Once, when acting
at a London theatre, he personated an interloper so
thoroughly that he was turned out from behind the
scenes. He and his comrade Yates, father of Edmund,
used to personate each other before an audience at once
with an excruciating result.
“ Melb.” : While Titheradge was acting Wilfred Denver
last night, in the first act there was a curious mirror of
the Denver of real life in the crowded upper circle.
Because his wife would not change her seat, he tried to
drag her out, greatly to the scandal of the people, while
their little boy cried bitterly.
“Snell”: Comparisons are odious, but inevitable. _ Yet
there should be no offence, because really there is no
comparison, speaking 1 of Titheradge’s and Barrett’s Silver
King. Titheradge is a true artist; Barrett, to my nnnd,
more a mechanic —a good, earnest, hard-working mechanic,
respecting himself and his materials, but only a trades-
man. His tricks are sometimes excellent, almost de-
ceiving the judgment, but he wrestles openly and
obviously with a part into which Titheradge glides
instantly. Barrett works the part, the part works
Titheradge. There is scarcely a line or a thought
in it that is not more lustrous for the latter
medium. Barrett is false from the jump, most false at
the jump ; his Wilfred Denver in the first scene is a
smug gent of the master-barber type, not above a sus-
picion of Wesleyan saintliness, and mysteriously betrayed
into drink. By the way, is there an actor who portrays a
drunk as wretchedly as Barrett does ? I have seen him
make two attempts, “ Ben-my-Chree” and Wilfred Den-
ver, and in each the effect is weakly amateurish, sugges-
tive of a highly moral jamboree due to an over-indulgence
in picnic tea. Compare Titheradge and Barrett in the
description of Denver’s dream. Barrett is declamatory,
convulsive ; Titheradge is close, metallic, intense, with a
feverish eye, and a terrible belief in the long, skinny arm
and taloned hand reaching out of heaven. Barrett gener-
ally accents the weak spot of the pla3' in the scene in
Coombe’s den, Titheradge almost reverses it. But, pick
’em where you please, the ineffectual fires of the newer
importation pale in the radiance of the local light—the
eclipse of a star.
“S.S.”: Melb. amateurs, who lost themselves in “La
Perichole ” at the Bijou last week, addressed a line to the
public : “Do not buy tickets just for the sake of charity,
but to see good opera.” Having discarded the cloak of
charity, their sins were naked and—ashamed.
At a recent Australian metropolitan first-night per-
formance the representative of a great daily sat in
a conspicuous position throughout the acts and inter-
vals, with his chin planted in his bosom, sleeping the
weary hours away, and a drone as of innumerable bees
percolated through the house, swelling to a clarion blast
at pathetic moments. It is only fair to say that the press-
man never exhibited higher critical judgment.
How these Christian newspapers love one another !
Last Friday night’s profits of “ Perichole,” at Melb.
Bijou, were to be handed, said the managerial advt., to
“ Rita,” of the local ’Erald, on behalf of certain destitute
musicians for whom she had pleaded in the evening jour-
nal. Friday morning’s Age was willing to aid the cause
of the destitute ones, without mentioning the ’Erald.
Thus The proceeds of to-night’s performance will be
distributed as announced in our amusements column.”
Which plainly meant: “On page 8, under the heading
* Bijou Theatre,’ will be found a reference to one of our
beastly contemporaries.”
N. : ‘“LaPerichole,’by the Melb. amateurs, has pre-
sented the objectionable feature of a handsome and in-
nocent young lady shamming intoxication, as La Peri-
chole, at her bridal, singing ‘ I’m only a little tight,.’ A
thing like this would have been hissed off in the most
degraded time of the drama, in the hands of such as
Etheredge and Wycherley. It pained me, on the premifere
of this revival of ‘ Perichole,’ to see a monster wreath
handed up to the heroine, in the midst of this scene, as a
testimony of the delight of a section of the audience.”
“The kindest, warmest-hearted people in the world 1 ”
That’s what Mrs. Brown-Potter has been calling us to a
Welsh interviewer. Christie Murray, she says, simply
didn’t know what he was talking about when he slated
Australia. But the matter with Murray was that Aus-
tralia never even tried to swallow’ him, whereas it made
heroic efforts to assimilate the beauteous Cora, who, by
the way—fact not generally known—is partly of Spanish
blood.
Liverpool Courier shovels on the jam “ Many people
are talking of this beautiful woman at the Prince of
Wales Theatre. No portraits that I have seen of her do
Mrs. Brown-Potter justice. She is quite a unique type,
not English certainly, nor yet American, nor indeed
modern. Rather she seems to have come by a straight
road from the earliest Eastern races. VVhen you see her
you get to thinking of Cleopatra, of Yishka, of all the
lovely heroines of the ancients. Her hair, which she
wears quite short, and parted at one side in a style pecu-
liar to herself, is the true red-gold, that rarest color, and
shines like burnished copper. She makes pictures with
every movement. I have seen nothing so superb as her
first entrance in ‘ Charlotte Corda.v,’ in a grev-blue gown
and an immense black hat with black plumes, and with
great clusters of crimson roses in her hair and in her
hands. Then as the model for the picture of Judith,
with clinging draperies of purple and scarlet and white,
she is not less a marvel and a surprise. She is more beau-
tiful off the stage, as you find when you go round to the
green-room to welcome her to Liverpool, and the simplest
and most natural of women.” Not the simplest—but
very natural.
Wilson Barrett has at last met with his deserts. The
Mayor and councillors of Perth (W.A.) entertained him at
the Tow’n Hall, and Premier Forrest proposed his health,
referring to his visit as another proof that Westralia is
“fast becoming one of the greatest provinces of the
group.” That ought to make Barrett happy.
Sims Reeves, in his 76th year, is to get a national sub-
scription benefit, which, considering that W. G. Grace
was rewarded in the same way for his artistic services to
cricket, is not an unfair thing. The money that Sims
Reeves ought to have held was probablv put into cronk
companies at the instigation of cronk friends. Anyhow,
he is a needy man now, and his old-time greatness as an
interpreter of ballads that still live on the strength of his
interpretation should preserve him from poverty. A
good many trivial English songs remain popular and
“ give pleasure to all,” only because the Sims Reeves way
of singing them has survived.
Charles Holloway's venture at Melb. Royal was lucky
from start to finish. “ When London Sleeps,” a really
outrageous melodramatic joke, showed a profit of nearly
£2OOO, and the season finished up with a week of packed
houses for “ Silver King.” Money turned away every
night.
What a hold poor little Sadie Macdonald had on the
affections of her confreres ! At Sydney Tivoli, the other
night, Coleman explained to a sympathising audience
that he could not dance for them, as, on returning from
a.visit, on the previous Sunday, to his dear little friend’s
grave, he had strained his ankle. The house nearly
wept. Pathos was rampant in the theatre that night. It
was the last occasion but one of Mr. Michael Nolan’s
appearance, and Michael took the opportunity of speechi-
fying. When one had cut through the brogue and got
down to the words, one could hear him saying that
“ Never in my life have I and my wife been so happy as
here. Everyone has been good to us; everyone has been
kind ; and if we should never meet again this side of the
grave, good-bye, and God bless you all.”
Manager Charles Holloway’s little daughter Beatrice,
who played Cissy Denver in the recent “Silver King’*
season at Melb. Royal, was born during the original pro-
duction 13 years ago, when dad played Jaikes after Phil
Day. Accordingly christened Beatrice Denver, and will
probably be playing Denver’s wife in another five years,
judging by her progress in her art.
“We speak of going to England as ‘ going home,’ but
to me home will always be in Australia, where I have
spent the greater portion of my life, and where I have
made my reputation as an actor.”—Titheradge’s farewell
on Saturday night at Melb. Royal. Tith sailed on Tues-
day, but his family, including the sprightly Lily, remains
behind.
Dear B. — Re 6d. galleries in Melb. theatres. The thes-
pians are not the only offenders. The “ Harmy ” lately
announced a meeting in Prahran—admission 3d. ; but two
unco guid friends of mine, on presenting themselves,
were blocked with demand for Is. Mentioning advt.,
they were coolly told that that was only a draw. They
have both since become (irmly unconverted.—Ciierub.
“ Quick study ! The most astonishing I ever heard of
was Madame Viardot, with my Azucena. On the morn-
ing of the first performance of ‘ II Trovatore,' in Paris,
I was distracted to find that Mine. Alboni’s throat pre-
cluded her appearing. Viardot had never seen the part,
but made it the hit of the opera that night.”—Verdi.
“ Who were the first to encourage me ? Why, the
working men. At the rehearsal of my first opera,
1 Nabuco,’ in La Scala Theatre, Milan, I went humbly
and was treated as a poor young composer. Workmen
were hammering all over the house in repairs. The
orchestra, principals and chorus skulked and slummed.
I was in despair. But, at the Pensiero chorus, the ham-
mering stopped in a moment. The workmen cried, * Viva
for the Maestro ! ’ and clapped their hands. Then began
my success." —Verdi.
Letter, with clipped daily-paper advt. enclosed, received
by the Firm, at start of the Albani tour :—“ Messrs. Wil-
liamson and Musgrove. Dr. sirs, I write to solicit the
favor of an advertisement for the of the Albani
concerts. I would insert the inclosed in 14 column 6
inches for 12 6 and a Pass for 2 or one column 12J4 inches
for 21/- with a Pass for 2 this of course will include a
short parr and report. Re your theatre. lam not in the
habit of going to theatres but I think that as long as
people will have them that those who provide the highest
class of entertainments should be encouraged and your
bringing the Sign of Cross is a sign that you doing your
Part in this direction and whilst 1 could not accept an
advertisement of the Theatrical yet if you allow me
admittance upon presenting my card when you have
anything of a similar nature to the sign of the cross I
shall have pleasure of giving you a Parr in the paper.
Shall be obliged for an answer at Earliest Convenience as
I goto press to-morrow (Wednesday) and would like to
know before To-morrow Wednesday 4 o’clock. lam
yours obediently Editor and Manager of the
Mis? Julia Spencer, late of Braey’s Co., takes a part in
“ The American Girl ” production at Melb. Princess’s..
Re M.L. flv-pest. A circus proprietor in the West keeps
no elephant outside his posters. When he wants to fill
the bill he ties a three-foot rope to the nose of one of his
horses, washes the whole turn-out with honey, and lets
the flies do the rest. He soon has a huge black elephant,
trunk and all, made up of millions of flies and a horse
and a yard of rope.
“ Al.” writes of a Maoriland incident:—The hate that
mummer bears to mummer passeth understanding. Last
Dec., the Gidyea comedy co. put up at our hash-tower at
Whaukoro. My room separated the leading lady’s from
her jealous satellite’s ; cause of jealousy—a very tall man
with a sounding “h’m,” a captain of soldiers, clanks here,
clanks there, winks once and the girls are dead. A man,
sir, for a billet-doux or a sharp bit of work. At break-
fast the satellite sat between him and the leading lady,
intercepted glances and foot-communication, kept the
toast from her enemy, hoping to starve her out : utter
futility—the 1.1. has devilish long arms. Bicker-bicker
when Captain Moltke looks either way, both watching
each other like Dewey and Blanco. One night I was
lying heels up, head down, fighting insomnia. Clock
struck three. Something tripped past my door ; then a
sharp breath and a click ; peeped, and saw the 1.1.’s door
swing back ; three seconds later the satellite slipped out
and passed into her own room. Back to bed, wondering
what business could take her into her enemy’s quarters.
Then I began to breathe gas in thick streams; got up,
and chased the smell to 1.1.’s door ; opened it (rash act!)
and got nearly suffocated on the threshold. Shook 1.1.
until she sat up and requested me to quit at once. I ex-
plained that if she lay in bed a minute longer she’d be-
come a gaseous body. A loud singing in the near jet
located the trouble. I casually mentioned the satellite’s
visit; the 1.1. thanked me coldly, and begged that I would
not mention the circumstance. A strange hilarity per-
vaded the breakfast-table ; the 1.1. passed toast to her
rival with alarming politeness. When Moltke left the
room the 1.1. collared the satellite by the scruff and
rubbed her pearly cheek in the fireplace. I locked the
door sympathetically, and hinted through the key-hole
that cold ashes and hot bacon-fat would meet the case.
All is well. We are living in the next terrace, where the
pale heroine meddleth not with gas-taps.
In an amateur performance of the comedietta “Withered
Leaves,” an engaged couple once appeared. During the
piece, the lady was to be asked by her lover whether she
had ruined her hat in a romantic adventure on a moun-
tain, to which she should have replied, “ I hope you didn’t
spoil your trousers.” The unfortunate lover forgot his
own line, however, and spoke the lady’s, with the result
that the engagement was broken off in the interval.


■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
fis entirely free front
Starch and Cane Sugar*
Wheh added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as Well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
Supplies materials by which diluted Cow's milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
Publications, etc.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets: 30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
i
%al
The galletGirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
3Po»t Free, Ift.
Sydney
The Life,
Adven.
ttires, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
NEW MUSIC.
“ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms,” a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse ”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy, “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, IF.
PAXTON & CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Svvanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
HENRY FARMER S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO- “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,”' “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” IS. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2< 6<l. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Strewt, MELBOURNE.
Married Ladies.
d3T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Blinders Street, Melboubne.
Improved Edition, “Wife's Guide a.nd Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
%M4W op ORQAN PLAYING
LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN,
r A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With it any one can become an expert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the NEAREST APPROACH TO A READY MADE KNOWLEDGE
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
i cnndc free - L '° introduce to every home PRATT’S CHART
I Ot aUligo 11 DC published at 5/-, we will send the .Giant Album
01184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt’s Chart
of Chords for only 2/S post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
Avono Amkbicaw Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
*>nfi-n ti-is paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
BEST SHILLING MUSIC BOOKS IN THE WORLD.
THE
Music
Books
Price
Each Book . . . .
Contains
ONE POUND’S
WORTH
Popular Music in Full
Size Sheet Music
£i’s
WORTH
FOR
51 BOOKS NOW
P JBLISHED
Postage 2d.
250,000 of the Federals have already been sold.
The Federal Music Books contain :
SONGS— Popular, for all Voices, comic and sacred—Soprano, Con-
tralto, Tenor, Baritone and Bass. Irish, Scotch, American Christ'.
Italian,' etc. Students Songs and Choruses. v r OCAL DUETS
PIANO Very Easy. Easy and Effective. Moder-
ately Difficult. Brilliant Operatic, etc PIANO DUETS.
DANCc MUSIC' —Quadrilles. Lancers. Waltzes. Polka*.
Galops. Reels. Jigs, etc
VIO-IN fcOLOS, VIOLIN AND PIANO DUETS.
Full list of contents of all the above Books posted free to an v
address Send us One Shilling, ard tell us what Music you like,
and we will for ard you a Samp’e «’opy that will delight you.
Obtainable of all Music Sellers or direct from the publishers,
"VS7T. 3E3C C3r 3L. USES 3§J Ac CO.
Collins St, Melbourne, & 359 George-st., Sydney.
BOOKS.
Published Second-hand
Price. Price.
Far n Management 15/- 7/6 Post Free
New Enquire Within, 5000 recipes 7/6 4/6
The Farmer’s Own Book .. .. 7/6 4/6
Every Man his own Medical Adviser 30 - 12 6
Dict’y of Universal Information .. 25 - 10 6
500 Oloth-bnd. Novels, best authors 3 6 16
800 Up-to-date Novels, Col. Library 2 6 13
Should you r quire any Books Second-hand, kindly advise
R. W. SKIN VER, New and Second hand Book Ar-
cade, 105 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Pointed out by a Correspondent of the
Australasian Medical Gazette that there isn’t
a word about “conscientious objections ” or “re-
ligious scruples ” in the section (343) of the Crimi-
nal Law Amendment Act which allows any person
who “ objects to take an oath ” to make a declara-
tion instead. Surprising how few people are aware
that no Judge has power to make them slobber the
filthy Court Bible.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, International Patent
Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, desires to
inform intending patentees that, having been
joined by Mr. T. C. Allen (M.E.A. of N.S.W.),
Consulting Mechanical Engineer, the firm is now
in a position to furnish inventors with expert
engineering assistance free of charge.*
Few realise how much the food supplies of
Great Britain depend upon other countries. If
Britain went to war with France, or in any way
was cut off from that country, it would be de-
prived of comestibles annually imported such as
butter, 200,000 cwt. ; margarine, 41,963 cwt.; eggs
to the value of .£893,133 or 35,725,320d0z., and
i poultry, 71,747 cwt. The increasing demand for
margarine is causing trouble. To meet it, France
I has had to import tons of fat from other countries.
: It was then found that much of the stuff was
mixed with butter and sold as pure butter. Now,
severe penalties are imposed if anything not made
exclusively from milk or cream is sold as butter.
Margarine was tried in Australia years ago, but
did not catch on. The poor found ordinary
dripping cheaper, cleaner, and more palatable.
Sir Joseph Banks, the large head of the
Botany Bay discovery party, had, like English
exploiters of to-day, a pretty scheme of his own
for utilising the vast areas of inland Australia.
Syndicates at that date were called “ parties of
adventurers,” and Banks proposed that such par-
ties should be allowed from 100,000 to 1,000,000
acres each, on lease, that they should be em-
powered to make and enforce their own code
of laws, and pay tribute out of the profits. State
law was not to interfere between employes
and employers, except to see that employes were
to be paid a percentage of the profits, “so as to
encourage them to put forth their best energies in
the interest of their employers.” Banks, to do
him justice, spoke and wrote with ability against
the State selling or granting in perpetuity any
part of Australia to individual or company.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Von Kotze J. A, Philp goes to con-
siderable trouble in his defence of Chinese immi-
gration and racial inter-marriages. But, though
he may have proved the case entirely to his own
satisfaction, I, and thousands besides me, hold
opposite opinions, and can bring quite as many
proofs for our contention that the Chow is an
evil, as the rather meagre statistics of Mr. Philp.
Anyhow—that isn’t the point at all! The Mon-
golians are fundamentally different from our race,
like the opposite pole of a magnet, and into the
bargain they are phenomenally frugal, adaptable
and thrifty, and, as such, a grave economical dan-
ger to the Caucasian. It simply comes to this:
Shall Australia be a white or a yellow country?
And, quite apart from the notorious immorality of
the lower classes from “far Kathay,” their lia-
bility to disease, their opium habit, a thousand
other objectionable and perhaps contagious traits,
I prefer, as a white man, to see this country a
white man’s land. I’d rather have Australia
peopled by my own kin, though they be an
awfully bad lot, and tolerably drunk, and pain-
fully prone to illegitimacy and strong language
and sweep-tickets, than the most God-fearing and
puritanical hybrid population on this planet. And
in this light the vitality of the Chinese and the
fertility of their half-castes are only so many more
reasons for the strictest exclusion of the Asiatic.
e>
tP
OLD
RWs
o-
SUNBU,
Finn.
HA
- <1
'V
&.C
vf
£^£
Y
H
>^orT
SAW MILLSHS - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
"Wind. Mlills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS .
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
william flemimg,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
GRIM AULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, As! hum, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
PMRoT
BWj
lfo F On,r°FS
WoONDf
Roughs (pLPJ £?
[Beware or/
Jm itaji°aiS
In use 50 Years bsfors Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
niTTIKG
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,, Andalusian, and other
qualities. . All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the-Woridfor quality, colours, softness and durability.
SEE "this trade /aark.
IS ON EVERYbSKE
Trade Mark Registered.
Established 1785.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also “ Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
\vi ar manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive Wools.
J. s J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing. posted free, sealed and
without marks.' Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
COMFORT IN WALKING,
mas
ee
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS,
lit softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/lof all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA. HOAKSENESS, &c.
COUGH —Stops
mJRPONFUL A DOSfjUli
Gives Immediate Relief ariu rtest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that X have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to sul
-miferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and mate
•u> charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
• ■ Me WILBER KELLOOO, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic
f|U.LES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISH
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia front
LINCOLN, STUART & CO,
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
V \„„nV>»W
S 8
A- > "'v
i
I
I IV II JJ
*0 I I jj
“188-SiS
i in'! !
niiiiii'i"!! 1 S
llli'iiiiniii
!!!iiiniiiiiii
■iiniiiiiiiii;
• ."•"•in
Mm
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellouß value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished, A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, 413 3 -»
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6,
A Special I,ine, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -,
Clerical Suits to Measure, 4*5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -, Hiding
Breeches, 25/-, Wa terpr o o f,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
, &c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
SO/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainpfoof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9,
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortineht of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It'will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed,
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
XJSE
Spool) €ss
JROYALNAVY DRESSING
FOR
i BROWN LEATHER
1 BOOTS & SHOES
i: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECI lONS FOR USE
iuimumu
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE ,
“>SB@
S/O/V MEASEf or^RY
AND WOV/V/DS
or £ V£R Y
DESCR/PT/orP
Dll IS
Alterative pill*
A** 1 k FOR SK/N DISEASES
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMA CP & L/VER .
OE ALL CHEM/STS / fji X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. BRI DPO R,T.
Wlocue?
<MTY POST FREE
MwrcHES'CLOCKS-JEV/ELLERY-BIRTriDAY*
weddiinlc z CHristei\lhvlc Presents
H'Nev7MAl\l“l7ssl77-Fll?AßFrij St.
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man — Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
< 1 v the wearer through all
1 WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
j PER, we give a written
; guarantee with each Elec-
I trie Belt that it will per-
manently 'cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say. and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL’.ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A BOON TO TN€ DEAF.
DEAFNESS7Head Noises,
and Singing- in the Ears completely overcome, and perfect
Hearing- restored, by the use of Peck’s Artificial
Ear Drums. The finest in the World. Send for Illus-
trated Book of Proofs and Testimonials, Free.
A. M. NAST, 145 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
OUIJi KLTJS Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort, and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.


* In every
m&uth
GDENS
GUINEA-COU)
i; CIGARETTES
C. 4#*
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by eocpert Chemists at
Loiv Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoi) N.SoGI &Co.,m’&p.s.
150, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
01inrch.-street, Parramatta.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
XO DEFY COMPBTIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
rrrr - ■'Sftffl-gngEß-se-' J-ig&t. -
YORKSHIRE RELISH
■■■■■■■■■■BHBHHBHHHBMMBHHHHBHBHBHBBI TNlimillil 1
r THE HOST DEUCIOVS SAUCE ITS THE WORI.B.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED M THE HISTORY OP SAU«P-s
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUSSTiTUTIO S.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., I'-, and 2- each.
Proprietors I GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New Soutli Wales:
TIUOCK & CO., KENT and JJVEKEOOI. S'l'RiiETS. S
iiiinmiiiiuiiiiiiiniiiiliiiiiiiiiiMiimuiiiiliimiimmmiilim
10 IS3HXWI a£dOuu,
is >lO
33HJ SWOIO
(VII C K SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices ,
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from ITs and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
mV S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Fatent *X° otoaceo Cutter.
A
U
T
O
m
A
T
I
O
s
E
L
f
m
F
E
E
D
I
N
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE,
Sole Agents for Australasia :
T%/T-» olr Simmons, Hay mar feet, S3rc3.3ta.e3r.
Direct; Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers Requisites. Send for I rice List.
•mm
Stimulating—Nutritive—Exquisite in Flavor.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
7 'he best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s. Concentrated
Egg Powders,, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
gs'ftc ffoir
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
4
T>OOK OF NATURE
" —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORE FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new 1
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
ITeptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
hook, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s (id ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
'’ossion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
ml everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is Cd post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing- all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
HOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestlino, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigoer Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private boolc, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book
16 PARK STREET,
Depot,
SYDNEY.


THE MOST JUbiERE SHIN G, COOGUNG* CL MEARTHEUJL BEVERAGE.
[Trade mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
Hi
Xfl
m
■
Mm
ns
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle —D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & II- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kiuds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
meudit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Cusard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOOD ALL. BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENE. .
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO. *
Qmm
WtSnllllilniiuiiiiiUilUuil’Uiiu®
SEND ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS,
wm- i
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
|“W
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios„ f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, fo inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned rteds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
WM
m
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
London, S.W.
IRO^AID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
*T ractio xx,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po: table Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &0.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE 1 ' OIL ENGINE.
The Man, the Woman, and the
Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had been waiting more than an hour outside
the School of Arts; waiting with what sickening
anxiety only her own heart knew. The ’buses
plied in monotonous regularity on their way to
Paddington and Woollahra, and as each one
passed she bent forward to read its destination, in
the hope that the little group of men smoking on
the pavement would think her an intending
passenger. The Post-office chime rang out the
quarter. Seven o’clock, h.e had said. It was now
a quarter past eight. What could have kept him ?
He had changed lately. Did he care less? No,
surely not; his letters breathed the same love and
devotion; yet this was the third time he had
failed in his appointment. Her mind reviewed
with startling clearness every detail of their
friendship during the past year. It had been
such an ideal comradeship. They had passed
hours together discussing art and books; they
had frequented debates and lectures on social and
intellectual problems, drifting along the platonic
stream, unconscious of the ocean of passion to
which it led —till one day.
One day, when a trivial circumstance had
broken down the walls of self-repression, and the
man had poured' out passionate words of love, of
loneliness and despair, to which the tide of love,
welling up in the woman’s heart, had responded.
Even in the midst of the happiness the know-
ledge of his love brought her, her heart had
ached, as she listened to the broken sentences
telling of the man’s wretchedness, his craving for
sympathy, his lost ideals, his wasted past.
“ I will make it all up to you,” she had whis-
pered ; “ we will be strong together, to live and
work for what we know to be true. ” Her thoughts
had been so busy with the past that a touch on
the arm made her turn with a start to find the
man at her side.
“ I am sorry, dear, to have kept you waiting.
I could not come Sooner, I am in great trouble. I
was afraid you would have gone, but I wanted to
see you so desperately that I came on the chance
of finding you still here. Let us walk on and find
a seat somewhere. You must be tired, and I
have so much to say to you.” He placed the
hand he still held on his arm, and they walked
away together.
“ I am not tired now,” the woman said ; “ we
can walk where the streets are quieter, and you
can tell rue the trouble.”
The man was silent as they turned into Market-
street and crossed the tram-line into the Park,
then he said : “ Let us walk to our favorite spot,
Gratia, and sit where we sat that night when I
told you I loved you. I think there I could have
courage to tell you my wretched story.”
“ Very well, Paul. But, dear, why should you
mind telling me? I love you. No matter how
dreadful, how hideous, how humiliating it may
be, tell me all. I am strong enough to bear it.”
They walked on for some time in silence through
the gates, down the avenue, till they reached
a seat at the end of a path overlooking the water.
Then the man said: “ Have you noticed any
difference in me lately, Gratia ? ”
“ Yea, I have thought at times you were sorry
for having spoken ; for having told me that you
loved me; that perhaps you had begun to realise
you had made a mistake.”
The man looked at her. “ I could never realise
that, Gratia. It sounds like the usual thing to say
I never knew what love was till I met you ; but
it is true —I never did.”
The girl stroked his hand gently. “ What is
the change then, Paul ? ”
“ There is no change in my affection, dear ; it
is simply that I am anxious and wretched.
Gratia, I am married.”
For a few seconds the woman’s heart seemed to
stop beating, then she said, “ When were you
married ?”
“ Seven years ago.”
“ Are there any children ? ”
“Yes, there are two.”
A pause, in which the sound of happy laughter
floated up from the waterside. The woman looked
at the man. “ Why did you make me love you,
Paul ? Do you remember, long ago, I told you 1
was afraid to lovfe, because I was not like other
women—l should care very badly. You knew
me ; you knew this was true; why did you do it?”
“Gratia,” the man said, passionately, “listen
to me. lam not all bad. I have been to blame,
but not wilfully. When I first met you at the
Debating Club, I had no thought of our ever fal-
ling in love with one another. It was your mind
I admired ; an intellectual friendship that I
sought. Then, as I got to see more of you—to
know you better —I began to realise that it was
you yourself that I wanted. I struggled to do
what was right; I tried to avoid you, to keep
from the club. I could not. I am not a weak
man, but my love was too strong for me, and—
you know the rest.”
Another pause ; then the woman spoke. - “Do
you wish to tell mo any more ? Your wife ?
Where is she ? Are you separated ? Do you see
her ? ”
“ No. We are not legally separated. She has
been living in the country with her people for
some years. We never got on together. Our
tastes and interests were quite opposed. Our mar-
riage was a mistake ; I never loved her; it was
merely passion, and was soon over.”
“ Why have you told me of her to-night, Paul ? ”
“ Because she has heard ot you, and is jealous.”
“ Then she loves you ? ”
“ She is not capable of love as we understand it.”
“As we understand it ? How do we under-
stand it ? ”
“ That is what we have to decide to-night,
Gratia. My wife is returning to Sydney, and
either our friendship must end, and our lives drift
apart, or we must enter upon another relationship.
I cannot divorce my wife, and I am bound to sup-
port her. But my marriage with her is merely
legal; my relationship with you would be marriage
in the highest and most moral sense. She has
brought the vilest accusations against me, she
threatens to sue for a judicial separation ; it is the
knowledge of how she would ruin your career, at
present so bright and promising, which troubles
me. ”
“ And in what way, Paul, does the plan you
suggest minimise the danger? You fear for my
career, and yet you propose that I should take a
step which would give color to your wife’s accusa-
tions, and which would ruin my career, as you
understand ruin, most effectually.”
“ But, Gratia, we need not stay here. The world
is wide. We could begin our new life in another
country.”
The woman looked into the man’s eyes.
“ Paul,” she said, “ the old life would follow us;
I should be a woman with a past, and without a
future.”
“Your future would be mine, Gratia.”
“For how long, Paul?”
“ Gratia,” the man said, “don’t you love me
enough to make some little sacrifice ? ”
The woman gazed out upon the moonlit water
without speaking.
“ Little one,” he went on softly, “ you have
always said you would defy conventionality for
love’s sake. We need each other, darling ; we
could not face life with no hope of meeting
again.”
The woman shivered as the soft tones continued.
“ Our love belongs to the highest part of us, dear ;
only sordid, vulgar minds could associate it with
shame. Think of Shelley, of George Eliot, of
other cultured minds, whose love was spiritual
and ideal, and who dared to live in defiance of
social laws.” The woman bent her head in her
hands. When she looked up her face seemed
altered, as if all joy had passed from her life.
Then she said, “ I will not go with you.”
The man started as though he would speak, but
the woman went on unheedingly, “ I will not go
with you. Not because I fear social ostracism,
but because I fear you. I cannot feel sure of you.
To take up life with you as you suggest would be
the most solemn act of my life. I could not try
it as an experiment; I should have to feel certain
I had made no mistake, in linking my life with
yours. Is it one of the essential differences of our
natures that what to me would be a sacrament,
might come to be regarded by you as an episode.”
The man spoke angrily. “So you doubt me?
I might have guessed that when it came to the
test your love would not be strong enough to
fight conventionality. The new woman, after all,
is very much like the old ; she has theories enough,
but hasn’t the courage to carry them out.”
A change passed over Gratia’s face as the man
spoke. Was it possible he could so misunder-
stand her? She rose from the seat shivering.
“ It is getting late, I must catch my tram.”
Together they retraced their steps along the
path fraught with so many memories, the man
still pleading, the woman silently listening. At
the corner of Bent-street they parted, the man to
his chambers, the woman to her lodgings.
All through that night she lay, with eyes wide
with misery, thinking.
* * * •
A week later, at dusk, Gratia entered her study
to find a woman waiting. The woman looked at
her—“ I am Paul Grayson’s wife. I received this
letter from him a few days ago ; I want you to
read it.”
Gratia read it. The eyes of the two women
met.
“You love your husband, Mrs. Grayson?”
Gratia said slowly.
“ Yes, I idolise him. I know his weaknesses,
and yet I love him. My married life has been a
martyrdom. Time after time he has left me for a
newer and more attractive face; but he has
always come back to me and I have forgiven. I
have lived for the hope that one day I might win
him back altogether. Two years ago he failed in
business, and we were terribly poor. I went to
the country with my two little children, and
worked and slaved and sacrificed, not only to
keep them, but to keep him. I have managed to
do it. A fortnight ago the management of a city
business was offered me. My husband asked me
to defer my decision for a few days Then he
wrote to me and I came to town.”
Gratia looked on the letter lying on the table
between them. “ When I came down,” the wife
continued, “I had only bitterness in my heart
towards you. Last night, I saw you were adver-
tised to speak at a meeting on the ‘ Woman Ques-
tion.’ I went to hear you. I thought, if I could
see you, I would know better what to do. As you
spoke, I felt you were sincere in all you said ; you
did not seem a heartless woman, so I determined
to come and speak to you frankly, to ask you not
to ruin my poor chance of ultimate happiness.”
Gratia listened intently, her face in the shadow.
“Then,” she said, “don’t you think a woman’s
chance of happiness very uncertain when she
stakes it on the love of a liar and a coward ? ”
The wife’s face flushed. “He is not that,” she
replied. “He may be weak, selfish, fickle ; but
not a liar, not a coward ; and, even if he were?
Oh ! can’t you see I love him ? lam his wife. I
could not leave off loving him, whatever he did.”
Again Gratia looked at the letter. “In this,”
she went on, touching it lightly, “he tells you
that, though he admired me, he had no thought
of love till I told him I loved him. That, by
reason of my magnetic personality, I had influence
over him which he could not resist. That he
wished to be true to you, that his feeling for me
was merely a mood—a passing mood ; and he asks
you to come to Sydney to save him from himself—
and me. A brave man’s letter, surely ? ”
The sarcasm fell unheeded on the Wife’s ears.
“ Yes,” she said, “ it was brave of him to confess
so freely. I feel he really means to keep the fresh
page turned this time ; if only you will leave him
to me,” the wife continued, eagerly, passionately.
“ You do not love him ; you cannot love him as I
do. Clever women like you, whose interests are
wholly given to public affairs, cannot realise the
part love plays in the ordinary woman’s life. You
have a great future, people say ; as for me, with-
out my husband, I have no future ! ”
Gratia bent forward, speaking slowly, “There
is something worse in life than losing the one we
love. To set up an ideal and worship it; and
then suddenly, without warning, to see it shat-
tered at your feet—so that you lose hope, and
trust, and belief in men and women, is a greater
tragedy. ”
She spoke as though she were thinking aloud;
as though she had forgotten the presence of the
wife. Only for a moment, however. Then she
rose —
“ Mrs. Grayson,” she said, “ I think we under-
stand each other as far as this matter is con-
cerned. You have my assurance that in no way
will I come between you and your husband.”
The wife broke in eagerly : “ If he does not see
you, he will soon forget; will you promise me not
to write, not to see him, not to offer any explana-
tion ? ”
A quiver passed over Gratia’s face. “ I pro-
mise. From this moment he will be dead to me.
I think there is no more to say.”
The wife passed out of the room into the street,
with a great load off her heart, and her mind
busy with plans for the home she had already
pictured her husband and children sharing.
The woman sat alone in the darkness till far
into the night; then she lit the gas, seated herself
at her desk, and went on with her article for the
“Pioneer journal” on “The Relations of the
Sexes. ”
LOTUS.


Hardly a reigning dynasty in Europe is
properly of the people it governs. In Britain—
Germans ; Russia, Denmark, and . Greece—llol-
steiners ; Spain—Bourbons ; Sweden—French ;
Austria —Lorrainers ; Germany—Suabians ; Italy
—Savoyards; Belgium—Coburgers.
Out of a N.S.W. dairy herd ,of 15, eight
apparently healthy cows singled out by the tuber-
culin-test were' discovered, upon slaughter, to be
in an advanced stage of consumption ! The
pleasing little fact that the milk of these animals
was being unsuspectingly consumed as wholesome
opens up a cheerful vista of disease-possibility,
and indicates the crying necessity for having the
tuberculin-test made legally imperative. '
Lady Elizabeth Biddulph, a prominent
English Cold-Tea apostle, lately told an audience
that she had learnt that Sirdar Kitchener' had sent
back all the beer that had been ordered to the
front with the soldiers. “ Therefore,” continued
her ladyship in a triumphant tone, “they had
fought and had achieved a great temperance as
well as a great and brilliant military victory.”
Wild applause. Considering that the Dervishes
conquered in the great temperance victory referred
to were teetotallers by religion, and had never
touched strong drink in all their lives, Lady Bid-
dulph’s rejoiceful whoop sounds funny. It was
really the Dervishes who should have won, accord-
ing to temperance logic. But one forgets : there
is no temperance logic.
Ladies and gentlemen visitors in town are
cordially invited to call at our establishment and
leave a record of their measures with our dress-
makers or tailors. And, while you are in, ask to
see one of the firm. We are always glad to see
our country customers, and talk over the best way
to send goods, packing, &c., &e. Hordern
Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-streeb
(only), Sydney.*
The Immense Success of . . .
Bile Beans for Biliousness
IS DUE ALONE TO THEIR GREAT MERIT.
Tbey Staled To-day UoriyalM ai)d Unexcelled !
A CONSTANT SUFFERER.
Mrs. THOMAS BISHOP Tells of Her Illness.—Serious Consequences Feared.
Many Doctors Fail, but BILE BEANS Eifect a Speedy and Thorough Cure.
If any one thought has been in my mind more than another for the past few months, it has been one
of gratitude to the makers of Bile Beans, and I am only too delighted to have an opportunity of
publicly stating this.” Thus replied Mrs. Thomas Bishop, of James-street, Hamilton, when a re-
porter waited upon her the other day in reference to the remarkable recovery. Mrs. Bishop keeps a
store m Hamilton, and is the wife of Mr. Thomas Bishop, the well-known blacksmith of that district.
at 6 1 -n- i a ' Wlde l y res P e °ted in the Newcastle district, having resided there for about nine years.
Mrs. Bishop had, up to a short time ago, suffered so much from various disorders that she was begin-
i liig to fear serious consequences. To day, however, she is bright and lively, without a pain or an
i.che. this wonderful change in her system has, she says, all been brought about by the use of Bile
eans for Biliousness. The reporter was astonished to hear that a lady looking the picture of health
and happiness could have been so great a sufferer, and he ventured to inquire into the case. “Though
not at death s door exactly, I have been so bad,” said Mrs, Bishop, “ that nothing I could do or get
seemed to give me any relief. It was a misery for me to walk about. Night after night I passed
a.most without any sleep, to rise in the morning utterly unrefreshed. Terrible pains assailed me in
the back and between the shoulders, causing me intense suffering. I think it was my liver that caused
this. As tune went on the weary and languid feeling grew more acute, headaches were frequent, and
1
it was a trouble for me to take my meals. I was beginning to
think the illness would be my last, because I had lost 141 b. in
weight in three months, and was very weak.”
“ Had you consulted doctors as to your condition ?” suggested
the reporter.
“Yes; they said it was indigestion. They prescribed for me,
and, when I got no permanent relief, I was advised to go away
for a change of air.”
“ How long had you been suffering? ”
“The pain in my back I first severely felt twelve months ago
last Easter; but the breakdown of my physical vitality, loss of
appetite, and general weakness only came on about eight months
ago. Prom that time forward I always wanted to be lying down,
only, however, to feel more tired when I got up again. Then,
when I would try to walk about, the pains in the middle of my
back would be something unbearable, and latterly I had developed
a soreness in the abdomen, which caused me some concern. I in-
tended to have the change of air the doctor spoke about, and went
to Lake Macquarie. I took bad in the house we had taken, how-
ever, and was glad to get back to Hamilton. At this time every-
thing was a trouble to me—eating, drinking, walking, talking, and
even thinking being equally burdensome. I was at my wits’ end
to know what to do to get relief.”
<t at^ 0 recomrnpn ded the Bile Beans, then? ” queried the newspaper man.
No one recommended them to me. I saw them advertised in the Newcastle Her alp as being:
pood for the liver, and believing, as I did, that my liver was out of order, I determined to get a box
of them almost at once. I had never believed much in patent medicines, but I went off to Messrs.
Hart and Ferkins, in Hunter-street, and made the lucky purchase ; and I have been cured for a few
shillings, after spending pounds upon pounds upon doctors, who did me no good ”
How soon did you experience relief ? ”
Practically at once. The first dose had rather a powerful effect ; but I realised that this might
be the removal of the bile. The next night I only took half a dose. Continuing with these half-doses
for several days, L began to feel my health being restored, and in the course of a week I felt really well
again, quite rejuvenated ’ in fact.”
!( as heay y’ feeling now gone altogether ? ”
Not only has that gone, ’ replied Mrs. Bishop, with a satisfied smile, “but the soreness in the
stomach and the violent pains between my shoulders when walking about have also left me. Now I
can eat and sleep well, have no sick headaches, and, in fact, life is a pleasure to me. I can get up at
7 in-the morning and go about till 10 at night without the slightest touch of the languid feeling that
used to come over me, and lam now fast gaining my lost weight. lam recommending the Beans to
all my friends, as I am quite sure that they alone cured me.”
Ihe representative, who had listened with interest to the sincere way in which the story had been
related, Bishop if she had any objection to the facts of her recovery being published. The
lady replied, None whatever. It is only jusb that other poor sufferers should know what Bile Beans
are capable of doing.
INFLUENZA AND COLDS.
Nothing so suddenly obstructs the perspiration as sudden transitions from heat to cold. Heat
ranrj e s trie blood,.quickens the circulation and increases the perspiration, but when these are suddenly
checked, the consequences must be bad. The most common cause of disease is obstructed perspiration
or what commonly goes by the name of catching cold. Coughs, colds, sore throat, etc., if attended to
m time are easily subdued, but if allowed to run their own course, generally prove the forerunner of
more dangerous diseases. Nine-tenths of the consumptives date their affliction from a neglected cold,
and the diseases that are caused by wet feet, damp clothes, or exposure are more numerous than are
generally supposed. One of the most efficacious medicines for the prevention of diseases of the throat
and lungs is Bile Beans.
ILE
ms
F0f\
IUOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weak-
ness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples,
Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspep-
sia, Influenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn,
and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Store-
keepers generally; Australian Dep6t of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Roeke, Tompsitt, and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne; S.A.
agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William-street, Ade-
laide; W.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queens-
land agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane.
The Tugs of Simpsonville.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was dirty, dark, and artful and they called
him “ Saltbush Bill,”
But we didn’t recognise him when he came to
Simpsonville ;
It’s a sort of one-horse township out beyond the
Cobar track,
Where the sun’s a perfect scorcher and the dust
would choke a black !
Hot ? Great Scot !
It was Hell, with some improvements, worse than
Booligal, a lot!
Saltbush Bill arrived at sundown ; called for
“ Hennessy’s three-star,”
And he shouted for the jackeroos a-standingin the
bar,
And he introduced the subject when he’d liquored
up. ' Says he :
4“l’m no English duke or nobleman a-tracking
round ; not me !
Shout ? No doubt!
But I ain’t a bloomin' squatter nor a shearer just
cut out!
“ I’m in Simpsonville on business and I claim to
represent,
The most wonderful neuralgia cure that any could
invent,
And it’s known as ‘ Brown’s Neuralgia Dice’;
the price a bob a die
And you rub it where the pain is and the pain is
bound to fly !
Sell ? oh well,
Just you wait till I have finished and youll have
a chance to tell ! ”
Then he brings a pickle-bottle and he puts it on
the bar ;
(It was full of peas and fastened down) and says :
“Now, there you are !
I’m the liberalest bagman that was ever on the
rounds;
If you guess how many peas is there you get five
blanky pounds !
Fair ? and square !
And the nearest guess will get the gonce as sure as
you are there ! ”
Well of course we goes to rush it, but he says :
“ One moment there !
I am no escaped loo natie nor eccentric million-
aire !
I’m no travelling convalescent and I ain’t been
very ill,
Nor come to view the scenery surrounding Simp-
sonville !
Yes ! you guess,
But you have to buy a bob’s worth of the cure !
Well here’s success ! ”
“ Now I want a hundred guesses, which will make
the fiver sure,
And the landlord holds the money just to see you
all secure,
And I leaves a hundred samples of the cure inside
the bar
Which he sells, and pays the money to the winner.
There you are !
Me ? I’ll gee ! 1
I must introduce the remedy in other towns vou
see ! ” ’ J
In the morning came a swaggie with “Matilda”
’cross the flat,
Whom we recognised immediate as a bloke called
Jack the Rat;
And he listened to the story, then went over to
the store
And he bought dry peas in bagfuls till there
wasn’t any more.
Rot ? ’Twas not!
Why you haven’t got a notion what a head that
bloke had got!
Now it first struck Joe the Spieler it would be as
good as gold,
For to get a pickle-bottle and see just what it
would hold.
He was always on for pointing, and as artful as
you please ;
But he went all round the township and he
couldn’t get no peas !
See? Not'a pea !
It was just the same with Jackson and with
Dogherty and me !
And the bobs they kept on coming in ; the time
was drawing nigh;
Joe was savage, so was Dogherty and Jackson, so
was I!
Spare me days, I think the lot of us was looking
after peas !
When one day I meets that Jack the Rat as simple
i as you please.
ft “Me? Got peas ? ”
Yes, 111 sell you, at two bob a pint, as many as
you please ! ” (
It was something like six times the price, but what
was I to do ?
So I bought ’em, and found afterwards that others
bought’em, too.
Jack the Rat was so delighted with his honest
trade’s success
That he shouted for a dozen, and he also took a
guess.. .
Swear? Well, there,
It would simply freeze the marrow in a bullock-
driver’s hair !
When we had the bottle opened, it was not half-
full of peas,
For a corncob in the centre took the space up, if you
please i
And the clever blokes who measured, they were
out by half-a-mile;
It was Jack the Rat who won it, and he wore a
peaceful smile !
Toast ? Great Ghost !•
In about a week the landlord got the letter by the
post.
“We had things to do in Melbourne, so we
thought we’d get away,
But desire, as we are leaving, most respectfully to
say
That we’re thankful for the kindness of the tugs
of Simpsonville,
And remain, yours most respectful, Jack the Rat
and Saltbush Bill.”
Catch ’em ? No hope !
And the “ remedy ” was little squares cut out of
bars of soap //
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
A Woman of Conscience.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Sunday morning at a South African sea-side re-
sort. One of the occupants of the hotel balcony
was a slender, soulful-looking woman, with lovely
eyes, and that restful, saintly look which comes of
black hair smoothly parted on a head arched over
the region where benevolence and ideality are sup-
posed to dwell. Her companion was a dark,
handsome Afrikander, and I, a perfect stranger,
jumped naturally enough to the conclusion that I
was looking at a newly - wedded pair. . The
woman’s dark eyes gazed long and lovingly
straight into the man’s, and her delicate hand
rested in his, as he talked softly to her in Dutch,
with that gentle tolerance which one uses to a
loved but foolish child. To my surprise, she ever
and anon cast looks of concern at me, and would
say something in an expostulatory way, whereat
her companion would laugh and reply as one
who says, “ Oh, never mind; it doesn’t matter.”
At last, however, at the lady’s request, the gentle-
man came over to me and with profuse apologies
explained that his fair companion was very much
concerned to know what I was reading. I said it
was “ Trilby,” the latest boom in silliness. “ Ah;
Dreelpee ? Eet ees a book of de religious ? No ! ”
Then, looking at the cover—“ She haf de Zal vation
Army coat, is it not ? ” I explained that the coat
was an old military one, and added that the lady
had had numerous admirers, any one of whom
would have bought her a sealskin jacket, had the
author deemed it advisable. “ Tank you ver’
mooch,” he said. “My vife she say to me, ‘I
vonder vat dat zhentleman ees reading on Zunday.
I hope eet ees hees Bybel.’ I say ‘I dink it some
Enklesh religious book.’ But she say ‘ No, Henri,
eet ees some vicked novel; do go and schpeak to
heem.’ Ye mens of de voridt,”he added, apologeti-
cally, “ ve don’t care for zomedings like dat, but de
lady, brought oop in de high Detch family, it is
ver particular.” I said, if it would ease her mind,
I would put away the book; whereupon he took
me over and introduced me, at the same time con-
veying the news of my self-denial. Her beautiful
saintly eyes gleamed gratefully when I announced
that, for her sake, I would read no more that day,
but she would not even touch “Trilby” when I
offered the volume for inspection. Then talk
turned to novelists in general, and I instanced
Olive Schreiner as a writer of whom her country
should be proud.
My fair friend gave a shudder of disgust. “ Oh,
dat dreadful voman; she write dat disgusting
book, de ‘ African Farm.’” “ Why disgusting ? ”
I asked, in surprise. “Oh, it is a indecent book ;
vere de single girl haf a baby,” she replied. “ No
respectable high Detch lady haf dat book in de
house ; it corrupt de mind ; I vould not read it
for de vorldt.”
“Ah, well,” I said, “then you mustn’t read
‘ Trilby,’ for she is a single girl of the same sort,
only more so.” This and other talk filled up the
time till dinner. I got much good advice about
keeping my thoughts on God during the holy Sab-
bath-day, and accompanied by such tender looks
from the saintly eyes that I was “almost per-
suaded” to become a Sabbatarian.
She and Henri passed the afternoon in their
room—rather to my surprise—but, being new t o
the ways of piety, I came to the conclusion that
anything she did must be right.
They were Saturday-to-Monday guests, and
when we parted next day I took' the incident to
be closed; but about three months later I was
visiting an inland town hundreds of miles away,
and was asked by some of the farmers of the
neighborhood to address a meeting and explain
why Australian farmers could sell wheat in Africa
at 20s. a bag, while Dutch farmers could not niake
it pay at 30s. One of them, a burly, bandy-
legged man of about 40, gave me a hearty
invitation to stay with him at his farm
for the intervening week. And when an hour’s
swift drive had brought us to his house,
a lady came out to meet us. “ Dese is my vife,”
said Van Kopje, “yust oop from Captown, vere
I seend her every zuinmer from de hot vedder
avay.”
I was astounded. It was she of the de-
mure countenance and saintly eyes! Later,
when Oom Piet went out for the afternoon to
dicker with an Israelite for ostrich-feathers, she
said : “ I am zo tankful you did not make sign of
knowing me before —my husband is so jealous.”
“ What, Henri ? ”
“No! don’t be cruel.” Tears started to her
eyes. It was really most unbecoming conduct.
“Oh, don’t! ” Her hands flashed out, and mine
found them like magnets.
“For Sunday,” I said; “to-day it is Wednes-
day!”
P. ABBOTT.


HEALTH AND STRENGTH REGAINED.
Could Eat and Sleep Like a Child.
and Mrs. Forbes, formerly of Johannesburg, now residents of East
London, Cape Colony, send their portraits and testify to
the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
1
/ji. j
• V'/Ai
111
y A vA. v
m
m/
S 3
m
Ss
m
i«
m
a? 1
IL'
f- £
*
111
mill
rJi
iii
•v.ii
'.ii
i /-Zi&t.
n
'ZJFmWM ——
East London, Cape Colony, So. Africa,
July 11, 1896.
“Shortly after leaving .Johannesburg,.* where wo had resided several
years, 1 cont ract' ! a fever, which left me in a very weak state. I was a
long - time without any improvement, and none ot the various remedies 1
tried, under the doctor’s direction, did me any good. My husband finally
persuaded me to try Ayer’s -Sarsaviri! hi, which cured several acquaintances
of ours who had suffered from impoverished blood and general debility. I
therefore began to lake’ the Sarsaparilla, and its good influence was soon
apparent. Within less than a month I was as well as ever, and could eat
and sleep like a child. Gratefully yours,
Lily Fokbes.”
Mr. Henry Forbes writes in confirmation of his wife’s testimony, and
adds that he had suffered from dyspepsia and loss of appetite, and that he
was cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Beware of worthless substitutes. See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla-is on the wrapper, and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without fl>'s
invaluable Remedy, which saves in any lues.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 id., 2s. 9&, 4s. sd.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all Loudon and
Colonial Houses.
COrTJtIOH*.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING 00., 31 KING STREET,
mm
6s
©
Sr
as
m
Mtl&T BE ENDURED
butUa^youtned
;t
is®;
8?i
m
3
m
rMm
m
m
i
m
•ST 1
LIVING.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene ot alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
stop tnat Cougli !
Don’t Delay.
TAKE
nisi mss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Tioubles.
• In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTONS PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. aqjsnts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.* L + d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil 00. Ltd., Hobart.
VW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof tiiese errand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £ -V" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AN* . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Broakman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
even' situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they mdy be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Wortbifygtoi) PftippiQg Eogipc Conjpapy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll KrO"tlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Olarence-st.,
*
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARS*
Sydney, X,S. \\ r .
Agencies :
REGULAR PATTERN
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES,
W. O. ELEKIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS, '
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
j ßheumatism, Sciatica,
J 1 - - Lumbago, &e.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA UK IVIt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S , Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince oi Wale*
ECZEMA
£
Permanent Core. Self Applied, •
Jars 4/6* post 4/10
OLEAC”
CUtOVIAI. REPRKSKNTATIVE FOR THR PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
Scale of Advertising;
—IN—
“ THE BULLETIN,”
Single Column ... ... ... ... , H 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions) ... ... 20 „ „ „
One Year ~ (52 insertions) ... ... 26 ~ ~ „
Specified Positions, 10s. per inch per insertion, subject to the above discount. By Paragraph
or on Reading Page, 15s. per inch per insertion, nett. On Front Cover, 10s. per inch per insertion
ROBERTS’
Bottle Department, Market St.
CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s.
TEACHER’S HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4*.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s.
WHYTE AND M A CRAY’S WHISKY, Bs. Sd.
WALKER’S EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
THE FAVORITE “ FOUR CROWN,” 3s. 6d.
A golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Not©-. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135
STREET is ONE OF THE B
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Rock Drills
*
$
&
Knowles Steam Pumps
YVestinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Bafho’s
Baking p owder .
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ilO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding-locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usuafprice 121, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 0■ Gd per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (1 id. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10'- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 6G, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90-. Send for trade Illnstvcted Price
14*t Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. tneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney; 74 Clarence-st. # 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
Are the Beat.
We have them in Stock:
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
