

IVIcEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
lancet l
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS* AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
268
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Aocommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss ntt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Ruston, Proctor & C O .
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS AND PUMPS.
OOB’STTRIO THRAS 3EXZ3XT G- SA.'W BENCHES,
&o*9
-
for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And see tb.at you. get it.
PROOF
:
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
p.m
Pne*&
THORNES
A 1 WHISKY.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN t
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
£l. «Sc 33. CURRANT,
TAILOBS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
HOBART.
—zm
Hadley’s Orient Ijotel.
CO
PIONEER
LEATHER
'BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
„ Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX. Proprietor.
Interesting to Brandy and Whisky Drinkers.
THE imports of case Whisky during the year 1897 amounted to 115,357 cases,
those of case Brandy to 43,723 cases. These figures exhibit a marked increase
in the consumption of Brandy, and show a strong tendency of the public to revert
to that spirit as their favorite drink. It was thought by many that the consumption
of Whisky was fully eight cases to every one of Brandy, whereas the proportion is
only about 2| to 1. ... The wholesomeness of
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
BOOMERANG BRANDY,
attested by the highest authorities, and its adoption by the House of Commons, the
War Office, leading hospitals and clubs, etc., has tended to bring about the above
result. In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNGr & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
and. Qne enala,ndL.
Vandyck.
CIGARS
FMmrn
m 8
Is
The Bulletin
Voi 19. —15 0. 965 j
[Saturday, August 13, 1898.
P postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


B Y
APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBE &TSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. AUSTRALIA.
Scrutton’s Electricity in Town and Country, 2s 6d, post
3s ; Hill’s Water Supply, 10s fid. post lls ; Maugham’s
Making of a Saint, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Sladeti’s Trincolox, Is 6d and 2s 6d, post 2s and 3s; Fother-
gill’s First Violin, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Walford’s Leddy Mar-
get, 2s fid and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Praed’s Scourge
Stick, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s; Lyall's In the
Golden Days, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Maynard’s
Philanthropist, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Magru-
der’s Dead Selves; 2s 6d and 3s fid, post 3s and 4s; Flower-
dew’s Celibate’s Wife, 6s, post 6s 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Cr., Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 43.
NOW READY:
ABISHAG THE SHUNAMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel, and
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Teleinaehus”).
Just Published :
IS FEDERATION OUR TRUE POLICY?
OR.,
THE POLITICIAN REVEALED TO HIMSELF.
10s 6d. Post, lls 3d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The gulletii publications.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; cloth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Favenc, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers) —
Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, 2s. 6d. A
few copies remain.
Australian Essays, 2s. 6d. A few copies
rema in.
‘BULLETIN’ PAMPHLETS.
No. I.— The Bulletin’s History of the Dean
Case : A Circumstantial Account of the
Celebrated Criminal Trial and its De-
velopments. Complete, with many Por
traits and Illustrations, 7d.
No. ll.— The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages, 7d.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
md hooks of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
Don’t
SMOKE
m
CIGARETTES.
THE RED PAGE.
IT is easier to catch your controversy than to
kill it, and echoes of Von Kotze’s assault
upon Oscar Wilde still rumble among the
eastern foot-hills of Australia. Von Kotze
himself forwards a statement jn reply to hisoritics;
bub, unluckily, he is more concerned with the
controversialists than with the point at issue in
the controversy. Arthur A. D Bayldon argues
for him, and more to the purpose. He reiterates
the offending lines-
“ The poor dead woman whom he loved,
And murdered in her bed ”
and askswhv does the complained-of passage jar.
Because, he says, ,l when imagination is strung,
a sudden descent, or, rather, appeal to reason, is
fatal to emotion, since they are antithetical.
Again, the introduction of a realistic detail into
an imaginative narrative, unless it heightens the
effect of the whole, or shoots imagination towards
a climax, collapses interest. More, a concrete
thought thrown into the fervid atmosphere of the
magination must calch fire and be suspended, or
the emotion shocked breaks down. What mat-
ters it where the woman was murdered ? Did
; his little prosaic detail intensify interest or leap
imagination it would be a stroke of power.
. ‘ So the two brothers and their murdered man
Rode past fair Florence. ’ — Keats.
What a terrible touch ‘ murdered man.' Sets
imagination a-quiver. The deed is already done
in the hearts of the brothers. The knife-thrust is
a, trivial detail. When imagination is played on
by a beautiful emotion a word coarse or too realis-
tic checks and drags it down to vulgar or painful
associations.
‘ The bright blade quivered at the victim's throat.'
— (Tennyson’s ‘ Dream of Fair Women.’)
Blade, too realistic for the emotion set up by the
poem’s lead-off—altmvd in last editions to ‘death.’
In Rossetti’s loveliest sonnet: ‘Water for an-
guish of the solstice ’ —we have (or did have, as I
believe it is altered in last edition) imagination
sh icked by the coarse rawness of the word —
‘ fi sh.’
•On the other hand, tremendous force is gained
by a swift transition from a beautiful to a terribly
realistic picture, provided they are phases of the
same emotion. Dob d! delicately touches on the
homely doings of a love sick maiden in war-time,
feeding her canary an 1 sighing all her soul away
to him—change of picture—
‘ Who cannot hear
The raven croak in;/ at his carrion ear.’
“Finally, then: ‘ln her bed’ freezes emotion,
opens no new vista to imagination.; it does not
flash out or curdle; it is, in fact, a mere clap-trap
rhyme. In short, it is a test by which Wilde and
men of his calibre are precipitated. He entered
gaol an artistic excrescence and leaves it a literary
nincompoop. His poem is dull, flat, and un-
wholesome —a mass of blotches, the thin, queru-
lous piping of a smart, vain, but un •stublished
verser.”
* * * »
There is an illuminating note from Chris: Bren-
nan on the other side -
“A uiord on the origin of ‘The Ballad
of Reading Gaol ’ At Reading, Eng.. on
18th June, 1896, Charles Thomas Wooldridge,
trooper of the R .yal Horse Guards, was charged
before Mr. Justice Hawkins with the murder of
his wife at Ciewer on the 2 )th March preceding.
He had married her two years before secretly
After his regiment was removed to London she
still remained at Ciewer, where he visited her.
She was unfaithful : he heard it, went to her,
accused her. Two days later he told a comrade in
Knightsbridge barracks that he 'expected his wife
that night : if she failed him, he would go to
Windsor ‘ and do some damage.’ He went, and
was seen to arrive at his wife’s house : soon after
her body was found, the throat cut, lying —‘in
the road.'
“ The defence urged a dictum of Mr. Justice
Blackburn’s—that a wife’s infidelity might some-
times reduce the avenging husband’s guilt from
that of murder to that of manslaughter. The
jury added to their verdict of Guilty a recommen-
dation to mercy, ‘which,’ the Judge said, ‘would
be forwarded to the proper quarter.’ The rest —
is told in the Ballad.
“ Inthefoad: the ingenious gentleman who found
such appalling banality in the plain words in the
bed —(what did he want? ‘poetic diction’?, there
is too much of it already in the poem ; or does he
not see that this is a ballad, and that the distin-
guishing quality of this literary form is simple
detailed treatment of a story, that his reference to
Heine’s epigrammatic lyrics is a confusion of
genres ?) —may now perceive, what hasalready been
urged against him, that the author had a special
purpose in view. The true poetic licence is to
deform reality. In order that he may set in
stronger opposition to Man’s grim justice that
goes its way
And will not swerve aside,
the piteous and incalculable recklessness of pas-
sion, the writer gives his guardsman’s love the
appearance of lawlessness —disengaging, by this
slight falsification, the truth, that the crimes,
the infidelities, the cruelties, and the re-
venges, of love, lie, with all its goods,
IjeyOnd' the t each of laws made by the strong and
unmoved spirits, to whom this world b dungs.
They hang their soldier, for his deed was tangi-
ble ; yet
Each man kills the thing he loves—
the ballad will tell the rest.
“ And now, how skilfully, with three slight
touches, is that air of lawlessness created ! The
Ine, and the banal bed —the deed was done amidst
the hot orgy of pleasure, the murderer’s blood
is moved by the drink they had enjoyed to-
thqr, his heart gnawed by the thought that
rehanoe to-morrow she would drive him away
ee more : he would, with his knife, arrest the
ur of his fruition, stay her fleeting will, and
m her for ever (the thought is not confined to
Dse lov. rs that are, in the technical sense un-
ppy)-and they found him by the dead lingering
her, in wild remorse, now that his frantic deed
1 set them eternally apart, unable to end that
' n' 1 — w h® n reading this stanza,
a British husband, with redress-and damages
n the Divorce Court ? No other touches are
pured than these three, and how well they do
nr work except, here and there, for a Herr
11 Kotze. '
* • « ,
\nd Victor Daley says a fine and adequate last
ird—
‘Von Kotze’s carp is merely a querulous re-
tement of the old, old question—What is fib
3 proper and seemly in poetry ? The abrupt
■and-large reply to this is—Anything that by
s vivifying genius of the poet can be made to
pear fit and proper and seemly. The man who
not a poet states dogmatically that common
sryday words should not be used in verse. Bub
3 man who is a poet takes a common everyday
ird and placing it between the teeth of his
ought crushes blood out of it, as one squeezes
b red juice out of an Isabella grape. For the
iod is always there. Common words are root
irds, and, when torn up by a dexterous
ist, can be made to cry like man-
akes. In moments of emotion—in sud-
n crises—even a lexicographer will for-
t himself and talk mother’s-knee language,
le hypercritics of his day said scornfully of
icrates that he took too many of his illustrations
on) the work of braziers and blacksmiths and
ilormen, and other grimy and greasy persons.
•at curled and perfumed Alcibiades replied to
lese railings with a remark to the effect that
oorates was like one of the archaic statues of the
nties —a rude wooden image on the outside, but
ith his belly full of little golden gods. And
•istocratic, empyreal Plato is still a living wit-
ass to the fact that Socrates was a Poet.
* * * *
“ Common, homespun words are the warp in
hich is woven the ideal pictures of the mind,
/anting this warp they would be merely fleeting
pparitions made visible upon a backfog of
vanescent mist. Considered a little closely, any
rticle of man’s invention —bed, chair, table,
irthen crock or Sevres vase—is instinct with
oetry. It contains, for the inspired interpreter,
he history of the Human Race, from the cold,
ncomfortable times when men lived in caves and
hatched holes in the ground, down to this en-
ightened, Nine-
eenth Century. The four walls and chimney of
he rudest hovel represent ages of thought. We
tre too much accustomed to look upon these
hings, and the words that stand for them, as
ird inary stage-properties of our little life-dramas,
ifet which of us has not read with delighted in-
ierest the story of how Robinson Crusoe, cast
iway upon a lonely island, built his own house and
n mufaetured his own cooking utensils ? Properly
; nsidered— Le., from a philosophic point of view
—a wheelbarrow should be to men a more wonder-
mi thing than the mo.it flamboyant sunset. Sun-
lets were before wheelbarrows, but man did not
nvent sunsets by sweat of his intellect, whereas
tie did invent wheelbarrows, and they are visible,
palpable, wheelable evidences of his Develop-
ment, and, as such, qualified to be mentioned in
any epic. Here follows a quotation from Emer-
son on ‘ Art ’ —not long, but enough to show that
the American philosopher agrees with the Aus-
tralian ditto—
' Give to barrows, trays, and pans
Grace and glimmer of romance;
'Tis the privilege of Art
Thus to play its cheerful part,
Man on earth to acclimate,
And bend the exile to his fate,
And, moulded of one element
With the days and .firmament,
Teach him on these as stairs to climb,
And live on even terms with Time ;
Whilst upper life the slender rill
Of human sense doth overfill.’
* * » *
“It is at once admitted that the unnecessary
mention of commonplace things in poetry is bad
art. But when commiinplace things are natural,
unobtrusive accessories of the story, it is worse
art to ignore them. Medea’s cauldron and the
cauldron in which the ‘ Macbeth ’ witches brewed
their hell broth were simply large-sized pots, in
which cabbage and bacon might have been cooked,
instead of sliced-up Jason, and baneful herbs
culled under a malignant aspect of the moon. Yet
we regard them not as common cooking utensils,
but as vessels of Fate. It is the connection that
counts. And—to reveri to text—surely Murder
should count as a sufficiently tragic excuse for
verse-reference to a bed ? Von Kotze is de-
clining into classicism. It is always the way.
Tennyson’s muse has talked pretty for so many
years that many estimable persons believe that
any un-Tennysonian word used in later verse is
poetically coarse or indecent. And, as usual, the
disciples and admirers of 'he late Laureate go
further than their in ister did in this respect, and
take it for granted that a healthy Muse can
exist upon a diet of rose-'-aves and treacle-
water - otherwise hydro nel. The Queen Anne men
made of English literature a mathematically
precise and—to mix metaphors—pentametrical
Dutch garden. Then, in good time, the revo-
lution came with Shelley, and Byron, and
Keats, and Wordsworth, and Coleridsre as its
apostles. Tennyson followed in their foot-
steps, but his fastidious eclecticism has_ perhaps
done more harm to English poetical literature
than was ever done by the keen, cold penta meters
of Pope. The Garden of the Conventional Muse
is no longer Dutch, but is instead a cunningly-
contrived maze covering a certain number of mil-
lions of space-acres with winding paths opening
out here and there upon ingeniously arranged
Vistas of Infinity. Of course, as was to be ex-
pected in the circumstances, the Muse has oc-
casionally—as in the case of Walt Whitman —
jumped the fence and run stark staring naked
through the wide wild unrailed world.
* »
“To close with a paragraph. four lines of E.
B. Browning—
‘ Our Euripides the human
With his droppings of warm tears,
And his touchings of thin /s common,
Till they seem to touch the spheres. ’
And the following from that royal love-song,
which is as a many-colored blossoming tree filled
with singing birds—the Song of Solomon—
‘ How beautiful are thy feet with shoes, O prince's
daughter ! ’
‘ Now also thy breasts shall be as clusters of the
vine and the smell of thy nose like, apples.’
If Von Kotze had been Solomon’s literary
amanuensis and adviser lie would to a certainty
have suggested that the mention of shoes in the
first verse was needlessly trivial and vulgar, and
that as regards the nose of the Beloved in the second
verseit was bad poetic form to mention noses in high-
class Hebraic poetry. Yet Solomon had sufficient
experience of women to know what he was singing
about. And the nose—or, say, the breath of pink
nostrils—of a pretty woman does smell like apples
unto this day. Finally—Congruity in Poetry is
simply a relative term, and is more often than not
a measure of the intellectual inability of the
reader to make sudden mental transitions.”
—
Really, foreign criticism is not all unenlight-
ened. New York Bookman dismisses T. A.
Browne’s “ Plain Living ” with the remark that
“as in all Mr. Boldrewood’s books, since the
early ones that made his name, the style and
matter here rival each other in poverty and lack
of charm.” And Lund. Spectator, noticing Turner
and Sutherland’s so-called “ Development of Aus-
tralian Literature,” declares that “The new
school of Colonial poets, such as Mr. Paterson,
the author of ‘ The Man from Snowy River,’ is
very insufficiently dealt with by Mr. Turner in
his bald and commonplace introductory sketch,
in which he has the dubious taste to bepraise his
collaborator’s verses in a very fulsome and ‘pro-
vincial ’ style. Mr. Turner should bear in mind
that ‘The Man from Snowy River ’ went through
four editions in Sydney before it was published
in London, and that these ‘ horsey ’ verses, so
redolent of the Australian bush, have been widely
read and admired beyond the colonies themselves ;
whereas his colleague’s ‘Love and the Law,’
which he ranks with ‘ Enoch Arden,’ is probably
not known to a dozen persons even in Melbourne
itself. It is this lack of all ‘ proportion ’ which
marks the provincial spirit.”
* * * »
“Seaweed, a Cornish Idyll,” which was issued
serially in The University Magazine and is pub-
lished at 3s. fid. by the University Press, mates
the effect rather of a physiological treatise than of
a piece of literature. It apparently aims to dis-
play—and does display with some novelty, and,
for an English writer, some courage—phases of
the action and reaction of sex-impulse. In spite
of good phrasing and characterisation, however,
the book has an air of unreality, and the interest
is only moderate. H. B. Marriott Watson’s
“The Heart' of Miranda ” collects his latest
sketches and stories in a volume which ex-
hibits the author’s tendency to refine all the
force out of his plots. Some of the tales in
“ At the First Corner,” besides charm of style,
had grip and vigor : in “ Galloping Dick ” a
trifling loss of vigor was more than compensated
by still greater felicity of style. Now, however,
Mr. Watson so stickles and boggles over the man-
ner that his matter never seems really alive : his
people are all too evidently puppets of the literary
intelligence. The theme of “ The Heart of Mi-
randa” is best suited to the precieux method, and
a graceful dexterity makes the wooing scenes re-
readable. The other five items incline to be flat
and mechanic.
* * * *
St. Just de Beaupre Mackay writes from
Numurkah : “ I notice on the Red Page
the suggestion that Marie Corelli, the novelist,
was the wife of the late Eric Mackay, poet and
dramatist. Such was not the case. The facts of
the Mackay - Corelli controversy are: Luigi
Corelli, Marie Corelli’s father, came to London
after the close of the Italian war of independence
and remained in England after Garibaldi’s de-
parture. Luigi Corelli taught languages and
music in Kensington for some few years.
His wife was Paulina d’Oralti, of Rome. Marie
Corelli was born in London ; and shortly after-
wards her father died. Charles Mackay, LL.D.,
poet and litterateur, then on the staff of the Illus-
trated London News, and a writer for Chambers’s,
Fraser’s, Leisure Hour, Edinburgh Review, and
other journals, met Signora Corelli and married
her eighteen months after her husband’s death.
Marie Corelli was then a child of about 1 year
and three months old. So that she was the
daughter-in-law, or step-daughter, of Dr, Charles
Mackay. Dr. Mackay had been married before,
his first wife being Margaret Stuart Mackay, his
second cousin. Eric Mackay, deceased, was
the only child of that union, therefore he and
Marie Corelli were of no actual kin to one
another. Eric Mackay was never married,
neither has Marie Corelli ever entered the
married state. As the eldest son of the
late Dr. Hugo Glencairne Mackay, of Halifax,
Nova Scotia, 1 am the eldest surviving
nephew of the late Dr. Charles Mackay, and
cousin of the late Eric Mackay, and being so I
hope this statement of a scrap of family history
will stop the absurd, imaginative, and often false
statements circulated about Eric Mackay and
Marie Corelli —about the latter especially.”
♦ ——
Peocavimus ! C. B. : Red Page, J uly 30—
“Huysmans probably borrowed Wilde’s thunder.” The
suggestion errs. “Arebours” appeared in November,
1884, “The Decay of Lying,” in January, 1889. In Wilde’s
“ Picture of Dorian Gray ” (1890), the atmosphere of “ A
rebours” continually makes itself felt: one chapter in-
deed—on Dorian’s collection of gems, vestments, etc.,
reads like one of the chapters on Des Esseintes’ library,
flowers, or mouth organ. AndF.M. : Punch artist, E.
T. Ray. Of course, E.T. Reed is meant.”
“ Zadig ” : I join issue with statement (July
23) concerning “Tom o’ Bedlam’s Song’’ that Thompson
“of the fine fragment makes a very tine poem.’’ Thomp-
son’s verses are undeniably good—ht- has caught exactly
the spirit of the original—but I aflirm that, artistically,
he has not made a very fine p ern. The two first stanzas
are excellent—they distinctly give momentum ; but why
did he not rest content with that, addition, making the
splendid 4th stanza (4th and sth of the original), as it
should be, the inevitable conclusion? All that comes after
is anti-climax, destroying the spell cast by the preceding
verses. T.’s poem is not long, but from its peculiar ap-
peal-containing nothing to bring into play the purely
reasoning faculties—it exceeds artistic length. The
original—that “ crazy splendid ghost ’—gives me a thrill
such as one might feel passing the door of a haunted
chamber at midnight—a mental excitement, too intense
to be greatly prolonged. Of course, the higher the ex-
altation the sooner comes the reaction to a corresponding
depression. I fear few will finish T’s poem feeling the
tingle the original never fails to produce. And—in a
carping mood, perhaps “ toad-blown paunch” and
“ burst and blood-biown insect ” seem to me disgusting.


qrs.
y
1®
SKuacl
AND
Sydney’s Heading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
TO UNO MEN.
f
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
TTTTC TS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
THIS IS A aiittiuua JftiiAifi . u„sp that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
committing himself to those habits of °i »bu 1 Now the experience of 20,000 men
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialist . , i' trea tment of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they nave opt-my -
rs.
This is nob the mere verbiage of a single man,
which has restored them to a perfect manly state,
but it is
20,000 MEW TALKING TO YOU.
W. rf i.*^.hS'td,»«o» l[ hh ee do£ the matter to make
careful investigation.
read the symptoms,
a whlch if hT SZ a bo y th° f £? a y nd U fSti fr
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manliood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel P
I*^
yrvjl
.All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “ The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
to
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of aualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, iariner in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Please mention this Paper ivhen writing.] CORRESPONDENCE, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in . ,f*u d . Scotch univerSil^'and
DR. and Surgeon, received his education in the n j as ma( j e a life-long
GIBBONS, completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their or hji n l and success during
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, y ™. j diseases
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused y
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe
from any of the following symptoms, namely r"I req h Uenfc ls he fSr’of gl f d u d ll-
ness drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ot tun
ness’ after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains m the back or under the iif'outhm to
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the i
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, c ammy >. dreadful
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of ailinl memory
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, filing memory
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., Ac., should consult him, for he is now enablea
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long mise y.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie -will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Ia sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
’4'll
*l*l*
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the .Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of. Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor ’’Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION I REE.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l— which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer —in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
~j)R. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLOROPVNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for OOUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of } simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
-S-
-e>
VP
OLD
Rns
sunbu
FING
c/?
CHA
e?
>1
&.c
&Nf
H
Y
Sl
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
pel Post Is. 3d.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne. _
ATROPHY in Men
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address —
J. HINTON-WILLIS,
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & £O., „ v
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
NERVOUS PEOPLE:
mAhk
-ski
s»
1
WSglg*
w v -
rP 1
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
the languid, for the
run-down system, for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention —DR.
PIEROE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a GRAND REMEDY.
It assists Nature by a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by' infusing a mild, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE.—If Ruptured, send also for “Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 168 PITT ST., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALLS
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Greo. Adams, Hobart.
Metropolitan S. September 13.
50,000 SUBSCRIB€RS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
— Shares in the above.
Name
Add ress
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
Address
£ : r
Melbourne 0. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 am- on the Morning of the Race-
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee Reducers
‘friends of the family’
—AND—
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYB ’EY.
“ Built Like a Watch.”
STERLING CYCLES.
AT BRUSSELS EXPOSITION the
GRAND PRIX was awarded to the
STERLING against all European and
American Manfacturers.
Chicago Road Race.
This, the Chief CYCLE Contest of the
Year, fastest and fourth - fastest time
were done on Sterling's, off one minute
and scratch marks respectively.
Write for Catalogue with full description of
Morse Pivot Chain
fitted to Sterlings (since riding which SUTHER-
LAND has won all championships in New Zealand.
Absolutely no friction, no stretching.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
STERLING DEPOT,
75 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Country Buyers mention Bulletin when writing.
on
297
I
am®
\J\S\r\S\*
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d. ; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 Porto Rico, (id.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets: 30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. fgF” All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
Worth. Queensland..
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see an;
U of his West Australian and North Queensland friend
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. Th
latest reliable mining: information to be obtained from J.W
fWIBKLL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fam
Realised top price, 12Jd., for N.S.W. wools a
Sydney; and top price, 15Jd., London, ’9B—both greasy.
e^w-vrs/VV/VV^
j [HEffSCBI] c
c DQSuSSbI S
nnnuiiltflfl %
GS-O TO HELL-
JUOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis. •
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
|B __ | Established 1849.
TlOstraliao WtitGal ProVideDt Society.
n meoW t A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Dnuoms :-The Hon. Sir £P. ABBOTT, JAMS I«,«J i
SsEPH ‘a™s & G„ml“nS. S'AS““HARD I feEO q E,'F.I.A„F.P.A.,E.S. S .
. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds " Fourteen and a-Hclf Millions hterl * ng v; „ 35 • Min
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually linge reserves) amounted to £445,235, j
Reversionary Bonuses of about Afooo.uuu.
Head Office : 87 Fitt-street. Sycl*xey.
( ' A ft w.r.R FT A B Y.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
jJ3T Send for Price List. YEft
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
Bent -Sha.t Sulliics
£lO 15s.
IMPpKTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
the licet, and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 Si i3I Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
£
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says :
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stepped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severeillness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growtli of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KQKO MAR! CO PAS COY.,
r! ■ 'vv ~ "v
(„TD„ IS, BEVIS MARKS. LONDON,.
ENGLAND.)
""""
;
Telephone, 26 KOGARAR—connected with Sydney;
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided, for. Wedding 1 Breakfasts and Private
, Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
„ n t rnn *./»»«/>»« 1 aro-e Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Grand Sail will Complaints) only one’minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating;
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints; oi y »*/_ „ Week.
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation.
Plum
P((J
THE
Plum
G'S'ro? r± %% -olio; i=gc
• a!l hell and never requires grinding. Beinj practical tradesmen ourselves, »e know the
exact kind ol etJthatto »,»re J e,,y ah.v., and, having l, a d them m«. for a numb™
ofvears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
ot years, c ■ y The ,« Plum » R azor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful
{ Single Razor, in ivorv handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle*
morocco leather case, 21s.
in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
& AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
look at our
RRICJEJS !
We be"tr"to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
bfnt SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, *ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6lss.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, ineluding
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed r ,m
eluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES RAKE
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices. „ « t n it.WTOWN Sydney
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co. Brown-st., NEWTOW. sy
Send, for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
OUR SPECIAL
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
Westralian Judges stand at present pretty
well in public estimation and confidence and it
would be a pity to disturb those relations. Where-
fore one regret's to find it reported that a J udge,
upon the clock indicating the dinner-hour, and
there being still no sign of the retired jury,
asked, “Is this a spec.a! jury ! and added, when
told that it wasn’t, “I suppose that explains the
difficulty of their powers of comprehension.
But if we assume that the reply was thus cor-
rectly reported, there surely isn’t much room tor
surprise at a jury being fogged by His Honors
charge.
Dan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They are tinkling in the distance, I can hear them
quite distinctly
Clear above the shrieking dummies, and the out
or inward train ;
And I know what they are telling, for in bush-
man’s lore succinctly
They repeat, “The team is making for the
scrub beyond the plain.”
Don’t you see the team out yonder with the moon-
light streaming over,
While the bells betoken slyly should the rogues
incline to stray,
For, when satisfied with feasting, to their knees
in fragrant clover,
Some are sure to seek the thicket for a stolen
holiday.
’Tis a lie ! I am but listening to the sound of
long-dead voices
That in day-dreams and in night-time, round
remembrance come and cling
Like some haunting evil genius, like a siren that
rejoices
Just to see her lover perish, while entranced he
hears her sing.
We have grafted years together, and I loved him
as a brother —
Ay, far better than a brother for I think,
since Time began,
That two chums ne’er hit it better, and I know on
earth no other
Can fill the niche left vacant by dear old
Dare-Devil Dan.
Once again I see the humpy, and the camp-fire
burning brightly,
Till the leaping light sends shadows past the
gum and ironbark,
Past the tallow-wood and black-butt, where the
forest oak-tree lightly
Waves its brown and whip-like branches while
it trembles in the dark.
And the rippling streamlet glitters, flying squirrels
shriek with laughter ;
Flitting bat and pallid pohpoo, and the lonely
mopoke’s call,
All the perfect charm of camp-life, written large
in the hereafter,
On the sands of memory’s shore-line, when the
tide begins to fall.
Ah ! that far-off dark’ning forest, with its ruts
and rough log-bridges ;
From pin-bullocks to the leaders, every beast
was wearied out;
They had worked like very demons, over gullies,
ruts and ridges,
And ’twas but a half-mile further —when I
heard a ringing shout.
Glancing back, I tripped and stumbled—as the
trollies poised above me
Dan sprang forward—drew me out—and crash !
the log had—Mercy, God !
Jets of blood were spurting from him as he said,
“Lad, if you love me,
Put an end—this pain is Johnnie, Johnnie,
kill me !—is there God ? ”
I was sobbing like a woman, for I knew that he
was dying,
Crushed and helpless ; God of Heaven, why
such agony supreme ?
Yet 1 dare not move a muscle—in my hands lus
head was lying—
For I felt his spirit passing like some slowly-
ebbing stream.
“ Never—mind—old —man,” he panted, and a
space the blue eyes glistened,
“Just—a—little— longer—comrade—keep—your
hand—beneath—my—head ;
jf—you —could —poor —chap—you’d—help me ”;
and between each pause I listened
For the words he faintly whispered, till I
thought that he was dead.
But his eyes just opened softly and he smiling
looked upon me,
Ashesaid, “ I’m wearied, Johnnie, will you stir
the fire again ; ”
Then he turned his head a little, and the words
came, “ Rouse up, Johnnie !
Johnnie, lad, the team is making for the scrub
beyond the plain.”
And awhile, Death’s angel waiting, I could hear
the dear voice quiver—
“ Let him —sleep —poor —lad hes tired. I
shall—turn—them—back,” he said ;
Then, upon his lonely mission, out beyond the
Stygian River,
Sped the kind, unselfish spirit, but—a spirit of
the dead.
G. W. McKINNON.


BAKING
POWDER
Washington H.Soul&C 0 , Pitt St. Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
■
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereag-h-street, Sydney.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
rn -i n , , ~ , , . . cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
tor your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sanbf'qbd & 00., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lainbton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
Tattersall’s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt-
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre); and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
Criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TARIFF: - - Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
dr. s. lever,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
X HE above Establishment has, been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means n Jiridr/ework.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated
AISSOLUTELiY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address '
King - st., S vclixey
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
tOYAL
Ladies. -Call and
see our OH CAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fitting's,
i etc.
! S. ROWLEY Si CO.,
ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
«J 0
CH WH
STILLER
COMPA
u nits
riOINBURi
Trade
%dc^
EDINBURGH.
\uf$l '"P M „ ///»/, r,i^
tbuCJIIJ J'rriMA
Drink
fDoderately.
Take a little AVliisky
“forthestomach’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.0.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“ D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.'S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
CHEAPEST -
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
BOCK
BIER
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
Try it
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
.Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney
Manager, Aug. J. Mirato. S, o„ T. H. JaCKSOK.
MOWERS OF^tSTRALIA"-*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper .
Vol. 19.—N0. 965.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1898.
Price, 6d.
A POLITICAL “SITUATION."
During the late N.S.W. political campaign we heard on all sides of seats to be vacated in favor of leaders who might get “left.” Where are those seats now?
Newly-fledged M.P.: “IT'S ASTONISHING HOW THESE SEATS DO SUCK TO YOU WHEN ONCE YOU GET INTO THEM!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for tile A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per. Annum ... ... ... £1 ® ®
Half-yearly m ... ... 0 .12 o
Quarterly... ... ... (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drajts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and. acknowledge in the
•Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
oilier topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for 'same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornliill.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Waoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £1, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1898.
The Most Essential Amendment.
Among all the proposals ventilated in New
South Wales for the amendment of the
Federal Constitution, it is noteworthy that
neither Barton nor Reid nor Lyne nor any
other political leader seems in serious earnest
about the biggest and most urgent amend-
ment of all. That is the insertion of a pro-
viso that the railways shall be handed over
bodily to the Federal Government; that the
sole power of constructing new lines shall
also be vested in the Federal Government;
and that differential rates shall be abolished
and charges be made by distance only. Also,
that provincial boundaries shall be entirely
ignored in future railway-building and rail-
way management, the sole object being to
give every district the easiest and cheapest
access to the most convenient coastal city,
and that the Federal Government shall pro-
ceed to make a uniform railway gauge
throughout Australia. And yet The Bul-
letin says advisedly that this is more
urgent than all the other proposed
amendments put together The “ Brad-
don Blot,” whatever it was meant to be,
is as absolutely powerless for good or evil as
an ink-spot on an Alp. The three-fifths
majority might sometimes put an undue
share of power in the hands of the Federal
Senate, but as the constitution of the Senate
would make it more genuinely Democratic
than any House of Parliament now existing
in Australia this evil was never anything
like so large as it looked. But railway
federation is essential for the safety and
prosperity of Australia; it means, not
theoretical justice, but present bread and
butter; and however valuable theoretical
justice may be, bread and butter count for
even more in the long run.
• • • •
The following is one of Premier Reid’s
recent pronouncements on this subject (since
uttering it he has practically gone back on
his new idea, and his present attitude is un-
certain) :
But if a new system is to be inaugurated, I have come
to the conclusion that there is only one way possible, and
that is that the railways and the public debt should be
handed over to the Federation. (Cheers.) But the great
point about this is that this country would never allow a
system of transferring the railways which did not protect
us as to our absolute freedom of developing our internal
resources by means of extensions of existing lines or new
ones.
Also, this is Barton on the same subject
The railways of each colony have been constructed for
the main purpose of developing its territory ; for the
securing of speedy access to our markets, and for the
giving of quick transit to producers and persons engaged
in internal trade. All these purposes are closely identified
with the retention and utilisation of the lands of each
colony, which are, and must be, secured to it by the
terms of the union ; and our people generally take the
natural view that the main instrument of the develop-
ment of the territory should remain in the hands which
own the territory.
And this, again, is Henry Copeland, M.L.A.:
It was only logical that they must keep the railways to
develop their lands, because Victoria and Tasmania had
no lands to sell, and the people of New South Wales
would never sanction the handing over of the right to
work the present lines, or make new ones, to a Federal
Parliament.
* • • •
The Bulletin’s own opinion is that the
development of New South Wales by pro-
vincial railway management is about the
worst curse in the experience of that pro-
vince. The question of Federal as against
provincial ownership mainly affects two pro-
vinces (Victoria and New South Wales), they
being the only ones so badly pegged out that
a considerable proportion of their territory
is nearer to the next province’s big city than
to their own big city. And New South
Wales is so much more affected than Vic-
toria that it is in N.S. Wales that the ques-
tion has mainly to be settled. Federal man-
agement and construction mean putting the
railways on a strictly commercial basis. They
mean building lines to the nearest seaport city
whether it is in “ our” province or in some
other. Therefore, they mean less cost of con-
struction, less debt, less interest to be paid,
less miles of road to keep in repair, and lower
freights (for even if, in order to bring the
traffic to “our ” city, goods are carried 400
miles to Sydney at as low a charge as they
might be conveyed 200 miles to Adelaide, it
only means that the taxpayer has to make
up the difference). Therefore it follows that
districts which are now practically abandoned
because they are too remote to allow of pro-
fitable railway connection with far-off Sydney
would become habitable by allowing them
to have railway communication with a city
that is comparatively near at hand. And,
being thus made habitable, the New South
Wales population in these parts would be
increased, and the value of New South
Wales lands would go up, and the New
South Wales Treasury would collect more
revenue. In other words, Federal railway
management, regardless of provincial boun-
daries, means the development of New South
Wales lands, where provincial management
doesn’t.
• • * *
What provincial management in New South
Wales does aim at is not the development of
New South Wales but the development of
the one city of Sydney. Its idea is to refuse
the border districts cheap and easy access to
the near and convenient cities of Brisbane,
Adelaide and Melbourne (to refuse it as far
as possible, that is, by giving them no rail-
way communication that can possibly be
avoided with these cities, and making rail-
ways to connect them with Sydney only).
Therefore, enormously long lines are built
where short ones in a different direction
would do the work as well; and the long
lines cost more, and the debt is bigger, and
all New South Wales groans under a need-
less weight of interest contracted solely to
bring trade to Sydney. And there are more
repairs to do, and more railway staff is
required; and higher freights are charged
to the outlying agriculturist and pastoralist
for compulsorily hauling his goods twice as
far as he wants. And through these high
freights and through the artificial remoteness
thus created, the borders are mostly a howl-
ing desert which yields very little revenue,
and which isn’t developed —solely because
of the provincial development policy. And
the whole province is taxed to make up the
railway deficit largely caused by all this in-
sane and useless “development.” The only
place which gains anything by the forcible
dragging of trade out of its natural channels
is Sydney, which makes a trifling percentage
on the goods as they go through. But it
makes very little, and about one-third of
New South Wales is more or less beggared
to do it. The policy is Protection in its
one absolutely and objectionable
form —the Protection of the non-producer in
the city at the expense of the producer in the
country.
* * • *
New South Wales doesn’t want to main-
tain this ridiculous and ruinous system ; it is
only Sydney and its suburbs which want it.
Their attitude to the far-out pastoralist or
agriculturist is just about this : “You are
400 or 450 miles from Sydney, and 200 miles
from Melbourne or Adelaide. You can
only have a railway to Sydney. You
must send your wool over 200 extra
miles of land carriage and 600 or 1000
extra miles of sea-carriage at your own ex-
pense, so that we can make a few small
profits out of it as it goes by. This
enormously long railway can’t pay, therefore
you must help to make good the deficit of
taxation. The burden of all these needless
distances keeps you poor, and the artificial
remoteness created by a policy of cutting
you off from the only city which is near you
combines with it to keep the country empty,
and industry is thereby rendered unprofit-
able, and land practically worthless, but we
do it for the development of the country.
We would rather your district should be
empty and desolate, and should send only a
speck of trade annually to Sydney, than that
it should be prosperous and send a large
trade somewhere else. This is a Freetrade
country, therefore you can’t trade where you
please. You are a free and independent
citizen, therefore we will see you darned
first.”
* • • •
The Bulletin asks the people of New
South Wales to look at this matter with an
enlightened selfishness, and purely in the
interests of New South Wales. That pro-
vince is the only one a very large proportion
of which is nearer to other capitals than to
its own. Therefore if the provincial policy
continues under Federation, and Queens-
land, New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia keep on building separate railway
systems to drag trade to Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, and Adelaide respectively, New
South Wales will be the only one a large
number of whose producers are grievously
handicapped by needless distances, and need-
less freights, and whose development, so far
as its outlying parts are concerned, will be
artificially retarded. How the present policy
works is strikingly exemplified in the case of
Broken Hill. New South Wales couldn’t
afford to build a line to connect that very
far-off spot with Sydney. It wouldn’t, in
its bitter provincial policy, build one to con-
nect it with the adjacent South Australian
system. The idea of letting the South Aus-
tralian Government carry its line and its
cheap fares into New South Wales terri-
tory, was too awful to be even dreamed
of. So at last the work was given to a
private co. which fleeces the New South
Wales people of Broken Hill of more than
double the rates which the South Australian
Government would have charged, and makes
50. per cent, dividends out of them to the
impoverishment of New South Wales. And
(here the wild humor of the thing comes in)
the Silverton Tramway Co. is a Victorian
enterprise, and it grinds the bones of the
New South Wales citizen to pay these huge
dividends to Melbourne speculators. And
the provincial policy of developing New
South Wales has done this.
* * ♦ *
In addition to these considerations, Aus-
tralia wants a uniform railway-gauge, to save
the needless expense and waste of time
which the present arrangement involves on
its various provincial borders, and to facili-
tate the movement of troops and material
when this country is called upon (as it
must be some day) to stand upon its defence.
It must get a uniform gauge some day, and
it can only be got by Federal control. Under
the provincial system it is absolutely im-
possible to arrive at any mode of apportion-
ing the expense among the different provinces
which will give satisfaction—the only way is
to have one management, and to charge the
expense to that management without any
apportionment whatever. If the railway
systems are federated now there will be
about 6000 or 10,000 miles of line to be
altered, according to the gauge decided upon.
If the provincial idea is retained Australia
will realise the situation later on—perhaps
when there are 60,000 or 100,000 miles to be
altered. But it will certainly realise the
situation some day or other.
The Tote.
In Victoria, where the snuffle of the saints who
went to gaol about ’93, or who should have
gone to gaol then and also at many other times,
still lies like a load on the public con-
science, another attempt is being made to
legalise the tote. It is being done humbly and
apologetically, out of deference to the snuffle-
some element in the community, and on a small
scale, so as not to shock the public too much at
A private member is in charge
of the Bill, so the Ministry doesn’t risk its
valuable reputation by being seen along with
the unholy thing. The Bill provides that the
tote may be used in strict moderation by clubs
of good standing—not the proprietary variety.
Proprietary clubs are understood to be run for
purposes of dingy lucre only, while the orthodox
variety of club is supposed to rush the harried
gee-gee at great speed round a circular course
out of a love of sport and a desire to improve
the breed of the walloped and exhausted
animal. The tote is only to be per-
mitted on the course where the horse
is understood to be bursting himself for
his own good and the good of his species.
It is not to be used more than four days at any
one meeting. It will be purely optional—
a club may use the machine, or it may stick to
the old, blasphemous, fraudulent Ikey Mo, or
it may take them both at once. The club
which uses it is to deduct not less than 5 or
more than 8 per cent., and one-third of this—
that is to say, from £1 13s. 4d. to £2 13s. 4d.
out of every £IOO invested—is to go to a ohari-
ties-fund. The Government, it is presumed,
would shudder at the idea of personally touch-
ing the ill-gotten loot ; so the State’s percent-
age is to be used in the good cause of charity,
and the balm of benevolence is thus to be
poured over the cash by way of weakly dis-
infecting it
• * * •
In The Bulletin’s opinion the tote doesn’t
require all this weak, mean little apology, and
all these restrictions. There is no earthly
reason why it shouldn’t be used on all courses,
proprietary and otherwise, where there is busi-
ness enough to make it pay—only the proprie-
tary concern, as the less deserving of the
two, might be made to pay a larger percent-
age by way of discouragement. The tote
should be used just as often as it is
wanted ; there is no need for the four days’
restriction. The bookmaker should be abso-
lutely prohibited, so as to sweep all the avail-
able betting business into the clutches of the
machine. The amount deducted by the
machine should be 10 per cent.—the bookie
already takes a great deal more than that—
and the State should take 5 [ .r cent, of this ;
in the case of proprietary clubs it might take
7\, seeing that proprietary courses are mere
private speculations. And there is no reason
why the State should profess to shudder at the
proceeds, and should lift them up with the
tongs, and put them away separately into a
charities fund, lest the Treasury should be
contaminated. The Treasury lives, to a great
extent, on drink, tobacco, and opium revenue ;
on the price of the various iniquities of thieves,
drunks, liars, Flossies, and persons who use
horrible language, as paid in police-court fines ;
on the sums which perjured and fraudulent
traders pay to the Treasury by way of com-
pounding their felonies when they are caught
swindling the revenue; on billiard licenses,
duties on the cards used in the three-card
trick, postal revenue obtained through carrying
Tattersall’s letters, duties on patent medi-
cines—which are mostly only the three-card
trick done up in a bottle to defraud the dying,
and all manner of other unclean profits. A
State which makes its money in ways like
these should be proud to take all it can get out
of the tote, and should put that comparatively
clean revenue along with the other soiled loot,
and give up professing to shudder at the mode
of its acquirement.
* * # •
The alleged sinfulness of “recognising the
gambling evil,” which is involved in the legali-
sation of the tote, doesn’t enter into the case
at all. The evil is already recognised, and no
one has any serious hope of stopping the recog-
nition. The odds are shrieked on racecourses
all over the country ; they are advertised in
the papers, and announced at clubs ; the book-
maker is a legal and duly authorised institu-
tion ; and the biggest holiday in all Aus-
tralia is the great bookmaking carnival at
Flemington. In addition, there is a vast
amount of unrecognised betting which
the State apparently can’t put down,
and which the Church has also failed to put
down. And, even if the gambling wasn’t
recognised, it would make ho difference ; when
an evil exists, and no one can find a remedy for
it, there is nothing gained by agreeing not to
speak about it. The State already recognises
drunkenness and bad language and assault by
fining the perpetrators in a very inadequate
degree, and putting the proceeds in the Trea-
sury. If it fined the gambler 6d. in the £ of his
stake for State purposes and another 6d. in the
£ for other purposes, and severely punished the
bookmaker as a gambler who was depriving the
Treasury of its just and legal 6d., it would
merely carry the same logical principle a little
further towards its logical conclusion. The
State must fine somebody in order to get money
to carry on the government; over and above
what it earns out of its railway, postal and
other services Victoria has to fine some-
body to the extent of about .£3,000,000.
a year, or else go to unutterable smash..
If it doesn’t fine the gambler and drinker-
and opium-eater and the criminal classes,
then it must heap a crushing and utterly
ruinous load of taxation on the good, sober-
persons who go to church regularly. It is cer-
tainly not advisable for the State to invent new
sins, or to promote sins that only exist on a
very small scale, for the sake of making income.
But when one does exist on a very large scale
(merely to save space and explanation, the
orthodox crowd may be allowed to assume that
gambling is a sin) —when it has such a hold on,
the people that any Government which tried to.
put it down would simply be fired out on its.
ear—when all the police force can’t extinguish,
it, and it is so widespread that it is impossible
to get police that will seriously attempt it, or a
Parliament that will back them up in doing so,
—then the only logical course is to regulate it,
and make it as clean as possible, and fine the
gambler in order to ease the burdens of the
people who don’t gamble.
* • • •
At present, this horsey community gambles
away just as much money as it can spare. It
is the most horsey community on earth, and
the horse amusement lives on gambling. The
establishment of the tote can hardly increase the
evil, but it will divert the profits from the
great aggregate Ikey Mo to the State ; it will
also vastly reduce the number of people who
live on the game, and force a very useless
class to take to some more reproductive indus-
try for a livelihood. But if the tote is only
allowed to be used on a certain number of
days and in certain places, the inevitable re-
sult is that Isaac Mo will still flourish on the
days and at the places where the tote isn’t in
evidence. It is absurd to restrict the honest
gambling-machine, which supplies revenue to
the State, to certain days and certain race-
courses, and allow the dishonest gambling
Moses, who doesn’t supply any revenue, to
practise every day on every racecourse. If the
proprietary courses are in such a state of moral
decay that the machine can’t gamble there, the
bookmaker shouldn’t be permitted there either.
In fact, the bookmaker should be prohibited al-
together. When the State goes in for regulat-
ing the drink evil and, incidentally, making
revenue out of it, by charging duties on
liquor, and license-fees on public-houses, and
by fining the drunk, it permits no private in-
terference. No private Moses is allowed to col-
lect liquor-duties, or to issue public-house
licenses and keep the money, or to capture
drunks- and fine them ss. for bis own profit.
And the State should grab the profits of the
betting evil in the same monopolistic spirit.
* * * *
There are several other evils which could be
profitably “ recognised ” in the same way.
While the State permits its mails to carry
gambling money to Tattersall in Tas-
mania, and takes the postal revenue therefrom
without a shudder, it might just as well drop


its cloak of hypocrisy and establish its. own
State lottery, and take the whole profits itself,
instead of only a part of them. Also, it might
as well make the retail drink trade a State
monopoly and take all the profits, as merely
grab part of them in the shape of the duty and
the license money. But in the present case the
main points are that the State should lay itself
out to divert all the apparently unavoidable
gambling to its own machine ; that it should
make the sinful thing yield all the revenue it
is capable of—in Victoria it should be good for
about £BO,OOO a year—; and that it shouldn’t
snuffle about charity by way of excusing a, thing
which requires no excuse. What Victoria
mostly wants is public works to open up the
country and create employment; if there was
more employment the need for charity
would be much less. Also, it wants to con-
struct these works without leaving a load of
debt and a huge interest bill to posterity ; it is
mainly the tremendous liability handed down
by past generations which were too lazy and
improvident to pay their own way that makes
the people poor and creates the necessity for
charity. Victoria’s biggest present need is to
find half a million or a million a year out of
revenue to build new public works with, and
the only reliable way to do so is to set aside
certain sources of revenue for this express pur-
pose. The <£Bo,ooo a year which could be ex-
tracted from the tote should be one of them.
That sum spent on railway construction would
find employment for about 400 men and sup-
port for their families, besides finding perman-
ent work for many agriculturists and others
afterwards, and permanently enriching the
State. If that is not substantial charity, what
is ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Reid-Want Ministry Climbs Down.
The prize jackass item of N.S.W. electoral
campaign is surely the following from Sydney
Telegraph, of 4th August: —
Parliament will have a specific Federal programme
when it meets again, with an assurance of prompt and
decisive action. Every Federalist will then have to vote
with the Government or abandon his Federal professions.
Exactly what the Government will propose is not yet dis-
closed. But the programme will he one which all
members anxious for the early consummation of union
can accept as the basis for work that will afterwards have
to be done. Mr. Rkid has not yet communicated with
any of the other Governments, nor has he definitely out-
lined his plans. An impression prevails that another
Convention will have to be held to discuss the question
of the amendments with the other colonies. Whatever
preliminary steps may be taken, the negotiations can
hardly, it is pointed out, be conducted solely by repre-
sentatives of the Government. For example, the Oppo-
sition claims to have as much voice in the deliberations
as Ministers. It represents a considerable minority of
the Chamber, and it. was elected upon a distinct pro-
gramme. The Opposition in the other colonies, as well,
are likely to claim a large share in dealing with the pro-
positions, or rather amendments, that it may be sought to
embody in the Bill.
It is held now by a considerable section of members on
the two sides that the only practicable method after the
first stages have been passed is to get the Parliaments, as
in 1891, to consent to the appointment of delegates re-
presenting all parties. For the 1891 Convention the
delegates were chosen by ballot. There would be no
difficulty in following a similar course now. Negotiations
conducted exclusively by Ministers, it is thought, will
allow' only one side to be represented. This will not be
acceptable to the Opposition.
It appears, therefore, that Premier Reid doesn’t
know himself yet what his plans and ideas are
(previous to the election the same paper de-
clared that he had put a clear and well-defined
programme before the public). Rut, whatever
he decides to do, the Telegraph assures the
public in advance that it will be all right,
and every member who doesn’t follow Reid
(whatever his plans may be, and whatever his
“ proposals ” may amount to when they are
“disclosed”) must “abandon his Federal pro-
fessions.” And the Telegraph announces,
quite as a matter of course, that the Reid-
Want Government is going to “ negotiate ”
with the other provinces, and hold a conference
with them. Before the election the loudest
jeer which Reid and Want and the Telegraph
could heave at Barton was that he was going
to “ negotiate,” and they all three promised
blusterously that they wouldn’t do anything so
mean and weak and despicable. Also Want.,
of the Reid-Want Ministry, promised solemnly
that they were “ done with conferences.” They
were going (not to “ negotiate ’ or to hold
another convention) but to present N.S.W.’s
demands, and the other provinces (so Want
and Reid and the Telegraph all promised on
their honor as three gentlemen) would accept
them. It was the strong and spineful
Reid Government (the one that now hasn’t
even made up its mind what its programme is)
that was going to do this; it guaranteed to
rise like a strong wobbler in its agony and
secure all the required amendments on its own.
And now that the time has come for redeeming
these loud promises it seems that all it can do
is to hold a conference, and let the Opposition
help it to make its policy, and “ negotiate ”
just like Barton —and ask the other provinces
for concessions.
4
“Reid tlie Wriggler.”
Dear Bulletin. —As a REiD-ite, I accept your
jibing title. It is better than P.G., anyway.
Of course, Reid wriggles. Every modern poli-
tician wriggles —it’s the science of the game.
Think of Gladstone fighting the last half of
his life for all he had opposed the first half ;
gaoling Parnell one month, hand-and-glove
with him the next. Of Disraeli, the Radical,
making an Empress ; of Chamberlain, once for
“ peace at any price,” now a raging Jingo.
Moral: He who would lead a crowd must run
the way it wants to go. The man of scientific
or independent thought is out of place in poli-
tics. Stuart Mill was a frost, Macaulay little
better ; John Bright a poor Minister ; and it
is safe to say that Henry George would have
failed as leader of a Ministry. Barton
wriggled ; but, unfortunately for his political
success, not with the lightning change of
his opponent ! Admire, if you can, Reid’s
unequalled skill. He promised Upper House
reform, which seemed a good cry ; but the
alteration suggested fell flat. The Bulletin
demonstrated that it was a step backward—
thereupon Upper House reform is dropped like
a hot brick. Reid took up Local Self Govern-
ment, a standard Ministerial dish, found the
country did not care a hang for it (the average
bush resident is content to forego personal con-
trol if the entire cost of roads and bridges
falls on the central Government) so George
dropped L.S.G. More power to him! Note
how accurately he forecasted the Federal poll
with his famous “ Yes ” and “ No.” He knew it
was a close thing and meant to be on the winning
side. What end is served by measuring such
a man by ordinary standards? He, the boss wrig-
gler, boss politician, boss player of the game of :
“Gentlemen, those are my convictions. I may
have said the contrary last week, and leaned in
quite another direction last month, and I am
likely to find a new aspect of the question to-
morrow ; but staking, as I do, my political
reputation on what I nay now, I ask your sup-
port.” No other speaker’s speeches are so
interesting—you never know what is coming-
no one more apt. How he pricked the gas-bag
of Imperial Federation in London ! Good,
jolly old George, his eye-glass beams the one
ray of perfect comedy in a weary land.—H.F.
*
This Baleful Rag.
The following infuriated letter from “New
South Welshman ” has arrived on The Bulle-
tin like refreshing dew from heaven :
The country has to be thankful that the attempted
influence of your baleful rag was of no avail. Federation
at your price has been rejected. You never have
attempted in the least to cloak the fact that your in-
terests were wholly and solely with Victoria. Never once
have I noticed in your paper a word of praise, whether
for sport or otherwise, for the endeavors or achievements
of this colony, the country which supports you, and in
which you have your place of business. Your one wish
and thought is for the success of Victoria —you applaud
her efforts, lie over her failings, and, where the interests
of this colony and that are in conflict, you basely con-
demn and side against the country that puts the bread in
vour mouth. Why the hell do you not remove your
establishment to Melbourne, that fever-stricken, bank-
rupt city would suit the morals of j»our polluted and
blasphemous rag. I am —A New South Welshman.
This sort of thing cheers the path of the weary
pressman, and “New South Welshman” is
cordially invited to write and curse again. But,
at the same time, he is a woefully inaccurate
curser. For this baleful rag (good expression)
gathers about three-fourths of its bread (also
its butter and cheese, and tobacco, and its store-
clothes) from the other provinces, and it does
more good work in bringing the money of the
other provinces to N.S.W., and circulating it
there to help to feed and clothe the above
infuriated correspondent than any other six
N.S.W. papers. Also, N.S.W. hasn’t re-
jected the kind of Federation advocated by this
polluted and blasphemous rag; for it put
Barton at the head of the Convention poll,
and it gave “Barton’s Bill” a majority of
5367 over Reid and Want’s anti-Billiousness,
and at the general election (now that the
returns are all in) it seems to have given the
Barton crowd 14,833 more votes than the
Reid crowd. This baleful rag feels rather
good over these results. As regards the rela-
tive merits of N.S. W. and Victoria they don’t
come in anywhere. The Braddon clause, the
equal representation in the Senate, the three-
fifths majority —in fact, everything which is
now objected to in the Bill—were concessions
which N.S.W. and Victoria made equally to
the three less populous provinces ; therefore
Reid is rushing to get concessions for N.S.W.
and Victoria from the other three provinces,
and this baleful rag had an idea that N.S.W.
and Victoria might get on well enough without
these concessions. N.S.W. and Victoria, by
their votes, expressed the same idea and fully
agreed with our polluted and blasphemous
organ. Unluckily, the Cabbage-Tree Mob,
which old Jack Robertson left behind him,
has a fixed idea that there are only two places
in the world—N.S.W. and Victoria ; therefore,
when this baleful rag didn’t agree with Reid’s
minority, “New South Welshman” assumed
that it must be barracking for Victoria, simply
because he couldn’t realise that there was any
other place. Not being a baleful rag himself,
he didn’t know any better. This baleful rag
now sits down for a well-earned rest.
4
Turner Decides To “ Go It.”
Now that the Victorian Premier has resolved,
at the bidding of the Age, to throw over his
scruples and go on the loan burst once more, he
has evidently decided that it is just as well to
do the thing thoroughly. The new Turner
that the Age has manufactured is so unlike the
old one that the spectacles are about the only
point of resemblance. He announces that
Victoria proposes to go through <£3,750,000 of
loan-money in the next three years. His first
list of public works has just come to light ; it
will absorb .£2,546,870, and among the awful
things which Turner cheerfully shoves among
his “permanent and reproductive” under-
takings are rifles and fortifications (,£62,500),
subsidies to local bodies (.£162,000), schools,
gaols, &c. (£204,500), aids to mining and agri-
culture (£300,000), railway rolling-stock, to
replace the vehicles which wore out and should
have been restored out of revenue but weren’t
(£386,100), and a lot more of the same kind.
Turner so far acknowledges that a great part
of these are not permanent works, and not re-
productive, and are a mere fraud and swindle
upon posterity, that only £1,515,000 is to be
permanent debt, the other £1,031,000 being re-
payable out of revenue at the rate of £25,000 a
year. But even the £1,515,000 contains a vast
amount of expenditure which should be charged
to ordinary revenue, and the promise that the
other sum will be repaid in 41 years is a very
shadowy affair. Turner says he had to go
back to the borrowing fraud, or else propose
new taxation for public works purposes, which,
he alleges, is quite “ hopeless ” ; but, at all
events, he didn’t try it first, and make dead
sure of its hopelessness —he simply went back
to the easy loan dodge as one who returns to an
old friend. Also, with £2,906,000 of deficit to
pay off, and only about i 300,000 paid, and
with only two small surpluses Lo show that
Victoria is really round the corner, and with
an extra £25,000 a year to meet, Turner
already promises reductions in the income-
tax—and the Argus loudly approves. He
only got his income-tax for three years, and
probably when he asks for a renewal
the 48 Rich Landlords will fight hard for a re-
duction in any case, but, at all events, 1 urner s
grovel to the Fat interest, and his voluntary
offer to sacrifice, or partly sacrifice, a source of
revenue which is chiefly a tax on Fat, is quite
unnecessary. Victoria wants to raise .£500,000
a year more revenue instead of giving away
any of what it has to please any Fat section of
the community. The money is wanted to pro-
vide a regular annual instalment in reduction
of the deficit, and to leave something over so
that it won’t be necessary to charge the rifles
and ammunition, and the gaols and court-
houses and lunatic asylums, and the agricul-
tural and mining bounties and similar daily ex-
penses, to posterity —in order that this genera-
tion may have a good time and damn the con-
sequences. The whole story of Australian
finance consists in leaving the bill to posterity
and damning the consequences; and Turner,
with his old loro wn hat cocked wildly over one
ear, and with positive instructions from David
Syme to “go it,” starts on the same road as
the rest.
*
“The Bulletin's” Inconsistency.
Mr. J. 0. Watson, of N.S.W. Labor-party,
complained in one of his election speeches:
He (Mr. Watson) would point out the inconsistency of
Thu Bulletin. In 1897, in three different issues, that
paper had declared that he (Mr. Watson) was one of the
best of the ten men to be elected who would draft a
Constitution. Now The Bulletin was advocating Mr.
O’Connor’s cause. . . . This inconsistency on the part of
The Bulletin and Temora Independent clearly shows the
value that can be placed upon these papers’ advocacy
And, come to think of it, didn’t Watson and
all iiis party support Dibbs in ’92, and go over
to Dibbs’ enemy, Reid, in 1894 ; and isn’t J. C.
Watson in consequence, by his own showing, a
beautiful individual to preach consistency ?
But, as a matter of fact, The Bulletin did
strongly and cordially recommend J. 0. Watson
in 1897 as a good and valuable Federal candi-
date, and in ’9B this paper didn’t want to be
seen dead in J. C. Watson’s company. In ’9B
it found J. C. Watson barracking for the leader
who announced that he was going to break
all his promises of Council reform and pre-
serve the unrepresentative nominee principle —
for the man who supported the equal represen-
tation in the Senate and the three-fifths
majority, and then had the brazen treachery to
tell the people to vote against the Convention
Bill because these things (which he had sup-
ported) were in it—for the man who assented
to that rascally breach of faith, the 80,000
minimum, and nullified the Referendum, and
disfranchised the majority ; and who had just
taken back Want (self described as the “ arch-
destroying angel of Federation”) to his Cabinet
as a solid guarantee of bad faith. Also, it
found him in the same boat with a whole lot of
the meanest kind of provincialists —men who,
not being able to down the Bill by fair means,
tried to do it by shameless lying. It was
because The Bulletin found Mr. Watson in
that company that it didn’t want its corpse to
be discovered in the same river with his in ’9B.
Aiid it was because it didn’t know that he was
going to be found there that it supported him
in ’97. Its conduct was beastly inconsistent —
just as that of the Eleven Apostles was when
they cut their unfortunate friend, the Twelfth
Apostle, after a certain lamentable episode in
his history. And yet in ’99 The Bulletin
may be supporting Mr. Watson again, if he
improves in the interval—not otherwise.
♦
Two Years.
That little, sawn-off Draco, Judge Docker, of
N.S.W., distinguished himself the other day at
Dubbo by passing the utterly disgraceful sen-
tence of two years’ imprisonment on a girl for
using instruments to procure abortion. Where
her case differed from the ordinary one was
that she used the instruments on herself. Also,
the jury found her guilty with a strong recom-
mendation to mercy, and Judge Docker
(according to the Evening News report) said
“ he was very glad to receive the recommenda-
tion, and would give the utmost effect to it; ”
therefore, the inference is that, but for the said
recommendation, the miserable girl might have
got three or four or five years. The sentence
was not only utterly merciless, and at least 10
times as much as the case called for, but,
in view of the other doings of the law,
it was hideously illogical. When the law
finds one person using instruments on another
to procure abortion, it drops heavily
on the person who performed the act,
but his or her accomplice, the woman who
voluntarily submitted to the operation, almost
invariably, if not quite invariably, goes free.
The law has tacitly decided, in any number of
cases, that her share of the transaction is not
criminal. The decision is illogical, certainly,
but it is the law’s decision. And when the law
falls like an avalanche on the one woman who
had no accomplice and didn’t lead any one else
into her alleged crime, the only possible infer-
ence is that the law is hungry after the blood
of somebody, and if it can’t get its usual victim
it will rather jump on the person whom it has
hitherto decided to be innocent than not jump
on anybody at all. Again, the law connives
at abortion by allowing nostrums for the
“restoration of regularity” to be openly
advertised and sold, without taking any steps
against either sellers or buyers. And the law
which fixes the average price of attempted
suicide at about three months, and murderous
assault by a push at about four weeks, is
a senseless horror when it piles a sentence
of 24 months on the w T retchea girl who merely
attempts bo escape from social disgrace at her
own risk. She inflicted no serious injury on
anybody but herself, and two years’ gaol, on
top of her personal sufferings and the scoffs of
Orthodox Respectability, is a very brutal pro-
cess of jumping on a very small weak victim
when she is down. Even the bilious and acrid
Docker might have found a better subject on
which to demonstrate his utter and well-proved
unfitness for his position.
Claimed that the Reid Ministry has shown
more inclination to restrict or abolish capital
punishment than any preceding N.S.W. Minis-
try. The Reid Ministry has commuted sen-
tences, certainly ; but what previous Ministry
has had the opportunities of the present one for
legislatively abrogating the death-penalty, or
restricting it solely to cases of murder in the
first degree ? JOHN Haynks placed on the
records of the House a second-reading majority
in favor of a Bill for abolition, and, although
the Bill was defeated afterwards, the Reid
Ministry, had it put its shoulder to Haynes’
Bill, could have lifted it over the obstacles that
blocked it. If the Reid Ministry wants credit
for humanity or a desire for more rational
methods of punishment, it will need to exert
itself legislatively as well as administratively.
Cabinet commutations of death-sentences, while
leaving the Statute-book loaded as it is, tends
in a clumsy but effectual fashion to prevent
reform of the law, because the people, relying
on the Cabinet to commute, will not bring pres-
sure on Parliament to amend or abolish.
Brisbane’s Anglican Bishop Webber thinks
that kanakas on Q. plantations are among the
happiest and best-treated of the inhabitants of
this terrestrial ball. Brisbane Courier backs
up Kneebreeches, declaring :
Those who allege slavery should prove it. Is it a fair
thing to charge a British community with this foul
wrong against humanity upon flimsy evidence or no evi-
dence at all ?
Ad captandum ! The slavery—the purchase of
labor from island chiefs—has been proved over
and over again. Webber’s little say-so is ex-
parte, for he is interested in what his church
calls the “kanaka missions” in Queensland.
The Courier foolishly opens a gate for its
enemies :
We admit frankly that if the inevitable result of this
contact was contamination and deterioration it would be
an obligation of humanity not to bring them here.
The almost inevitable result (grammatically
singular this time) is—death. Next, the
Courier barracks for the employment of British
Papuans on Q. sugar-plantations, because “ on
both sides of Torres Straits the natives would
be under the protection of British authority.”
Are not Australian aboriginals now under that
alleged protection ? Yet the Q. native black
has been practically excluded from work by
recent law and regulation, and is snuggled
against his will in the bosoms of his latest god-
fathers, Archie Meston and Parry-Okeden.
The Courier lets the cat out of the bag by
telling how this would “ practically be a settle-
ment of the vexed question of Queensland em-
ployers ever obtaining plantation laborers from
New Guinea.” Just so. Use the name of
Humanity, use the name of Civilisation, use the
name of the Almighty, but, by any means and
every means, keep up the supply of cheap,
colored labor for Fat Man, and let the obstinate
Lean White Man die.
4.
An indecorous judicial wink did duty lately for
a long-demanded reform of the court practice
which deals with the position an accused should
occupy when on trial. In an illegal-practice
case, at Dubbo, counsel requested Judge
Docker to allow accused to remain on the
floor of the court, outside the dock. Judge
Docker : “ Don’t raise the question, and then
I’ll not consider my attention directed to it.”
Counsel, it is needless to say, sat down, and
accused remained throughout the case outside
the dock. This was right in its way ; but is it
not derogatory to every sense of fitness that, in
the Temple of Justice, this right of an accused
can only be obtained by such a miserable sub-
terfuge ? An indicted person should be simply
(Retained ; only when violence is apprehended
from him, or when it is known that lie plans
escape, should the restraint be of a physical
kind. Ordinarily, the dock should be kept, if
maintained at ali, as a place for the guilty to
stand while sentence is being pronounced upon
them. The innocent—the not proven guilty—
should not be put on view to Judge and jury
over its spikes or through its compromising
bars.
Sydney Telegraph gives prominence to the
Privy Council decision in the Maoriland case of
Union Bank of Australia v. Murray-Aynsley
and Archer. The Supreme Court had decided
against the bank ; on appeal the Full Court, by
a majority-vote of three to one, had confirmed
the first judgment; but now the Privy Council
unanimously sets aside the verdicts and gives
judgment for the Bank. Such reversals happen
from time to time under the legal systems of
all countries, but the D.T. means, by prominent
display at this juncture, to supply data for
maintaining the existence of the Privy Council
as an adjunct to the Australian Federal Court.
Such data are, however, beside the main ques-
tion. The main question is, should not every
self-contained country be able to satisfy its
sense of justice within its own boundaries ?
Or, should not every country with power to
make laws possess the absolute power of inter-
preting them ?
“ Annie Marx ” to The Bulletin
Let Vic. Chief Secretary Peacock cast about for some
way of making his Factories Act much more operative.
Dozens of factories and hundreds of restaurants, coffee-
palaces, &c., break the regulations as to hours of work
and half-holidays, and no check is placed upon this
illegal form of sweating, simply because the inspectors
don’t know, and the girls—who know only too well—have
their mouths closed by fear of dismissal. Last Oct. a
fine, healthy country girl came to Melb. to see her mar-
ried sister. She liked the city, and, meeting an old
sohoolmate then employed as waitress, stayed on, and
soon took a billet at the city restaurant where her mate
worked. Last week, after a long illness, she wearily dragged
herself to the station, and returned to her country
home, to try and recover her lost health. During all
these months she got her half-holiday a week—from 2.30
p.m.—that was all. Otherwise she worked 761 hours per
week for the noble wage of seven shillings. Allowing a
similar sum as the equivalent of her board, she
was paid for her health and strength in some
of the best days of her life at the princely
rate of 2 l-sd. per hour ! There were seven of her in that
eating-place, and they slept—or tried to sleep—all through
the nights of last summer, in a room just 14ft. x 14ft.,
which"was also their sitting-room. This den has but one
window, which looks on the backyard, and consequently
receives all the vile smells of the muck-heap of a 6d. eat-
ing-house, and is situated right over the kitchen 1 Wasn’t
there a fuss made over a Black Hole in Calcutta, and was
it any worse than this? And there are in Melbourne to-
day hundreds, if not thousands, more in like case to this
girl—nay, worse ! For the restaurant has a good name,
and the girls themselves say they are not so badly off as
in some places they know of, which is one reason why they
won’t speak—though not the main one. Yet the Fac-
tories’ Act, 1896, provides that waitresses shall not work
more than 52 hours per week, nor more than nine hours
in one day (sec. 41). For all which reasons I cordially
invite the Chief Secretary to devise some plan whereby
his inspectors may put the Act in force “ on their own,”
without causing the dismissal of any of these women, who
badly need relief, but who dare not try to obtain it for
themselves.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assui’ance in force during 1897
SU R PLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other .Life Office m the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.0.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, .. .
.. . LAPIDALiIE', Etc.,
177 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Cut or repair any Stones.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
TfCHr^
RUNNING
I
)_ MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ White Heather."
Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers.”
Lyceum “ Right's Right.”
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli . Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Harbor Lights.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops.”
Gaiety Theatre Federation Minstrel Co.
The Pattie Browne co. is filling in the last
week of its Sydney season with “Jane,” and that
hilarious trifle is good enough to make up for even
the numerous failings of “Nancy.” “Jane” is
not new to Sydney, but it is so long since Myra
Kemble’s production of the cheery little shriek
that it is about as good as new. The visible moral
of “Jane” is that, in a world which is full of
young woman, it is desperately hard to get a young
woman when she is most wanted, even when the
man who wants her is ready to offer £lOO for 24
hours loan of her. Cecil Ward is the man
who wants the loan of a girl so badly, his
trouble being that some eccentric relative left
him a large income on condition he got married,
and he took the shortest way out of the difficulty
by saying that he was married. Then three years
later he has to borrow a girl at two hours’ notice
in order to convince a dreadful trustee that he
hasn’t been getting money by false-pretences. He
finally gets the loan of servant-girl Jane ; and
Jane is rushed off in such haste to buy her new
clothes that she hasn’t time to explain things to
her husband, flunkey William, with whom she has
just contracted a secret marriage. Therefore flun-
key William, when he suddenly finds his wife in
purple and fine linen, receiving sassiety in the
drawing-room, and she coldly orders him to bring
in coals, thinks at first tint it is a horrid dream.
Later, he concludes that it is bigamy. And when
Cecil Ward and his borrowed Jane get the loan of
an infant, and proudly exhibit it as their
own podgy infant, he decides that it is
gross immorality. The sufferings of husband
William while he waits at dinner are painful. He
swells up with smothered rage till his buttons fly
off and get into the soup, and whenever his
anguish is more awful than usual his bride
threatens him publicly with dismissal, and coldly
tells him to go and boil the front window or post
the coal-scuttle in time for the evening’s meal, or
something like that. William’s instincts as a
well-trained servant make it impossible for him to
give back-talk to anything in the outward guise of
the “ missus, ” even though she is his own wife
and fellow-servant Jane; he bursts with rage in
the background, but the torn remains of him run
on errands as actively as ever, and come back more
or less drunk and despairing. And Jane’s fiendish
ingenuity in ordering her flunkey about is a whole
essay on the cruelty of fluffy womanhood when
unexpectedly clothed in gorgeous things that are
bought on credit.
• * * •
Pattie Browne's Jane is good all through ;
she is bright and pretty and cheeky and full of
riot and vim, and the audience can understand the
slavery of her torn William. The Bulletin
wouldn’t like to swear that she is batter artisti-
cally than the far-off Jane of Myra Kemble, now
dimly visible on the far horizon of time ; but at
least she is very close up indeed. Berkeley, as
husband William, is a fine piece of comedy; Cecil
Ward is the excellent actor that he always is ; and
Miss Athena Claudius, who has taken violently to
boy parts, and fills them with very good results,
does an exasperating imp in buttons. Oily Deer-
ing and Miss Marian Medway are the other most
conspicuous characters, the latter as a -gushing
elderly child with a retreating chin and large,
mild, cow-like eyes, whose business is to throw
herself affectionately on the chest of the world in
general with a view to matrimony, but the world
indignantly throws herself off again in scorn. The
only very bad disappointment in Saturday’s per-
formance was Miss May Browne, who was a shock
in three colors—an absolutely white frock, a black
hat, and a pink countenance.
* * * *
“ Her Good Name,” in one act, by Ber-
nard Espinasse, a well-known Sydney writer, is
thrown in along with “Jane.” It is a strong and
picturesque streak of gloom. A guilty wife comes
home in evening-dress and learns, partly from his
words, mostly from the dreadful green stare in his
eye, that her husband Knows All. Her paramour
drops in also, and, being a dull man, he stays on
instead of taking warning by that eye and bolting
for his life into the next continent. The note of
warning which the lady tries to pass him is
gloomily intercepted and used as a pipe-light.
The end of it is the suicide of the paramour in the
next room ; his baleful friend with the green eye
persuades him that he has swallowed an awful
Eoison in his coffee, and is doomed to die of
orrible pains, and he rushes to make an end
of himself. Then the strong man with the green
eye forgives his wife, and things end just the way
the audience didn’t expect. The massive Frank
Macvicars and pretty Beatrice Day are the two
strong features of the piece, the scared and sinful
wife being the best thing Miss Day has yet done
in Sydney. As for the paramour, he is hereby let
off with a caution on condition that he puts <£ll6B
in the poor-box.
* • * *
The Firm’s new comic opera co. com-
mences at Her Majesty’s on Saturday in the ever-
welcome “Gondoliers.”
** * *
The present Sydney Lyceum drama,
_“ Right’s Right, ” arouses The Bulletin to more
interest than it generally expends on melodrama.
It is a rather clever and well-constructed tale of
two orphans, whose mother was dropped over-
board or otherwise disposed of in their childhood,
whereupon their wicked relative loses the two
infants and shakes the family estate. One girl is
found by a hard-drinker in a public-house, and he
reforms and brings her up happily as his own
daughter ; while a bow-legged criminal carefully
trains the other in the way she should go with a
waddy. By the time the drama proper gets fairly
started, she has been trained so successfully that
the waddy no longer makes any impression on her,
and nothing but the gentle influence of a fire built
under her seems likely to produce any moral effect.
Miss Watts-Phillips represents this aggressive
Ishmael with good effect; she is a torn hurricane
in broken boots and a wild mat of hair, and so
hardened that when she is shut up in the dark
with the rats she is prepared to give three rousing
cheers for the rats, and to take things with per-
fect philosophy. Then the man who stole the
property, not having sense enough to leave well
alone, lays dark schemes for abducting the other
sister, and the two girls meet, and the strange re-
sult is that the Ismaelite is tamed and led away to
be washed and to have her hair combed. In-
directly, and by devious ways, the washing of that
girl leads to the downfall of the gentleman who
embezzled the property ; he comes down violently
about 11.15 p.m., and the law, which goes remark-
ably fast on the stage, crumples him up in about
five minutes. He leaves behind him memories of
a very finely-staged drama, and particularly some
very beautiful views of the Thames—a river which
flows through more melodrama than any other in
history, and which is chiefly useful as a place for
the rightful heir to be thrown into, and to have
bridges built across it so that the father can stand
on them and think of his lost child. In addition
to the lady above-mentioned, Miss Helen Burdett
gives every satisfaction as the clean sister, who is
a very pretty and winsome sister indeed; and
Diver, Alf. Boothinan, Frank Harcourt, and
several others call for some considerable applause.
* * * *
(i Apparently, the reported retirement of
“White Heather ” from Sydney Royal was a pre-
mature rumor, for that drama, now in its sixth
week, still crowds the old big house every night,
and seems quite capable of keeping up for a few
weeks more, if called upon. The “waters under
the earth, ” where Baker walks on the sea-bottom
with the compromising document under his arm, is
an effect which even so elaborate a sensationalist
as Bland Holt will find it difficult to replace,
unless he can work in a balloon, or a view of Para-
dise, or some similar trifle.
* * * *
Beyond a casual mention that the Tivoli
show is in first-class health and spirits, there is
little to be reported about Rickards’old-established
entertainment. Last week, the charitable ’Arry
gave a benefit for the unhappy Mrs. Simp-
son, who lost both her feet in a tram acci-
dent, and raked in £lB 17s. 9d. net. Which sum,
The Bulletin hopes, will be remembered to his
credit when he leaves here for a land whose exist-
ence seems to be more or less problematical.
Hi Hi * *
Hard to imagine a more brainlessly wan-
ton outrage than the recent poisoning by arsenic
of 10 out of the 12 pumas at Sydney Zoo. The
puma (the panther or ‘ ‘ painter ” of the American
backwoods man, and the “lion ” of South Ameri-
can vernacular) is otherwise a particularly interest-
ing feline, as, more than any of its congeners,
presenting in its head, habits and motions a gigan-
tic replica of the ‘ ‘ harmless necessary cat. ”
* * * *
“The Sign of the Cross,” which was to
celebrate a 250th Australian performance with a
souvenir on Tuesday of this week, will close its
Kerristian career, at Melb. Princess’s, on Friday.
The bill for Saturday is “Harbor Lights,” by
Pettitt and Sims. Eleven years have tided out
since this breezy melodrama was first seen on the
same stage, and of the original cast only Mrs.
Bryer will appear again this time. Phil Beck is
dead, Pattie Browne otherwise engaged ; Elton,
H. H. Vincent, Herbert Flemming, Isabel Morris
and Louise Davenport have gone away. Julius
Knight is to play the hero, the festive Bert Gilbert
takes Elton’s old part, Miss Florence Terry re-
places Pattie Browne, and Miss Ferrar and Miss
Hughes will be more or less persecuted by the
villain in the foreground of the show. A lot of
new scenery has been painted for “ Harbor
Lights,” including an up-to-date battleship, and if
the situation in China should grow more warlike
this week the battleship will be expected to get a
great reception. In any case, the band will revive
Rule Britannia on a scale of great splendor.
* * * *
A sudden condemnation of the playhouse
at Perth (W.A.), will, it is said, cause Charles
Holloway’s co. to appear at Melb. Bijou shortly,
in conjunction with Rignold. This official closing
of the Perth theatre when Holloway was first on
the job, after it had been occupied by a succession
of travelling managers, is understood to be due to
defective means of exit, or something. Anyway,
the surprise is a bad thing for Holloway and
others, and the local press seems inclined to make
significant remarks on the subject.
* * * *
Biondi’s new farce at Melb. Opera House
contains six characters, whereas his previous farce
contained only four, and, as the six people chase
one another even faster than the other four
travelled, it is truly hard to believe that Biondi is
the sole mover in this lively disturbance. The
make-up in five cases is pretty elaborate, the most
frequent character being Biondi pure and simple
as a restaurant waiter, and, though the waiter
looks slightly rumpled towards the finish, his com-
posure amidst the hurly-burly of quick changes is
the most wonderful point in the show. Also, it ex-
plains how he can possibly get through without a
hitch m the proceedings. The artist, seemingly,
rushes from dresser to dresser—there are seven of
them behind the scene—but is never bustled. To
the orchestra part of his entertainment Biondi has
added a picture of conductor Zelman —“old Zel-
man,” of Melbourne —with his little military.
Miss DOROTHY VANE , of “ the Firm's ”
reconstructed comic opera co.
Photo., H.J. Whitlock, Birmingham.
cap placed at an angle of 45 on the side of
hia historical shock of hair. The imitation is
rather less ragged and dusty than the original, and
the sham nose has a glaze of newness on it, but
when Zelman gets seasoned he will be a huge
success. In fact, the hairy identity fetched a loud
bang of applause first time he popped up.
* s# *
The success of Robert Brough’s forthcom-
ing comedy season (it opens in October) at Mel-
bourne Bijou will depend on the prices charged for
admission. If Brough can’t bring himself down
to the 35., 25., and Is. tariff, he must be prepared
for much the same treatment that Cartwright and
co. received at the same house. The chances are
that he will not bring’ a stronger selection of pieces
than Rickards put up, and, although he has an
old reputation as a high-class comedy merchant, it
will hardly serve for long to crowd the benches
which were empty when “Tree of Knowledge,”
and other good stuff, was being produced at the
old ss. maximum rate.
** * *
The last Newbury “Pop” suffered some-
what from influenza, but business was as good as
ever, and the multitude again took kindly to John
Coleman. Concerning which the inflexible musical
critic observes, “It takes a good many different
sorts of people to make-up a world . . There is the
sort that can thoroughly enjoy these Colemanesque
performances, and the sort that are lost in amaze-
ment at what the others are laughing at.”
Well, the sort that feel surprised when somebody
is amused by the Scarecrow Dance ought not to
take part in making up a world —not this world,
anyhow. They should resolve themselves into in-
gredients of the world to come.
** # *
Lemmone’s Concert Co. will make three
more appearances at Melb. Town Hall on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday of next week —the
Wednesday concert being fixed for 3 p.m. The
prices for this second season will be wisely brought
down to the “ threetwoan’one ” standard, and the
light soprano lady who appeared with the co. in
Sydney will be a new item on the programme.
** * *
Dauntless M‘Adoo and his Jubilee Singers
concluded a season at Melb. Athenaeum Hall on
Saturday, and are now warbling of the bull-dog
and the bull-frog at suburban halls, prior to rolling
on towards Adelaide and the West. A bad cold
settled on the Black Melba’s chest lately, but the
co., eyen when deprived of the services of that
melodious lady, is a very good co., and not too
holy in tone.
Miss Dorothy Vane.
Miss Dorothy Vane, the mezzo-soprano for “The
Firm’s” comic opera co., is charming by reason of
her naturalness and vivacity. She makes her Aus-
tralian de.but this Saturday, at Sydney Her
Majesty’s. She is an English girl, with a musical
father, and a mother who has not even yet become
reconciled to her being on the stage. Miss Vane
studied music, elocution, the organ and piano, at
London Guildhall for four years. She began her
stage career with six months in the chorus at Man-
chester, then moved up to understudy, then made a
success in “lolanthe.” She has played four
years in the English provinces, and one year as
principal soubrette in Mr. D’Oyley Carte’s
00. at the Savoy. Miss Vane is a fair-
haired girl, sft. high. She was introduced to the
Prince of Wales by the Countess of Warwick : the
Prince complimented her on her performances, and
the Countess gave her a sapphire-and-ruby brooch.
Miss Vane claims that the chief factor in her
success has been hard work. She says—“l am
not going to tell Australians how old I am ; but I
will tell them that coming out in the Ophir I
became engaged to be married. It is so lonely on
board ship, and I was all alone ; and that lonely
feeling is responsible for so many things. I have
not yet thought about the fixing of my marriage-
day. Coming out, too, I played cards —for
money!—and won more than I lost. I have felt
very homesick since I have been in Sydney. On
Sunday afternoon I broke down and had a good cry.
I have been out of England only once before, that
was on a five months’ trip to Africa. But as we
were a company 45 strong travelling together I
never got down. lam mercurial; when I’m up
I’m up ! Bight up ! When I’m down —as lam
after the evening’s work—well, I’m limp. I can-
not get hungry out here, somehow; I’ve been
doing nothing but starve since I’ve been in Sydney.
I don’t like beginning on the 13th of the month ;
I’m very fidgety about it; 13 is an unlucky num-
ber. I hope I meet a lot of black cats on Saturday
morning. I never start anything on Friday. I
wouldn’t walk under a ladder for £lOO. Cross-
eyed Women are very lucky to me. On board ship
I turned my money at sight of the new moon. I
do not wear jewellery; I’d sooner have a pretty
frock than a diamond brooch The black wig
which I wear as Pitti Sing caused the Johannes-
burg people to mistake me for a Jewess. The
more I work the more nervous I get; Ido most of
my study in bed of a morning before breakfast; I
learn very quickly. I cannot fix my mind on work
here yet; I’m too restless and homesick j I want
to bore a hole through the world and have a look
at my people on the other side. The part
which I _ have been brought out specially
to play is The Doll in ‘La Poupee. ’ Mr.
Musgrove said that I would make a most
perfect doll in the pretty, quaint gowns. The
performance, on which Mr. Musgrove engaged me
was Phoebe in ‘The Yeomen of the Guard.’ In
my opinion it is the best test of my abilities, since
the character combines singing, dancing, comedy,
pathos. Phoebe has brought me all the luck J
.ever had, and I’m sorry I don’t begin here in it.”
At Poverty Point.
John Coleman asserts with emphasis that he didn’t pet
his famous Scarecrow Dance from “ Ashcroft, the solid
man, who died about 12 years back.” He derived the
Scarecrow idea, he says, from a drunken man in the
Bowery, New York. Ashcroft, a clever Irish comedian
in his day, never did the dance, nor anything: like it;
neither did he die a dozen years ago. Ashcroft lives and
moves and has his being as proprietor of the Alhambra
Music Hall, Belfast, from which address he lately dropped
a line to his old friend Coleman, and will, presumably, in
due course send word to The Bulletin disclaiming the
authorship of the Scarecrow aforesaid.
The Bulletin hears that the Gilbert-Reeve divorce is
not to come off. Hubby goes to “Harbour Lights” at
Melb. Princess’, and Ada is to do a turn at Rickards’s
Opera House. “ And they lived happily for ever aftei-
wards.” As the clever .young pair have a couple of young
children, let us hope that the story of reconciliation is
true.
“ Haresfoot ” : Most regretful was the appearance of
little Simonsen, at Melb. Police-court, for disordered in-
tellect, evidenced in carrying firearms. Our essentially
amiable little Danish violinist, relict of Mme. Simonsen,
ought to be cared for. There is his brilliant daughter,
Frances Saville, witching Brussels and London in opera.
Peggy Pryde is far more suited to feminine parts—even
to the fascinating kind of femininity that makes use of
such expressions as “ You should ’er seen mother startin’
after the gin,” and “ We all barracked for Jim, what do
• you think”—than to the forlorn or pathetic masculine
roles. Anyway, it is about time that the London-waif
racket should be put down with a strong hand, along with
Marie Corelli’s novels, and “Sing-sweet-bird ” songs.
“ Miss Lilian Alexander, a Palace Music Hall vocalist,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ has be-
stowed her shapely arms, peerless bosom, and splendid
voice—as displayed nightly—on Mr. Fairfax, of Sydney, in
return for a tiny wedding ring. This very attractive lady
ca.n sing, and should she retire from the public stage she
will be much missed. Her 1 Daddy ’ hasn’t the feeling of
Ida Osborne, but her ‘ Children’s Home’ makes her more
mesmeric than the Pied Piper.” Who is Mr. Fairfax, of
Sydney ?—or, rather, which Mr. Fairfax ?
Kate Terry, a famous actress ere her younger sister,
Ellen, had been heard of, was about to take to the stage
again in April last when she fell ill and was ordered away
from London. Kate Terry retired into private life on her
marriage with Lewis, the wealthy draper, some five-and-
thirty years ago, and if she comes back to the old work
after ail she will draw about the most wrinkled and bald-
headed first-night audiences that ever was.
Dion Boucicault (says the Argonaut) is settling down
to hard work as playwright. “A Court Scandal,” which
he took from the French, is to be staged by George
Edwardes at London Garrick in October.
Mr. Edgar Straus, the well-known ’cellist, intends re-
turning to Sydney towards the end of this month, hia
health having, many will be glad to hear, improved
sufficiently to enable him to resume his professional
duties.
One speculates as to what Cecil Ward would have made
of Lord Rintoul in “ The Little Minister.” He had care-
fully prepared his make-up on Barrie’s lines (quite differ-
ent to Cathcart) when he was called upon to take up the
name-part.
Dear Bulletin. —So Pattie Browne —with salary rang-
ing from £l5 to £3O per week —had four parts written for
her in England 1 Also, she states that “ the best comedy
line she knows was Tith.’s lovely line in ‘Sophia’ : ‘lf
you object to the shirt, I’ll shift it.’” Lovely, indeed !
And so very original in thought. Previous to the birth
of Pattie there was a London comic song interspersed
with “ patter,” and the patterer, pretending to read a
letter from his girl, would say, “ Dear Bill, I’ve stolen
your shirt to make a shift, so you must make a shift
without it.”— Cockney.
Julius Knight is bent on playing Hamlet and Romeo.
He is working at the parts, and will probably be seen in
them ere many months have passed. The ambition is, no
doubt, laudable. If Knight has real brains, it is, in jus-
tice to himself, about time he sought an opportunity of
more fully demonstrating the fact. At present his repu-
tation rests mostly upon his limbs and such melodramatio
nonsense as his Marcus Superbus and Napoleon.
It is 37 years since Madame Sohier, the pioneer wax-
figure entrepreneuse in Australia, visited the N.S.W.
backblocks. Her son has just returned from a similar
tour, having met many who clearly remembered his
mother’s visit.
The cheerfulness with which the crowd that is being
sung to by a serenaded somebody yells “ encore" is
sublime. Lately, on a frosty night, with the glass down
to 35 (it fell presently to 30 ; and this was at Broken Hill,
too) Amy Sherwin was warbled out on to a hotel balcony.
She pleaded vainly that it was too cold for a response,
and when there were shouts of disappointment (from the
crowd of listeners, not from the warblers) she heaved a
hint at them wrapped up in a verse of “ Home, Sweet
Home.” But they didn’t git; they just stayed and.
yelled “ Encore,” “ Go on,” till Madame disappeared.
Dear Bulletin. —A Bulletin correspondent has a say
about the “big cats.” Well, he may know all about them,
but I don’t think so. I have known every trained ( i.e .,
performing) lion and tiger that has been worked in this
country for more than 20 years, and have been personally
acquainted with all the animal men, from Fernandez up.
In addition, I have reared, trained, and performed wild
animals with no more serious accident than a torn coat.
You can make a lion or tiger change its nature if you
know your work and are fond of it, and leave alone
what circus-men call “ shiker.” (There are always lots
of people who want to shout for the “ Lion King.")
Why, Psyche—a performing lioness owned by me—was as
tame as a cat with those she knew, and she gloried in her
work ; but, then, Psyche was brought up from a small
cub on warmed milk and raw-meat juice administered
per a baby’s bottle by a game little woman who would
stand no nonsense.—A.F.R.
Clara Butt, the famous English contralto, was recently
thrown from a carriage and sustained concussion of the
brain.
“ Poverty Point ” continued on page 28.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
SIR JOHN
Power’s Whiskey.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harrison & A-ttwood., Sole Proprietors
JJ
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * » *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, ]
36/387.
,itharjre,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Ohemieals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisb
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Premier Turner proposes to raise the first of the
three proposed Vic. loans (£1,000,000) locally, and, pos-
sibly, the second also. The Bulletin desires to suggest
that it money can be borrowed locally (which it certainly
can) it can be raised locally by taxation just about as
easily, and much more fairly, and with no more burden
on the community. Borrowing locally means that Govt,
gets £1,000,1)00 (which it has no intention of ever repay-
ing) from (say) 50 people. It is invested in works, which
yield (say) 3 per cent., and the 3 per cent, is handed over
to these 50 people as interest. If the money is raised by
taxation, the Govt, gets £1,000,000 (which it has no inten-
tion of ever repaying) from (say) 1,000,000 people, and in-
vests it in the same works which yield the same 3 per cent.,
and the 1,000,000 people who advanced the money get the 3
per cent, just as the 50 people would do, only in the form of
reduced taxation instead of in cash. And, in either case,
if the works don’t yield 3 per cent., the people have to
stand the loss. The Bulletin respectfully asks a dunder-
headed community to consider this point. Supposing,
when Govt, wanted to borrow a million in a
community of a million people, and instead of get-
ting (say) £20,000 each from 50 people it bor-
rowed £1 from each person, wttich would be exactly
the same thing, then the situation would begin to become
apparent. For everybody would owe himself £1 and pay
himself his own interest by taking it out of his pocket
and handing it to himself and giving himself a receipt.
The advantage of raising £1,000,000 for public works by
local taxation instead of by local loan is that it prevents
the 950,000 people ultimately drifting into slavery to the
other 50,000 ; it saves the expense of constantly raising
and distributing the interest; and there are no paper
securities to ultimately depart out of the country when the
holder goes to Yurrup in search of a title and thus makes
another addition to the long list of absentees who drain
this country of its wealth. Otherwise the two things are
exactly equal.
* • * •
Premier Turner reports that he has a scheme on
hand for the conversion of the many different varieties of
Victorian debt into a uniform 3 per cent, stock. This
suggests, firstly, either that Turner doesn’t believe
Federation is coming, or that he doesn’t expect the
Federal Govt, to take over the State debts. For if Feder-
ation is coming; and the Commonwealth takes over the
State debts (as it will do if it intends to be any kind of
Commonwealth worth mentioning) it is quite obvious that
the Federal Govt, with its vastly superior credit, could
convert the provincial loans on far better terms than Vic-
toria could do by itself. And if Victoria has a local loan
conversion now, and there is a Federal one later on, the
only result of the first operation will be needless waste of
the gum-sucker’s legal tender.
Assuming that Turner’s local loan conversion
comes off, the method of it should prove interesting. The
first essential is to make the new stock interminable,
reserving to the Government the right of repayment at
any time after, say, 20 years. For the constant renewal
of loans is a huge expense, and their compulsory renewal
at a fixed date, even if the market is utterly unfavorable,
means disaster some day. For instance, Victoria has
£7,000,000 falling due in one year, and the year after
N.S.W. has £17,000,000, and Queensland £13,000,000 fall-
ing due. And if these two years find Europe up to its
neck in a great disastrous war, money may be unobtainable
below 6 or 7 per cent., and these provinces may have to
either pay that price for renewal, or else default. Also,
another essential is to put the conversion on a reasonably
honest basis. The object of every conversion is to reduce
interest, and in practically every case the saving of in-
terest is only effected by a great increase of prin-
cipal. Then the usual course is to leave posterity
to pay off the extra principal and grab the reduc-
tion of interest for the benefit of the present
generation—which is really only another way of borrow-
ing money for revenue purposes. If it were made part
of the bargain that the amount saved annually in interest
was to go towards paying off the principal the conversion
idea would have a lot more to recommend it than it has—
barring the fact that the promise about so applying the
saving wouldn’t be kept. Another wise idea would be to
put the amount saved into a Public Works Fund for rail-
way-building purposes so as to diminish future borrowing
—only that promise wouldn’t be kept either.
• * * *
So far as things have gone both the N.S.W.
land and income taxes appear to be declining sources of
revenue. The 1896 land-tax panned out for £263,468 ;
1897 land-tax, £232,636. The 1896 income-tax yielded
£193,575, and the 1897 income-tax, £169,020. There are
still arrears to come in, but apparently not enough to
make up the deficiency.
* * * *
Westralia has struck several streaks of hard luck
in the London money market besides the present one,
and is getting used to being kicked by its uncle Bull.
The £1,100,000 worth of 3 per cent, stock given in pay-
ment for the Great Southern Railway was offered at £9B,
and only £233,000 was taken. Then a loan of £1,000,000
hung fire, the amount offered being only £750,000. The
present £1,000,000 loan only brought in £550,000, despite
the very low minimum. Also, £1,000,000 of 4 per cent.
Treasury bills are vaguely understood to have been sent
’Ome, a long while back, for the Agent-General to raise
the wind upon, and, so.far as is known, they are still on
hand.
• * * *
Maoriland State Land Bank, at 31st March, ’9B,
had advanced £1,405,965 on mortgage. Out of £71,545,
due during the year as interest and repayments, the
amounts over one month in arrear were only £922, and
none of the arrears went back over 12 months. Also
there was only one doubtful security among all the mort-
gages. If any private institution can make as good a
showing, its name and address will be thankfully received.
* • * *
Cash in Victorian banks for the quarter just
ended £6,708,122, a decline of £463,000 as compared with
previous quarter. Ditto in N.S.W. banks £5,885,537, a
decline of £341,000. Even with the £1,500,000 which
Premier Reid lately borrowed in London to keep the era
of Jolly and Fat afloat a while longer, N.S.W. doesn’t
show any too well.
* * * *
The most dismal bank on earth —the Standard
Bank of Australia—has decided to formally give up the
ghost and liquidate. One obvious reason for this course
is that its alleged £1,308,393 of assets are estimated to be
really worth about £90,000 (£435,000 of the alleged assets
are accumulated loss and depreciation, and £520,000 are
doubtful debts taken at face value, and many of the other
items are dubious and only worth a little in the £).
Another good reason is that the loss has grown larger and
the income smaller ever since 1894, till, for the half-year
ended 31st Dec., 1897, the bank’s earnings were £1246 and
its outgoings £10,749. A bank whose expenses are nearly
nine times its receipts is about the deadest thing imagin-
able. The final reason for abandoning the struggle is
that £300,000 of reconswindled deposits fall due
this week, and there is about £5OOO cash to
meet them with. The best that is hoped for in the
dreadful case of the Standard Bank is that the
shareholders will lose all their capital (£552,000) and
•depositors will get about 2s. in the £ if they have very
good luck ; if they have moderate luck, the dividend may
be anything from Od. to Is. 6d. There are over £700,000
•of deposits altogether, and they have been reconstructed
three times ; and for at least five years the depositors
have been getting their very moderate interest (it is only
2J per cent.) out of their principal and have thus lived by
eating their own tail It will be a joyous thing to hear
the last of the Standard Bank, but presumably there are
years of slow liquidation before it, and its name will be
preserved in the land for a very long time yet.
* • * *
The Mutual Life Insurance co. of New York re-
ports that the total premiums for 1897 were £8,029,813,
which is £172,222 more than t hose for 1896. Considera-
tion for annuities was £704,249, an increase of £273,500 ;
and interest and rents were £2,158,262, an increase of
£82,507 ; also, £420,509 profit was made on the realisation
of securities over and above their book-value. The total
result was an addition of £3,910,120 to the funds, which
now stand at £52,112,204, and the surplus of assets over
liabilities has risen to £7,291,210.
The Mutual of New York realises about £4 Gs.
6d. per cent, interest on its investments, which is very good
as rates go in the U.S., though below the present
Australian average. And its expenses amount to rather
over £lB 4s. per cent, on total receipts as compared with
something over £2O per cent, last year, so the rate, though
still somewhat high, shows a considerable improvement.
One rather curious announcement is that all policies
issued on and after January last are to be based on the
assumption that the funds will, in future, yield 3£ per
cent, interest ; hut apparently the co. leaves its old
policies on the previous 4 per cent, basis. And it is inti-
mated that the premium rates have been “adjusted”—
which, presumably, means increased—to correspond with
the new rates. The A.M.P. started reducing its future
estimates to 3 A per cent, some time earlier, though it was
earning much higher interest than the Mutual of New
York, and, therefore, had less visib'e need of such a pre-
caution. Also, it reduced its estimate, not merely on its
new policies, but on all its policies, and it did this without
any alteration of its premium rates. The Maoriland State
Life Department and the Mutual Life Association are
doing the same without increase of rates, despite the fact
that their premiums are both much lower than those of
the American office. The Citizens’ ordinary life branch
also values at the 3£ per cent, rate all round. And another
large American office doing business in Australia —the
New York Life Insurance Co. —now estimates its future
interest receipts at the still safer limit of 3 per cent., and
applies this valuable precaution not only to its new
policies, but to all its policies alike : and it also made the
change without any readjustment of premium rates. Un-
doubtedly the reduction of the estimates on which new
business is based to 3J per cent, is a wise and valuable
precaution, and the pity is that several Australian offices
don’t go and do likewise, instead of adhering to the old 4
per cent., which threatens sooner or later to become
unsafe. But if the Mutual of New York had applied this
precaution all round, even at the sacrifice (on paper) of
part of its big surplus, it would have been still wiser.
* * * *
The Civil Service Mutual Building and Invest-
ment Society (Sydney) shows a profit of £5Ol for the year
ended 30th June, ’9B, as compared with £359 last year, and
£453 in ’96. The profit equals a little over 3 j per cent, on
capital, and a div. of 2£ per cent, absorbs 379 of this (the
board has a quaint way of declaring a dividend for the
second half of the year and missing the other half, and in
this peculiar little fashion it manages to call its 2J per
cent. div. 5 per cent.). Also, £3OO is put to the reserve
fund, making it £BOO, but, as the income isn’t large
enough to cover this, most of it comes out of previous
profit-and-loss balance, which is reduced to £29. The
great trouble with this institution is its expense account—
the total year’s receipts are £1304, and expenses swallow
up £659 of this, or more than half. Five directors, a
building-surveyor, manager and staff are evidently a big
load for so small a concern to carry.
* * * *
Adelaide Critic objects to The Bulletin’s idea
of audit of banks and insurance co’s by State-appointed
auditors. It suggests that: “ What is wanted is a law
compelling every co., insurance or otlierwise, to appoint
capable, independent, professional auditors, who should
have assistance and protection from the State instead of
leaving them, as at present, to the mercy of company-
mongers who, if the auditor tries to do his duty, turn him
out without any consideration.” Well, if the State is to
compel the appointment of “ independent” auditors, and
is to protect and assist them, and deprive the directors of
the power to discharge them so that they may continue
independent, what is that but State audit ?
• * » *
Ex-Agent-General Playford returns to S.A.
convinced that it takes a man at least four years to
fathom the mysteries of London money market. He says
Australian stocks have been rigged for years by one large
syndicate which has made big sums by tendering for
loans and gradually unloading on small investors. Play-
ford made a study of its operations and secured big
successes for all his loans by correctly gauging the time
for flotation. He attributes the recent Westralian failure
to a “green” Agent-General. Playford, by the way,
returns to S.A. a martyr to rheumatic gout.
» * * *
The Bulletin advises Hooley to write—“ The
Book of Revelations.” Nothing has come up to Hooley
in the way of letting the cat out of the bag since Kirby
died. His examination in bankruptcy grows more inter-
esting every day. Hooley appears to have started with a
lot up his sleeve, so that, as soon as Lord This and Earl
That denied receiving the sums mentioned for the use of
their names, Hooley hunted up his cheque-book to prove
that they had received a good deal more. Now, one
lordly decoy-duck admits receiving “about £20,000 by
way of gifts,” but offers to return the amount to the
official receiver, who, by the way, has declared that all
those in a similar case must perforce stump up. Evi-
dently over a million went in boodle in one form or an-
other, and Hooley will probably prove that the two most
rotten institutions in London are the aristocracy and the
financial press.
* * * *
The gold returns of four provinces for the first
six months of ’9B :
Westralia .. £470,6900z.
Queensland (about) .. 414,0000 z.
Victoria .. 398,1770 z.
New South Wales .. 127,2590 z.
In proportion to population the Westralian gold-return is
now about three times that of Queensland, while Vic-
toria and N.S.W. are out of sight below the horizon. If
the figures keep up the gold yield will do a lot to let
Westralia down gently from the top of its boom. And
if it wasn’t that most of the big dividends go out of the
province it might do a lot more. But, thanks to the
glorious “ influx of British capital,” Westralia’s dividends
go everywhere except to Westralia.
» * * *
Broken Hill South made a profit of <£16,100 in
its last half-year, which is the best for some time. Of the
total, £lO,OOO has been paid in divs. ; balance goes to de-
preciation account, rather neglected lately. Liquid
assets are £17,578 in excess of liabilities, as against
£13,264 at the end of the preceding half, only they are not
quite so liquid. There are much more of the uncertain
“ estimated surpluses ” in them, less cash, less stores, and
more liabilities. Which probably accounts in part tor
the directors’ announcement (not contained in the report)
that they will sell locally as much of the product as
Eossible. The concentrating mill is said to be answering ;
ut Mr. Green way, who superintends this as well as the
Block 14 works, gives precious little information on that
point. In the mine things have gone better, some good
lead ores having been met at different points ; the most
important development has been between the 700 and
800 ft. levels. Average assays, however, not given, and no
remarks passed upon this mine’s old bugbear, the appall-
ing hardness of the ore. Still, as concentrating costs have
not increased —they stand at about ss. per ton of ore—
there is apparently no change for the worse, at any rate.
* * * *
The open-cut system at Broken Hill, backed by
close filling with refuse underground, has brought the
B.H. Prop.’s timber-bill from £78,748 in the first half of
’92 down to £11,762 in the first half of ’9B. The figures
for the corresponding periods of ’96 and ’97 were re-
spectively £21,906 and £17,039.
After being drenched and smothered for 15
months, the fire in the workings of the B.H. Prop, is still
active enough to overcome with its fumes five men who
incautiously descended a pass in the walled-in area. But
this time ail were got out alive.
9 * * *
Miners, &c., to the number of about 300 have
gone on strike at the Gibraltar mine, Adelong, N.S.W.
Hitherto miners have been getting Bs. 4d. a day, and now
they are asked to work for 7s. 6d., the standard rate of
miners’ wages for many years in Vic., but not in N.S.W.,
where it varies—the greater number receiving the Bs. 4d.
rate. The local directors say the mine is not paying as
well as anticipated, that up to date over £140,000 has been
spent, and thedivs., so far, only amount to £15,000 ; that
the mine is well ventilated and the men’s comfort other-
wise studied; also, their work is made easier by the use
of drilling-machines. If the strike is continued there is
little doubt the men will go down—and so, too, will the
co. in the long run. The rock in the Gibraltar is as hard
as anything in N.S.W. All good miners are not good
machine-drill men, and there is a big demand for air-
drillers in several N.S.W. camps, notably Cobar. The
best of the Adelong men will no doubt go where they can
get better wages. Other managements quite as capable
as that of the Gibraltar (the Gibraltar directors aren’t
mining men) have found it false economy to cut miners’
wages. Much better keep well-trained men at Bs. 4d. than
break in new ones at 7s. 6d., especially in a mine like the
Gibraltar, where the difference might be more than
doubled in explosives alone. This principle has long been
recognised in America, where the average wages paid to
miners have always been above those paid in Australia.
* * * *
Great Western, Cobar: 9 tons 15 cwt. ore sent
tolllawarrasmelting works. Gold, soz. lldwt. ; silver,
13dvvt.; and copper, 3 per cent, per ton; gross value,
£204 Bs. 6d. What was the cost of treatment and car-
riage ? The low percentage of copper is a great surprise.
It certainly looked better than that when writer saw it at
grass. Manager reports that the ore chute is now 20ft.
long, and averages 3ft. 6in. wide. Another 20 tons to be
sent away, and an experiment to be made with the
seconds.
* * • *
Wagga has broken out as a great mining camp,
if the newspaper hummer is to be believed. A Melb. syn-
dicate has “despatched prospectors to Pullitop to work
wolfram and tin.” Some sluicing claim “is running off
and expects to clean up about Xmas.” The United
Trades are also “ running off,” and the Golden Cross is
breaking stone estimated to go 4oz. or 50z., and every
other mine within miles of Wagga is “looking well.”
Under which circs., probably, the Wagga paper-man is
feeling well.
* * * *
Where are the gold-returns from the Beacon
mine, N.S.W. ? Reported that a number of miner's have
been turned eff, and that a great fall in the yields has
occurred. If so, it is a slip-up for the Exploration Com-
pany, whose operations in N.S.W. have not been too lucky
—to wit, the Sulphide Corporation, and the Lake George
mines.
* * * *
Ch. Towers’ returns for July: Divs., <£15,000,
exclusive of £12,500 profit from cyanide returns. Gold
yield for month : 63,709 tons for 39,3340 z., including 18,000
tons stone crushed for 21,0000 z. at mills, and 45,000 tons
sand for 17,9620 z. bullion at cyanide works. Brilliant,
3057 tons for 39760 z. ; Day Dawn Block, 2540 tons for
33000 z. ; and for bullion, the Brilliant and St. George,
2400 tons for 37000 z. Kelly’s Queen Block gave 690 tons
for 20390 z.
» » * *
Croydon items. —Croydon Consols, mostly Bull,
prospecting under difficulties for reef cut out by slide-
pumping machinery inadequate, and work in deep ground
consequently suspended. Break-down of pumping
machinery in Croydon Consols seriously retarding output
at No. 7N. Golden Gate. No. 7 looked, at latest advices,
like turning out another 3000 oz. cake. Nearly 200 tons,
estimated lOoz. per ton, on top. Big reef in sink and
bottom stopes. Golden Gate Consols shares took a
sudden jump about 25th July consequent on striking
quartz in shaft ; assay proved stone very poor. When
mail was leaving, reports in circulation that gold had been
found, and scrip was in demand. Fictitious values rule,
as regards this mine, because if Croydon Consols stop
pumping, Gate ponsols will be flooded : and here, again,
machinery inefficient. Peculiar forfeiture case at Croy-
doy. Royal Bank held Mark Twain reef for two years by
means of nominees (fact admitted in Warden’s court)
without spending a shilling in bona-fide work. Miners
applied for forfeiture on grounds of non-fulfilment of
labor-conditions. Then bank offered applicant to take a
tribute in mine, which would mean, for a start, six
months’ hard work cleaning out the caved-in shafts. Ap-
plicants declined : wanted ground to work it. Warden
declined to recommend forfeiture, while admitting that
bank had not worked the mine for two years. Minister
decided in accordance therewith. Hard lines for the field
and miners thereon. If the holder hadn’t been a bank
how would it have gone? Golden Valley,Croydon,look-
ing up. Grace Leigh, Isabella, and King of Wallabadah
all looking well and promising.
* * * *
Wired from Cairns that Schlapp has spoken de-
cisively re Chillagoe. The possibilities are too big for
words, while the probabilities are highly favorable. He
disagrees with Stewart as to the permanence of most of
the ore-bodies, which he (Schlapp) says are true fissure
lodes, and as likely to prove permanent as any in the
world. He has no hesitation in asserting that the field
will be one of the richest in the world, and the wonder
is that the railway was not built years ago by the
Govt, or a syndicate. Chillagoe will never be allowed to
remain in its present undeveloped state. He went to
the field expecting to see a good deal, but the reality far
exceeds his expectations. The public will await with in-
terest the full text of Mr. Schlapp’s deliverance.
* * * *
“ Old Miner ” : On the much-boomed Harper
Leases, Chillagoe, two shafts have been sunk. No. 1
shaft is down 120 ft. in very soft rock. About 400 tons of
good ore was taken from a bunch in this shaft, but it cut
out a few feet below the surface. Though much cross-
cutting has been carried out from the bottom of this shaft
nothing of value has been met. No. 2 shaft is down 208 ft.
in soft country; an enormous amount of exploration
has been carried out here without good result. This so-
called Harper Lode occurs in erratic surface bunches
which completely give out a few feet below the surface.
Judging by expert reports from Chillagoe, the W.A.
mining expert must be well represented there.
Dear Bulletin.—Correspondent “ Mainshaft ”
states that I took great pains to prove my right to the
last third of my name. Well, “Mamshaft” takes great
pains to prove himself a Chillagoe boomster, and his
paragraph neither proves, nor attempts to prove, any-
thing else. What the dickens has the yield of silver at
Broken Hill to do with the future of Chillagoe?—Copper-
Headed Juggins.
• * • •
Dear Bulletin.—“ Irvinebank ” writes you as
if he knew—writes with an appearance of fact that argues
his one-time employment by the old co. Also, he writes
with a nastiness that argues his abrupt dismissal by the
old co. aforesaid. And, getting down to his facts, what
are they ? He the favorable comparison between Chil-
lagoe and the Barrier and Lyell, I suppose these last
mines > were at one time in “the initial and difficult
stage,’’and it does not call for much knowledge to un-
derstand that without railways—the one thing 1 maintain
necessary to the success of Chillagoe—Mt. Lyell and the
Barrier would be to-day where they were yesterday.
Another of this person’s ‘‘ arguments ” against the success
of the new co. is that the old co.’s machinery was bought
at “ waste-paper prices ’’—which statement is emphatic-
ally untrue. And even if it were true, Mr. “ Irvinebank ”
wants us to believe that as success depended on the
“ waste-paper prices ” of worn-out machinery then, and
there is no more worn-out machinery to be purchased
at “ waste-paper prices,” the new co. must fail. Then
look at the man’s arguments and comparisons of
cost of supplies, freight and realisable value of the pro-
duct. Says the railway might save £2 per ton. And yet
he knows that freight from Mareeba (the present railway
terminus) to Chillagoe has never been under £4 per ton,
and often as high as £B. And he should know, and, if he
doesn’t, I nail the statement right here—that the cost of
packing ore at present, from Chillagoe to Mareeba, is over
£5 a ton. And then, in the attempt to make his figures
look as if they were figures and not mere hollow
lies, he mentions that copper (the metal, mark you) is
£lO a ton dearer than it was when Chillagoe had its first
perfunctory trial—and from that statement he deduces
the important conclusion that £2 extra per ton freight on
supplies, coke, &c., is more than made up for by the £lO
per ton rise in the price of the metal. And then, having
painfully shaped the house of sand, he pulls it down again
and throws mud at himself by declaring that the price of
copper is sure to have a fall ! Why, in the carriage of
fuel alone the mines could make a profit. Local charcoal,
with about half the smelting value of coke, costs 365. 6d.
per ton against £3 13s. a ton for coke; and, with a
railway to the sea and cheap coke from Japan to work on,
the difference in cost of smelters’ supplies is a profit.
Finally, under the old regime the lack of skilled manage-
ment, the absence of mining and metallurgical specialists,
ran away with what would have been profitS"under more
favorable circumstances. Geologists Jack and Skertchley,
mine-managers Stewart and Smith, and metallurgist
Schlapp, have seen these things and believe in them, and
know enough not to believe without evidence. The
country is all right—big and rich ; and the people who
run the fields down are mostly those who were too late to
get in on velvet, or the one-time who has been
enthusiastically sacked.—lrvinebank Junior.
* » * *
Mt. Morgan, month—l6,B4o tons, 13,0000 z.
How the average of this, Australia’s greatest gold-mine,
is coming down with tonnage 1
• ♦ * *
As they chisel their way down to 3000 ft. and
more, where few men can do a sprightly six days’ work in
a week, Bendigo co’s with pocket-handkerchief claims
begin to think of amalgamation. Hitherto, co-operation
in sinking and prospecting has been practised to some
extent; but now the deeper plunge is mooted in several
places. The South Belle, Yire and Eureka (the latter is
crosscutting at 2900 ft.) will probably lead.
♦ * * *
The Garden Gully—the “good old Garden
Gully ” —suddenly springs to the front. For years, it was
mostly in the first half-dozen of Vic.’s payers, several
times it was right ahead of all. In 25 years it paid 296
divs. Then hard times came, and scrip fell to a few odd
shillings, and finally it made a call, and Bendigo went
into mourning. A month or two back Mr. Lansell lent
the co. £2ooo—and Bendigo took off the mourning; for
Lansell can smell gold. And now, after only a few weeks,
4oz. stone is broken at 1448 ft., the overdraft is paid off,
an 18d. div. is sent out, something is left in hand, and
there is talk of the old show shooting again into its old
familiar place.
* * * *
So experienced a stager as Bendigo Lansell
came a cropper the other day. Adjoining one of his
mines was some private property—a pub., in short—under
which he wanted to mine ; and he took what he thought
a short-cut by buying Bung out. Promptly thereupon
an Ikey Moss popped in an application to mine on private
property, and pegged out the pub. Held that Lansell had
bought the land but not the gold ; wherefore an adjourn-
ment, “ to allow of a settlement ” —which means, in out-
side-court English, to give the pegger an opportunity to
get trade off the ground, if that was what he was after.
And there probably isn’t a Moss in Vic. who wouldn’t
rather have a dig at Lansell’s pocket than at the best of
the unpegged mines on Bendigo.
* * * *
“ C.M.G.” : A Govt, party is employed cutting
a road along the side of a spur in the vicinity of Cassilis,
Gippslatid, and all day long weary workers lounge about
in the vicinity, smoking and watching. These latter are
enterprising prospectors shepherding on the off-chance
of a reef being cut by the road-making contingent. An
apt illustration of the local idea of the duty of “ the
blanky Guv’ment.”
* * ♦ •
The Vic. Treasurer has approved of nine pro-
specting grants of from £4OO to £3OOO under the Mines
Development Act; and it is significant that each one of
the mine beneficiaries is a registered co. So the weary
shareholder gets a spell from call-paying—which, as in
the case of the North Cornish, at Daylesford, he has been
doing for longer than he can remember.
* * * •
Dear B. —Apropos of—well, various things. A
responsible man in Launceston tells me that, as a gold-
mine, Mt. Lyell was salted, and the salters were bowled-
out. Jolly, onetime of Broken Hill Junction, went over
to take charge of the mine, and—jibbed.—Yours, Tenhead.
* * ♦ *
Westralian gold-production for July, 76,9800 z.
Good, but below the average. East Coolgardie—Hannan’s,
9101 oz.—a big drop to be accounted for. The other
camps are, if anything, above the average—except Cool-
gardie. None at all officially reported from that camp,
which is in a terrible plight generally. A returned pro-
fessional man paid as much as £lO a week for a small
business stand in Bayley-street three years ago, and
before he left there lately the same place was declined at
10s. a week.
* * * *
Parke and Lacy Company Ltd. are manufactur-
ing in Sydney four sets of the largest rolls ever made in Aus-
tralia. They weigh 12 tons each, and the rollers are 36in.
diameter x 16in. face. They are being constructed to the
order of the Associated Gold Mines of Western Australia,
Ltd., and are of the new “Roger” type. The same com-
pany has also placed an order for four 150 ft. x 14ft. Ropp
straight-line furnaces. These will have a combined
capacity of some 200 tons per day, and are to be used for
roasting the sulphide ores for subsequent treatment. The
Broken Hill Proprietary Company, Ltd., was the pioneer
of this new type of furnace, and they have now four of
them in operation.


CL.
ORIENT
CLOTNIN6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
/ Opposite \
V U.p.o. )
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
r PHE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of
1 the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Agents,
and invites applieations from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Country Districts in A etv South
Writes and Queensland; also in Sydney and
Brisbane.
Liberal terms to those possessing experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to MAJSAUEB,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Tli 3 Famous French.
Chocolate.
CHOComT-mEniEg
Obtainable from all Orocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
Win. Cameron & Co.,
249 Georae-st., Sydney.
Society
An old lady hauled up her alleged husband
in Wellington (M.L.) police-court for desertion, a
little while back, and told a story that reached
nearly to the Deluge. “We were married in
1850,” she said, “and had two children. He de-
serted me in 1855.” Then she went on to relate
that in all the 43 years that had intervened she
had never seen or heard of the old man until she
dropped on him casually in the street the other
day, and hauled him before the strong arm of the
law for 43 years’ arrears of maintenance. Then
the Court fixed an astonished glare on defendant,
who looked quite young enough to be the son of
the man who bolted in ’55, and in a dazed sort of
way asked the old lady if she would swear to him.
She swore to him right there. She hadn’t seen
him for 43 years, but she swore, and wanted him
taken away from his other wife and handed over
to her on the spot. Finally, the Court told the
defendant to get out and run for his life, and he
disappeared with his aged persecutor in full bat
after him. As a vigorous effort on the part of a
lady of 70 to get a husband, this episode about
takes the cake. If only people were born old, and
grew down young, and went to school late in life
to forget their information, and finally died of
premature birth or exposure in infancy, or unsuit-
able food while they were losing their teeth, a
A FAMILY COMPLAINT.
“ What! Willie Taylor , do you smoke? I shall
have to inform your father."
WILLIE: “Rats! Why, Mr. Mickie, the ole man
smokes himself! ”
man might want to meet the lady who says he
deserted her in 1855. But, as things are, he
doesn’t.
S.A. police-force, owing to a burglary-
boom, has been recently recruited, and all new
constables had to pass an examination in geogra
phy, arithmetic, grammar, &c. The old idea that
the only qualifications necessary for a policeman
were ability to burst in the prisoner’s skull with
a club and go through him for his cash has appar-
ently exploded in S.A.
* * V »
In Yic. bush police-court. Presiding Jay-
pee (to policeman): “Call Jane Johnson, alias
Brown.” Policeman: “Jane Johnson an’Alice
Brown ! Jane Johnson an’ Alice Johnson, Jane
Johnson an’ Alice Br-rown !! ” “I’m Jane John-
son,’’ says a middle-aged woman, coming forward.
The policeman ; “ No appearance of Alice Brown,
your wordship.” J.P. : “ Yes, there is, ye yahoo.
Jane Brown is aytlier, because she is naythur.”
“ Milky White We hear often enough
of “ casers” and “ half - casers,” “ deeners,”
“tanners,” “thrummers,” etc., but has anyone
ever heard, in Australia, a slang name for a florin?
I believe it to be the only silver coin of the realm
that has escaped the attention of the slang artists.
* • * *
The Tasmanian police system again. Some
time ago a man was arrested by a village con-
stable on a charge of criminal assault. Prosecu-
trix failed to identify, and prisoner was dis-
charged. The other day the man was travelling
through a neighboring township in search of work.
He was again arrested, kept in the lock-up a
week, and remanded to a township where the lady
concerned was supposed to reside. The magis-
trates then found that, although the man had
been discharged nearly a year before, the notice
that he was “ wanted ” still appeared in the
Government Gazette ! As each one-’possum-
power hamlet in Tasmania is a law unto itself the
unfortunate man has chances of compensation
akin to Buckley’s. Which is a Y.D.L. of a state
of things. The Braddon-Fysh Government is now
crowding a Bill through to put the island police
under one control, instead of each village appoint-
ing its own bobby who won’t arrest two-thirds of
the people because they are related to his wife,
and wants to club the other third at sight because
they don’t deal at his uncle's grocery.
• * * •
Gov. Buxton (S.A.) got great credit re-
cently for accepting the executorship under the
will of butcher Martin, who left <£lBo,ooo to Adel-
aide charities, but declining to receive the legacy of
£lOOO which accompanied the appointment. One
of his co-executors, however, gives away the fact
that His Ex. was not unwilling to take the money
till he discovered that such action would be against
official etiquette. The other three executors would
be glad if the Governor had declined to act, as he
is about to visit England, and his absence will
cause delay in the signature of documents.
* * » *
Gov. Buxton doesn’t relish criticisms
anent his economies as an entertainer, protesting
that he receives only £4OOO a year, out of which
he has to pay all expenses, including salaries of
his staff, right -down to the cook and gardeners.
But his XXX gets a handsome revenge when he
compels the people to listen to his speeches.
» * * »
The predicament of a southern church
crowd through the protracted silence of its be-
loved pastor about an advantageous offer, re-
calls an old joke —age and birth-place un-
known. The Clergyman of a poor little country
parish received a call to a large and wealthy one
in a big city. Asked time for prayer and con-
sideration. Didn’t feel sure of his light, he said.
Nearly a month passed without any further light
as to his intentions, so a parishioner, on meet-
ing the holy man’s little boy, asked “How is it
Joseph ? Is your father going to B. ? ” “ Well,”
answered the youngster judicially, “Pa is still
praying for light, but— most of the things is
packed! ”
* * * *
Westralian Supreme Court sits in a brick
barn—built in 1830 as a commissariat-store—and
the Judges, lose no opportunity of calling upon
Govt, to build them a greater barn. These prat-
ings, justifiable enough, become ludicrous when re-
peated in season and out. Justice Hensman
lately, during a shower of rain, announced that
the State had provided a court, but had provided
no ceiling, and that he would leave the bench till
the shower was over. Which he did ; but the
shower stopped abruptly while his Honor was
climbing down the steps, and he had to make an
immediate and undignified re-appearance.
* * * *
A champion of popular music challenges
the snortful Marshall Hall to produce something
yqual to any of the simple melodies of any nation
—and the fact remains that the almighty pro-
fessor couldn’t do it. He is merely one of a
multitude of little-“ great ” composers. The great-
little composer of ballads that live is few and far
between. There is no arguing against the charm
of such old-established melodies as, say, “The
Mill Wheel,” nor does the most seriously musical
nation on earth—the German, nation—attempt to
argue against them. It sings them. The home of
Wagnerism is the home of dreamy sentimental
ballads, which are the expression of the average
soul in its tenderest moods. Marshall Hall pro-
bably hasn’t a soul. He has the brains, education
and industry for composing music of the school
wherein he has studied—but soul, No !
* * * *
For the justification of Marshall Hall’s
“ impiousness as the Argus terms it —in such
•poor little lines as
“ Hideous scarecrows that flop in the wind
Are your Jew-gods, to frighten the weak and the blind ”
one has only to turn to- last week’s Melb. Punch.
The late Jim Grotty’s sister wrote a letter to said
Punch, wherein th it lady rabidly suggested that
brother James had righteously cut off his wife
with £lOO a year b cause she was a convert from
Protestantism and would, possibly, slip back into
“ that slough of darkest heresy” after dear James’s
decease. Grotty sister’s letter is more than a
pitiable thing. It is a painful suggestion of the
bitter, treacherous bigotry that pervades every
form of ardent church religion. It is full of terror-
stricken faith in hideous scarecrows that flop to
frighten the blind, and, although The Bulletin
has never beard of a sightless person being afeared
by a scarecrow, it recognises Marshall Hall’s howl
as a not-untimely deliverance-
* * * •
Holy James Balfour, sporting his most
gloomy air of piety, arose in Yic. Leg. Council,
the other week, to remark that there were “ people
performing the ceremony of marriage who had no
moral qualifications for that sacred duty.’’ Sacred
fiddlesticks! The marriage service at the altar
doesn’t make the marriage-tie. The signing of
the.register does the trick every time in a regis-
trar’s office as much as in a vestry.
• * * *
That weird and untruthful legend about
how the son of a couple who lately died tragically
in Westralia kept the event.dark for a few hours
while he tried to trade off “exclusive informa-
tion” to the local papers, arose out of one
of those simple blunders which the tired
and hurried telegraph-wire is always making.
The son gave his evidence first, and then “another
witness” related liow he had tried to sell the
information and found the local press too slow to
do business. And the dpt-and-dash machine
apparently dropped “another” and thus ran the
two bits of evidence into one.
“S.Gr.”: More re pre-natal influence. A
cousin of mine, while taking some lunch to her
husband and others harvesting, was terri-
fied by a stampede of horses in a paddock
through which she passed. Her boy,
horn four months later, has his
b ok covered with short hair of
a liay color strongly .resembling
that of a horse. Also, out West,
a farmer, having caught a very
young native-bear, proceeded to
slowly torture the poor thing to
death, to the amusement of his
wife. Her baby, born shortly
after, bears an unmistakeable like-
ness to a native bear, and its
cry is exactly similar to that
animal’s.
» * *
A Sydney Matrimonial
Agency has, in large letters, on
the door, “Don’t knock; come
in.”- When a man does knock at a door, and par-
ticularly the door of a liitching-up establishment,
his considering-eap fits his head very close until
the door opens. The runner of the tandem
bureau evidently considers doorstep-delays dan-
gerous.
* * * *
Melb. Hospital committee is unwillingly
interested in the Wallace family law-suit. Mil-
lionaire Monahan provided in his will, that any
beneficiary contesting that document should for-
feit his share of the estate to Melb. Hospital. It
doesn’t seem likely that the Wallace action will
be ruled a contesting of the will in the Monahan
sense of the term, but meanwhile the Hospital
lias to take up the character of a contingent bene-
ficiary, or something, and hire lawyers to “watch ”
the case.
* * • *
Kingston’s success in running Adelaide
Hospital with a practically all-paid staff prompts
Bendigo Hospital committee to take the plunge
and abolish its own honorary staff. The plea is
that hon. staffs do all the bossing—and no self-
respecting hospital committeeman can ever stand
that. But the subscribers demand time to ponder it.
* * * .*
“ Tassy ”: Re slow trains. While yoing
for a Sunday ride to Serpentine from Perth,
W.A., I, on two occasions, got off the train,
plucked a flower, and boarded it again.
That strange horror re the lady who
threw a bucket of kerosene over her servant-girl,
and then applied a light and fatally combusted
the poor creature, will probably turn out to be
something with a tinge of religious mania in it.
The author of the tragedy was once confined in a
lunatic asylum, and probably there will be no
difficulty in proving that she was cranky as well
as jealous at the time of the horror. What The
Bulletin would like to hear is whether she had
been to see the “ Sign of the Cross ” at any
time lately. Her idea certainly looks as if
WHERE SHE HAD SUFFERED.
MOTHER : “ You know you should never do any-
thing behind a person's back that you wouldn't
do to their face."
DAISY : “ I wish you’d thought of that the last time
I was naughty! ”
it had been borrowed from Nero, and the
doddering of that intensely dramatic and cataleptic
wreck, as he gave orders to fry the Early Chris-
tian a nice brown in lard, is eminently calculated
to get on to the mind of a lady whose mind was
a trifle out of repair in any case. Any person
with a homicidal kink in the brain, after studying
Nero’s jumps and visions, and seeing him tie his
head in convulsive knots as he ordered the Chris-
tian to he done brown, would almost certainly
want to go out and set fire to somebody.
* * * *
A girl-wife of 23, who is charged up North
with the murder of her infant, seems to have put
a whole lift of misery into a very short existence.
At 16 she became engaged to a young man a little
older than herself; he had no means and no pro-
spects in particular, so it was simply a case of
The
Maiden's
Curse
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With grim comminatory frown
A maid in tailor-fashioned gown
On her progenitrix looked down.
“ Ah, cruel mother mine!" said she :
Your sickly taste for sweetened tea,
Consider what it made of me ! "
Nay, nay, my child," the mother
said —
Scarcely at all, since I was wed,
On carbohydrates was I fed :
“ One lump it was that wrought thee
hurt ;
But one small lump that did convert
Thy knickerbockers to a skirt."
“ But for that lump," the answer
came,
“ I might have ridden, free from
blame,
Astraddle on a diamond frame.
“ Curst be the basin where it
lay !
Thrice curst the tongs that
drew 't away
To melt within thy cup that day ! "
Outside, a whistling parrot stirred :
Locked in each other’s arms they
heard,
11 A bit o’ sugar for the bird ! ”
J.S.S.


•553
K
5$
You
Fo R.GQJT E'S
'THPWh?”
■DOSE’S CELEBRATED
X “ EYJE LOTIOKT
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hal]'-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Don’t Read The Bulletin. Read this :
It means saving time and money by purchasing
your Cooking Stove RANGE Lampware,
Electro-plate, Table and Pocket Cutlery, and
Household Ironmongery, from McLean Bros, and
Rigg Ltd., Furnishing and General Ironmongers,
George-street, Sydney-, Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda, '
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-strcet, Sydney*;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide;
Queen-st., Brisbane.
love’s young dream, and the girl’s parents broke
up the dream and incited her into marriage with
an affluent person of about 53. The previous youth
became hysterical at the loss of his girl and
suicided ; being of a hysterical turn he would pro-
bably have taken to drink or something else later on
and battered his pansy blossom with the furniture,
but as it was he died in the odour of romance.
Then the girl became the mother of seven
children in six years, and at the age of 23 she
apparently went mad and murdered her eighth
infant—all of which she would probably have
done even if she had married her young dream.
And the whole thing is a solemn warning of some
kind or other.
* • • *
One well-to-do but retrenching Vic. shire
council, Wimmera, has just decided to offer £lOO
for the services of engineer ? surveyor, and valuer.
The lucky man who gets it will be expected to
pay for horse-keep out of his salary. Only a
oouple of the councillors fought against the pro-
posal.
* • • •
The other day S.A. Govt, appointed an
inspector of schools at —just £240 a year !
* * • •
He imitative suicide. Two M.L. women
have cut their throats within two months. Leav-
ing out the imitation factor, the chances that two
women in the eomparatively-small M.L. popu-
lation would let themselves out with a razor
within two months are not two in a million.
* * * *
“Bargo”: Speaking from personal ex-
perience, I would abolish the “books’’ of de-
positors in the Sydney Barrack-street Savings
Bank, most of which are kept for safety under mat-
tresses of beds. Also, in the case of many elderly
women, the books are carried to and from the bank
in the bosom of the dress. The unlucky receiving-
clerk is thus exposed when making the entry to
any stray germs which might have been hanging
about bedclothes —even, in the case of the women
aforesaid, to the infection of skin - complaints.
At branch office where a friend of mine has just
been working, the four counter- clerks are down
with influenza ; nobody else in office affected.
Significant!
• • * •
Primate Smith was, a few years ago, offered
£70,000 for the site of St. James’s Church, in
King-street, Sydney. A capitalist with a soft-
goods emporium in his eye was ready with the
cash, but the offer was declined.
* * • *
Recent Argus advt.:—
T ADY, age 17, considered good-looking, dark,
lively disposition, wishes to meet trustworthy
gentleman, with a view to matrimony. Flossie, &c.
The lady, to judge from her choice of pseudonym,
must, at all events, know little of a bold, bad
world.
• • • •
Recent M.L. obituary “pome” (printed
in all seriousness at the instance of the sorrowing
husband): —
She once was merry and gay,
Though sometimes in trouble and strife ;
It affords me some pleasure to say
She was a good mother and wife.
Her children she never neglected,
Her home she kept tidy and clean ;
Although she was sorely afflicted,
Her toilet was always serene.
Here we have quite a new note in the jauntiness
of the metre and the cheerful retrospectiveness
with which the bereaved hubby accepts the situa-
tion.
* • • *
Recent M.L. advts.:—
T>OARD and Residence wanted with Widow ; no
other boarders. Reply “ Widower,” &c.
Clear run for his money wanted, apparently.
WANTED. —Man for general housework ; wages,
’’ 15s. and found.
The coming terror!
• * • »
The only democratic railway in Australia
is one that runs from Kalgoorlie to Hannan’s
Lake, skirting all the great mines of the Boulder
belt. There is but one class and one fare on the
line.
* * * *
At Melb. City Court, the other day, a
policeman giving evidence against a cyclist for
travelling without a light swore, in answer to the
J.P., that he had “ felt the lamp to see if it was
warm,” and found “it had not been recently
lighted.” The cyclist then deposed that he had
no lamp ; and, on the trap being recalled, he said
“it might be so.” Also, at a suburban court, two
constables swore positively that they had seen a
certain man throw a stone at some Chinese, only
to be contradicted within five minutes by the ad-
mission of a companion of the actual thrower,
whom the Bench promptly fined 10s. or 48 hours,
without commenting on the false testimony of
the policemen ! And if policemen airily—well—
blunder like this over a small matter, what are
the odds against their speaking the truth where it
is necessary to their own interest or safety to
secure a conviction ?
• • * ♦
The only Australian interest attaching to
the centenary of the battle of the Nile is the fact
that the powder-hulk Aladdin, of Hobart, is identi-
cal with the brig La Mutine, captured from the
French in 1797 and u-ed as the despatch-vessel
of Nelson’s fleet. Her commander, Capel,
carried the first news of the victory to Eng-
land. La Mutine was also before Sebastopol.
When being overhauled for repairs in her Tas-
manian whaling days, a round shot was found
between her planking and lining. The shipwright
who made the discovery declares that it had worn
as smooth and bright as the bearing-balls of a
bicycle, with many years’ rolling up and down in
a dry place.
* * • •
When Father Long, of Kanowna, W.A.,
who asserted that the alleged 1380 oz. nugget had
been shown to him, was pressed for infor-
mation, he would only say that one of the
fortunate finders was then in Kanowna and under
the influence of liquor. The crowd thereupon
rushed violently down town, and, pouncing on
every drunk it could find, endeavored to extract
a confession. Some even took their subject home
and slept at the. tent door lest he should mizzle in
the night. Said that Father Long lias promised
to divulge particulars in a week or two if the
secret has not previously leaked out.
Maoriland Govt, has introduced the Short-
hand Reporters Bill, which provides for the
Pitmanising of cases in higher and lower courts,
thus abolishing the existing laborious and idiotic
and criminally-expensive method of longhanding
the proceedings. “ Watch his Honor’s pen, wit-
ness.” But that is another story, to be obtained
at first hand from an eminent member of the
N.S.W. junior bar.
* * * •
Numbers of N.S.W. country newspapers
publish as supplements pages of stereo-matter
which has done service in the same papers several
times. One suburban paper lately published as a
supplement the same matter three weeks running.
These supplements are, of course, Sydney or Mel-
bourne productions, and the newpaper owners
who buy and issue them seem in most cases to
never read them.
A MOTHER'S LOVE.
PROFESSOR: “A wonderful head, madam —this
boy may lead the nation in council, may
some day be the father of his country and
earn the love of a people and the gratitude of
mankind.”
MADAM: “ 'Owd ’e suit fer the green-grocery
business? ”
During the last five years 101 divers have
lost their lives through diving at Thursday
Island - one of them an Englishman. Tommy
Japan remarks, philosophically : “ Plenty more
Japanese,” and buckles on the gear.
He that Victorian proposal to
stop attachment of wages under £2
a week. In Scotland, about 20
years ago, wages under £1 a week
were protected from attachment,
except where the debt was for the
support of an illegitimate child.
This piece of legislation had one
curious result, not quite antici-
pated by the framers. An Aber-
deenshire farm servant had
always paid his shoemaker’s
account religiously at the half-
vearly term, when he received
his wages. The new legisla-
tion came into force between
terms, and at the 51 artinmas
term following, the shoe-
maker’s debtor failed to
put in an appearance.
Meeting him shortly af-
terwards, the shoemaker
asked him why he had
not called as usual to
pay up, and got the re-
ply—“ Man, do ye no
ken that the Act’s
passed ? ”
» *
The right to the
possession of a medical
prescription threatens to
be soon tested in a Syd-
ney court. The chemist
who compounded the
mixture sticks to the
prescription,' while the
patient who believes the
remedy an infallible cure
for his disorder demands
the return of the paper.
The doctor, being re-
ferred to, held that the
prescription is really his
property and that chem-
ist and patient were mere
temporary holders and
declined to give a copy
of the document without a
special fee. English law is un-
settled on the point and, so far,
Australian law has made no pro-
nouncement.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. Apropos patriotism. July
22 was the 6th centenary of the desperate licking
the immortal Wallace got at Falkirk, yet where
was the “ Scot wha hae wi’ Wallace bled ” to
whoop for this “ great landmark in the history of
Scotland ? Stickit Minister.
* » * •
What a flavor of frowsy pathos about the
fact that the Sydney bailiff who died suddenly the
other day had “no regular abode.” The Pro-
fessional Intruder ! -with no home but where he
was par excellence the Unwelcome Guest! Bright,
by name, too —the irony of it!
The iniquity of church-
going was exemplified late-
ly atDunedin(M.L.), where
a mother went to her de-
votions, leaving several
young children in a room
where there was a fire, the
natural result being that
one poor little mite made
a horrible conflagration of
itself and died. If that
mother had gone out for
much-needed recreation at
the theatre, or to get some
gin, or to buy a huge,
frivolous hat with a dead
fowl in it, or to fight
the lady next door,
perhaps one would
only feel pity, but
the idea of a lady
going to lament
about her sins
in a cold church
and leaving
her children
under such
conditions —
well, some-
how one’s
gorge rises
at it. Of
course, if
it had
been
the the-
a t r e,
some-
one
els e’s
gorge
would
have risen
instead, so
things are about
square.
* •
Let the New
Woman apply her
highly - developed
jaw to chewing
over the fact that
Schenk’s alleged dis-
covery has set pretty well
the whole of matrondom severely
against the use of the supposed girl-
producing food. Man needn’t fear
having to take a back seat in the world after
all—as long as there’s a real woman in it ! It’s
the sub-masculine critter that makes all the
howling.
» * * *
The nuptial business of the late Pastor
Kinsman and the bishopric of the old man’s “Free
Church of England ” seem to have been taken over
by a shepherd of equally broad commercial views.
But the new Act threatens to “queer the pitch ”
for good old Nathaniel’s successor.
* * • •
A Richmond (Vic.) young man recently
started a jamboree with .£2O in hand. Got full-up
and was run in with £l9 12s. in pocket. Sobered,
and was let out on £lO bail. Ripped along with
the balance and was picked up speechless, this
time with 16s. in his pouch. Sobered again,
brought up before the beaks, cautioned and fined
THE PROPER GAPER.
“ Say, dear boy, what's the matter
with the bike-wheel? ”
THE DEAR BOY: “ Oh! nothing
old boy—only it is the c’red'
thing now, dontcherknow. ”
10s. and departed with remaining 6s. Same night
run in again, and this time yielded lid. And as
that wouldn’t keep him going the Bench sent him
to gaol. “ Whatsoever thy mouth findeth to do,”
&c.
* * * *
A Wangaratta (Vic.) farmer, 27 years of
age, took a fatal dose of poison lately “ because
his mother had rated him for coming home late.”
Marcus Clarke was right in ascribing a “ weird,
melancholy” influence to the bush. Even when the
bush proper has been cleared away for 20 years
the melancholy still hangs around the lone gum-
tree that has survived. Some day The Bulletin
expects to hear of an aged grazier having hanged
himself on account of his niece having tojd him to
chop the wood himself.
• • • *
The religious federation of Maoriland with
Australia seems to have been found as impossible
as the political. A Bishop, lately arrived from
Rome, declares that the Pope will never ask
Maoriland to become one with Australia. Each
must go its course, independent in every sense of
the other.
* » • *
A second evening paper is more or less on
the stocks at Melbourne.
TRIOLETS.
Now a wedding is nice
I consider, don’t you ?
Two are trussed in a trice 1
Now a wedding is nice
With its handfuls of rice
And its usual old shoe.
Now a wedding is nice
I consider, don’t you?
W.H.O.
Yes ! A wedding is nice,
When it’s somebody else :
If you’re not iii the vice
Yes, a wedding is nice,
With its toothsome cake-slice
And its bridesmaids and bells.
Yes! A wedding is nice—
When it’s somebody else 1
G.T.
Rain on the roof
Like a woman’s warm lips!
I hear your reproof
In the rain on the roof;
I had thought you aloof
In my soul’s dark eclipse I
Rain on the roof
Like a woman’s warm lips !
A.H.A.
RHYMED THOUGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T he Decadent:
A modern Ikaros, who on the wings
Of morbid fancy, reverie insane,
Has risen high above all earthly things
Until the torrid sun-rays singed—his brain 1
. Why We Live :
“ Life that has gone astray,
End it, proud cast-away,
Helplessly tossed.”
“ Ah! but if hence I go,
This world will never know
Whom it has lost! ”
V. K.
Apology.
In the issues of The Bulletin, dated July 2 and
July 9 last respectively, the following paragraphs
appeared :
A britfht young Australian at Perth, when his father
killed his mother and suicided, suppressed the news for
several hours while he tried to trade “ awful tragedy ”
copy to the Perth newspapers. His enterprise missed
cash, for they wouldn’t deal. Fancy such a boy being
wasted on a community of sandgropers !
“T.D.”: What a singular contrast between the cases
of the Westralian boy who suicided on discovering his
illegitimacy and the other bright youth who suppressed
for many hours the news of his parents’ tragic death with
a view of trading it off to the newspapers ! Maupassant
would have seized the second story with no less avidity
than the first. One seems the natural outcome of our
European fatherhood, and the religious and hysterical
temperament; the second goes to prove that we are
developing, to an extent, the business traits of the Yanks.
That smart boy has the makings of a Barnum —if he isn't
watched too ciosely at first.
The Bulletin learns that these paragraphs are
not in accordance with the facts. The evidence
at the inquest proved that it was a stranger quite
unrelated to the deceased persons who discovered
the bodies and endeavoured to sell his information
to the Perth newspapers before reporting the
matter to the police. The son of the deceased is,
The Bulletin is assured, not a boy, but a married
man, and he. was in no way concerned in the .pro-
ceedings in question. The Bulletin’s error was
due to being misled by certain telegrams from
Perth appearing in the Sydney press. Under the
circumstances The Bulletin hastens to correct
its error, and to express its sincere regret to the
son of the deceased persons for anything which
might be taken as reflecting upon him.


GLOBE wo y
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
“Save Your Teeth.”
Mr. Charles I. Harris, who is Dentist
by special appointment to HIS EMINENCE
CARDINAL MORAN, has published a little
book entitled “How to Save the Teeth,” and
as he can do so without causing the slightest pain
whatever, owing to the very latest invention
known to Dental Science, he will forward a copy
to anyone free of any expense.
this should be the means of preventing many
from needlessly having their teeth extracted.
In this book Mr. HARRIS also publishes his
list of fees. Address—
Mr. CHARLES I. HARRIS (Dentist),
ST. JAMES’ CHAMBERS,
King Street, SYDNEY,
Telephone 1482. opposite the Queen’s Statue.
A WOMAN'S LETTER,
Mr Deae Myee— Sy<faey ’ Au6 “‘ 9 ' lm
Health Conversazione! Doesn’t that suggest
apple cheeks, peach blossoms, and pomegranate
lips, and tresses yellow like sponge cake, and com-
fortable pudding figures, and milky brows, and
almond eyes, and honeyed voices, and similar
delicious physical confections ?
Anyone whose imagination ran after these de-
lights must have been stunned to find the chilly
Centenary Hall filled during Dr. Emily Ryder’s
Winter Lectures with worn drab faces rising out
of weary black dresses, and crowned with wearier
and blacker bonnets. Then, too, the peculiar
nature of the lectures brought a peculiar and un-
beautiful expression to these worn maternal
countenances. Dr. Ryder herself sported the only
apple-cheek in the hall. The brisk, grey-haired
American smartened her cap and gown with a
ruffle of mauve chiffon at the neck, and an old-lace
scarf upon her chest, and backed up her platform
with piles of hygienic garments, books, blankets,
and dolls that played babies to illustrate the
hygienic dressing of an infant.
To a crude Australian mind there was too much
business transaction in the entertainments. One
afternoon’s proceedings opened with an appeal for
the little wives in India. Then the plate went
round, and the worn black gowns were promptly
relieved of five pounds. Later on the hygienic
garments were exhibited for sale, with an awful
denunciation from the doctor of any garments
that_ were not these. _ Later on again, a Yankee
medical work was lavishly eulogised. Price quoted
135., and the audience urged to purchase at the end
i lecture. Then there was an intimation
that. the doctor would see anyone who wanted a
special confab, and the fees would be so and so.
After each of these business specs, the doctor
underlined the fact that the money was for “the
little wives in India.”
Much straight and sensible advice co women
only got mixed up with facetious verbal illustra-
tion, and tedious repetition. It seems that some
women find these straight talks overpowering.
‘ ‘ Pix your thoughts outside yourselves. Some-
times I have strange demonstrations at these meet-
ings. Let us wait and see.” We all waited
Presently Dr. Emily nodded hard to a Salvation
lass at the door. A glass of water was instantly
brought forward. “That lady there, third row,
veil up.” The lady with the veil was handed a
fl&ss of water, probably much to her surprise.
’resently another nod from the doctor. Another
glass of water advanced. “Back row lady with
her chin on her hand, ” in the same loud platform
tone. Ten minutes later a third nod and a third
glass of water and a third unveiled injunction
from the platform. We were all afraid to lean our
faces on our hands after that. For it can’t be
exactly stimulating to be pointed out as the poor
weak thing who couldn’t stand plain talk. This
was only one of the fair doctor’s discrepancies.
I am sorry to learn that I have chronicled a
fabulous report—the matrimonial engagement of
Mrs. Wolstenholme and Professor Anderson.
It’s quite, a long time since a society girl got
married. Miss Marcia Cox, fourth pretty daughter
of Dr. James Cox, throws herself into the gap this
week and weds Mr. Livingstone Learmonth, at St.
•Tames’ Church, with a toney following of brides-
maids.
By the way, when it’s a question of a wedding,
is a loan a gift, legitimately? Because a country
bride naively reports the loan of a coach-and-four
among her butter-knives and salt-cellars. Follow-
ing this generous gift-to-be-given-back, comes the
name of the local cabby. What a brilliant way of
showing off what you’ve got. Now if anyone I
know well gets married, I am quite willing to let
her chronicle the loan of my best wax fruit under
a shade, and my twelve remarkable antimacassars
that represent with strict fidelity three mad pea-
cocks staring at nothing.
The amateur Orchestral made their usual com-
mendable music at the Town Hall on Wednesday.
Miss Edith King was iil with measles, Mr. Weir
had influenza, and the vocal part of the programme
fell entirely on the chest of Mr. Burns Walker,
who was in good voice and made much of his
Dinorah selection. The rest of the concert was
orchestral. The front seats revelled in a superior
feeling of culture when Tannhauser equalised the
instruments as only Wagner knows how. And
the back seats had their innings when Sylvia
appeared—Sylvia of the innumerable pianoforte
arrangements. Lord Hampden, the Misses Brand,
and an aide, sat under the nose of the conductor’s
pulpit, and realised that there are better things in
life than sitting in the front row when the big
drum and the loud bassoon have the telling of the
story.
Another excellent musical evening was the
Pleyel co.’s concert on Saturday night. Jessie
Middleton, gracefully gowned in frail yellow,
played the heroine and Lesclietizky together. A
large grey musical rat ran down the wall and
stayed to listen not ten feet from the piano.
Whereupon the gallery nearly fell over the verge
of hysterics, in spite of the hall between, but the
plucky pianiste played calmly to the end, when
bravery was rewarded with an encore and flowers.
A highly polished performance was the opening
Haydn Quartette, by Herren Stael, Vollinar,
Carter.and Alfred Hill. The exquisitely balanced
rendering of the smart fourth movement was the
gem of the evening, and had to glitter twice over.
Miss Violet Birkenhead, in white brocade and an
aigrette, appealed nervously to the house to “Hear
Ye Israel,” a suitable invocation for the usual
Saturday night audience. Arthur Deane put less
of himself into his songs than might be expected,
considering how much more there is of him. But
this is a bad time of the year for the throaty pro-
fession. . Every second larynx is relaxed, or has
fallen into the grip of the influenza demon.
All the same, concerts are the leading game just
now. A benefit for poor Lottie Hyam, who
has long been disabled by a broken ankle,
comes off at the Town Hall on Saturday, August
20th. The following Saturday, August 27th, the
same hall sees Florence Schmidt’s benefit, for
which vice-regal patronage and presence have been
promised. Inez Bensusan, now recovered from
her illness, comes before the public with an after-
noon tea recital at the Y.M.C.A. Hall. Madame
Kellerman continues her pianoforte recitals, and
Madame Alva has already started a third series of
concerts.
There was a splendid attendance at the Alva-
Verne concert on Saturday. Adela Verne sur-
Fw? J? ers £u in . he . r rendering of Saint Saens’
certo. The pianist was besieged with letters
ls i^ em was accordingly con-
lbuted. The Scarlatti harpsichord piece, which
she plays so marvellously, was also by re-
quest. Ihe verve and utter abandon with which
the young artiste plays such numbers as the Saint
oaens Concerto acts on the audience as an electric
spark on a torpedo. With Beethoven and Chopin
compositions, however, Miss Verne suggests to the
mind hard work and conscientious study rather
than revelling enjoyment.
Mdme. Alva is beginning now to act up to her
and when encored, she repeats the
item ; this departure found great favor both on
ihursday and Saturday ; but very few in the
audience were aware that she was singing “Caval-
lena in English for the second time, until “lam
accursed rang out with startling effect in place of
damnata ” POWerfUl (t ° English airs ) “1° son
Spring fashions are here. How is it that nc
other season can rouse such a fine sartorial thrill ?
Autumn and winter are taken as necessities, but
frock and hat is to go on a genuine
spree. All Sydney has been living in the shops
lately, society gambols considerably ceasing till
Nicest and the Newest were definitely acquainted.
Mats take a queer turn this summer. In front,
e brim turns up smartly into the crown, or is
cut off altogether. Trimming has gone up in
front and down behind. One pretty blue hat in
wing-street had a turquoise-blue scarf hanging
down three inches at the back.
Then I saw a marvellous arrangement of red
j j S . fjy 1 ? 1 ?, round a rosier hat, and the largest and
reddist bird had flown right off the brim, and was
b a< ?k of the hat by two claws.
VV hen the rest of this effort was on the owner’s
head, the fat bird would claw her somewhere be-
w , 0 s boulder-bones. I shouldn’t wonder if
that lady died a martyr’s death. It was just the
sort of gaudy bird to lure a sportsman to a crooked
aim.
Hordern’s in Pitt-street are showing a particu-
iarly fetching kind of blouse, just the thing for a
mild bpring day. On a simple lining of mauve or
green washing zephyr, a blouse of tucked book
muslin is arranged, with smart goffering of lace-
edged muslin at the neck and sleeves. Periwinkle
blue is to reign over colors, with the old-fashioned
hue of a damask rose as a maid of honor. White
hats are to go in Vo the silences for a while, but
white muslins, embroidered muslins, and mous-
selms de soie, embroidered with true lovers’
knots, are to sing loud songs this spring and
summer.
“Jane” follows “Sweet Nancy” at Her
Majesty’s. The change of maids is the usual huge
success of the first week’s service. Pattie Browne
is her charming self again in red-brown hair and
pmk print gown, and is more charming still after
she has shopped at Jay’s and Robinson’s. Her
glittering white satin evening dress, embroidered
with silver leayes and traceries, shows the wan-
tonness of wasting Jane’s taste on a milk-shop. A
pretty little blue-and-white shoulder - cape har-
monises with this creation, and two long lace ends
hang gracefully from the neck in a manner which
all good capes should imitate. Pretty May
Browne, who is little sister to Pattie, plays the
ingenue in seemly white, muslin and sash crowned
with a black hat and pink roses. The sprig'htly
Athena Claudius is put into boy’s clothes for the
third time. Soon she will cause a sensation if she
appears m skirts. Pity to see such delightful
work as “Jane ” spending itself to poor houses.
Bernard Espinasse is the local playwright who
answers for “Her Good Name,” the curtain-raiser
which precedes “Jane.” The audience ought to
answer for his, after seeing this unusual little play,
built up on a situation that grips, and showing no
empty places in the action. As the Professor,
Prank M‘Vicars reveals his own clean-shaven
countenance, and appears as the handsome actor
Sydney has been wearying for ever since the
superior Marky took his departure. The charm of
voice that carried him through the pasty part of
Nancy’s accepted elderly lover (I suppose you
know that a refusal is the only thing that makes
an elderly stage-lover acceptable), comes out
strongly m the Professor’s lengthy and cultured
observations. Beatrice Day is appropriately un-
happy in a black moire velours skirt, with a pink-
and-black bodice that lacks distinction, and those
big-tongued shoes that are going to trample all
other evening-shoes under foot next season.
I read that Mrs. Aria, queen of fashion writers,
managed a stall at the famous Press Bazaar that
stirred London up to such life last month. Her
counter was placarded “The World of Dress,”
and she and Miss Irene Vanbrugh helped off Paris
hats and chiffons at rattling prices. Our own
Lady Jersey, presiding over the Strand stall and
hundreds of fluffy Persian kittens, seems to have
mixed places with Lady Carrington at the Daily
Chronicle stall, among such strong-minded ladies
as John Oliver Hobbes and Mrs. Massingham.
Hilda Spong was selling nick-nacks at the stage
stall alongside of Ellen Terry, Nellie Barren and
Juha Neilson. The bazaar was held at the Hotel
Cecil, and the crush was so enormous that half the
stall-holders couldn’t get in till the second day.
On my way to Gladstone’s funeral at the
cmemetograph the other day, I looked in at
Searl’s window. There I saw such a wonderful
mourning decoration that the funeral came quite
easy afterwards. Some ruthless hand had built up
a gate of white camelias and placed it on a' cushion
of purple violets. Over the gate a big white fowl
was sitting with wings outspread. The weird
enigma was. explained by two words written
underneath in snowdrops on a pad of violets,
Gates Ajar I Cruelty to dumb vegetables will
soon need a committee of its own.
Nor was the funeral the decorous proceeding it
ought to have been. I regret to say that the
mourners jigged past as if they were at a common
wake, I fancy that a serpentine dance is a more
suitable spectacle for the whizzing cinematograph
than a funeral procession. Still, the picture is
worth seeing. Excellent imitations of Tummy,
Lord Salisbury, and many fine young aristocracies
go by ; and somebody may be glad to hear that
the phiz of the gentleman who heads the London
police is depicted beyond mistaking. It’s just as
well to know whom to avoid.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent;—
“Mostly, Melb. Liedertafel managers must pan-
der to Philistine subscribers by more or less
“popular ” dross. Once a year, however, a high-
class herring in the shape of a programme after his
own heart is dragged across the trail by conductor
Marshall-Hall. On Monday (Aug. Ist) the Prof.’s
annual opportunity came round, so you can guess
concert-goers hummed no catchy airs in homeward-
bound trains that night.
“Pa Madden swallowed his Beethoven-Mozart-
Marshall-Hall pill cheek-by-jowl with the Acting-
Governoress in her amber-satin cape and their
prettiest daughter, Ruby, whose white shoulders
gleamed above a black corsage, cut extra low at
the back. Of course the municipal mob which
Melb. Liedertafel council delights to honor were
conspicuous on the stuffed furniture. Half-way
through a complimentary baton was tendered to
the cheery, chirpy conductor Siede, and what
must the donors do but confide the presentation
to Jabberwock Marshall Hall ! On he stalked
with a . MS. in his hand to read a lecturette on
things in general, while poor little Gus Siede,
shifting uneasily from one foot to t’other, seemed
to ask wistfully, ‘ Where do I come in ? ’
“The explosion conqdetely staggered the fash-
ionable audience. The Professor’s choice assort-
ment of squibs and crackers made a great
splutter and no end of a row. The Sermon on the
Mount, the New Woman, Bismarck, parsons,
blood and iron, popular music and church-going
were his themes. The Professor is a student of
Nietzsche, the German philosopher, and all his
notions bear the impress of the influence of that
wind-genius. And the recipient of the baton
was cold-shouldered out of the effusion with a
couple of by - the - bye lines at the tag - end !
Waxellency Madden tried to take the sting
out of Marshall Hall’s epigrams in a subse-
quent speech, but his florid gas-and-gaiters
seemed flat and flabby after the Professor’s barbed
periods. Melbourne’s verdict on the whole is that
Hall is. “balmy.” When people can’t answer a
man it is comforting to say that. Marshall Hall’s
hearers especially pricked up their ears at his
side-slaps at skirt Government. Hid its Professor
run up against some nasty snag in petticoats, then ?
Did ums ?
“The scene recalled a certain historical ‘mobbed ’
marriage Day before the event the women of the
wedding-party went to church to rehearse the
pageant. The bride-elect, neither desperately
young nor beautiful, lost her temper with the
prettiest of her ‘ maids -to-be. Really, what with
posing and prattle of the necessity for sunbeams
falling on her hair during the ceremony, the pre-
suming chit seemed to regard herself as the star of
the occasion : everyone sniggered when the right-
ful prima-donna announced, as she supervised the
tableau from the altar-steps, ‘ Just you take a
back-seat, dearie ! I'm leading lady th is trip. ’
"O n the day when the Argus’s denunciation of
Marshall Hall’s ‘ Hymns, Ancient and Modern ’
volume of poems appeared, a leading bookseller
was nearly driven mad by. ’phone-requests for the
book all day, mostly from women. He declined to
sell Hymn—and Her. ’Varsity authorities’ reply
t* scandalised persons, who wish to see the scoffer
cast forth, is that he will have to do something
desperate say, slay a student—-before he can be
pushed off the Ormond Chair.
“On Wednesday (August 3rd) sassiety, bound
for the Mayoress’s reception, dropped in to see
Longstaff’s pictures. Perhaps the artist is wise in
not charging for admission, for sassiety likes to get
something for nothing, and there is a lot of enter-
tainment in this show. Everyone rapturises over
that picture of the girl whose pa struck it rich in
the Golden West. _ Sweet seventeen, with big
blue eyes, golden hair hanging over the shoulders
of her riding-habit, and expression both dreamv
and determined, is a subject worthy of Longstaff’s
portrait power. Then there’s beautiful Mrs. Long-
staff, the tiny curls and tendrils of whose hair look
soft enough to stroke, and wearing a furred cape
gracefully over her simple muslin frock. A paler
frailer presentment of the same sitter is less popu-
lar- In this case, where there’s more of an all-
round view, she L spectators (envious, perhaps.)
accuse the pictured fair of being one of your
‘slim-jims,’ ‘too ethereal,’ ‘not enough of an arm-
ful. Doctor Chas. Ryan’s son, Rupert, a smart,
prize-scooping youngster, makes a winsome por-
trait, a present to his father from a friend. Last,
but not least, the artist’s bush-fire picture.
Really it s dramatic, and, when first you see it,
you are amazed at its realistic glow. Then, as you
notice the faces of close-gazers lit up as if by a
doctor’s lamp, you ‘ drop ’ to the presence of a
w ® l i'P laced bght. There are malcontents vvho
sniff and say ‘ tricky,’ but when I saw it Marshall
Hall was trumpeting to the spectators that its
flames are even more. convincing minus the arti-
ficial light, which is said to be absolutely necessary
m the picture’s present gloomy location. The ‘Bush
I ire is not the conventional blaze that has been
often painted and never realised, but an Effect of
approaching fire —an illuminated night scare ; a
line of fiery redness showing in the black forest
background and the foreground aglow with the
promise of a warm time coining. Some figures in
the foreground are well placed, and the reflected
firelight on the big gum - tree trunks gives the
spectator a feeling of ghost-story trickling down
one s chest.
“At the private view, Preinieress Turner affected
cheerful pink millinery, while her daughter’s grey
frocks were appliqued with black lace foliage.
Madame Dejardm’s purple velvet toque topped
braided coat and skirt of same Imperial shade :
her crisp Frenchy daughter brightened her green
suit by a scarlet parasol. The Mayor and Mayoress
braced themselves up by a course of the fine arts
before entering on reception labors next door, and
Lonsul and Mrs. Pinschof (Madame Wiedermann)
swelled the Conservatorium contingent. Scherek
conscientiously did his duty by the collection of
engravings, etchings and curios, and a few of the
exhibitor’s brother artists strayed through the
throng. One of that rather melancholy brother-
hood sported all unknowingly a long wavy hair
(presumably human) on the shoulder of his untidy
jacket. Perhaps there’s no necessity to alarm his
womankind? Sitters will be sitters, and what’s
the use of kicking against the inevitable ?
“Miss Mary Clarke, who drove up with Uncle
Snodgrass, was more spring-like than most of the
multitude, m a green silk blouse with white lace
applique, orange fixings and rose-trimmed Tuscan
hat. Of course, there were nightmare costumes
m plenty. White chiffon Russian blouses belted
with fur, and a scarlet cloth garment with an
alleged “Swiss belt,” exactly like a full-sized pair
of black corsets with eyelet-holes, and laced up
the back.
“ The Acting-Vice-regal clan is rather songful,
and the other afternoon, when the administratrix
of the Govt, was at home to the Austral Salon, the
daughters of the house twittered tunefully and
often. An attractive quartette, those sisters, es-
pecially on the domestic hearth, where freshness
scores no less than feature. Their parents, too
welcomed their guests with affable resignation, and
Salonites assure me that on this occasion their
vitals were not preyed on by the hurried suspicion
which marred the Brassey festival—viz., that their
deepy host would bite as soon as look at them
Ihe Ancient Mariner was all right, ancient his-
torians maintain, while reciting; but, later on, an
enterprising Salonite trying to institute some
prattle was glared and grunted at for her pains.
Miss Daisie Madden wore navy-blue Russian
blouse and skirt with cream chemisette, at the
reception. Sisters Sylvia and Ruby, blue-bloused
and cream-vested, affected green-velvet revers •
while little Miss Leslie, in a fawn frock, clad the
smartest feet in the family in Parisian tan. Son
and heir Guy Madden, a frock-coated cherub of
benignant aspect, palpably wilted under the unani-
mous gaze of the Salon, so I’m told, unlike a
serene six-year-old sister in cream cashmere and
curls.
“ ‘ Me and my young man,’which is to say Miss
Sylvia Madden and lmbby-elect Vallange, do some
Block parading in these latter days—especially in
the afternoons when the girls are flitting about.
Human nature is very much the same through all
the grades. ‘ Wodyer think o’ my boy wot’s goin’
to be me ’usban’ ? ’ asks Sarah Jane of her female
pals in Collingwood. And the Acting-Governor’s
daughter trots out her tall and thin ‘boy’for the
gir s to look at on the Block, and wears her best
walking frock, and every line of her figure mutely
asks Sarah Jane’s question. Sylvia is a bonny
girl, though, and though Mr. Vallange is just a
very ordinary young man with a crease down his
trousers, he answers her purpose; and ‘Sylvia
Vallange ’ will be a very pretty name to sign at
the bottom of letters, when she ‘ spells it with a
we.’
“Oh, the weary waiting in the trenches before
that reception of the Mayoress (Aug. 3). Once in
it was all right: breathing space, lively flowers
and ferns, afternoon tea in adjoining coffee palace.
But that only made matters worse, for the women
outside, who never had dreamed of ‘ paying their
respects, ’ heard of these delights, got excited, and
joined the invaders on the spur of the moment.
1 he Mayoress was pale as a ghost and her glove worn
to shreds _ ‘ ere half her heavy task was done.’
After all, isn’t it time official pump-handling was
abolished ? Is there anything so desperately
desirable in a municipal hand-squeeze that for its
sweet sa,ke the recipient is willing to martyr an
inoffensive matron and condemn her to an arm-
sling for a week ?
“Hawthorn Benevolent Society took the Town
Hall on Thursday night, to read the annual report
and hand round the hat some more for the charity.
Many prominent names were billed, but the meet-
ing resolved itself into a Society for Being Grate-
ful to Madden. Nobody could get away from the
Great Fact that his acting-Ex. and family hap-
pened to be there. A remark referring to tne
Great Fact was sandwiched in everywhere. Levy’s
Lyric orchestrated the arrival with ‘God Save,’
and the back-rows craned their necks to see
the deputy - vice-regal top-knots all the time.
The orchestra, harper Barker, Mrs. Bing-
ham in a pink frock and gloveless—a display of
bare fingers ring-encircled is the. ‘ thing ’ now—
and Walter Kirby made up a good, though thin,
programme. Col. Bingham and Hilda Fraser
rattled cleverly through a playlet. The collection
totalled £25, and the audience looked as if they
thought so much Madden cheap at the price.
“Salvation Army Booth and co. hired Exhibi-
tion building last Monday evening, and gave a
show absolutely unique in its frankness. Realism
m religion—when it means showing real-life models
and cine, views of slummery, squalor and sordid-
ness—can give points and a beating as an absorb-
ingly interesting show to all the drawing-room
drammers of the woes of high-toned impossibles
that ever bored an audience. The shilling-a-head
public that crowded the gloomsome hall and
pervaded it with a smell of mud and orange-
peel and _ damp, musty garments gazed
with the interest born of close sympathy
at the dead-beats in their progress through
the various ‘Homes.’ There was a particularly
‘ real ’ series of living pictures, wherein gentlemen
with battered boxers and frowsy coats were
offered WQod-chopping jobs and subsequent meals
and beds, and the scene where a stalwart officer
‘ chucked out ’ two larrikins, struggling to get
into the same bed in their boots, ‘on the never,’
made the _ audience roar. Also, the maternity-
home act, in which a batch of infants were hustled
into little pink nightgowns and deposited in cots,
where they lay howling, only wanted a spanking
or two introduced to make it come home to every
mother’s heart.
“But the Melb. City Court operetta was great.
Fancy having a real Traviata, a lamp-post Flossie,
in the dock with a loud tartan blouse and a straw
hat with sodden cock’s feather, standing sullenly
while the Irish bobby gives his evidence in recita-
tive. Then accused sings her defence while the
court takes out cambrics and sobs audibly; Panton,
P.M., discharges her in song ; and the Hanny
sisters carry her off in triumph ! There is the
germ here of a whole ‘ new ’ opera-school that
would knock the fancy Italian and German warble-
dramas into the limbo of all discarded childish toys.
“It is humiliating to learn that Australia
stands very low in the list of colonial alliances
with the British aristocracy. Altogether eight
peeresses are from the British dependencies, but
of these not one is an Australian, Lady Bertie—
who will one day be Countess of Lindsay—and
Lady Charles Scott being the only connecting
links this beastly country has with the Hinglish
House of Hooleygans—l mean Lords. St. James’s
Budget points out these facts in a recent article,
and adds : ‘ It’s chiefly in the lower ranks of the
nobility that colonial and American wives are to
be found.’
‘ ‘ Basques are fashionable, and yet they thicken
the waist regrettably. Knowing ones have their
bodices made without, but simulate the effect
without its disadvantages by strips of ribbon or
braid from the skirt-band downwards. Miss
Elliot-Page black-ribbons that successful grey
Zenda frock of hers like this, outlining the strips
with gold, and braid fringes of this build are pre-
scribed for serge suits where extra thickness is
nothing to sneeze at.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
Ciiiar
4“!«5
CIGARETTES.
RAFFAN’B HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
55 Elffin-st., MELBOURNE.
CAN
BE"
TESTED
FREE.
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The wife of a certain Australian Governor
is beginning to exercise a sensational discri-
mination in the choice of her lady-guests.
Edmund Barton and R. E. O’Connor were
both offered the seat on N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench made vacant by the death of Justice Innes.
The will of David Henry, the Melb.
“financier,” has been proved at .£33,000, besides
other property in England, Germany and else-
where. Everything is ieft to the widow.
The first woman mining-director is Mrs.
Jelbart, recently elected to the board of Croydon
(Q.) Nos. 5 and 6 Golden Gate. Another outpost
captured from the trousered enemy !
One of Hooley’s “guinea-pig” directors
was Lord Deerhurst, the impecunious aide-de-
camp (to Gov. Loch) of long ago, whom book-
maker Bob Sutton “ pasted ” in a Melbourne grog-
shop.
Bush-rhymester Philip Lorimer’s English
friends have noticed the accounts of his lonely
death and burial in N.S.W., and have sent the
wherewithal to place a memorial tablet above his
grave.
The leader of Tas. Opposition is Bolton
Stafford Bird, an ex-Congregational parson. The
other day a newspaper comp., with all the humor
of his craft, set up the name “ Moltin Stuffed
Bird.”
The widow of Charles Harpur still possesses
some of the poet’s unprinted verses. Lately she
presented a number of interesting fragments to
a country newspaper editor, now a N.S. Wales
M.L.A.
Two descendants of Bounty mutineers
made homes in Tasmania —Fletcher Christian and
Jack Quintal. Both entered the territorial police,
and both, singularly enough—though excellent
swimmers—were drowned.
J. P. Abbott holds the second longest
record as Speaker of N.S.W. Assembly; Arnold
acted from 65 to ’75, Allen from ’75 to ’B2, and
Abbott from ’9O. These three A’s ruled more than
half of the whole time of Responsible Govt.
Queen Victoria has never appeared in
public with a political identity since she was
nearly hit in the eye with a leg of mutton aimed
at a Scottish politician sitting at her side in her
carriage on the occasion of a royal visit to Edin-
burgh.
In South Melb Revision Court recently
when Dr. M‘lnerney appeared as amicus cur ice.
A. councillor objected—“l know nothing,” he
said, “aLout ‘ Mikey’s curio,’ but I do understand
the Local Government Act, and you’ve no busi-
ness here ! ’
The indignation of Macleanites over the
arrest of D. T. Burt, late proprietor of Clarence
(N.S.W.) Advocate, for failing to pay costs in-
curred in a libel-action is only a spark of the
smouldering fire of condemnation which will yet
destroy the local system of thumbserewing for
“costs.” Why should not costs be treated as an
ordinary debt ? Why should a lawyer have any
more claim than a grocer on the body of his cus-
tomer ?
JAM SATIS!
“ I’m afraid, Bertie, you'll be squeezed to jelly."
“ Not at dll. Why, this is real JAM!”
Dear Bulletin. —Your paragraphic refer-
ence (19/3/98) to David Syrne not thinking Jardine
Smith good enough for Melb. Herald recalls a
curious coincidence. Was visiting Dr. Morrison,
Lond. Times man, the other day, at his little
Chinese house off Legation-street, Pekin. Con-
versation turned on his early press efforts. “ Once
I called on Cunningham (present assistant-editor
Melb. Argus) to ask for a billet on the Argus,”
he said. “Very sorry, old man,” was Cunning-
ham’s reply, “but you’re not up to Argus stand-
ard, you know.” “And,” went‘on the Dr.,
musingly, “ I wasn’t, either.” I didn’t press for
an explanation.—Curia Burke.
In N.S.W. Leg. Assembly are three
Clarkes, two Campbells, two Chapmans, two
Reids, two Fitzpatricks, two Rosses, and two
Thompsons.
“ Vic.” : Re your par. on colonial military
titles. A dashing Australian (say) colonel, with
his blushing honors printed on his cards, and be-
plastering his travelling-trunks, &c., went ’Ome
for the jubilee. On the way, an Imperial
general joined the boat, and the Australian
was introduced to him as colonel and,
shortly after, the top-notcher invited him
to take a drink. Our own colonel just
then spotted a passenger he wished to
speak to, and, turning with a hand-
flutter, said, “ One moment, old boy !”
This flattened out the general worse than
a dynamite gun, and he fairly gasped to
a friend, “ One moment, old boy! Old
BOV ! ! —is he mad ? ” After consulting
the Army-list, the colonel was told he
was sailing under false colors—he “was
only a damned volunteer, doncherknow,
and that, while he was on that boat, he
would please be plain Mister ! ”
Bishop Marsden wrote the other
day from Gloucester, England, to S.M.
Herald to set at rest doubts which ex-
isted regarding the ordination of his
grandfather, the sheep-breeding, cattle-
trading, convict-flaying chaplain of early
N.S. Wales. The bishop (who, by the
way, was himself born in Sydney) proves
through the Archbishop of Canterbury
that his grandfather’s ordination was
regular; but room was left for doubt
owing to the impulsive manners of the
then young Sam. Twice he returned to
the black-smithing of his boyhood, and
he left the University without degree
or appointment. His’letters to England
from Botany Bay almost all dealt with
sheep and cattle, the introduction of prime
rams being apparently the main thing he con-
sidered wanting to make the settlement happy.
Besides, the appointment of Colonial Chaplain,
which he held, was at that time chiefly a political
office, and the lav magisterial position he filled
with such terrors to all the unfortunates who came
within the sphere of his authority, also added to
the suspicion that he took his kingdom to be
here.
The very heaviest swell in Tas. Parlia-
ment is the handsome Humphrey Page, of the
Assembly, erstwhile a Judge in India. The other
day he moved that the number of Tasmanian
Judges be reduced from three to two. “Aw,”
said he, “ Aw, when I did judicial work in India
—aw —I nad a district with as many people in it
—aw—as the whole of united Austwaliah. ’ “ But
how many were niggers?” interjected a beastly
member born down Wapping way.
A Bulletin correspondent: “My butcher
tells me how an ex -member of N.S.W. Assembly
used to get his meat on the cheap. Always before
leaving the House he would fill his capacious
handbag with Government Gazettes and other
official documents, and literally paid his butcher’s
bill in ’paper throughout his parliamentary career.
The same politician’s meanness —he slunk out of
pub. back-doors to dodge buying drinks for his
hard-worked committeemen—lost him his seat.
An enthusiastic dig-
ger once presented Barry
Sullivan with two fine
nuggets, which the trage-
dian afterwards kept in a
leather case. It was his
intention, on returning to
England, to have them
worked up into a bust of
Shakespeare. One night
after “ Richard,” at Melb.
Royal, he supped with a
prominent jeweller, and
between the broiled bones
and coffee he produced
his beloved nuggets so
that he might gloat on
them as he drank. The
jsweller took them in his
palm, sniffed suspiciously,
and dropped ’em rudely
on a plate of oyster-shells.
“ They’re brass,” he said
coldly; “mere gun-metal
castings.” Barry’s hand
went to where his sword
should have been. His
f ice was terrible. “ Brass
nuggets? By Heaven,
you have mistaken your
occupation, sir. There
are no such things in the
earth as brass nuggets ! ”
The jeweller was calm. He
rang the bell and sent a
messenger for acid. Re-
sult—nuggets burnt be -
yond recognition. An
old-time attache of the
theatre years ago owned to
the writer that he had
taken the original nuggets
to a moulder, who dupli-
cated them in brass, while
a host of beery stage-
caitiffs pledged themselves
to secresy. In Barry’s
dressing-room was a blue-
hilted dagger that be -
longed to Othello. Sulli-
van, with murder dozing in his eyes, would snatch
it up and grip an imaginary digger by the throat;
then, with a mocking laugh, a cunning up-and-
down stroke, he would give the dastard his
quietus.
A brainy young son of Israel, who was
nominated for a Sydney constituency but was
persuaded to retire to prevent the party - vote
being split, distributed a stirring address to the
electors per half-penny post. The circular being
overweight those of the addresses who thought-
lessly paid the fine imposed by the P.O. and took
the letters in became hopelessly alienated from the
candidate. Another incident in that young man’s
candidature was that some darned fool of a friend
of his got placed, just under the three glittering
balls of a William-street pawnshop, a big calico
sign bearing the legend “ Vote for Levy ” —Levy,
the candidate, being utterly unconnected with the
three-ball business—being, in fact, a very dis-
tinguished graduate of Sydney University and a
barrister by profession. Whereupon a wag: “ Vote
for Levy—and Distress.” A purely legal joke.
W. H. T. Brown, of Tas. Leg. Assembly,
says he lived, in a certain emergency of his life,
on bread and butter and whale
—“ and very good fare it was,”
he says.
ON THE GEORGE-STREET BLOCKS .
BILL: “Hullo, May; shake 'ands!”
This quaint hunk of criticism on Victor
Daley’s book is going the rounds of the Q. press:
“ Daley intended to call his book “ Wine and Roses,”
but a prosaic Sydney publisher insisted on changing the
title to “ At Dark and Dawn!” leaving the imagination
to conjure up the scenes enacted in this wicked world
between sunset and sunrise.”
Truly the literal faculty of the Respectable press
is a fearsome and wondrous thing !
The deaths of Gladstone and Bismarck
have done away with two great anxieties of long-
standing in daily newspaper offices all the world
over. The editorial mind, and that of the head-
printer, have always been worried lest those two
big living figures of history should die at in-
opportune moments. Queen Victoria and Albert
Edward —and possibly Salisbury and Pope Leo —
are now about the only very “ big ” people whose
obituaries will be kept standing in case of emer-
gency.
A curious illustration has come
to light of the shams of the world.
Louis Napoleon would have been
blocked in his progress to the French
throne but for obtaining an advance of
,£BOOO from one Rappalo, who raised
the money on forged Exchequer bills.
His instrument was a high offi-
cial of the Exchequer, who forged
no less than .£400,000 worth, but
declared that he only got about £2OOO
out of it, such being the financial net
in which Rappalo, who suggested rhe
crime, had entangled him from early
years. Rappalo escaped scot free. The
official, transported for life to Tasmania,
died there at an advanced age.
When Richmond Thatcher edited
the Western Independent, he hit
around pretty liberally. And, among
others, he smote Alderman Mutton.
Used to make cheap jokes about his
“ sheepish ” looks, and such like.
Therefore, everybody in Bathurst was
surprised when Mutton planked down
a guinea to the subscription which
Thatcher’s admirers had got up to buy
the editor a buggy. They said it was
Christian-like and magnanimous on
Mutton’s part. But Mutton was a man
of truth. “It isn’t that I love the
,” he remarked; “but he can’t
drive. Knows as much about a hor; e
s I do of Heaven, and he’s pretty well
bound to break his blessed neck out o’
that buggy. See?” But Dick knew
too much for that. Got the buggy and
sold it right a way, and went to Sydney
and bought a toat —a sort of thing lie
could drive.
Ulverston, the Norwegian, who has tra-
velled over Australia in search of soil and sur-
roundings suitable for his countrymen, has given
his preference to the neighborhood of Inverell
(N.S.W.). An incursion of hardy, blonde agricul-
turists called Jorgensen, Bjorgensen and similar
names may, therefore, be soon expected.
The weightiest Cabinet (for its size) that
ever held office in S.A., and probably in Australia,
was that of John Colton (June ’B4 to June ’B5),
which consisted of Colton, Kingston, Rounsevell,
Coles, Playford, and Baker. Each Minister was
over 6ft. high, and broad in proportion, the aggre-
gate weight of the half-dozen being little less than
lOOst.
A hostile, foolish notice of Daley’s poems
in July Review of Reviews has the Turner-
Sutherland bias which has done so much to spoil
Victorian verse. Whether Turner or Sutherland'
wrote it doesn’t appear; but Turner and Suther-
land seem to frequently choose for quotation the
least meritorious items in an author’s work—as
the reviewer in this case.
Marshal] Lyle has just secured from the
Government a fine collection of photos, of Vic.
criminals for transmission to Prof. Lombroso. As
in most collections of the sort in all parts of the
world, the presence of tattoo marks (usually
women, ballet-dancers and the like) is noticeable.
Among the photos, are those of Capt. Moonlight,
Weechurch, and Deeming.
An old Western pioneer—he crossed the
Blue Mountains in 1839—Mr. George M‘Kay,
died at Orange (N.S.W.) the other day in his 80th
year. The murder of his son, manager of a bank
at Barraba, for which crime Cummins and Lee
were executed in ’94 at Tamworth, undermined
the old gentleman’s health. He represented
Orange in one Parliament.
Since the Australasian Premiers have been
in English upper circles they are affecting some-
thing like the childlike innocence of judges. Sed-
don told Maoriland Parliament, the other day,
that he didn’t know the meaning of “ blow the
gaff.” Of course “ Digger Dick ” knows ; but the
Right Hon. Richard John Seddon, P.C., LL.D.,
&c., is quite another person.
A. H. Jacob, chairman of the N.S.W.
Leg. Council, who turned into his 70th year the
other day, is son-in-law of Colonel Snodgrass, who,
after Bourke’s departure, was Acting-Governor of
N.S. Wales. Snodgrass was also Governor of
Tasmania for a time. He was a noted hero of the
Peninsular War, and came to Australia with
wounds and a consoling pension.
The wife of S.A. ex-Premier John Colton,
who died a few days ago, had a record of over 50
years’ most active philanthropic work in the pro-
vince. Though, like her husband, much given to
Methodism, there is practically no charitable
society for which the lady had not done hard work.
Her husband (generally suspected of having some
sort of say in the local ’Tiser) still lives, in semi-
retirement.
Chamberlain, or whoever controls such
affairs, seems most dilatory in getting the inevi-
table K.C.M.G.-ship for M.L. Agent-General
Reeves. His evolution from plain “ W.P.” to
“W. Pember ’ directly he set foot in England,
seemed to justify surmises that Reeves was pre-
paring for the handle, like all good Democrats.
But that was a couple of years ago, and nothing
has happened yet.
Cherubic Dr. Bevan has decided not to let
the offer of a plumper salary in Wales lure him
from the tending of his Melbourne flock. Brecon,
in Wales, would seem a pretty dull spot after Mel-
bourne anyhow. Neither is the head-mastership
of a Theological College half as cheerful a position
as the pulpit of a church which has no irksome
parish hanging to it. Perhaps Heaven hath
pointed out these things to the hairy dootor.
The late Mr. JUSTICE MANNING (N.S.W.).
Photo., Free man & Co.
Bendigo’s pioneer Chinaman, Jimmy Ah
Poo, has passed out. Forty years ago h * was ap-
pointed Govt, interpreter, and he held the billet
till death. But the merry little fellow will be
most remembered as the organiser of those Chow
pageants which have put many hundreds into
Bendigo aud other Vic. charities.
John Sharpe, whose death at 85 was
chronicled the other day, was not, as here and
there stated, the first to prove the commercial
success of sugar-growing in E. Australia. N.S.W.
Govt, had shown this in the early days, and Capt.
Hope was successfully carrying on the industry
about Ipswich (Q.) some years ere Sharpe went to
the Richmond.


i
«/«THEVIO
itJp Apsorb^
HH
Fo R Roast BEEfjg
(1111 CURRIES CBjjJ , 1 >« lB '
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is pub up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post. *
Fin IMLTED COCOI.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt
Aboriginalities.
“Raspberry” : What hideous sarcasm to
name a bullock “ Smiler ” ! The God-forgotten-
man-bespanked-and-blanked bullock ! Why not
“ Weeper ” ’—for he has much cause to weep. Ye
dainty ladies and bunchy-stomached bald-heads
of the Societies, who befriend the collar-spotted
city moke and the mangy street cur, go ye into
the bush and look up the bullock-owners and
drivers ; superintend a day’s log-hauling, and
then turn round and kick yourselves for very
shame. No more diabolical instrument of torture
exists than the infamous bullock-yoke and bow.
Anyone, save the savage machines who curse
themselves hoarse for a living, will note the grind-
ing of the bow into the animal’s shoulder and the
sawing of the yoke on the neck of a poler. Bul-
locks are martyrs whose intelligence far exceeds
that of the average driver. To say that the poor
beasts work harder and quicker by being cursed
and hammered is a fallacy and a lie which requires
to be upset and trodden into the ground and
pegged there. The best drivers are the most
silent, and the most docile and best-conditioned
team is one which is least flogged and cursed.
The inventor of a yokeless collar would confer a
blessing on poor, suffering bulloclcity, which cannot
be gauged even by the intelligent members of the
cruelty-prevention societies.
* * * *
“Gippsland”: Saw a queer flock being
driven towards Bairnsdale just before Xmas, ’96.
Two hundred head of turkeys, all in excellent
condition, despite the fact that they had been
driven over 60 miles. The drover was a woman,
and she managed her mob like an artist. Each
bird had one wing clipped, and the lot moved
along in excellent order, but at a gait that would
have ruined the nerves of an active tortoise—of
anything, in fact, but a bush-bred Australian
woman. The proprietress told me that it had
taken eight days to do the 60 miles, and she had
lost eight birds en route. At night the gobblers
perched on stumps and fences, and the petticoated
drover camped under a log. The birds fed along
the way, and were in fine condition, and the
owner anticipated averaging 7s. a head for the lot
when she reached Bairnsdale.
* * • *
Haulem was a travelling dentist, who re-
cently struck the town of Bandicoot and “did it
bad.” Allured by his stirring advts., the Bandi-
cootians gathered from all quarters to have their
teeth drawn and to make ready for a new set.
Many a tough, serviceable old grinder, capable of
Miss FRANCES ROSS (Bland Holt's Co).
Photo., Grouzello Studio.
worrying through a waggon-load of hides, was
wantonly sacrificed in the hope of better things to
come—and Bandicoot waited anxiously, till its
gums had shrunk, and the new set of ivories was
ready. . . . Then Haulem disappeared with the
lucre of some 200 patients, who had paid partly in
advance. And there was weeping, and wailing,
and gnashing of gums—and the population pre-
pared mournfully to live on pap, porridge, and
bread-pudding for the rest of its days.
* * * *
A German girl of 17 sums up her ex-
perienee of life in the mallee (Vic.) : “When I
worked for a farmer, besides doing the ordinary
slavey’s duties, I didn’t mind feeding the pigs,
grubbing, ploughing and harrowing, but when
they put me cutting mallee shoots I resolved on a
change.”
“ S.S.” : My greatest scare
happened when I was about 18.
Self and father were working a small
coal-seam in a densely-wooded range
about 10 miles from Morwell (Vic.).
The old man had gone into the town-
ship for supplies, and I was sleeping
alone in the tent peacefully enough
when awakened by a strange voice,
saying distinctly : “ Jim’s dead ! ”
I knew of nobody within five miles
of our camp, and had gone to sleep
under the impression that I was
alone on those hills, consequently
that voice brought up straight one
young mail who was feeling very un-
well. I hung on to my emotions,
and listened, hoping to Heaven it
was only a dream ; but the voice
came again clearly and distinctly
enough, “Jim’s dead ! Jim’s dead ! ’’
And now I saw in the dim light of
a low moon the outline of a man’s
head thrust in at the tent-flap. The
intruder repeated five or six times his
cheerful information respecting Jim,
and then withdrew ; and although I
lay awake till daylight he did not
return, and I was almost convinced
that I had seen a real bush spook.
But Jim’s friend came along at mid-
day next day and informed us in
strict confidence that Jim was dead,
and I then heard that he was a harm-
less old Scotchman living in a hut in
the valley. He was subject to peri-
odic fits of mooning, when he strayed
all over the hills scattering the in-
telligence about Jim. Who Jim
was, and how or when or why he
died, nobody knew and nobody
cared.
* » *
Dear Bulletin. — Be alleged
bunyip in Eurombah lagoon (Bulle-
tin (25/6/’9B). I have three times
during my 30 years’ experience of the
tjackbloeks seen what I believe to be
the Australian aboriginals’bunyip. In 1870, on
the shore of Lake Corangamite (Vic.), I was lying
in wait for a shot at water-rats, when, hearing a
snorting or wheezing sound, I cautiously looked
over my ambush-rock, and saw a dark form in the
water not 20 yards away, staring at me with a pair
of large, yellow eyes. Can best describe it as
like a big Newfoundland dog. Noticed liair fully
Gin. long floating out on the water from the body.
The creature had a tail about 18in.
long, with long hair on it also. The
total length of the animal I judged
to be about sor 6 feet. For about
half a minute it stayed perfectly mo-
tionless, but as I was cautiously rais-
ing my gun it disappeared under water,
and I watched in vain for its reappear-
ance. Next, in 1880, at a big water-
hole in the Leichhardt River, N.Q.,
I was fishing off the limb of an over-
hanging coolibah, when an entirely
similar creature swam past, distinctly
visible at about two feet under the
surface of the clear water. Again,
in 1885, in the Paravituary waterhole,
in the Georgina River, W.Q., I saw
the same kind of animal, which
speedily disappeared on sighting me.
This waterhole is 15 miles long, salt
at one end and fresh at the other.
A Central Queensland resident told me
the other day he had seen such an
animal as I have described in the
Omo lagoon on Barcoo River. It is
certain, in any case, that the aborigi-
nals will not camp on Omo lagoon.
I think it very likely that the “ bun-
yip ” will prove eventually to be a
hitherto unclassified amphibious ani-
mal indigenous to Australia, the won-
der being that its remains have not yet
been found. —Bauhinia.
* * *
“W.”: A blackfellow’s grave
(Western N.S.W.) is usually heaped
over with wood, the destruction of
which is considei’ed a horrible deed.
A man named Kennedy once acciden-
tally burnt a stack whilst boiling his
billy. They called him “ Wokka-
atchie,” and no black would willingly
go within miles of him. Can any-
one give meaning of “ Wokka -
atchie ? ”
It is well-known that the Western rabbit
can climb fences, shin up trees, burrow down half-
way to Sheol, swim creeks, and so forth. He is
also an ingenious and daring acrobat. T’other
day, Jenkins went into his rabbit-trap to kill the
vermin encaged there, when one of the bunnies
ran up his back, sprang over the enclosure, and
escaped.
* * * *
Birdsville, on the Queensland-South Aus-
tralian border, gets four inches of rain per annum.
Geraldton (N.Q.) often gets over lOin. per diem,
Queensland has the honor of combining in one
province one of the droughtiest and one of the
wettest districts on the face of the earth. Also,
the S.E. seaboard is about the pleasantest portion
of Australia to live in, and the Carpentarian coast
the most disagreeable.
EVER IN FRONT.
“He was a good musician, but he teas always a bar behind."
“Well, old chap, that'll never be said of you. The BAR'S always in front in your ease !”
Seems to be a strong smack of white-
slavery about the N.S. W. stage-coaching industry.
Some single-man shifts; Wilcannia to Cobham,
33 hours ; short rest, and 33 back again. Broken
Hill to Fowler’s Gap, 24 hours ; latter to Tibboo-
burra, hours ! The Postmaster-General says
that “ the exigencies of the public service demand
that he should accept the lowest tender for mails.”
Same old sweating-business !
* * * *
D. : The “old man” once had a pet sow'
and a male pig (this has nothing to do with the
invitation to the pork Ananias). The female was
killed and the male porker took the sulks, lying
down continuously on one side for six months,
except at feeding time. At the expiration of that
period he vvas slain, and the skin on his “lying-
down side ” was half-an-ineh thick. The old man
converted a slab of his pelt into a bat for one of
my brothers.
• * » «
“Guam”: Met an old swaggie, and,
noticing he was not smoking, handed him my
plug. He waved it aside- lie was “ orf the pipe.
Ton see, it’s this way,” he explained. “When I
makes a bit I buys a stock of ’bacca, and for about
three months I smokes hard night and day. 1
don’t keep count of the pounds of the black stuff
I get through-but, Lord, it’s something awful !
After a ’bacca bust of three months I chucks it
complete, and it takes seven or eight months
before I can bear to think of it, let alone smoke
it. I’ll be startin’ again in ’bout ’nother month.”
Anybody ever hear of a man going on the ’bacca-
jamboree before? ■
r * * * *
A peculiar trait in the crape-haloed man
from out back, which is worked to some advantage
by the professional magsman. Ask him if he is
from a certain place and he will reply, “No, I’m
from such and such a place.” Thus—Magsman :
“ Are you from Bourke? ” Speewa : “ No, not
me. I’m from Riverina, I am.” Once the locality
of origin is let out the spieler, if at all conversant
with the district, can make the intimacy thicken
to an alarming extent. Nothing warms the heart
of a backblocker in town more than to meet a man
who knew “that big fence back of M’Bride’s.”
And, of course, the spieler does.
, * * *
“ Nell Cook ” to The Bulletin on some
. , . , . j
aspects of Australian mggerdom :
The Barvvon blacks (gins in particular) have much
musical talent. Pick up bits of popular songs and sing
thern sweetly enough, and their own songs have often a
plaintive beauty. Most tribes have a poet or poetess,
who makes up the songs for their corroboree. Asked an
old gin what was the meaning of one particular song
they often sang, and she said it was about a young girl
lying asleep under a tree and being awakened by the
noise of a flight of swallows over her head. The “lan-
guage of one tribe ” was called “ Commoroy,” as near as
I can get it. They invited me one day to watch them
prepare a feast of “ yutondally and “ comnioma eggs
(goanna and eggs of jew-lizard). They scooped out a
good-sized liole and put in a fire, and, when it had burnt
down, r iked a hole in the centre and put in the goannas,
without skinning or cleaning; but on taking them out
the skin and inside separated easily from the flesh, which
was very white and smelt like eel. They are very in-
diligent to their children, the parents waiting on them
even after they are grown up, especially the daughters.
The gin 1 had helping in the kitchen had a grown-up
daughter—herself a mother—who could nt cook a damper
and would wait for a drink until one of her parents came
back to camp to bring her one from the waterhole. Her
father—a fine-looking, old, white-bearded fellow—had
taken her back from tier husband because he had knocked
her on the head with a yam-stick—probably because of
her inability to build aforesaid damper.
,
~ Tji* ~ a i a l a
Fivecorner : Saw jackass fly to and
,io between coolibah and ground. Rode over to
see vvl.at Johnny was doing and found 3ft. 6m.
black snake lying stunned or paralysed. Stood
off about 50 yards and waited till John, after
about three minutes’ inspection of the enemy from
limb above, flew down and swallowed snake whole
and head-first. Thought no more of the matter
at the time, but about three months later, when
crossing same flat, half-caste who was leading
pack-horse found a sugar-bag in coolibah tree,
Sent him up to chop it out. Dry spout on limb
broke to pieces, and down with a lot of feathers,
bones, and the skull of a kookaburra fell a black
snake angry at being thus rudely awakened from
his winter sleep. Killed him ; measured 3ft. 7£in.
This happened on the Upper Dawson.
* * * *
The parson’s horse jibbed in the main and
only street of the little bush township, and the
local humorists all gathered round and kindly
advised the poor sky-pilot of different ways to
start him. Loud was the laughter from the crowd
as the shepherd tried several of the ridiculous
plans suggested, and when one brilliant joker told
him to “try puttin’ dirt in ’is mouth,” all held
their sides and prepared to go off with a loud bang,
The good pastor gathered a handful of dust, care-
fully inserted it in the mouth of the quadruped,
who chewed it thoughtfully, and, to everyone’s
amazement, trotted off at next time of asking,
Also there was a deathly silence when the parson
drove back and thanked the humorist aforesaid
for his kindness. P.S.—This is a tolerably sure
way of starting a jibbing horse. It monopolises
his attention and he almost invariably moves off
if taken quietly. , , *
Anstnlim nl-imies hive their exits and
Australian pla ues nave then exits and
their entrances—rabbits included. 1 here are dis-
triet.s in W estern Queensland where the rabbit,
demolished the grass, was forced to eke
Oot h,s wretched existence by gnawing the bark
? f treea : Consequently the trees died, and
bunny deprived of his last resource, made tracks,
* • • 1 >ien the grass sprang up anew, and, being
™ longer choked by the trees, grew with greater
luxuriance than ever. . . N.B. Bunny will be
-ick as so ° u as the news travels,
~ „ _ * . * *. ,
“U.M.G. : Does the kangaroo in night
1180 his tail as a propelling agent or merely as a
steermg apparatus is a much disputed question,
. does. He doesn t. is the conclusion drawn
£ ro Yi argument, so far, and lam of opinion that
darn well pleases himself. Many times I
have seen the brand of the caudal limb making a
triangle of the animal s tracks when he has left
suddenly under pressure of excitement induced
“Y a gunshot or a dog. When living near the
State Forest, Bungaree, Vic., years back, I a| id
my hut-mates on several occasions saw an old
man clear a three-rail fence at a particular spot,
? nd «fe d fchre ® “dentions in the ground where
he lit —one for each foot and one for trie tail.
, T > e^ ndi Y^H? e was vei 'T circi “ ibed « and
the roo hit the same spot every shot,
■
u xr » . t ..v.,,..*. i,.,„j
TL. . Somewhere I read about the hard-
ship of eating old working bullocks, but elsewhere
that nought is so deliciously tender as a well-
flogged old poler.
8 „■ 4 ,
rii , ~,T , ~ , ~
Stockspur : “Not generally known that
horses’ ears emit a phosphorescent light. On
dark, wet nights, whilst watching cattle, have
frequently noticed these ‘ head -lights ’ quite
i •„) * » 8 H
orignt.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Soft Cat) VaS Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30- per J4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous avid Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PI 1C IS HHO I'll IS Its,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Libel Law Amendment.
Pink and M‘Cay are introducing an amend-
ment of the L’bel law into Vic. Assembly, as a
private measure. Newspapers will, no doubt,
welcome any improvement in the present sys-
tem, but there is little doubt that, even if
passed, this Bill will leave much to be desired.
Following the usual fashion of “colonial”
statesmen, these two lawyers, who ought to
have known better, have slavishly followed the
English precedent of 1888.
* * » *
In adapting it to the circumstances of Vic-
toria, they have omitted the reference to reports
of meetings of “ boards of guardians,” but do
not appear to have provided for fair reports of
benevolent asylums, hospital, and general “ pri-
vate ” charitable committees. This is a most
serious omission, as Vic. editors may find, if
some of the retiring Melb. Benevolent Asylum
committeemen have to wince more than usual
in the next few weeks. It is, indeed, a matter
for wonder that Launceston’s magnates did not
take advantage of the disgraceful weakness of
the law in this respect, to prevent Ben
Tillett’s recent exposure of their “benevo-
lent ” management getting into the Tasmanian
daily press.
The definition of “ public meeting ” is prac-
tically an open invitation to all and sundry to
exclude reporters when any hanky-panky work
is on the board. The clause defining it will
also be particularly fruitful in litigation.
* • • »
One good clause in the Bill puts the burden
of proving malice upon the shoulders of the
plaintiff, instead of, as before, compelling the
paper to rebut the presumption of malice.
* * * *
In one respect the English Act and this Bill
interfere with a useful right already enjoyed at
common law by newspapers—namely, lhe right
to publish, provided it is not done maliciously,
reports of judicial proceedings, no matter when
they took place. This is materially interfered
with by the insertion of the word “ contempo-
raneously ” in the clause relating to reports of
such proceedings. For instance, an extract
from the proceedings, say, of the Tichborne,
or the Mount and Morris or Mount Rennie
trials, would not be protected under the clause
as it stands.
* • * *
The clause relating to the consolidation of
actions against several defendants for the same
libel is a good one, and applies to all libels,
whether by newspapers or individuals.
* * * *
The clause which enables a defendant to plead
in mitigation of damages, that plaintiff has
recovered damages against other defendants in
IF YOU CAN’T THINK OF ANYTHING, SAY SOMETHING.
A flock of sheep having suffered severely by the ravages of dingoes, called a meeting to discuss
the situation. A great deal having been said to little effect, an old man with an air of great
wisdom observed that it was a simple case of natural selection and the non-survival of the fattest.
The profundity of the remark satisfied the hearers that all had been done that could be done;
they withdrew, and went to dinner —a good few with the dingoes.
respect of the same libel is, in the case of news-
papers, a good one, and will to some extent stop
an odious form of blackmail practised by un-
scrupulous solicitors on papers innocently copy-
ing libels. But whether the right should be
extended to the private libeller is another
question. In the English Act it only applies
to newspapers. This is the only material de-
parture from the English Act in the Vic. Bill.
This clause sets aside what is known as the
rule in Creevy v. Carr.
* * * *
The clause providing that it shall not be
necessarv to state the actual words used in
presentments for obscene libel, sets aside the
rule in R. v. Bradlaugh.
One serious result of the slavish following of
the words of the English Act will be that Vic-
torian newspaper proprietors and editors will
be in a far worse position than at present with
respect to criminal libel.
* * * *
By a practice initiated by Higinbotiiam
when Attorney-General, the Crown Law officers
invariably enter a nolle-prosequi in cases of
criminal libel started by private individuals.
They are left to their remedy by grand jury
indictment; and no more effectual safeguard
against the wanton setting of the criminal law
in motion for purely civil matters could
have been devised. Of course, the prac-
tice is not necessarily law, but it has
been so constantly followed for such a long
period that any departure from it would be
met by grave public disapprobation, and pro-
bably a vote of censure on the Minister allow-
ing it.
® * * * *
Bub this Bill provides that no criminal pro-
secution (which words, by the way, do not in-
clude “ criminal information”)- for libel shall
be commenced without an order from a Judge
in Chambers. According to an English case, in
1892, there is no appeal from the order of this
Judge. The leanings of the average Judge are
historically so notoriously against defendants
in libel-cases that it will be a comparatively
easy matter to get such order ; and if it is got
no Attorney-General would care to enter a
nolle-prosequi.
* * * *
The enactment of this clause means the repeal
of the present wholesome practice, with the
result that Vic. journalism will lose far more
than it will gain by the other provisions of the
Bill.
* * * *
Criminal libel is an anomaly to-day ; it is a
relic from a semi-barbarous past, which, un-
touched, will soon disappear. The existence of
the Victorian Crown Law practice with respect
to it in all cases, save those by criminal infor-
mation for libels on public officers of justice,
represents its period of obsolescence. But the
enactment of this clause will revive criminal
libel to its malignant activity of a century ago,
when England was only saved from a crushing
judicial censorship of the press by the heroic
obstinacy of juries, who refused to be directed
by the judges in libel cases, even in matters of
law.
• * » *
There are many matters of great public im-
portance not referred to in this Bill. For
instance, the question raised in the Austral-
asian libel case, whether a jockey was a public
person whose actions might be freely com-
mented on ; the conduct of individuals at
Government House shivoos ; the proceedings ol
private clubs of great public interest, as foot-
ball associations, cycling leagues, and the like ;
the proceedings of unregistered societies, such
as Orange lodges and churches ; and the pro-
ceedings of publicly-elected bodies, such as
shire councils, even when conducted in camera.
* * » *
Another extraordinary omission in this Bill
is any reference to the repeal of the absurd law
whicii makes truth to be a complete answer to
a civil action, but aggravates the offence, except
in certain oases, in a charge of criminal libel.
Sandgroper humor! Witness at Coolgardie
Court was asked if he was very intimate with a big firm in
Perth : “ Oh, yes ! owe ’em about £28011! ”
STRANGE SCRIPTURAL BLUNDER.
“ They shay—hie-the wicked shtand on slippery places, but I’m Mowed - hie- if I can.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
Curious that most of the title-bearers who are
asserted to have accepted Hooley’s magnificent pay for
the use of their names are of the genuine historic brand,
and not of the newly-gilded variety whose comparatively
recent emergence from the ranks of commerce might have
been expected to make them grasp the chance of turning
an honest thousand. It would also be interesting to know
in how many other instances the flat denial of having
received a thumping honorarium would have, as in Lord
Albemarle’s case, to be discounted by an admission of
having received a big sum “as the result of the sale of
shares.” Smacks of the racing “ £5O to nothing” racket.
* * » *
Peers, promoters, and boodlers generally are
rising as one man in London to declare on their honor
as highly-bred gentlemen that they did not get big
cheques from Hooley. But ask any man who has
floated any concern in London of late years if he ever
found it necessary to part with boodle to the owners of
big names, and the expansiveness of his smile is a suffi-
cient reply. It is never paid in the form of cheques, nor
are receipts ever given. One methodical, but badly-
trained, vendor brought the boodle money home to Aus-
tralia again because the boodlers refused to give receipts,
and he failed to see how he could acoount for the money
otherwise. Is it likely that the boss boomer of the century
could get off his schemes without giving boodle, or that he
would run the risk of gaol for life by falsely giving a list
of amounts and using the names of men whom he never
greased ? Hooley’s list of the newspapers he fed is incom-
plete. The names of several that loudly barracked for
him are absent. Is it possible that, after getting big
boodle to sing for Hooley, they have had to buy Hooley’s
silence ?
* * * *
That awful person, Lowries, M.P., the Papuan
grabster, says that for years he has been advocating the
investment of British’ money in colonial rather than
foreign securities, and has had the satisfaction of direct-
ing many thousands of pounds into colonial channels.
The Capitalist publishes a cruel list of the colonial com-
panies largely promoted and controlled by Lowles. They
are mostly, if not all, dividendless, dead and dying.
Lowles and Vine paraded Australia as advocates of Im-
perial Federation and the holding of a great mining exhi-
bition in London, whereas they should have been loudly
labelled—‘ ‘ Boomsters —Beware. ”
* * * *
A recent Melb. law-case provides a shove-up for
Isaac Isaacs’ Anti-Usury Bill. Edith Maloney proceeded
to quash an agreement made with Abraham Marks —since
deceased—under which the latter lent £220 to the former,
who assigned him her interests in her father’s will. Marks
exacted in return a £lOO bonus, and 20 per cent, com-
pound interest, and continued to advance sums to plain-
tiff’s husband on the same terms and backed by the same
security. Justice a’Beckett cancelled the bargain, and
allowed the ghost of Abraham only the original £220, and
6 per cent, to date. Good enough, without the new Bill !
cries Israel; but, then, these bargains do not always come
to light, and would be impossible under the Isaacs legis-
lation. Prevention is better than cure in any case—for
cure is almost as expensive as Abraham.
* * * *
“ Ultimo ” : Recently had dealings with a pro-
minent Sydney brick-merchant. Wanted 13,000 of his
baked mud-bats ; signed an order to that effect, and
bricks were duly delivered—9oo to the good. Thought
the extra 900 was a present, a sort of 13-to-the-dozen
affair, till I got the bill, when I found I was charged for
full amount. I arose and waited on the brick boss for an
explanation ; told him I had ordered 13,000 and no more,
adding that if he felt inclined he could come and cart the
900 back (my place is 10 miles away from brick-yard).
He listened quietly, and then producing my signed order,
explained, with a pitying smile, that a few small words,
“ more or less,” inserted after the 13,000, gave him per-
mission to either send me 10 per cent, of the number over
or 10 per cent. less. He advised me to try the matter in
a court of law, but I paid with a green smile and walked
out.
* * * * •
Does the pawnbroker flourish in any mining
town, trade of which depends almost solely on wage-
earners ? There is no pawnshop on the Towers, nor did
the globular trinity assault the air in Kalgoorlie, Kanowna
or Cue, when writer was last there.
* * * *
The Argus, in its case for the pawnbrokers,
states the Melb. Mont de PRt<s lost its capital in the biz.
But that wasn’t through “ broking,” but through finan-
cing mining speculations. Since the concern has confined
itself to the “ uncle ” line it has got on the up-grade again.
Fate is so dead against Ikey Mo getting outside his avuncu-
lar functions that in one case where Ikey junior became
a medical student he was shot by a man burgling the
paternal pop-shop. * * »
The multitude of pawnbrokers in Melb. is ad-
vanced as the excuse for their high rate (lOd. in the £) of
monthly interest on loans. Sou .e of them can scarcely do
enough business to keep themselves warm, it is pleaded.
Hence the urgent necessity for limiting the number of
pawn-shops in each district on a population basis, so that
a number of shivering Lazaruses may be reluctantly per-
suaded to go and work for the benefit of their health.
* * * *
Alleged that at a recent election to the director-
ship of a big insurance co. a N.S. \V. departmental chief
made a personal canvass of his subordinates and got their
proxies.
1 « * « *
Much Victorian litigation is likely to grow out
of the transformation by the cyanide discovery of com-
paratively worthless heaps of tailings into valuable pro-
perties. That the law on the subject is still in a state of
muddle was made evident upon a recent application for
an injunction to prevent tlie treatment of 40,000 tons of
tailings on the Foul’s co.’s old ground, and the seven or
eight parties to the case left the court as hopelessly be-
fogged as to their respective rights in the matter as if no
Mines Act were in existence.
* * * *
“Tanna Tommy”: On the Clarence, the
Colonial Sugar Relining Co. recently took a vote of the
sugar-growers as to whether this season’s cane crop would
be paid for by individual analysis or by the average
analysis of the district. The result was largely in favor
of the average, the result being 316 to 54. Explanation :
The farmers whose cane is below general average naturally
voted for that system, as they would get a slightly higher
price, at the expense of the minority who grew superior
cane. The minority naturally argue that if this basis of
payment is to be adhered to in the future it will result in
a deterioration of the crop, as no man will spend his time
and energy in the unbusinesslike occupation of taking
money out of his own pocket and putting it into the other
fellow’s. Several of the best farmers begin to find out
there is more “sugar” in “cow-juice” and pig-raising
than growing cane. The return is more sure, and the
capital invested is not subject to the discount of bad
seasons, premature frosts, and tariff-tinkers, while the
payment is by test, in which a man gets the benefit of his
brains, experience, and outlay.
* * * *
Pseudonymous employment advts., requiring
statement of name, references, and wag;es wanted, give
advertiser an unfair advantage over applicants who know
nothing about advertiser’s personality, or the class and
amount of work required; yet have to estimate their
value of it and, beyond slight cost of insertion, have no
guarantee of bona-f ides of the ad. The addendum “ con-
fidential,” also, has often resulted in underpaid men ap-
plying unwittingly to their own employers—with result of
sack. The pseudonymous system, in short, gives em-
ployer, at slight cost, a correct gauge of poor labor’s
estimate of its own value—under stress of necessity and
competition.
Dear B.—lt is a bad game for a man advertising
for work to give address at a P. 0., as other unemployed
whose capabilities fit the case are apt to drop in early and
collect the replies. The I'.O. rule that requires personal
application for letters addressed to pen-name or initials is
no bar to a man who can lie with tranquillity. E.g. :At
a Sydney branch P. 0., the other morning, as soon as the
office was opened a colored man called and received two
answers to ad. for job as handy man, and an hour or so
afterwards a white man called and gave same initials
and was only prevented from demolishing the office by
receiving full description of the nigger, whom he is doubt-
less now seeking with intentions of assault and battery.
Of course the white may have been the fraud, but his
wrath was very convincing.—J.F.D.
From Queensland, Vic., and elsewhere comes
the grumble that smelting companies are doing more to
kill than to encourage the mining industry. Alleged that
recently some 400 tons of copper-ore was sent from one
mine and divided between two smelting works. Nothing
was mentioned of gold or silver contents. The return
from each was 28 per cent, copper, and no return for gold
or silver. Assays made on account of the mine showed
the ore to contain both gold and silver in varying quanti-
ties, the average being gold a little over 4dwts., and silver
over sUoz. Both, together, would add considerably to the
saleable value of the copper and represent a certain extra
profit for the smelters. Four dvvts. gold in 28 per cent,
copper don’t count by itself, but it would associated wiuh
50oz. silver, as one would be extracted with the other
at same cost.
* * * •
When the London promoter happens to get hold
of a good thing in a mine it is next to impossible to get
him to leave well alone. The Sons of Gwalia is probably
the best Westralian mine outside of Hannan’s camp. The
promoters must needs give a gorgeous banquet in London
recently, at which each guest received a richly-printed
souvenir. It was a decoy to catch subscribers to “The
Star of Gwalia ” to acquire the next mine in a co. with a
capital of £160,000. Unlucky omen—since this gold-
printed souvenir was issued the Sons of Gwalia shares
have fallen 6s. Od.
• * * *
John Bull’s “Victorian Gold Estates C 0.,” near
Maryborough (Vic.), is perhaps the biggest alluvial ven-
ture in the Australias. Capital, £350,000; it holds about
eight miles of frontage along the supposed course of the
main trunk formed by the “ Berry ” and “ Ascot ” leads, to
say nothing of others from “ Deep Creek,” “ Blanket
Flat,” “Mount Glasgow,” &c. Sinking, about 350 ft. ;
they are now sinking two shafts 400 ft., 22ft. by
7ft.' 6in. in the clear,‘down which they expect to drop
£lOO,OOO ; a thousand feet of driving will reach the deep
ground, which will then be about 45ft. overhead. To
shift the water two 26-inch lifts will be dropped in each
shaft capable of lifting 10,000,000 gals, a day. The lan-
guage of some of the local people connected with it is
fairly strong. “We will have seven shafts like these
working here before long, and 3000 men will be em-
ployed.” Peacock (he of the kookaburra smile) is on the
local directorate. A splendid undertaking, whatever it
ends in.


A .
£sz//i (\"» sHL
MR. BENT’S GRIEVANCE.
At last night’s meeting of the Moorabbin Coun-
cil, Councillor Bent complained strongly of the
action of the council in expunging his notice of
motion on the night-soil question from the notice-
paper at the last meeting, owing to his absence.
He was at Port Fairy at the time, working hard
to pay 20s. in the «£l, instead of a paltry id., like
other land-boomers.
l/11/llw
"/A ,
A 1 see, Yoy,
Aide- de-J&y:- '% V o '?'^e^l/Qgidlo^
♦ i
•fl°\ -\JUrk -fijKWe oy<n)W oi)Q Vote? |
Ji°2 ~ Wby v 5 - I
f . ove. bL2\T>Ky Vole „ |
[H Cs?li^V 4 ) "0-0-ol? !
ffkl f
®- «-i't4
Js
'*sSsS>
WtKp> |J
: finest We 0) en
i° 8s
l0 *«°o?l
| o J jjiz*/ ; -"If- 14
j/ou. WeVe i
I £®ip<d3 Ol7 /
| n XwLuUW
I h2\/e cL'igA 2\j""
I y
£ Artists have the reputation of being excep-0
Jtionallv pugnacious in character. I will
2di»ny the allegation. It is, indeed a proof of g
Jtheir exceptional vital energy, their excess ofg
£power, which- must find itself an outlet. It is a|
sign of vigorous health.
• i vour dr3.wingr oonl "’" 3IC ( ’ )ra t or io
Certainly, /°° ur nauseous Britisn ffl(jrely
royalty ballad popular bUity , of im-
sentimentallty, y he outconl e of Ueo ff J eminao y.
musical dis««“ d V ; CB , of sickening « healthy
e° tence VhL are Utterly repugnant to depres .
Hence they are opu i a r concerns RS a
jf?" is ruipou/e<L /fiflA/ewlury Ksd-ptf)
/fersfyzJlz&d Septepce <\ d*se °j'
/opuJacr Cp-pccrf. ’
MELBOURNIANA.


' Great satisfacti .in is expressed by members on bdth
[sides of the House at the news circulated'in the
(newspapers that Mr. Want finds it necessary to take
a trip abroad. Even Ministerialists look tipin himras
ithe “ arch-enemy of federation,” and but few of
'them would feel inclined to trust Mr. Reid with the
.negotiations with the Premiers of the other col onies-
fc whilst Mr. Want remained in the Cabinet.,! 1
f m a f%'aliffiiu%s*t fitUJl ?
&/tt"fi/fiy fig
fififirafifi/z Art
fifime Tifi Aat
/tMSpr
jttfi'fijfferfi a fritiu-tiThe- oULat% fi r '
1/IQITUH
U\]
t°h
A deputation, representing butter exportingcom-|§
lanies and others, waited upon the President of th«s=
3oard of Health yesterday afternoon to ask
i,ome enactment should he passed bearing on the sale
Sf margarine. ■
The deputation had also suggested
that the sellers of pastry, in the making of which
: margarine had been used should ho required tP
[label such pastry accordingly,
\ _/i
firf/filA/Vfi- At rtiaft-c/!
7 i>sy - " AA/AanAs, fifirefit fi
C Sfatot —fi?r m } fiAsf MS
-rfai/- ss iiicanfr"
CARTOONLETS.


“ Washington ” Was Killed 1
SOME UNPUBLISHED FACTS ABOUT
HIS LAST ILLNESS AND THE LES-
SON THEY CON TEY TO MEN AND
WOMEN OF THE PRESENT DAY.
It is not generally known that General Washing-
ton was killed in a most cruel and barbarous man-
ner, but it is, nevertheless, a fact.
At the time of his death Washington was in Ins
68th year, a strong, robust man. On December
12, 1799, he contracted a severe cold, and pneu-
monia threatened. Two doctors were summoned,
and, in accordance with the absurd custom of those
days, they proceeded to bleed their patient.
Nearly a quart of blood was taken from his veins,
until at last he begged them to let him die in
peace. He died that same day—not from disease,
but actually from loss of blood. He was killed by
ignorance 1
In these days any doctor who treated a patient
as Washington was treated would be indicted for
manslaughter. The world has moved since then,
and there has been a complete revolution in the
practice of medicine. Instead of. lowering the
vital forces by thinning the blood, advanced
physicians now endeavor to build up the strength
of their patients. They employ only the latest
and most scientific remedies.
And vet, in spite of this fact, we find thousands
of people endeavoring to improve their health by
taking old-fashioned medicines. They forget that
chemists and scientists have made great disco-
veries in recent years, and do not go back to the
antiquated remedies and concoctions that were
used a hundred years ago. It will not do.
What you, reader, need to cure the headaches,
dizziness, tired, worn-out, and irritable feelings,
constipation, and bearing-down sensations is some
modern discovery based on scientific truths that
would strike at the root of the trouble. You are
sick because your kidneys and liver are out of
order, and you should at once see that they are
put in order. “ Yes,” you say, “this is easy to
assert, but what shall Ido ? ” Take the best and
most scientific discovery for these troubles you
can find. Ask any advanced scientist what this
is, and he will tell you, Warner’s Safe Cure. This
discovery stands alone, by itself, and far above
all so-called medicines of the past or nostrums of
the present. In speaking about it, Dr. William
Edward Robson, of London, says :
“ I conscientiously and emphatically state that
I have been able to give more relief and effect
more cures by the use of Warner’s Safe Cure than
by any other medicine attainable to the pro-
fession.”
This is high praise, but no higher than the sub-
ject deserves, as you will readily ascertain upon
using this great, modern discovery. *
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
Gold Bangle set with 9 Beautiful Opals and
16 White Pearls. 50s. each.
Our New
Twin
Bird
Brooches
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
mmm
%
Gold, set with one finest quality Amethyst, Topaz, or
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
Our 1898 Registered
Novelty
Bird Brooch,
Extra Strong.
REGS
90. Gold,
158
pair.
15c. Gold,
20a
pair.
Our New Gold Bamboo Bangles.
22s 6d: Broader, 32s 6d ; Children’s Size, 14s
Gold Twin Swallow Brooches.
Full Size, London made, 9c., 12s 6d; 150., 17s 6d pair.
Gold Pin and Chain Pendants.
Gold Fin and Chain Pendants.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6. Smaller size, 6/6.
„ Lucky Bell 7/6. ~ ~4 6.
„ Heart 7/6. ~ ~ 56.
„ Cross B'-. Larger size, in c
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3s 6d, 5s Od, 7s 6d, 10s
Our New Wild Boar’s
Tusk Brooch. „
With Chain & Bell Pendant.
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d
Gold „ 14s
POST FREE.
Beal Amethyst Heart Pendant, 2/6 each.
Real Amethyst Button Hooks, 2/6 each.
Lucky Shamrock
Pendants.
Genuine 4-leaf between
2 Crystals, Solid Gold
Mount, 10s each.
New Gold
Horse & Stirrup
Pendant, 13/6
NOTE Our ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Hr SfeSte
eas
t/u*
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL,
COLLINS STREET WEST,
MELBOURNE.
This magnificent Hotel is replete with every modern convenience. It offeis
a greater variety of accommodation than any hotel in the world.
TWO DINING ROOMS & CAFE.
T-A-nilF'IF’S ;
ROOMS ONLY from 2s. to 10s. per Night; 12s. 6A to £3 3s. per Week.
Meals as required.
BOARDERS (inclusive of Three Meals per Hay, Attendance, Hot or Cold
Baths, Storage of Luggage, etc.) from 255. to £3 3s. per
Week, according to accommodation selected.
Electric Light in every Room.
Situate close to Stations, Steamers and centre of City
Answers to Correspondents.
No mtice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
I\ : Acting-Gov. Madden, according to people
who speak from personal knowledge of him, is no nig-
gard, but a very generous man. He “ parts ” freely, and
oftentimes in secret. Even his hair is parted at the hack.
T.G.S. : The lady who introduces another lady (on
terms) into sassiety is as old as sassiety itself. Also, she
has been advertising for the last 25 years 6 x 8 : Will
print Pic. M. A Yawn (Tas.): Our yawn in time saved
99,999 .... Another C.B. :No points Edith L. : Shallow,
forceless sentiment H.G. : Murder that Muse
Bullaman : Not one good loaf in the batch ... Ignotus:
Will use “Cookery.” Athelstone : Commonplace
A.H. : No value as told R.M.C. : Milk-cart Pegasus
M.M. : Boil poems for nine hours, and use liquor as a
white-ant mixture McL. : Thanks ; but it has all been
said already Pipaki : Not grit enough Frank Rolls:
Sorrv you couldn’t come to the funeral Mia-mia:
Imagine that the goats at Judgment-Day will just bleat
like that D.E. (Vie.): Too thin Shaw N. : Point
isn’t clear John L. : Mystic drivel . E.A.M.: Declined
with moderate enthusiasm Erica : Not good enough. ..
Humula : The gentleman who says The Bulletin is a
“ low ” paper was, at one time, a professed protectionist.
He is, just now, a violent freetrader, and is chiefly known
In his capacity of mining-tipster Job : “ Member’s
honorarium in not wages; it is a reimbursement of his
personal expenses only and should be accepted in no other
light.” Nonsense ! A member’s honorarium should be
taken simply as payment for services rendered .... Marie
L. : Trouble usually is that when Bulletin prints and
pays for a carefully-written, compressed, one-column tale
by a new contributor, that contributor at once starts to
bombard it with sloppily-written, five or six-column yarns.
Sometimes even 40-column stories are sent. Bulletin
wouldn’t print a story for Charles Dickens.
Not that 12-column stories may not be good. Only
they don’t suit this paper, which lays strictly to
its book W. J. E. : “ Lay me to rest ! ” Charmed 1
Nell Cook: Both pretty fair. Verse graceful
and not unpromising Jack Stack: Don’t remember
it Cos. : An angel damns where fools have dared to
flatter E.S.S. : Lamb-M. and Bush-Twist acceptable
7x7: Tell us where he died. Can’t print without de-
tails .... H. M‘D. : No, thanks M.N.: “Miss Grease”
accepted; please send address Onlys: “ Hassler’s
Mistake” is a human document, but is unprint-
able because woman - readers would ask for explana-
tions which it would be impossible to publish C.W. :
In America three States- Pennsylvania, Georgia and Ver-
mont-tried to do with a single House of Representa-
tives. The three gave up the experiment. In Canada,
however, five States have only one provincial House of
Parliament, while two stick to the old bi-cameral system....
D. : The moral difference between a two-up school in Rus-
sell-street and a poker or euchre school in Collins-street
is not very obvious, but the latter is never raided.
C.W.S. : “Father Ryan” is not a new poet
from among the Australian clergy whom the paper
named is exploiting. Abraham Joseph Ryan was a
Virginian American who died in ’B6. Shellback : As far
as we can learn the Prof, was never an actor of conse-
quence in any important show .... N. : The German
“peeg-neeg” entertainment is a matter of taste, like
sauer-kraut Muggins :As we don’t know you, you can’t
expect us to print such news without some kind of verifi-
cation. Too old in the tooth to take anything of the sort
for granted Chafing-gear : Would like to know result
of second testing Yacky : Will print Dobbie ; others
unsuitable Mof : That’s nothing; it is recorded that
Col. Skinner had 12 native wives W.J.H. : One verse
of your poem—
But there came a day &c., &c.
Which reminds us that
The bard who comes with a tortured jingle
Concerning a girl whom he wants to “ bunch,”
Had better propose, if they both be single.
And publish the wedding in Melbourne Punch.
W.H.D. : Will pass, but strongly recalls “ When I was
a Roman soldier,” &c Endo : You have omitted to num-
ber your badly-written MS., which came to hand mixed
and cannot lie sorted out Tommy J. : “Quality we
expect ” best shown by our columns. However, you
needn’t judge solely from them. Always ready to take
anything better Rusticulus : Two pages to say that to
escape the train he jumped into a cattle pit ! Hayward
(M.L.): Yes ....Bushtrax : Nothing in any of’em 7x7 :
Yarn to hand, also verse, also objurgation. Come along
and run the B. yourself 1 Eko : Pig-lie labored and un-
funny... Boss of Flies : As you say, miserable exhibition
of hypocritical selfishness, but we can’t touch it
in the circs. Will return if you send real address ...
H.S.M. : Idea good ; work clumsy J.V.M. : Promising
sketch . .. N.W. : Ends well, but otherwise not strong
enough .. Prospect Good : Not good enough, though !.. ..
Destiny : Some strength but no freshness of style
A. A. A. : Horse-yarn might pass if you didn’tstop so often
to explain about the extreme dirtiness of the narrator.
N.B. (Mildnra): You can draw a map showing that
any place is the natural railway centre of Australia and
should consequently be the Federal capital. We have
accumulated maps showing that Wentworth, Blayney,
Bathurst, Sydney, and Bourke (N.S.W.), Balla-
rat (Vic.), Alice Springs, Gawler, and Port Augusta
(S.A.), Thargomindah, Cloncurry, and Fisher’s Lagoon
(Q.), Hobart (Tasmania), also Port Darwin and Kalgoorlie,
are each the only possible Federal city.. W.L. : Ordi-
narv horse-yarn in easy, aggravating long metre
Matchhead : You have a good deal of ability, but you
need to get more education before you will be a success.
Dagon : Acrostics are rather weak fun, anyhow
8.0. : Nigger sketoh with “blanky” in it declined
Snakejuice : J. Want did declare himself against any kind
of Federation. In a long speech in N.S. W. Leg. Council,
on 21st July, ’97, he used these expressions : “As one of
the recognised opponents, I might almost say the arch-
destroying angel, of Federation, I feel deeply indebted,”
&c. . . . “ I, as well as others, had always pronounced my-
self an anti-Federationist pure and simple. ... I who
oppose Federation. ... It is a Provinoialist who is speak-
ing. ... Is there anything in this question of Federation
more than a mere fad ? ” There are pages more of the
same sort in Hansard ... H.M. : Dog yarn not up ...
E. Mac. : None of them up to mark Goto : As short of
point as a brass sphere R.J.E. : Rats! (1) The M.L.
Govt, office charges 6 per cent, lower premiums, and the
same expenses which are 10 per cent, of £lOO are over £lO
12s. per cent, of £94. (2) The annuity business is left
out. (3) The other office simply limits its expenses in
this particular line to the figure quoted, and all the
expenses above that have to be borne by its other
branch. (4) At age 20 the State office charges 2s. sd. less
premium, and gives 2s. 3d. less cash bonus. Therefore,
the State office is the cheaper by 2d.—and gives vastly
better security than any private concern can possibly do.
J.K.M.: The Bulletin didn’t recommend any candi-
date for Gipps Division because it couldn’t decide which
man was the less unpromising Federalist. Same in one
or two other places W. Young : (1) old ; (2) aged ; (3)
stupid and profane Malle : Unpleasant item about old
woman’s feet. Don’t like old women’s feet E.S. : The
only joke in it is an indecent joke Dickie Bird : As an
artist you must be the very worst chookey-hen in crea-
tion Ralphus :No room for “ essays ” and “ papers ”
in Bulletin. The profound investigations of a learned
philosopher sitting dispassionately on a fence and looking
at both sides of a subject might be valuable if people would
read them. But they won’t T. Love : (1) Tiie Bulle-
tin advocates Protection and Federation just because it
is Democratic ; (2) It believes in unification, but it doesn’t
take the trouble to say much about it because it is impos-
sible at present. It also believes in the abolition of all
sin, but it says very little about that for same reason ; (3)
Federation won’t cause “ great extra taxation ; (4) So
the fact that N.S.W. Parliament with its Tory nominee
Council has never done much good is a proof, in your
idea, that the Federal Parliament, with both Houses
elected on pure manhood suffrage, would be still worse.
And you call yourself a Democrat!! 1 Bushtrax :
Chestnut much too dead Bogan Scrubber: Don’t be-
ieve one word of that gorgeous tale about Natal
M.W.S.: The man who writes an easy and interesting
hand stands 40 times a better chance of having his MS.
thoroughly read than he who sends in a repulsive-looking
screed. It is true, mind you, that all interesting-100/mig
MSS. are not easy to read ; it is also true that not all very
legible hands are" interesting. For another thing—nearly
all clever penwomen write more or less alike and quite
legibly Casa W. : Ignorant prejudice. Though the
Jews form but a fraction of the population, they have
more musical ability than all the rest of the community
put together Karl Carr: Will print “Softy.”. J.
Nugent: Good idea, but drawing far below par. Will re-
draw Frank H. (Bondi): No hope whatever. You
haven’t even begun to learn drawing Mirano :No good
for you, a layman, to dogmatise thus about the adminis-
tration of chloroform. You airily step in where practised
surgeons, quite as intelligent and conscientious as your-
self, fear to tread. Present writer knew a surgeon, a
brilliant operator, who never had a death under chloro-
form, though he habitually used it on all sorts of heart-
disease cases. Used to say it made no difference —and it
didn’t, so far as his patients were concerned. Seems to
be the apparently-healthy who collapse on the “ who’d
have thought it” principle . Got-em-bad : Excellent
Tahune writes: As to whether the ship Lady Franklin
was employed carrying convicts from Port Arthur to
Norfolk Island. I know men who made that “trip” ip
her 11.0.: You suggest “Eureka’’ as a name for
federated Australia. But federated Australia doesn’t
need another name. “Eureka” wouldn’t be a very bad
name for the capital Munea : You haven’t yet even
begun to learn drawing. “Convincing” may serve as
illustration-idea Geo. R. (B.B.): Perhaps one for illus-
tration Cunjevoy : Old Marcolo : The old, commer-
cial cry that mining is a failure —what industry has pro-
duced such remarkable results under such miserably
ignorant management, and supported such an army of
parasites into the bargain? Bulletin’s advice is—back
mines, don’t back ponies. But first see that you are
really backing a mine, not a mere prospectus.......
C.W. : No, indeed. Gov. Macgregor’s official salary is
only £l5OO a year Abner Byng : Too labored J.L.F.:
Won’t rake up that trial story. The man paid the penalty
and is dead, but his children, brainy and decent people,
are alive Coleman’s Case : Would have to know result
of second testing Nell Cook : Don’t write on both
sides of paper, please .....Widgee : “Mistake ” — is one !....
T. 8.8. : Will inquire 6x 8: Pars received. Verse,
may use Tom-Tom : Just so ! —more noise than music.
......Alice H. : Shelley-and-water Whim : Can’t gratify
you Rudolf : Styie not “grand” ; only “grandiose”
—very different thing Eugene C. : Much promise, but
too wordy Rake :No “Progress”!


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Many a man has often wondered why sheep
driven through any narrow passage will all imi-
tate the leader if he gives a leap. This ex-
planation by Dr. Louis Robinson in “Traits of
Wild Animals ” may be of interest. According
to Robinson, when sheep in a wild state dash off
together among broken ground, or are crowding
together along some perilous ledge on a mountain-
side—their usual habitat —it would be quite useless
for those in the middle of the band to endeavor to
see obstacles at their feet. Hence each keeps his
eye on the leader (or on those in front), and imi-
tates his or their movements. If the leader thinks
a 3ft. jump is sufficient, every member of the
flock follows suit. . . . Hereditary transmission
has passed the wild habit on to the tame de-
scendant.
A GRAZE IN HIGH LIFE.
The English fashionable world as well as their
envious satellites have adopted Ogden’s Guinea
Gold Cigarettes as their favorite smoke.
For Sale
ESTABLISHED PRINTING
OFFICE, centrally situated,
doing a Profitable Turnover,
mostly Cash Trade. Complete
PRINTING PLANT, carrying up-to-date Machinery,
Type, etc. Cost originally £B5O. To be sold as a Bargain
as a going concern. Particulars,
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
PRINTERS’ FURNISHERS, 87 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hollow Ground
fl >
■Aliv,
/o?
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
uine in VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. V.
7 /6 FREE.
Our 50s. SOLID SILVER
KEYLESS HUNTER
WATCH to all comply-
ing with this advertisement and the offer
which we shall send. It would be ridicu-
lous to expect us to continue giving away these Watches
for any length of time. So kindly send at once if you
wish to secure A SILVER WATCH. For
post free, we will send a Solid Gold Brooch or Scarf Bin,
together with our Marvellous Offer, and on your comply-
ing with offer we shall forward our 50s. Watch. Under-
stand, we charge no money whatever for these Watches.
Number is limited. Money refunded in full if sent too
late. Send 7s. 6d., with stamped addressed envelope.
—ADDRESS—
THE MANAGER,
The globe Watch go., [td.,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Tb? Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared. _
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
‘ WHEN YOU BUY
Eiicalypt((s Oil or Extract,
' BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., L+.d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
AHSIHM
H3HIY3H aiIHM
JOJ 3[SV
DAVID STORER & SONS*
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers,
Sb?ep Brapdiog Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
iar THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS are FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Days nvc cowivny—You will wuut uTV ushi uy Dt css.
Schiedmayer & Soehne Pianos
The
Sole Agency
for these
Delightful
Pianos
is held by
Messrs.
Nicholson & Co.
*
• •
G-eorg-e-st., Sydney.
The Firm Of SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE has been
established over one hundred years.
These Pianos bear the very best reputation for workman-
ship and beauty of tone.
The Touch is unexcelled by any other maker.
These Pianos will stand the most trying climates.
Messrs. Nicholson & Co. have a large stock of the
SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE Pianos on view.
The Prices for these superb instruments are most
moderate, also they can be had on the Time-payment
System.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SOLE
AGENTS,
BRISBANE & PERTH.
A DISH FOR PRINOES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders. Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leaning Wholesale Houses.
PATTISONS’ WHISKY COMPETITION—SO PRIZES.
“The Opening Of the Case,” - Drawn by BERT A. LEVY.
Who are They ? Nearly every figure depicted in this crowded court is a portrait of some Sydney celebrity in Society, Law, Politics, Art, or the Theatrical world
'—
--
' 5 :
■sr
IV ft
.
m }
m
:
; r- .
"THE OPENING OP THE CASE,”
T L nnrh'aits and in order that everyone may have an opportunity of endorsing the opinion arrived at by Judge and Jury, Ih
L'ATTISONS’ L WHI h SK? V IS will present a Case containing One Dozen of PATTISONS’ “Morning Dew” Eight Years Old Whisky to the senders of the be*
10 lists stating Who’s who?
CONDITIONS.
sent in by each competitor. Mr. Bert A. Levy
Sept.


• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
GENERAL ELECTION!
. . The C’rect Political Tip . .
XJ'iWA.nxriiva: : us vote !
TOPS THE POLL :
Bitty TEH.
Good Second : GOLDENIA. All others nowhere.
EMORMOUS MAJORITY !
Grrannm a, FodLah..
Dead Heat.
In every Constituency, both Before and After
the Poll.
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
In much request.
Sole Proprietors and Agents : JAMES INGLIS & 00.,
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY. Wholesale Only.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
'US?™ Sales Held at the Auction Hooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Questions to be asked as soon as N.S.W.
Assembly opens : In what state is the Mercadool
conspiracy case now? How much have the in-
quiries and prosecutions so far cost the country ?
There are five barristers and 13 attorneys
in N.S.W. Assembly, including ex-practitioner
Meagher and conveyancer Nobbs. In the Leg.
Council are seven barristers and seven attorneys.
Mudgee, which now returns to N.S.W.
Assembly a newspaper man, has, in its time, re-
turned two men —Innes and Martin —who attained
the Supreme Court Bench, and three—Parkes,
Martin, and Robertson —who became Premiers.
N.S.W. Government should explain to
Parliament what action has been taken on expert
irrigationist Home’s expensive report, and, if it
be determined to lay it aside as waste paper, on
whose authority and recommendation is this course
to be adopted ?
The Kingston Govt.’s State fire-insurance
scheme has caused a split in S.A. Tory ranks.
Opposition-leader Downer strongly opposes the
measure, but several of his party favor it, and, as
the Labor crowd solidly support, the Bill will
probably go through the Assembly.
“ Jack ” Want was pretty active during
the general election in endeavoring to label the
Barton party as “Conservatives,” and yet Gar-
land, his own nominee for Woollahra seat, was
proudly showing letters from Salisbury, the Eng-
lish Tory Premier, thanking him (G.) for services
rendered to the Conservative cause.
What Federation, guaranteeing immunity
from border duties, means to border districts. In
’92, which was the “ strike year,” and altogether one
of the blackest in its history, Broken Hill paid
£115,000 through the Customs, mostly for S.A.
produce, since nothing can be produced locally
and little can be sent round from eastern N.S.W.
Melville, of Yic. Leg. Council, has hit
upon a very “ advanced ” reason for not encourag-
ing narrow-gauge railway construction. He said,
the other night, it was questionable whether the
48 Rich Landlords should not “pause to see if
steam-power was not superseded.” Whereat
several of his sapient colleagues nodded their
heads gravely, as though they would be in favor
of a royal commission to enquire into the subject
of a balloon-traffic system, or something in that
way. The Councillors are always deeply im-
pressed by any proposal to Pause. As jnagnifieent
pausers they sit unrivalled.
Bishop Webber is of opinion that
the kanaka has a good time in Queensland.
In proof of this, he tells a yarn of how a
deputation of islanders approached him
and requested him to remove a certain
clergyman who was “not much good,” be-
cause he could not teach singing. Dr.
Webber further ridicules the idea that
there is anything like slavery in Queens-
land. Courier pats him on the back, and
remarks: “We frankly admit that if the
inevitable result of this contact
was contamination and deterior-
ation, it would be an obligation
upon us not to bring them.”
The Courier sees no evidence of
deterioration in the circum-
stance that the kanaka death-
rate is about 30 per thousand,
or in the fact that the popula-
tion of Polynesia is not 40 per
cent, of what it was 30 years
ago—not the least. No ! That
gallant organ goes on to argue
that because Tommy Tanna is
so well off, it’s quite time
Queensland introduced the Pa-
puan. See ?
Reid has been through-
out his term as N.S. Wales
Premier notably kind to M. ’sP.
The services rendered were in
all cases at the expense of
the country, however, Par-
nell’s motion to cut off the
late trams was, when an effort
was made to carry it out, hushed
to rest by Reid’s assurance that
in his reign there would be few
late sittings. He was kind
especially kind to the Public
Works Committee, giving them
in every session pretexts for draw-
ing fees when no actual value could
attach to their reports. In his Bill
proposing to amalgamate N.S.W. and'
Govt. Savings Banks under a paid di-
rectorial board of seven he thoughtfully
provided that M.’sP. were to be eligible.
In fact, members who want anything, from frank-
ing their letters upwards, at the country’s ex-
pense, could depend upon Reid’s encouraging
support.
The talk of appointing J. H. Carruthers,
a solicitor, to the office of N.S.W. Attorney-
General, recalls the ominous fact that a similar
appointment of James Martin, when a solicitor,
was the cause of an immediate and successful vote
of censure on the Cowper Govt. It was that vote
that determined Martin to obtain admission to
the Bar.
In every N.S.W. Parliament since pay-
ment of members became law one or more members
refused to accept the monthly cheque. With
Adrian Knox, the last of these has disappeared.
Dugald Thompson w.ill still distribute his pay in
charity, but he will take his cheque. Bruce Smith
allowed his to accumulate till it reached £BOO and
then lifted it. In the Victorian Legislature,
Higinbotham out-Smithed Smith, for he declined
to touch his member’s salary even when he retired
from the House. He declined to touch it while
Chief Justice, but at his death it went in a lump
sum to his widow.
The Yellow Pup has worried its way into
the Vic. Labor-party. A split in the voting has
already occurred through his yelping in South
Melb. Although two nominal members of the
Parliamentary party Gray, of Prahran, and
Vale, of Ballarat—are pronounced Orangemen,
the color difficulty has not before arisen in the
counsels of the organisation.
There is promise of trouble in N.S.W.
Labor-party by the arrival of the eloquent and
pungent debater, Holman, from Grenfell. He was
never wanted by the present party, because he
forced them, at the 9th of Nov. conference, to
accept the metaphysical fallacy that a politician
has no conscience worth troubling about, and
insisted on the now accepted pledge.
Tas. mines now employ 5016 whites and
262 Chinese. White increase over last year, 1036 ;
Chinese decrease, 64. Nobody seems to know’
where these 64 Chows, together with the few hun-
dred new arrivals, have gone. Certainly meat
has been at famine prices in Tas., but ? One
can’t imagine that the increased demand for vege-
tables has found work for all the surplus heathen.
Only one Labor-member in the last
N.S.W. Parliament failed to get back. And—
bitter irony ! —-it was that particular one—Black—
who, on the morning of the vote, wrote to S.M.
Herald to correct a “ mis-statement,” and to
announce: “There will be no need to take a
caucus as to whom we shall support when Parlia-
ment assembles. We know with whom we have
to deal.”
Turner Govt.’s Land Bill provides for the
protection of a certain area, containing the house,
from the ravages of the mortgagee and sheriff.
There have been several unsuccessful attempts by
private members to introduce the Homestead
Protection principle, so successful in some of the
United States, into Victoria ; but this being a
Govt. Bill may escape the usual mutilation by the
House of Mortgagees.
Broken Hill polled a majority for the
Commonwealth Bill. Yet, so solid is the Labor
vote there that, when it came to a choice between
the Labor man and a Bartonite candidate—a
fairly-strong local man—the former had a
majority of 943 ; which beats Carruthers’
majority at St. George by 14. And the position
in the neighboring Alma, Sturt, and Wilcannia
was only “a little less so.”
Q. Premier Byrnes has apparently sized
up the great services rendered to Mongrelia by
his predecessor, Nelson. The Governor’s speech
at the openin : of Parliament contains no reference
whatever to the past doings of the Govt., and has
not one word of thanks for the great financier
who “ thoroughly investigated ” the Q.N.B.’s
affairs in ’93 and found them as regular and satis-
factory as those of the Bank of England.
Lord Kilmorey is trying to pilot his big
outer-harbor scheme through S.A. Parliament.
Proposed to spend £2,000,000, mainly English
capital, within five years. Apparently there is
to be no restriction upon wharfage charges, and
Govt, is not to be allowed to purchase until 1925.
The proposals will meet with strong opposition
from S.A. Liberals, who intend to advocate the
construction by Govt, of a similar work.
A MILITARY INCIDENT.
ADVANCE GUARD (to Australian Highland regi-
ment): “ Back there I if you don't want to
he eaten to the bone.”
Wrixon has a Gladstonian consuming fire
to get into the limelight, be in evidence. Hence
his democratic aberrations, even as his father-in-
law, Money Miller, stood almost alone in the
Council as a champion of M'Culloch. The day
has bygone when Wrixon was thought the only
possible man for Vic. Chief Justice, Speaker-or
Premier.
The persistent rumor that one coasting co.
is about to man all its steamers with coolies
renders it imperative that, in default of the possi-
bility of immediate federal action, combined
representations should be made to the Imperial
Govt, to put the merchant shipping laws, as far as
they apply to Australia, on a “ white ” footing.
Grave doubts seem to exist as to the power of the
provincial legislatures to act effectually in the
matter.
THE VENTILATED PAUPER.
“Cold? Nonsense, man! This fine bracing weather you can
enjoy your clothes.”
One of the jokes of the recent N.S.W.
campaign was the constitution of the Reid candi-
dates’ selection committee. It contained two
recent Prudent Federalists, a member of the now
almost defunct National Ass, and a man who lost
his .£4O deposit in ’9l, and who could not poll 20
votes at a municipal election in a suburb where he
was well known. These men “ selected ” the men
whom people were asked to vote for as Federalists.
J. H. Cann, the Labor-member “ men-
tioned ” for a Reid portfolio, was, curiously
enough, the very member chosen by the party to
go up to Lithgow and run as opposition candidate
to Cook when the latter accepted N.S.W. Post-
master Generalship. But not even Cann could
hold the Broken Hill seat against the “ Soli-
darity ’’candidate, who would be run in opposi-
tion if he took the loaves and fishes without the
party’s sanction.
“ What’s in a name ? ” Sydney D.T. now
persistently labels S.M. Herald “the Sydney
morning Protectionist organ ” and “ our morning
Protectionist contemporary.” The Herald wants
Federation. TheD.T. doesn’t —because Federation
means Australian National Protection! “Our Pro-
tectionist contemporary ! ” A straw shows ! The
D.T. is clearly prepared to sacrifice Australian
Nationalism to its Freetrade-shoddy fetish. The
Herald isn’t. The D.T. is now the Sydney
morning Freetrade organ—with a vengeance.
It was generally expected that Sargood,
and not Fitzgerald, would have been put up in
Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords to scoff an old
rich scoff at the revolutionary proposals of Wrixon.
But Sargood remained silent, because, so it is
said, he was not altogether out of sympathy with
Wrixon’s proposed reforms. Yet Sargood left
the Turner Ministry on account of its One-Man-
One-Vote proposals—which, by the way, were
adopted by the Assembly on second reading last
week by 61 to 18.
Premier Byrnes puts it : Before any
Japanese immigration into Q. can take place the
persons desirous of introducing the little brown
alien must first communicate with the nearest
immigration-agent, who will apply to the Home
Secretary to obtain the desired permission.
Further, Byrnes'avers the Jap. Govt is not favor-
able to its people coming to Q., and will not
permit any emigration unless Q. Govt, expressly
sanctions it. It will be very easy, then, to fasten
the responsibility of the next landing on the right
shoulders.
There are 11 Labor members out of 54 in
S.A. Assembly, and 4 out of 24 in the Council. It
is the strongest Labor-party in Australia, and
nominally it bolds the balance of power. But in
reality it does nothing of the kind, for, though it
could turn out Kingston.by allying itself with the
Downer crowd, a Labor-party which threw in its
lot with that gang of bitter Tories would never
come back after next election. Glynn tried to fix
up an alliance with the Labor-men for his want-
of-confidenee motion, but the best conditions on
which they could join him made the hair of the
Tory Oppositionists stand up with horror.
The Australasian (the weekly edition of
Melb. Argus) has begun to curse Premier Turner
with its support, and especially approves of his
proposed reduction of the income-tax. “An
income-tax,” it says, “ is essentially an emergency
tax, and the rates now levied could not be in-
creased in case of emergency.” Victorian income-
tax rates range from 4d. to Is. 4d. in the £, ac-
cording to the wealth of the taxpayer. The man
who earns, by personal exertion, not over <£l2oo a
year pays only 4d. in the <£ with .£2OO exemption.
There was a time in Britain when all incomes
above .£l5O paid Is. 4d. in the £ (four times the
Vic. rate); even now they pay Bd. in the £ (twice
the Vic. rate); and Britain is manfully liquidating
its big debt with the proceeds. If the Australian
had J. Bull’s grit he would do likewise, instead of
wailing that he is a poor crushed worm who
can’t afford to pay his way.
That fine old Maoriland
Tory, G. F. Richardson, wants
the secret ballot introduced
into Parliament. What a lovely
episode it would be when a
motion was on (say) for the re-
duction of members from 100
to 50 ! There would be a big
House—even the dying mem-
ber would get down on an am-
bulance ; and the whole 100 dis-
interest d patriots would sup-
port the suggestion, and then
the Bill would be defeated by
99 votes to 1. And every one
of the 100 would swear that he
was the one..
A State-owned .steamboat
service between Wellington and
Lyttelton (M.L.) to connect the
railways of the two islands is
threatened by theSeddon Govt.,
the existing private service be-
ing regarded as inefficient. But
what is obviously wanted is the
completion of the northern
trunk railway from Auckland
to Wellington, and the exten-
sion of the main South Island
railway to Blenheim and Pic-
ton. Then a State-owned ferry
service across Cook’s Straits
would give the State a practical
monopoly of the traffic from
Waitemata to the Bluff—some-
thing approaching 000 miles in
a bee-line.
Premier Seddon’s Second-
Ballot Bill, now before M.L.
Parliament, provides that if
the candidate at the top of the
list doesn’t get nine-twentieths
(why not make it one-half,
which is quite as fair and much
less complicated?) of the votes
recorded he and the next man
on the list must poll over again.
But the M.L. House of Reps,
has already thrown out two
similar measures. The average M.H.R. doesn’t
mind being liberal when he gets in, but he is
bitterly Tory about the mode of getting in.
The latest yarn circulated (and printed) by
S: A. Opposition, for the purpose of injuring the
Ministry, is the canard that Education Minister
Butler and his wife had “ perverted ” to the R.C.
Church from the Anglicans. The flimsy founda-
tion of the story is that, some years ago, the sister
of Butler’s second wife married a Catholic, and
agreed to attend church with him. There are two
Catholics (J. V. O’Loghlin and L. O’Loughlin) in
the Kingston Cabinet already, and the Premier’s
wife also belongs to that church, so that, in view
of the coming general election, the story referred 1
to above was calculated, when unscrupulously
used, to do considerable harm A Register
writer to the country press has. the debit of invent-
ing it.
Men are the slaves of names and signs and
outward pretences. The N'.S.'W. anti-Bill party—
the Salomons-Want-Pilcher-Heydon-Dibbs push
with nine-tenths of the N.S.W. Council enthusi-
astically supporting it; and Premier Reid, the
man who voted for the three-fifths majority and
who promises to preserve the Nominee Upper
House ; and the Cabbage-Tree Mob; and all the
landlords of Sydney, who are prepared to
damn any and every Federation unless the
Federal capital is placed right on their property—
had the ineffable cheek to call their gang of re-
actionaries the Liberal and Democratic party.
And casual individuals, hearing that these hide-
bound Tories are the Democratic party, still
write at intervals to The Bulletin to know why
it isn’t supporting the Democratic crowd. This
paper has a vague' idea that the Spanish institu-
tion which combusted the local Protestant used to
call itself the Liberal and Progressive Democratic
Inquisition, or something like that.
Sydney Telegraph about put up the
Ananias record last Thursday, and took the bun
out of Sodom and Gomorrah, when it announced,
under the big heading “Protectionist Misstate-
ments,” that the Barton party only scored 11,017
votes at N.S.W. general election against over
82,000 for the Reid party. Its logic is that all the
old members of the Barton way of thinking are
simply Protectionists who would have been re-
turned anyhow, and their votes shouldn’t be
counted, and they don’t show that the country
approves of Barton’s Federal policy though they
advocated that policy. And, on the other hand,
when the old members were returned on the other
side they aren’t simply Freetraders who would
have been returned anyhow on the Freetrade
ticket, and their votes should be counted, and they
do show that the country approves of Want and
Reid’s Federal policy. Think of the joy of being
any party’s newspaper hack and having to stake
your immortal soul—if you have one—on yarns
like that for a living !
B. R. Wise, in his Convention remarks on
the Referendum —the remarks which were so
wildly garbled at election time—pointed out one
weak spot in the arrangement. Some one must
formulate the question to be submitted to the
people, and a great deal depends on the way it is
formulated. For instance, the prohibition ques-
tion could be put to Australia in general in these
two ways :
First way : “ Are you in favor of the abolition of the
drink curse?”
Second way : “ Are you in favor of the total prohibition
of alcohol and the raising of about £2,200,000 per annum
by some new form of direct or indirect taxation to make
up the loss of revenue ? [lf this loss is made good by
customs it will involve thedoubling of all existing duties.
If by direct taxation it will be equal to about 2s. in the
£ income-tax or about 4d. in the £ land-tax in addition
to existing taxation.]
Even with this drawback, however, the Referen-
dum will give a vastly more direct answer on any
big problem than a general election can do. For
it keeps the local culvert out of the question, and
at general elections the culvert intrudes itself into
everything.


New System of Healing!
The Polypathic Institute and its Remarkable Work.
With absolute oertainty of locating disease, they cure beyond reasonable doubt in all cases.
23 Yorlt Street, Wyn-yard. Square, Sydney.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Dr. WILLIAM FLETCHER HALL, The Eminent Diagnostician, of the Polypathio
Medical Institute, 29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Diagnosis of Disease.
Without looking at the Tongue, feeling the Pulse, or any previous knowledge of the case.
w*!!! f , r f eed °",\ ot u aOC< ? ptir)R the . good and ejecting the bad in all systems; it has formulated
mneteenthcenturv ° hronl ° Cases ’ ,fc P re P ares lts own medicines, and applies them in the light of
THE POLYPATHIO MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY, where more capital is invested, more physicians
STREET^’WYN^ARU"sQUARE,^SYDNEY ““‘ e ’ by “ J ° th " in th * ”° rid ' 29 YORK
appliances, and
nunll) ? rtd fl '°. l ' l al .* parts of the world, and so remarkable has been their success that one
OP THE STR IPT T r S !V^ r^ r /xT na rm?r a^ o Vf,o , a , t n U UI who can ’ FROM A STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE
LOOKIiNGItTHETONGUE OR THE PutsE. A GLANOE ’ WITH °UT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS,
rings,* 1 p^sMries^an^T«d?]?ocai°'t reatnient !* ° Polypalhetic Method - whioh does a W with the speculum examination,
eelebra^e<f l HinHon 1 R o L?»ri npieSB Vi' 30 "^^ 11 me 7., wf i° are suffering from the errors of youth that they have the justly
All deshlnift-o S ° "’•! if nd fav< ? rab, - v k ' Knvn ln the Old World as the “ Anti-Agnechal Tabloid Method.”
Ail desiring to test the system will have such opportunity.
WRITE.
IF YOU CANNOT COME TO THE INSTITUTE FOR CON-
SULTATION, WRITE FOR A LIST OF QUESTIONS.
WRITE.
Free Consultation to all who call until Ist Sept.
Hundreds successfully treated every year by mail.
WE HAVE THE MOST PERFECT SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT BY MATT. EVER
USED IN THE COLONIES.
WyNYARD SQuTrf °svnvfv ,V 1 'tl*, l ' ° h M M d r CaI v , lnst , ifcute have leased the entire building, 29 YORK STREET,
and furnished Ro’ S Y- DN ?, Y - Th ' s bul ha « l) een most thoroughly re-modelled, and is now fully equipped,
vuthßecept^ion Rooms, Consultation Rooms, and Laboratories, all complete. All of the Polypathic
to none th<3 department, by fully qualified medical men, whose credentials are second
“«"«*■ B “" 18 «» «*•*• * •*“
h H Ve th ® Largest Private Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the
colony in which they ° Ver by 6Xpert cheu,lsts > registered by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the
Polypathic Medical Institute,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
THUR9D SATURDAYS, ?30 g”’ DAILY ' * Ve ™ g ConsulMions-TOESDAY.
EVEKY I ' KIDAY ' “ d Bive
Coolgrardie
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply Gr. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
Premier’s Turner’s Budget speech is a suf-
ficient answer to the Age’s question—What has
happened to the Vic. Railways rolling-stock, of
which no trace can be found ? Evidently it fell
to pieces, as a rule, during the Age regime of
“ strict economy ” in the dept. Expenditure on
rolling-stock in 1892-93 was .£243,000 ; next year it
fell t0*£37,000, and, during the next three years,
only .£63,000 was spent altogether. In 1896-7 the
ridiculous policy of letting things “go to pot ”
was checked by Commissioner Mathieson. The
present proposal is to spend £130,000 a year for
the next three years in restoring the rolling-stock
to its old state of decency.
“D.C.L.”
When applied to a man is a high Academic
distinction. When applied to whisky “D.C.L.” is
the highest distinction it can possess. “ D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.
To judge by N.S. W. election results, there
must be a bad slump in single-tax. Its three most
pronounced adherents went down badly—W.
Harding, with only 126 votes out of 1131; W. E.
Johnson, with 153 out of 2264; and ex-parson
Hessell-Hall, with only 58 out of 1909. Also
Dobbie and Foxall had a bad time. Hessell-Hall
stumped Darlington electorate for nine months,
only in the end to lift another man into Parliament
over the head of Protectionist-secretary Schey.
The Bulletin's London correspondent
writes that the prosecution for fraud of “not
proven ” Monson (of Ardlamont alleged-murder
notoriety) and his confederates (cable says they
were convicted and “ sent up ”) is but the first act
in a drama of hideous crime which will shock the
world.
“ Lex ” re the Vie. County Court Judgjs :
Judge Williams’ sneer about the Vic. County Court
Judges being failures in the profession is as untrue as it
was uncalled for. Take the present minor Bench.
Molesworth was a brilliant advocate—especially on the
criminal side ; his defence of Burns, the Beep Lead mur-
derer, stands as one of the very best in Vic. annals. He
was also most successful at common law : and was run
after by solicitors for civil cases. Hamilton is most
learned in the law, and, although certainly no advocate,
he was a success as a chamber barrister. He has edited
the Judicature Act, and his work is accepted as the recog-
nised authority on the Statute. Casey is a political
Judge—a real mediocrity, but has a wonderful fund of
common Sense, and has made a capital Judge. Gaunt
was an able criminal pleader, and only Finlayson knows
more about mining law than his Honor. Chomlev
was secretary to the Crown Law Department; and after-
wards Crown Prosecutor. No one ever said this high-
toned #nd urbane gentleman was a failure in that posi-
tion. He was not a Crown Persecutor, but no barrister
in Vic. ever held the Crown criminal briefs more ably or
successfully than this Judge. On his elevation to the
Bench, Mr. Purves told his Honor this, and surely that
leader of the Bar, above everyone else, should know.
WATCH.
WATCH your footsteps; you may slip and injure yourself.
WATCH your habits ; they may grow upon you unawares and get beyond
your control.
WATCH the tendency of the times. The world is moving and changing
every day, and you cannot afford to be left behind.
WATCH carefully the interests of your true friends. They are always few in
number, and you cannot do too much for those who have been
tested and tried.
WATCH above all things your health. It is the most precious possession you
can ever have in this life.
WATCH for the first signs of a cold, a cough and symptoms of malaria?
pneumonia or consumption.
WATCH for the little leaks which make the difference between failure and
success in business. And remember that these leaks can only be
stopped by using
Tbs National CaSb Register.
Send your Name and Address to
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager, Head Australasian Office,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
with particulars regarding the style of your business, &c., and we will post you valuable
information suited to your requirements.
EVERYTHING
AT
PALING’S.
W W
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIC
VIOLINS
AeeORDEONS
AUTOHARPS
CORNETS
BANJOS
FLUTES
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
Mouth Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS 1
AND i
FITTINGS)
For
► every In-
strument
Catalogues post free,
111. jf. Paling I Co.
Xitdl.,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
n
buy largely from the
World’s Best Makers and
can supply the most
Reliable PIANOS .
ORGANS, MUSIC, or MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
WRITE
AT
OACE
FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET,
“All About
Duniqp Tyres
For ’9B-9 ”
Replete with useful and interesting in-
formation to all Cyclists.
The issue is limited, so that anyone in-
terested in Cycling should send or write
for a copy at once to
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre (Jo. [td.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
And at Melbourne E. ; 59 Frafaklin-st., Adelaide; King-st., Perth-
and Lich field-st., Christchurch.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
jjllll. Mont de pieie
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
JMJa CASTLEREAGH ST.,
i JT SYDNEY •
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Puwnbroking Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
per montth.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
\uj\ssmm
H E A DOF FI eg
I ntersectiqn Hunter, Buqh and
Castle reach Streets .
• SYDNEY •
Established -1879. .di,
Office in AustkM-'V
Annual Income and Invested
FundsExceed JgOO,oooSterling .
By Appointment to His Excellency
? the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854 —44 Tears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HOYIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office:
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
CRAIG & AITKEINi,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All
Requisites
for SALOONS and
Hair working.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A < SLSTANT.-> Engaged for the Country.
A Silver Watcb
m- GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR" FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
N*V*R B* W*T*o*T A W*T*H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods
“The Man'aotir English Watch Co. —Miss Shellery
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19t.h July, 1898.”
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English "Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb€ TrGst€€s, €xec<itor&,
AND
Coti}paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ... £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £60,000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ... ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000
Paid-op . £2,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornier,
M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 BisJiopsfjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wrong', New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes <£106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
,
Colonial Mutual l>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748 —assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo**'* n.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or'to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
mmi
~ IHBNEH
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
US’ CELLULAR, FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ Co.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between Georsre and York streets).
r HALES
OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, August 13, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 20, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, August 13, 2 p.m.
-Burwah, Tuesday, August 16, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 2d, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Leura, Saturday, August 13,2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 20, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWKST CIIKItIiNT I tIM S TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other informal ion, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Puddings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
—VIA—
J 4fi>
4/\f
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TAESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing- Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TAEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
-* ’ years from date of issue. Interest : 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum; and 5 years, 7 p.e. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company-
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Ausiraiian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mobeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and, throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
El r ? O tt’S
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Land, &c.
perthT
WEST AUSTRALIA.
£l5 each BUILDING SITES, close to City, in a few
years will be very valuable. Easy Terms. Torrens Title.
Plans and all information from
Ernest C. V. Broughton,
Valuator under R.P. Act. 260 Pitt-street, SYDNEY
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.) _ , ; r
Express Passenger. S6rsi& t© and froiia Australian,
South Australian, Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANGE BAY
"S.S. Allin "a (from §dnev)
Friday, August 12.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, August 16.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VA : SSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Allinga (from Sydney)
Friday, August 12.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, August 16.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
August 13.
S.S. Allinga, Saturday,
August 20.
Best <£* Cheapest Monte to Goldfields .
G. S. YUILL and CO., I /i’D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 4 65 to-.L 111).
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares'to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Haddad, parker £ (Jo’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirre’-t Bates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also acccmpany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(fliluiraith, ff|‘Eachain & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To AND Feom
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn 8c Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
WORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid.in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S- IM. Coy. Ltd.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAH. LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Roekhahfpton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY— Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. 00. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


—THE-
Most Useful Ointment in tlie World!
Bar 3>*T one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may.be as well to let them know that there is such
an artk le as JOSEPHSON ’S OINTMENT purely
■ the prod action of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indijdfenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
.have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man eoual t<> JOSEPHSON S
’AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
‘
■Row’s Assorted Bitters
. :jp CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three tunes a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
'and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
; iOne wineglass two or three times a day after
■opals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
•• They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’- - -
' Bnchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dvspepsia, in Chromo
Rheumatism and Cutaneons affections. The action of
BuchiT..on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Med cal men say about them
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses, lthas a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Mile, and correcting it
when deranged, ai d restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveners.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB —I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
lion. i therefore thus recommend tliim.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. —lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Fact’s Speak Louder than Wori s.
Read this sworn testimony from a well known
citizen
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewktt, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that 1 have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STE ANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Cpmplainls, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more eiise
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S, YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any. cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Or'ental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take ROW’S STEANE’° WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink.. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.
Stimulating'—Nutritive— Exquisite in Flavor.
‘FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Soui'ness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
vith High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEVER, PY/EMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nuise
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, meas es,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During tins time 1
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno s ‘ h ruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a. means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Pkofessional Nubse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Yg-
«
Dr. TARRANT,
E.Ji.O.S.U., L.R.0.P.E., L.8.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duh' registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not he continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method o£
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo 3V3: an xi. ox* Woman
should marry without first-assuring themselves that they are in perfect health If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Symptoms,
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 161 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and'Pictures ; it will enable vou to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Oomplamts should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, arid ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted'by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
T iver Complaint Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Miinv wlio have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore' if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously ami 6 confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
vou experience
Dangerous
Foul Breath Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
nr Dark-circled Eves ; Sallow or Pimplv Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Rnwels • Rad Taste Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely JSTo Charge
rv.noniHtion • but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any cbm-
SainrfnSn"sseci“o“®WnS, Sldn Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Coi plaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion P Hin Disease, Dropsy,- Worms,.Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enc ose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving Inna ./ties, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may he cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Pntients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr’ TARRANT S Private Hospital, and nursed hack to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
Tf von t.-p ill be vou voun'o- or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who’wjllgive your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
5 COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED
j) r HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
- please mention The Bulletin when writing.
SYDNEY . „
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOM AIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QUIRT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Toronto Hotel,
Lahe
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto- Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive pr ompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
30L0CHE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
J. & 35. .A-TKINSON, Hiimited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
COUGH ST 0 P$
S
CO4
SPOONFUL A DOSE-
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
tfteeftmn’s
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and sooi
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS,
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
VW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these prand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of smt'erers. in all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. fW" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford street, London, they are
spurious.


The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
\£-
tk
%
*********
\>
%
Every line denotes a point of “ Red Bird ” superiority.
1. New nickel steel frames with drop bracket—easy steering, easy running, and
indestructable.
2. New flush joints with inside taper reinforcements.
3. Over-hanging sprocket, direct chain pull.
4. New half-inch pull “B ” chain.
6. New hub bearings, each ball in separate steel case, no friction, no wear.
6. New cones, balls cannot get out of alignment.
7. New crucible steel square cranks with new detaching device, no cotter.
8. New narrow tread with oval rear fork.
9. Chain pull along line of fork, no side strain.
10. New seat pillar adjustments without nut and bolt.
11. New bottom bracket bearings, only require adjusting once a year ; and fifty
(50) other improvements which space will not allow us to itemise.
Our catalogue will give you further particulars, send for one.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY, LIMITED,
Australasian Branches—64 King-st., SYDNEY (Head Office) ; 245 Uollins-st.,
Melbourne; Ed ward-st., Brisbane, Q.; Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Factories- Brantford, Canada. AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
HAVE YOU FIVE MINUTES TO SPARE ?
If so, you cannot employ it better than by inspecting our stock of celebrated ENGLISH CYCLES, comprising—
Premiers Simpsons Sparkbrooks Calcotts St. Swithins Eurekas
We have imperative instructions to clear these wheels—all ’97 stock—at about HALF-COST.
Country buyers write for particulars. You will never have such another opportunity.
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT, 75 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“ There is cursing and coughing and clicking of
noofs, for most of the ‘ wafers ’ have proved to be
‘spoofs’—of late, anyhow,” writes The Bulletin’s Lon-
don correspondent. “If Auruin—landed safe from the
‘ Damascus ’ big and well—and one or two of the others
don’t blur the judge’s eye shortly, the next of ’em better
trot to Footscray glueworks in place of mal-de-merring
all their speed and stamina on the broad Pacific. When
Maluma went for a £lOO crop of oats in the Diamond
Plate mile and a-half the others couldn’t get out fast
enough, and Lord Ellesmere’s three-year-old Ultimatum,
with Bst. 41b. of lead, and Loates, only started for a nibble
and to give the Malua mare a victory -so it seemed. On
the Australian, 9st. 91b., 100 to 30 was laid, and as she
never got in front at all ‘Mr. Jersey’ must have ex-
hausted the limits of her unfeminine lingual resources in
explaining the merits of Maluma as a second-placer. It
was unfortunate for the whitewashed Charley Wood
that he had the mount on this deadest of dead * snips.’
H. C. White’s Form is another able ‘ seconder,’ twice in
the past fortnight, missing 200 sovs. by four lengths in
Summer Handicap and 300 by a neck in the High Weight
which Acmena won in the same colors last year. The
last has 7st. 121 b. and more than a chance in Liverpool
Cup. Newhaven and Merman have been pigeon-holed,
and Carnage sold to the sauer-kraut Government for
£10,500 for stud purposes.”
* * • m
“Form put in a claim to his title and made his
first win,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ in the Wat-erbench £3OO Welter, carrying Bst. 71b., and
netting lOst. in a field of 15. Day trained, Bradford rode,
and owner H. C. White won his money by half-a-dozen
lengths. A few days later, in the Nottingham Bramcote
Stakes, he carried his 30st. 41b. nowhere that the handi-
cappers might notice. Maluma won her second
race here, 195 sovs. stake and Lily’s little bit,
in the Yigner Handicap, at 9 to 2, under 9st.
51b. The seven furlongs suited the daughter of Mad-
cap, and she was IJ4 lengths before the second. Fairie,
a Bananalander, has been * scooping the boodle ’ with
Eager, who won in a week or so the Rous Memorial Stakes,
£950, and the Duchess of York Stakes, £955. The same
potentate owns Chubb and Cauliflower, neither safe nor
flowery for backers just now. ‘Billy’ Jones’English
purchase, Stonebow, ran third in the Bottesham Plate,
and W. Cooper’s Charleareny fifth in the Royal Hunt
Cup. Survivor has had a flutter or two restricted by un-
limited avoidupois, and to lose weight will have to wait a
little longer.”
* * * *
Realgar and Bell Metal, in the Caulfield G.N.
Hurdle Race last Saturday, ran true to their form of 17
months ago, when they finished second and third in a
hunters’ flat race at Moonee Valley. Realgar then gave
Bell Metal 91b. and a decided beating. On Saturday he
gave away 121 b. Both horses were favorably handicapped
for the Caulfield event, but Mr. Miller’s uncertain son of
Malua had the best of the terms on paper.
* * * *
Betting on the first race at Caulfield was very
characteristic of V. A.C.T. sport. It opened with Majesty
as favorite, some of the others not being expected to
“come.” Then Hailstorm was backed down to a shorter
price than Majestic, and finally Ike Foulsham’s Massinissa
sprang from 10 to 1 to 5 to 1, equal favorite with Hail-
storm. Massinissa won, with Hailstorm second. The
market gives some very straight tips—at Caulfield.
* * * •
Mai to, who is fancied for the Cups, ran a very
disappointing race in the Balaclava Stakes. Getting
away in front, the Ballarat nag led the field to the turn
and then dropped away. Something galloped into him,
perhaps.
* * ♦ *
It is mainly N.Q. money that is being dribbled
on to Merloolas for Melbourne Cup. If he gets home at
Flemington hundreds of boundary riders and stockmen
will flourish for a season. When Ben Bolt won at Caul-
field years ago, beer and whisky flowed for days in sleepy
Bowen. But, good as Merloolas is, 9st. 101 b. is a steadier.
* * * *
The action of the V.R.C., in summoning a
meeting of country racing-club delegates to discuss the
tote has caused the countenance of Ikey Mo to drop
about half-an-inch. There are two meanings to the ex-
pression, “got another mug,” and in this case Ikey’s
mug is a sad circumstance instead of a joyful one.
V * * 9
Significant the silence of candidates for V.R.C.
committee when invited to express their views re the
Totalisator. The conference with country clubs, as sug-
gested by chairman Miller, means simply a conference of
metropolitan delegates, who may, or may not, voice the
opinions of the clubs they represent. A true expression
of public opinion can only be obtained by a referendum
of racegoers. And, after all, the wishes of Tom, Dick,
and Harry deserve as much consideration as those of the
big and little men of the horse-owning fraternity—if
not more. Owners and big punters, of course, view the
machine with dismay. The fact that the cleverest
devices to obtain the early market will serve naught
under a system whereby everyone is placed on equality
as regards the odds to be obtained, is obnoxious to their
predatory instincts. They can’t look beyond—they don’t
want to—to the vista of large stakes, more horses, and
honest running. Yet these are the men whose views are
invited and whose cries are hearkened to as coming from
the high places of authority. Let them have their say,
I>Y all means, but let it be also understood that such say
is representative of only a section, the smaller one, of the
sporting community.
Opposition to the tote comes from three sources
—from religious bodies, from bookmakers, and from
owners and big betters. The hysterical shrieks of Rev.
Snufflebuster and his brethren may be dismissed as the
possibly well-meaning, but ignorant, protests of a crew of
i usvbodies “agin everything” but their own religious
doctrines. The bookie sees his living gone. Regrettable,
no doubt, in the case of certain worthy men who have
been convenient mediums to the public. But Mo is
a parasite, and, as such, is generally undesirable. The
owner realises that a new set of tricks will be necessary to
choke a gullible public off his good things, and so scoop
the dividends for himself. The professional punter, arro-
gant with his knowledge of “ ways that are dark,” resents
a system which will minimise his advantages in the
matter of odds. The hawks, in fact, see the dovecote
safeguarded and the pigeons secure from plucking, and
the parson pronounces the benediction over their pro-
testing flutters. Imagine an opposition conference—the
rooks under the W.C.T.U. roof 1
• * * *
The Chief Commissioner of S.A. police testifies
that the tote has “ done away with forward betting, and
no case of embezzlement, or similar offence, which can
be traced directly or indirectly to totalisator betting has
come under his notice.”
* • * •
A motion is to be brought before the A.J.C. to
the effect that all horses not intended competitors for
any race must be scratched 12 hours prior to such race.
If the time were extended to 36 hours, the public would
be safeguarded in its most vulnerable part.
* * * •
Another motion to be brought before the A.J.C.
wishes to raise the minimum weight in handicaps from
6-st. 71b. to 7st., and deserves all the consideration it can
get. If the minimum were even 7st. 71b. racing would be
improved, for owners could then put up a strong lad, or
a small, thin lad, instead of the mannikins who now
ride, or rather sit upon, the featherweights and begin
to go to the devil on the night of their first important
win.
* * * *
Sydney loses a speedy and honest mare and a
t rue daughter of “ Old Jack ” in Raven’s Plume, who is
going to her owner, Capt. Scott, late of Kirkham, now
doing a little racing in Ireland. Raven’s Plume will have
as travelling companion the Maorilander, Levanter,
lately purchased by Capt. Scott for 500 guineas.
* • * *
Lochiel’s stock have won 97 races in Australia
during the past season, and he thus heads the list of
winning sires with £15,2225, whilst the expatriated Car-
bine and Trenton are second and third respectively with
£11,138 and £10,840; Gozo comes a good fourth with
£10,059; and then a great hiatus, Neckersgat, scoring
° n ’y £5205. Like Mr. Stead, in M.L., for the fourth time
Mr. W. R. Wilson tops the list of winning owners with
the goodly sum of £10,300 to his credit, Mr. Duggan, the
owner of Amberite, coming next with £7076.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—The drawing of Tatt. on the
morning of the race is gambling pur et simple. With all
due deference to you I should put that down. It has no
more to do with racing than the daily Madrid lottery, the
Louisiana State lottery, or pak-a-pu. But (which is not
likely to occur) if I had my way, I should have, or allow,
municipal or State daily gambles. As I told you long
ago, the fire brigades were supported in New Orleans by
the daily Howard State lottery. The principle was similar
to pak-a-pu—Bo numbers, choose sor 10, I forget which,
and divvy accordingly. lam not sure but that it was a
tote choosing three numbers ; all the cash, minus a big
percentage for the brigade, was ante’d up at once on pro-
auction of ticket. To stop all chance of hanky-panky I
should make the sweep-conductor heavily fineableif clear
proof were given that (say) a country ‘ticket had been
sent and the horse in any way disclosed.—Scotty W.
* * * *
* u? n a r . Sydney pony-race meet an
affable stranger drifted into conversation with me and
descanted, amongst other things, upon the pocket-
pickmgmdustry. “See that man with the red moustache ?
Smartest hand at the game in Australia ; why, if he were
ever to go to heaven, he’d pick Peter’s pocket of the
keys. When you see him about you should do like me—
put your hand on your money-pocket and keep it there.
You won’t come down to the paddock ? Ah, well, good
bye. For an hour after this I kept my hand on my
money and my eye on the red-moustached man, who was
also evidently watching me, for though I edged away from
him he always seemed to be near. Then I met a friend
and pointed out the “ smartest hand in Australia.”
“Why,” he said, “that’s Detective 8., I know him well.
Come,, and I’ll introduce you. The D. listened to my
friend’s yarn, and asked me if mv money was safe, as he
knew the man I had been talking to. As I had kept my
hand on it for the last hour I assured him that was ail
right, and asked him ’to irrigate, but when I planked
down my sov. on the bar there was a painful silence —it
was a half-penny ! So were the other three, and my
ticket had scribbled on it “ keep your eye on the red-
moustached man.”
* * * •
A young Sydneyite’s wife, finding that hubby
was getting rather stiff with the coin, recently prospected
his pockets while he was asleep, and was horrified to find
in his note-book some such record as the following
“Jennie. 10s. ; Flossie, 7s. 6d.; Maud, 155.” The result-
ant kick-up educed the cause of the “ stiffness "—pony-
backing 1
* * • *
Years ago, two Dunedin heavy-weight sports
had each a good jumping horse, and excitement ran
high when, after four matches and two wins each, they
met for the “ convincer.” Both horses were greys, and so
much alike otherwise that the starter said they looked
like one horse as they got away. They kept together till
the last jump, when one fell, bringing down the other.
The first roan up and mounted again finished an easy
winner; but, alas ! —it was on the wrong horse l
* * * »
That repentant horse-dealer story recalls the
“Saved” horseman. He was attached to a stable
famous for its “commercial principles.” He sought
grace at the penitent form, and—which horrified his em-
ployer much more—announced his intention of revealing
the Dark Secrets of his Past Life. A carefully-bottled-up
horse, whose jaws showed signs of the tremendous wear
and tear incurred in deceiving handicappers, was to be
“ slipped ” at the next race-meeting, and a disclosure on
the jockey’s part meant the revealing of this, among
other stable secrets. Pathetic appeals from the owner
had little effect on the redeemed soul. A threat on the
trainer’s part was taken more seriously, as an interven-
tion of the devil, and a compromise was effected. Instead
of a public utterance, the jockey would limit his con-
fession to the ears of the “saved” in private meeting
assembled. Thus, all seemed well. But when the event-
ful hour arrived, with the nag at the post, and the com-
missioners in the market, nothing like a decent price
could be got. The cream of the odds had been snapped
by outsiders, while yet the saddle-girths were being
tightened in the straight. And to this day that owner
solemnly asserts that “ the Sal. Army commissioner
spoilt him of the best thing he ever had in his life. ”
» * • *
Westralia has at last got hold of a Judge who
does not hunt for opportunities to emphasise his inno-
cence of the turf and turf ways. His Honor James,
during the hearing of a horsey case, was told that the
animal had been represented as being a four-year-old.
“ Ah, yes,” sighed ’sonah, “it’s hard to find a horse at
the sale-yards that’s more than ‘ rising four.’ ”
* * • •
“O, the joys of watering 1 ” says Daudet, in
“Sappho.” And O, the delights of “ two-up ! ” The other
week the Melb. police raided a “two-up” club, and the
fascination of that great national sport was revealed at
the City court. Two pennies are placed on a piece of
wood, and spun up in the air, and the players bet on
whetherthe coins come down “ head ” or “ tail,” and after
every sequence of three heads a shilling is paid to the pro-
prietor of the “ club.” Twenty-eight men were caught in
the enjoyment of this intellectual pursuit, but none of
them could say why he went to a club for his “two-up.”
Why not form themselves into 14 couples and “ toss ” for
10s. a time until one or other is “broke” or both are
exhausted ?
* * * *
Rabbit-coursing with terriers, now very popular
at Melb. suburban racecourses, is a most cruel sport. The
unfortunate bunny, put down amid a yelling crowd, and
dazed by the yapping of dogs, has to be kicked and
shooed before it makes a feeble run ; usually, ere it has
gone five yards it is picked up, mangled and half-dead,
to be thrown aside by an attendant.
* * • •
The gentlemanly, well-dressed deadbeat has
struck a new wrinkle in Melb. suburbs. Whenever a
cricket or football club holds a meeting, he is to be found
at the door of the pub., and, by a few judicious remarks
about being a new' resident in the locality and an ardent
admirer of the game, he gets invited inside. Then, at
the first opportunity, he rises to announce that he will
give a £lO trophy to the best follower, a £5 gold medal
to the man w'ho kicks most goals, and a silver cigar-case
to the best all-rounder. Of course, he is forthwith elected
aV.P., and liberally wdned-up, but subsequent attempts
to discover the new V.P. at address given are productive
only of energetic and prolonged blanky !
* * * *
The world’s broad-jumping record did not stay
long with the Americans, it having been wrested from
them recently at Dublin, w'here Newburn cleared 23ft.
9|in. Roseingrave, of N.S.W., is credited in private
“ goes ” with 24ft., and it is to be hoped he will be able to
do this at N.S. Wales A.A.A. meeting in October.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Re average man’s distance-
estimating capacity. Was once witness at a drowning-
inquest, and gave as breadth of river at place of accident
“ between 40 and 45 yards.” Was pooh-poohed by
coroner, who said he knew the spot well, and that the
breadth w r as little, if at all, short of 100 yards. Measured
it afterwards and found it 43. The'official wasn’t a
shootist. —Alex. M.
* * * *
Auction-sales and cheap bicycles don’t cut any
ice with the great sale of Red Bird cycles in Australasia.
The Sydney branch of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd., claims
to have used more than 1,750,000 ft. of timber in packing
cycles for shipment to various customers during the
past season. From this some idea can be formed of the
big demand there is for this famous cycle.*
The “funny” column in an Australian
weekly is conducted by a German Jew and a
Scotchman. Who can wonder at the cross-bred
“ humor ” born of such a union ?
The Late George Loyan.
George Loyau, who died recently in Queensland,
was in his day and generation one of the hardest-
working and most enthusiastic of Australian
journalists—and, like so many hard-working jour-
nalists, he has left a widow and family absolutely
without a penny. Loyau was not a man of bril-
liant capacity, but he was industrious and sin-
cere, and did much to spread light in dark Aus-
tralian places. Possibly, had he worked a little
less for the publio, and a little more for himself,
it would have been better for those depending on
him. At no time, however, was his remuneration
great, and in his old age he had to struggle hard
for daily subsistence. Loyau in his time contri-
buted to more than 200 newspapers in S.A., Vic.,
Q., and N.S.W., and The Bulletin, which sub-
scribes *5, trusts that some of his old-time
friends may be able to forward to this office some-
thing further in aid of Mrs. Loyau and family.
The only members of S.A. Assembly who
have held seats for 20 consecutive years are Oppo-
sition leader John Downer (Barossa) and Land-
seer (Mt. Barker). Speaker Coles, Committee-
chairman Catt, Premier Kingston, and Gilbert all
date from 1881.
Is the N.S.W. Labor-party so busy sup-
porting the Reid-Gould Government which pro-
mises to preserve the nominee Council, that it
hasn’t time to say a word on behalf of its fellow-
toiler, Suffield, now doing ten years in gaol on
absolutely no reasonable evidence? More than
one of the party has been in gaol, and knowing
what it is like should have some sympathy. And
Suffield hasn’t the satisfaction of knowing that
his spell in prison will help him to get into Parlia-
ment, and have <£300 a year, and a possible fat
billet on the Public Works Committee as well.
S. Law Society, whose members are
mostly indignant at Premier and Attorney-General
Kingston’s heckling of Insolvency Commissioner
Russell, has adopted the unusual course of not
appointing the Attorney-General as its president.
And, more galling still, the choice has fallen on
J. H. Symon. Mr. Russell, who has stood firm
against Kingston throughout the Harrold case,
has gone up enormously in the province’s estima-
tion. “ Sonah ” is a retiring family man, who
even shuns clubland, and had been put down as a
Civil-service milksop. Judge Boucaut may not
think it worth while to keep in harness much
longer, or arrangements may be made by which
Way, C.J. and P.C., may go to England and a
title permanently ; in either case Russell will go
up. And, sitting Ministerially, Kingston will be
the first man to acknowledge Russell’s recent
manifestation of spine as an additional qualifi-
cation.
“Creeve Roe” re Melb. postal arrange-
ments :—
There is an evening delivery in the suburbs. I get my
Bulletin in the evening always. About 6 p.m., as a rule.
Under previous conditions I used to get it the following
day (Friday). On the other hand, my morning letters
are delivered about 10 a.m., instead of 7.30 a m., as of
yore. Also, the red-coated men hate the new regime,
and are always worrying me to write a fearfully blas-
phemous letter to the papers about it. Poor devils, they
have to leave home at 5 in the morning, and get no break-
fast until nearly noon.
[“Creeve Roe” speaks for his particular suburb. In
some other suburbs the morning delivery is two hours
earlier than of yore, and the second (and last) delivery is
at 4.30 p.m., which can’t be called evening. Under the
new management, the suburban postman makes only two
rounds daily, instead of three, with an interval of eight
to nine hours between the rounds. The system effects a
saving of about £8000 per annum to the Dept.—and a
great loss in publio convenience.]
T. P. O’Connor writes of Hooley : —
He had a certain kind of curious delight, if not vanity,
in the terrible absorption and ferocious excitement of the
financier’s life—in beginning business at 7 in the morning
in his bedroom with half-a-dozen clerks and as many
brokers to take his instructions. He asked you to lunch,
telling you that you and he would be alone. Duly you
turned up ; you waited for ten minutes ; you waited h'alf-
an-hour ; by that time a score of people who had received
the same invitation had turned up in your room, in the
next room, in half-a-dozen rooms, but there was no Mr.
Hooley to meet any of them. The host of them all was
wildly busy, and then, perhaps, retired into one of the
labyrinth of rooms, and ate his frugal meal all alone,
doing justice to all his guests by being host to none. You
were never sure of an answer to any letter; you were
never sure of the keeping of an appointment; everything
in that vast, resounding, buzzing-floor—the very atmo-
sphere of which seemed close, feverish, almost insane—
was on the same principle of high disorder, vast, gigantic
inaccuracy, unprecedented easualness. Perhaps this is
the real explanation of the breakdown; though I am
bound to add that he is by no means the first great
financier I have known who did not seem to know the
very spelling of the words “ order ” and “ accuracy,” the
keeping of appointments, or the answering of letters.
Yic. Judge Williams, in admitting that
divorce-cases should not be heard in camera, con-
soles himself with the reflection that other Judges
have thus erred as well as he. But not even a
whole bench-full of wrongs make a right.
“ Ruapehu Has it ever struck you what
a prominent place fire occupies in the ideas of the
Creator ? His ruling passion seems to lead Him to
make millions of worlds and set fire to them. Or
is the whole visible universe only sparks from the
anvil where God makes really big things ?
The Asiatic alien, who may land in other
parts of Australia, usually makes at last for
Queensland. The Hindoos who landed down
South lately are nearly all busy now on Banana-
land plantations. According to the Govt. Resi-
dent of the Northern Territory 189 Japs, landed
in South Australia in the last 12 months, of whom
121 drifted off to Thursday in very short order.
And the Q. Democrat looks ever more yearningly
to the Federal bond of the near future—his only
hope of salvation from the alien plague.
Norfolk Islanders get no chance to vote
at N.S.W. general elections. Nominally they are
in the King Division of Sydney, but in reality
they are outside the country which makes laws for
them. Forty years ago Gov. Denison granted
these islanders the suffrage of one person one vote,
with ability to read and write the sole condition,
and had in contemplation a scheme whereby they
could exercise a voting influence in the N.S.W.
Legislature, but nothing came of it. D. Davis,
Shoalhaven’s new M.L.A., is a Norfolk Islander
by birth.
On Aug. 15, Dr. Salvado, of New Norcia
(W.A.), celebrates _ the 49th anniversary of his
elevation to the episcopate. His consecration (as
Bishop of Port Victoria, North Australia) took
place in Sydney in 1849. He became Lord High
Abbot of the Benedictine monastery at New
Norcia in 1867. There are 50 fathers and brethren
engaged in the mission (to the aborigines), which
is 82 miles from Perth, and they are nearly all
Spaniards. They rise regularly at 3 a.m., pray
for 1J hours, then breakfast and work till 11—then
dolce far niente till 3, and work till sunset. Father
Dominquez is second in command.
The Chamber of Commerce, at Bunbury,
W.A. (Premier Forrest’s electorate), decided,
apropos their deity’s declaration in favor of
Federation, that it would have none of it, because
Federation meant interprovincial Freetrade, and
the abolition of the protection of the local farmer.
But after awhile the Chamber thought some more,
and decided that as Federation would mean the
free admission of local timber into the other Aus-
tralias, they had better take it, after all. Sample
of town - pump reasoning which affects other
places besides the Westralian agricultural dis-
tricts. Federation — the great national ques-
tion, the birth of a new nation, to be weighed in
the balance with the local potato-trade and
passed, finally, because it will help the export of
wood!
Francis Dillon Bell, who died last month
at Shag Valley, Maoriland, was in the history of
that province ever since it had a white man’s his-
tory. He was an official of the New Zealand co.
as far back as 1839, and settled in the country
almost as soon as settlement commenced. He was
in the Leg. Council of New Munster (the old name
for the South Island) in ’48, and afterwards
in the Parliament of Wellington. He was
Treasurer for 13 days in the first Responsible Min-
istry (the Bell-Sewell Govt.) in 1856, and he was
Treasurer for 15 days, Native Minister for three
months, and Commissioner of Customs for 14 days
in poet Domett’s short-lived Cabinet of ’62. Also,
Cold-Tea Fox gave him an honorary seat in his
Ministry without office for a couple of years. No
one ever entrusted him with a portfolio again, but
he was Speaker for five years, and finally he had
ten years as Agent-General, and in ’91 the good,
respectable, hard-working old man dropped out of
public life for good.
A number of Q. legislators, including a
Minister now in the old country, paid a visit, some
time ago, to a S.Q. mining town. The Minis-
ter was suffering from a cold (it was evident) and
complained, while in town, of feeling dull and
stuffy in the head. A kindly fellow legislator of
Radical fame, sinking political differences, offered
the Minister a pinch of snuff—averring it was an
excellent thing for clearing the head. (Everybody
knows the eminent Labor Light who takes snuff.)
Minister accepted but couldn’t even raise a sneeze.
However, just as the train was departing, and the
M'sP. were craning their necks from the carriage
windows to say “Good-bye” to the crowd, the
snuff began to work and the great man very natur-
ally put his thumb and fingers expectantly to his
nose. But the crowd outside mistook the Minis-
terial movement for a certain yamin gesture indi-
cative of the highest contempt. The spirit of the
North was roused. In an instant 150 thumbs
touched 150 noses, 150 citizens spread out their
fingers, and the Hon. Joskins departed amid such a
salvo of salutations as never struck a Q. Minister
before.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
How to Select a Good Bicycle
Is an Important Question.
At our Depots we will be glad to show you why
The Massey=Harris Cycle
Is the One to Choose, or you can get our Catalogue direct.
MASSEV-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
AuBti , alaBian Branch S 163*169 W ill jam*st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 294 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
66 DOWJRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part, of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. J'. McDevmott,
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY".
p
oriiiriinunonini
innnnnn
ITIOR the person vvho is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CUESCE.Vr,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ill s’ Kin"-street Coffee Palace*" situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
TATE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street,. SYDNEY.
KSr Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
ll)Glf American HighflrtCydes
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE I
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. <S§r Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American f cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-el.* s Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WEIjL
0
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable,
These offer the greatest variety to he found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
Important Announcement with regard to “THE AUSTRAL WHEEL RACE.”
ADDITIONAL PRIZE MONEY.
The Austral Wheel Race is to be run on the 26th of November and the 3rd and 12th of December on the Melbourne Cricket Ground, upon the same
unbanked grass track as was used last year. As it seems likely that there will be more riders than ever this year, the Committee of Management have decided
to limit the number of riders in each heat. There will, therefore, be a greater number of heats than last year, and the riders in the final will have run greater
risks than ever. s
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd. have therefore decided that the winner shall be rewarded by an additional £lOO to the prize already offered making
£330 in all. ’ &
The Austral Cycle Agency are convinced that on such a dangerous track it is of the first importance for riders to be mounted on Machines of the
very highest grade, and they believe that if low grade Machines were excluded by the Executive many accidents would be avoided. With a view, therefore, to
encourage competitors to provide themselves with the best possible mounts, and so lessen their own risk and the risks of those competing with them, they make
the additional £lOO conditional upon the winner riding a “ SWIFT ” Machine fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
This Machine, as ridden by Walne, Parsons, and others, has proved itself unequalled for speed, style, strength, and safety, and, as these four qualities
are essential to the success of the machine used by the winner of the Austral Wheel Race, it is obvious that the condition imposed by the Austral Cycle Agency
is rather advantageous than otherwise. b
The accompanying illustration gives some idea of the design of the Machine, and the following are the prices of the “ SWIFT ” PATH RACER in
the different Colonies, allowance being made in the absence of Federation for the Differential Customs Tariffs now in operation. We also give the specifications
of the Machine. & p
£
PRICE:
NEW SOUTH WALES -
VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST. AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
TASMANIA
“SWIFT” PATH RACER.
No. 1 SPECIAL.
£2B
30
30
30
30
30
30
SPECIFICATION:
or 2lin, specially selected weldless steel tube.
x If
FRAME—2 2in.
WHEELS—2B
RlMS—Dunlop Welch.
SPOlvES—Rutted tangent.
BEARINGS—Swift patent.
HEAD CLlP—Swift patent.
CHAIN—Very best quality ; block.
GEAR—lnterchangeable and detachable.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE;
33 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE;
S v RL q™ ™ REET - LAUNCESTON.
HAY STREET, PERTH •
COL °MBO STREET, CHRISTCHURCH.
AGENCIES EVERYWHERE.
“W.” : Recognising that at least half of
Reid’s recent Federal enthusiasm is due to the
fear lest Barton should get before him and eclipse
him, how does “ Bar-Reid ” strike you as a name
for the Federal capital ?
Being hoist with one’s own petard doesn’t
possess the comic element that lies in being potted
with one’s own pistol, as recently befell the Syd-
ney policeman whose apparently lamb-like pair of
prisoners suddenly rushed him down and disarmed
him. Otherwise than finger-on-trigger, a revolver
at close quarters is worse than useless.
At the Australian Arc Exhibition in Lon-
don, that well-known art-connoisseur, Mr. Charles
Sedelmeyer, of Paris, bought at .£75 and .£52 10s.
respectively Mr. Lister-Lister’s large water-colors,
“Mount Kembla” and “Passing Showers.”
Both pictures were shown at last year’s exhibition
of N.S.W. Art Society.
Rumored in Sydney that Premier Reid
contemplates resigning his seat in favor of
“ Mother ” Millen. The little man, by the way,
was unmercifully chaffed about the “ Mothers of
Bourke ” when he returned to fix up things at the
Assembly, and now the unwary person who refers
to those kindly dames in the presence of aforesaid
warlike midget stands a good chance of being
demolished.
One of the features of N.S.W. general
election was the defeat of Minister Garrard for
Sherbrooke, where he thought his seat was a
“dead-snap.” No man ever ran an election in
N.S.W. at so small a cost as Jake’s opponent.
Young O’Conor had no election committee;
neither the Federal Association nor the Protec-
tionist committee sent a speaker to help him ; he
fought the election single-handed, with all the
local papers against him—and beat a Minister of
the Crown at a total cost of .£14 13s.
Of course, William the Mouthpiece of the
Almighty, tells us that “ God created Bismarck
as His instrument for the realisation of German
unity and greatness.” But how hollow these
words, and the recent reconciliation, seem when
we ponder the adroit and dignified snub in the
Iron Man’s self-written epitaph ; “ A faithful
German servant of Emperor William the First.”
One of the oldest of N.S.W. squatters,
W. 0. Bundock, died at Casino last week, aged
87 ; his estimable wife, whose generosity had
made her beloved in the district, died the week
previously, aged 80 years.
The Melb. agents for Tattoo Oil once again
desire to warn this thoughtless young country
against the danger ot inflicting indelible stains
upon the annual wool-crop. Tattoo Oil claims
the virtue of getting easily wiped out by the wool-
cleaner, which is more than can be said for the
cheaper compounds. Tattoo is absolutely inno-
cent of pitch, tar, or lead; moreover, its innocence
having been proved for the last 15 years, the sale
of the article is now advancing steadily through-
out the wool-growing world. Thk Bulletin
doesn’t know whether this is a suitable dye for the
human skin, but now that the British aristocracy
are seized with a craze for pricking patterns into
its arms, legs, and other parts, The Bulletin
would like to hear of Tattoo Oil being tried upon
a duke.*
R. D. Meagher, of Dean-case notoriety,
returned for the Tweed (N.S.W.) by a big
majority, went there saying he was a maligned
angel, and posed as a martyr. The majority be-
lieved him, especially the women. Hence this
post-election ballad in the Tweed Herald :—
Wonderful, isn’t it, what a short lapse of time and
a little distance will do !
Only 18 members of Vic. Assembly were
bold enough to vote against the second reading of
the One-man-one-vote Bill in Vic. Assembly, the
other evening. Sixty-one voted for it. The
womanhood-suffrage idea is not tacked on to the
measure this time, and the 48 Rich Landlords will
have no excuse for dodging the issue.
Sydney Telegraph claims that the result
of N.S.W. election was a triumph for Federation
of the Reid - Want brand. The hypothesis is
that the fight was a Federal one; but the same
week the same journal unblushingly proves that
Freetrade beat Protection by claiming the whole
anti-federal and the Protectionist-Labor votes as
cast for its foreign-trade policy !
“ The Princess Victoria, second daughter
of Albert Edward, if indications may be judged
by, will be allowed to marry Lord Revelstoke,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ though the head of the Baring Bank is but a 13-
year old baron. The lady’s 30 summers appear to
have been accompanied by more than the usual
number of winters, and these, if her appearance is
considered, must have been unusually severe in
blighting the buds of feminine attractiveness.
The Baring is honest, though poor, on ,£lOOO a
year, the remainder of his income being devoted
to clearing off his dead father’s liabilities.
When the royal grandmother looked askance
on the suit the maid fell ill to an extent
that threatened her reason and showed her mad-
ness by shutting herself up from ‘society.’ A
brand-new baron is a bitter pill for H.R.H.’s
family, but what can be done ? Polly Brown, the
butcher’s daughter, refused to eat her father’s or
anyone else’s meat after he kicked out her lover,
Tom, the grocer’s son ; and Love, liquorice-like
Love, levels all. To assist the twain swains
Revelstoke’s sister has been made maid-of-honor
to the princess, so there ought not to be any more
difficulty in the exchange of ‘billies-do.’ Anyhow,
it is very fair odds that Victoria Junior’s family
will not be ‘ made in Germany. ’ ”
Our brave young Dick’s got home to-day,
And proud and glad is he ;
Full many a year he’s had to brave
The storm of obloquy.
But the clouds have flown, the sun shines free,
His heart is full of melody—
He scarce can tell the joy he feels,
Our Dick’s got home to-day.
Let cowards howl, and lawyers scowl,
And trait’rous asses bray,
But honest men with joy proclaim
Dick Meagher has won the day.
For his heart is true and gives thanks to you,
Tweed voices have made him gay,
The man you’ve sent to Parliament—
Our Dick’s got home to-day.
There is a gentle Bondi home
And loving wife is there.
And children’s rosy little lips
Breathe out a gentle prayer,
For Tweed voices bring news comforting,
And all are proud to say
The race is run, the vict’ry won,
Our Dick’s got home to-day.
Murwillumbah, 27/7/80.
DR. HARDING.


FOR INDIGESTION
LOSS OF APPETITE
A Household Remedy Throughout
Queensland.
We give the following testimony
from Mr. Frank P. Peacock, of Given
Terrace, Paddington, Queensland, whose
experience is in exact accord with thou-
sands of others:
x :
I
f
%'j
“I have used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
in my family for indigestion, loss of
appetite, and as a tonic, with very
satisfactory results. I have been pleased
to recommend it to my friends, and in
many cases they have used it with equal
satisfaction.
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
is a household remedy throughout
Queensland. It is the kind that cures.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla : one aids the other.
SECOND-HAND
AND
HJEW FURNITURE
« (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE
DEAF
HEAB
“ Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
(comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
Jgerous) wire or metal attach-
rment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Collins-steeeb, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Cur] y, from 3/5 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 5/0. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ?/(> per oz.
We are the eheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. If. wigs'll,'-
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attenbion'given to Country Ordsra.
The present M.L. Parliament doesn’t ex-
pire through old age for another nine months, but
the report still keeps circulating that it will die
comparatively young. The Opposition makes no
secret of its intention to talk out the old-age pen-
sion scheme and Council reform to the bitter end,
and the promised Bill for the suppression of
diseased meat is to be violently scoffed at as a
grandmotherly interference with private enter-
prise. The' hope of the Tories is that it may
worry sturdy Dick Seddon into an appeal to the
country, and that something good for the fossil
party may then turn up.
“ P.H.S.” to The Bulletin :
Editor Bulletin.— Re Pentridge and other penal es-
tablishments. Let me confirm your assertion that the
suffering involved in nine months “solitary” is beyond
expression. But worse still is the N.S.W. treatment of
juveniles. They have also to do solitary; first fortnight
on lib. bread a day : afterwards, same ration, alternating
weekly with a fairly good meat and vegetable ration.
1 But no tea ; no hot drink on the bitter winter mornings.
Prisoner has to be up, dressed and bed made by 6.30 ;
then bread and cold water for breakfast. I have myself
seen a yout h come out after three inont hs of this (solitary
included) miserably emaciated in body and completely
dazed in mind. Much as Oscar Wilde has shown of the
brutalisation of gaol life, he has failed to sufficiently
accentuate the petty tyranny of gaolers and warders. A
prisoner is absolutely at the mercy of these men, who will
and do band together in perjury to prevent a prisoner’s
complaint being made good, Not that many do com-
plain. Within prison walls, a man has no chance what-
ever of justice. He lives under the rule of a petty, and
often spiteful, autocrat, against whose fiat there is no
appeal. True, the prison regulations are equitably
enough framed, and, if properly administered, would ren-
der gaol life much more endurable, but they are simply
ignored in all cases where they tell in a prisoner’s favor.
Prisoners, for instance, have the right-on paper ! —of
appeal to the Comptroller-General, but I have known a
man get 14 days bread and water for daring to insist upon
this right. (I can give name, date and place for this).
The V.J. was the creature of the gaoler, who used to
liberally lubricate him with the dispensary brandy. I
was there, and I know! On the bestiality among the
lower class of prisoners themselves it is impossible to en-
large, even in the non-prudish Bulletin, but unspeakable
things are habitually winked at by the officers, merely to
save themselves trouble. Let, however, a poor, harmless
wretch of a clerk, say, accidentally tear his jacket or fail
to salute one of the tyrants, he will be run in and get
three days’ cells. The whole administration of theN.S.W.
gaols is desperately rotten, and inevitably brutalises and
debases all but the very strongest-minded men. To go
to gaol means mostly to become a miserable “ crawler,”
who will lick dirt for a bit of tobacco or the chance of a
billet.
N.S.W. “ Justice ” Department, however, after
long maintaining that its treatment of juvenile
offenders left nothing to be desired, has re-
cently stultified itself by considerably modifying
its regulations as regards diet and “solitary.”
There is no doubt whatever, though, that things
penal are otherwise in the horrible condition above
set forth by a man who knows whab he is talking
about.
The graphophone
The LATEST and Most MARVELLOUS
INVENTION OF THE AGE!
Talks, Sings, Laughs, Cries.
X> ECORDS and REPRODUCES the Human
JX VOICE or any Musical INSTRUMENT.
Suitable for Home Amusement or Private Enter-
tainments. Write or call for Catalogue or any
information. The Trade supplied.
UNITED IMPORTING Co.,lLtd.,
117 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
D , S .MAI R
D. S. MAIR, the Up-to-Date WATCH REPAIRER,
684 George-st., Sydney, having fitted his centrally situated
workshop with the most modern tools and appliances ne-
cessary for the execution of high-class workmanship, re-
quests all persons unable to call personally to forward
Watch Repairs to him by Post, as implicit reliance can be
placed upon his work, which is guaranteed 12 months and
will give satisfaction. Best Eng. Mainspring, 2/6 ; Clean-
ing and Regulating, 2/6; Hairsprng, 26, Jewels, 2/6;
Staffs, 4/- ; Cylinders, 3/6. Please mention this paper when
sending repairs to D. S. MAIR, 684 George-st., Sydney.
R.A.F. : Is there a bump of spelling in
the human cranium, or is it merely the logical
mind abetted by a defective memory, which re-
fuses to accept the arbitrary ? Writer’s grand-
father, a parson, fairly well-educated, while editor
of a Corn-law League newspaper, had to employ his
daughter in correcting his proofs —-his father, a
mathematician, who knew four foreign languages
well and wrote them accurately, dared not write
an English letter without a dictionary beside him.
Writer frequently looks up the same word twice or
three times in one evening. Note—females of the
three generations had and have no difficulty in
spelling properly. The above screed is suggested
by a friend, who admits a like failing, and, almost
with tears, attributes his loss of fortune to it.
Engaged to a Scotch lady with pot of money, and
day fixed. But in an anticipatory note which he
wrote to her, he put it—“ when you are my honey
bride.” He spent reams of paper and no end of
time trying to convince her that he had intended
“ bonny.” No go ! She was a bit high in bone.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
i It. '
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New Sgutli Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
X)
<y
O V"
o
o' 7
&
<0
*?
&
V* '7
fuhvi;
LIMITED
W
vv
*
T>OOK OF NATURE
* —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORE FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid hare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Od.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It, Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations hy Gustave I)or<s. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed — Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Book Depot,
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
(LIMITED),
DA.PTO (Lake Illawarra),
SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
i• • *
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
V. .
Hi
l.
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AURA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER, LEAD BULLION
chasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
H I GHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc-., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected*
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IHVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


H«rr RaSSfi)OSS€i)’S Alfa!iS}€ Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood* Skin* Nerves* Rheumatism* Liver, Piles, Kidneys* etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials,
Jk. Pew of Them.
+
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe, case of biliousness and nervousness. I may a]so
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
ycmr Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys. v
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that, the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
- A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, ' Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday! took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your AJlfalin-e Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
■completeily cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness : John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Files.
It affords me very .great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost ever}- known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I vvas under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but vvas getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W. A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— ■“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing-
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HERR RASMUSSENS
mission in the Herbal |||orld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing then-
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine.
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble puission of Herr Rassrnussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassrnussen is held by the Australian press.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “ Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common?” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING ••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A/faline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned ay a fast
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rasswus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—-which stai
■ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
musseil does not travel
selling his Eem r d'es,
•neither has he autho-
rised any person
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
r
i' i
t ■
.
-■ \
m
Herr Hr sum listen, U] -to-Ddte Herbalist*
IMPORTANT
- • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
~Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
NIPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus —“ H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
APVICC FREE.
Vu’
fog:
REP
%'-■ i
ALFA LINE PILLS?
CUREJ 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u. NERVES.
AWARDED
TWO GOLD (M
PEDALSi
m
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfalioe Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’a
AlfaliiK Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Hassmussen’s
AlfaliQC UfyiyerSal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and-all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mar,ter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and ?3s. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6c
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powdier— Builds up
and Strengthens tire System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation —ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
Anri Important Branches as Follows
N.Z. —Wellington - - 91 Lambton Quay |


Till* ica ions.
NOW READY.
Ifictoria Illustrated in 1857.
■ —BEING A—
REPRODUCTION of the ORIGINAL EDITION
Published by SANDS & KENNY, in 1857.
PRICE 10/-
SANDS and M‘DOUGALL LIMITED,
And all Booksellers.
Amusements.
P
RINCESS THEATR
Lessees, Messrs.
I*', ' EL'IiOUHNE.
Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIG FITS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS I
Tbs Sigo of *bs Cross-
MARCUS SUPERBUS Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT.
MERCIA Miss ADA FERRAR.
SATURDAY, August 13—THE HARBOR LIGHTS.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Amusements,
Tivoli theatre, sydnet.
Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE POLUSKI BROS.
THE SISTERS GOVELL.
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss Nettie Waite
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. G UO. H. WOOD. J. W. WINTON.
MILLER A. FRASER. Miss MARIAN AINS-
WORTH, VIOLET ELLIOTT, WALLACE KING,
Mr. FRANK YORICE, Miss LILLIAN LYNTON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Signor UGO BIONDI. D. H. CASTON.
JULEENE AND D’ALCORN.
Miss ALICE SIMMONS. SISTERS TERRY.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
Foreman & Fannaxi.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT! Thursday, and Every Evening,
BLAND HOLT'S
First Antipodean Production of the Greatest of Drury
Lane Successes,
THE WHITE HEATHER
Written by Messrs. Cecil Raleigh and Henry Hamilton.
With suggestions by the late Sir Augustus Harris.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel
Cigar Store.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
94th \
WEEK /
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY.
94th
WEEK
THE PRODIGAL PARSON.
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS !
LAST 2 NIGHTS !
Jai)€.
Miss PATTIE BROWNE
as JANE.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by “ HER GOOD NAME.”
Characters by
Mr. HARRY RICHARDS’S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Including Miss Pattie Browne.
SATURDAY, August 13th THE GONDOLIERS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Town hall, Melbourne.
13th AUGUST.
SATURDAY
SATURDAY
SHILLING
“ POPS.”
“ POPS.”
NB WB VB Y-SPA DA COY .
Third Appearance of Mr. JOHN COLEMAN, Australia’s
Favorite COMEDIAN, in an entirely new entertainment.
S3T* MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
rjIOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
23rd AUGUST, 1898.
GRAND
Shakespeare Costume Ball
IN AID OF
The Dramatic Charities.
“Dances, Masks, and Merry Hours.”
—(Love’s Labour Lost — IV., 3.)
PageaQtry !
Poetry!
Rorpaocc!
Rebels !
GORGEOUS SPECTACULAR PROCESSION
SPLENDID TABLEAUX.
OLD TIME DANCES.
A Magnificent and Memorable Festival!
“’Twere good you do so much for Charity.”
— (Merchant of Venice — IV., 1.)
J. F. DEEGAN, Hon. SECRETARY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
Redecorated,,New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc., Mr. WALTER BENTLEY.
Balance Sheet of the Bank of north Queensland limited
For the Half-Year ended 30th June, 1898.
Dr.
Deposits—Fixed Deposits (including Interminable De-
benture Deposits
Current Accounts
Treasury Note Account
Dills Payable and other Liabilities (including Reserves
held against Rad and Doubtful Debts)
£ s. d.
142,594 18 9
98,421 10 9
£ a. d.
241,016 9 6
33,333 0 0
36,230 19 3
310,580 8 9
Capital Account .. .. .. .. .. 200,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. .. .. ~ 586 16 7
200,586 16 7
£511,167 5 4
Ok.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances .. ..
Treasury Notes on hand
Remittances in Transit to Branches and Agents..
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due to Bank
Bank Premises, Furniture, and Stamp Accounts
& s. d.
& s. d.
46.356 7 0
7,704 0 0
34,559 8 11
88,649 15 11
411,153 13 9
11,363 15 8
£511,167 6 4
Profit and. Loss Account
To Balance from last Half-year transferred to Contingency Account .. £10,927 14 2
~ Salaries, Bent, and all Expenses of Management at Head Office and
Branches .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 4,815 11 7
„ Interest paid and accrued on Deposits and Treasury Note Account .. 3,215 16 11
Balance .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 586 16 7
£19,545 19 3
By Balance from last Half-year .. .. .. .. .. £10,927 14 2
~ Gross Amount of Profit for Half-year .. .. .. .. 8,618 6 1
£19,545 19 8
Audited and found correct,
THOS. B. STEELE \
G. T. 0. LANG /
Auditors.
A- 8. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, Acting General Manager.
A-udLitora’ Report.
nm We h ?T e ® xa ™ l " ed the foregoing Balance-Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1898, and report that we find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head
Ufflce, and to the Balance-Sheets furnished by the various Branches, the latter being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane on the 30th ult., and hereby certify that we have found them correct.
• , e our opinion the Balance-Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the
books on the 30th June, 1898.
Brisbane, Bth July, 1898.
THOS. B. STEELS \
o. t. a lajto ;
Audi ton.
Myra Kemble has lately- suffered much from rheuma-
tism.
A Shakespearian Fancy-Dress Ball in aid of dramatic
charities is to be produced—in a theatrical way of speak-
ing—at Melb. Town Hall, Aug. 23rd.
Josef Hofftnan, the pianist, fell off his bike the other
day and sustained injuries to the extent of £BOO. That is
to say-, he sprained his wrist and had to miss four recital,
at £2OO a recite.
“ Round the World in Eighty Days” is to be staged at
Melb. Royal early in September by Maurice and Bateman.
Bateman is a local dentist.
Haresfoot: “Billy Hoskins is on the exhume. The
saying was he would get out of his bed in the middle of
any winter’s night to act Affable Hawk in the ‘ Game of
Speculation.’ I saw Mathews in it first, and thought,
‘ Ah, Billy- can knock him into a cocked hat,’ but when I
saw Hoskins act it I only realised the splendid art of
Mathews. Indeed, Hoskins was an indifferent and most
mannered actor, though he achieved success under
Phelps, at Sadler’s Wells.”
The comedy “Lord and Lady Algy-,” which the
Broughs have bought in London for Australian pro-
duction, must be a curious piece, judging from the
notices. Thus, G. Bernard Shaw describes it as “ the
most immoral play I ever saw.” Lord and Lady Algy, he
says, “are a middle-aged pair, more completely and
shamelessly void of seif-respect than any other couple for
whom the theatre has ventured to claim sympathy.”
“Melb”: Scholarly Fred Appleton—he acted at the
Bijou the other week—was, 20 years ago, the Cecil Ward
of this city, and hundreds retain a pleasant recollection
of him, without exaggerating his talent. He was very
likeable in “School,” “Pygmalion and Galatea,” and
many other pieces Associated with Coppin, Harwood, &c.
Octogenarian Joe Raynor, who claims to be the oldest
theatrical manager and actor in Australia, was going
around with a diorama not very long ago.
“Paradis”: A congress of side-shows has just opened
in the place known as the Hippodrome, corner of Lons-
dale and Exhibition (formerly Stephen) streets, Mel-
bourne. This historical kind of area was first the site
of Rowe’s circus, and afterwards of the Iron Pot, Coppin’s
Olympic, which was destroyed by fire, having served as a
Turkish bath and then as a furniture manufactory.
Coppin fetched the Olympic from England when Bishop
Perry brought the iron churches, which figure at Williams-
town, p ort Melbourne, Collingwood, and elsewhere.
“ Henry V.” was first acted in Melb., not by Rignold, but
by Brooke, at the Olympic.
A Coolgardie paper complains that a theatrical la'dy
who came into the office to insert an advt. carried her
money in such a safe place (having been led to believe
that W.A. was full of pickpockets and spielers) that she
had to undress to some extent on the premises to get at
the necessary half-crown.
A theatrical benefit performance in London, whereat
the programmes were hawked around by “ pretty or
popular actresses ” who got fancy prices for the goods,
has reminded somebody that such good nature (or
vanity) on the part of “leading ladies” lessens their
attractiveness. No actress is a heroine to her pro-
gramme-purchasers.
Pattie Browne made her first appearance at the old
Queen’s, Melb., as Cobb, the stable-boy, in “Formosa,”
under the management of Hegarty, brother of the
Hegarty who now runs the baths at St. Kilda.
Illustrated English Magazine, this July, interviews
Melbi, who expatiates on her delicious home of child-
hood at Yarraberg, about the most unromantic spot of
Melb., between Richmond Flat and Collingwood ditto.
Father had an organ built for her, but the best organ he
built was her larynx. Her voice was a decided contralto
up to her first change in life. She is a lovely whistler,
and that was considered her only accomplishment at
Melb. Presbyterian Young Ladies’ College. Argus critic
Guenett taught her some music, departed Cecehi more.
Dear Bulletin. — Re “Miss Chicago.” The comedienne
attempting to pourtray an artless, unconventional, giddy
little thing always has a scene in which she flops on a
table and nibbles an apple. To sit on a table and nibble
an apple in up-to-date drama signifies that you are a
wild, impetuous damsel, shockingly original and all that,
but just choke-full of heart and the finer emotions. Very
good ; but audiences must have obsen ed that the dare-
devil heroine never does more than gnaw a small spot off
the pippin. Some day an actress will make herself
famous by taking the apple and biting it, and eating it as
a good, honest apple deserves to be eaten. The first
actress, the mother of ’em all, did not peck at her apple,
I’ll swear ; but, then, Eve’s teeth were her own, and,
possibly, the ladies of the “ perfesh ” have in mind the
case of the soubrette who playfully bit the finger of her
stage adorer at Ballarat Academy of Music, and left a full
set of ivories dangling on his dexter finger, like a minia-
ture rat-trap.— Silas Snell.
Mme. Modjeska is calling on the women of America to
purify the drama by insisting on the production of
“ morklly-healthful plays.” [Madame must be getting
old.] She is trying to bring about a combination of
actresses to refuse to take the bold, bad parts with right-
thinking ladies who will boycott all plays containing such.
But, without the wicked woman as a foil, how unutterably
tame and insipid would be the virtuous heroine. Flossie
has her place in the scheme of things, after all.
Fred. Belton, who wrote his very bird-limey “Stage
Recollections” in Sydney, told how, in his young days,
he acted with Mrs. Honey, a most lovely woman, in “The
Middy Ashore,” she playing the Middy. The first night
Fred saw her standing helplessly at the top of the stairs
which led to her room, and dressed as the Midshipman.
“Oh, Mr. Belton, I’m so afraid of these—these—” With
that she nervously ventured down with one foot, as if
dipping into the water. He skipped up, and carried her
down under one arm. Who could refuse such an office
for plump Pattie Browne ?
“ P.E.” : Apropos the suggestion that “ Nellie Farren
ought,to write a ho'Ok-” Judging by her tale to an inter-
viewer once in London, she has a vivid imagination, or
else she has the Malaprop faculty of getting things
mixed. “ When I was 1 out there ’ ”—lhey speak of Aus-
tralia as a sort of dark continent—“ I'heard of poor
Frederici—you must know Fred, had an opera-co. of his
own, and for long they had awful bad luck. Nothing
seemed to go right, and they were just on the point of
disbanding when suddenly Fred, struck it rich. He put
on ‘ Faust.’ He played Meffy, and his wife played Mar-
guerite. There was a tremendoushouse, and his fortune
was as good as made, but in the last act, just as Faust and he
went down the trap, he dropped dead. Poor Fred, it was
a dramatic exit! ” Novi', this is all true, except that
Federici—not Frederici—never was a manager, and never
had any bad luck ; on the contrary, he had the best of
luck ; for he got a fat salary for a very thin voice. He
also was not married to Nellie Stewart, the lady who
played Marguerite, and he did not die going down the
trap. He had a heart trouble, and used to carry in the
pockets of his various costumes nitro-glycerine capsules
to stimulate that organ. On the fatal night he had
omitted to supply himself with capsules, and when he
felt for them and found none, the fright caused him to
faint; he died in his dressing-room ere the restorative
could be procured. “Feddy’s” dynamite pills used to
be a grim joke amongst the pros., and had he not forgot-
ten them that night the parsons would have been de-
prived of a “ shocking example.” The poor fellow died
Of a bad memory. Nellie Farren should not write a novel;
with a talent like that for misrepresenting facts, she
ought to be a historian, or at least, a colonial treasurer.
Melb. P.O. bells chime, at six o’clock, the well-known
air of Sir Harry Bumper’s song in “School for Scandal
Here’s to the maiden of bashful fifteen,
Here’s to the widow of fifty,
Here’s to the flaunting, extravagant quean,
And here’s to the housewife that’s thrifty.
Let the toast pass, drink to the lass,
I warrant she’ll prove an excuse for the glass.
“Shifter" : About time that struggling actors and
actresses combined to save themselves from being
“ rooked ” by unscrupulous, callous managers, who occa-
sionally dole out a few shillings to members of the
clamoring co., and finally get away with a good many
pounds. One notorious offender seems to live upon the
foolish vanity of pros, which prompts them to act for
nothing rather than not act at all.
“ Holdar M.” : In town, to-day, watched two beauteous
actresses climbing down a ’bus. The first fair creature
safely negotiated the winding stair, but her companion’s
ravishing skirt clung on to some sharp corner, and the
dainty occupant slipped several steps. As a glimpse of
gaudy garter, real blue silk foundations, and other
treasure tantalised the public curiosity, a chutney-colored
alien rushed forward to' help. He seemed well-to-do, but
for once the white lady wasn’t having any nigger, and,
whacking the bland, foreign gentleman over the ear with
her parasol, righted herself and bore off.
: T* l ? reception given the “American Girl,”
at Melbourne Princess reminds me of a cheerful dramatio
incident at the eternal Temperance Hall, in a Tasmanian
township, about 14 years back. A snide variety co. struck
the diggings in a woeful condition of dirt, and thirst, and
disrepair, and appeared on the following evening. The
show wasi simply “ offal,” but the men bore with it till an
inhumanly ugly comedian came forward to chortle the
pathetic ballad, 111 be all smiles to-night, mothah.”
Hus was too much, and, after the second verse, the audi-
ence arose in revolt, and filled the house and the town
with cat-calls and a most doleful groaning. The singer
made two or three brave attempts to get. along with his
ditty, but the miners absolutely refused martyrdom, and
then, after a brief consultation with the vocalist, the
manager came bobbing over the slush-lamp foot-
lights. Gents, he said, sweetly, “give a poor
Woke a show, carn’t yer ? See here, Mr. Mo-
rafferfcy is willing to do the fair thing by
youse if youse 11 do the fair thing by him. Let him
finish his song-, an afterwards he’ll fight any gent in the
w» d ! r er !u e c S f a ? Objectlo ". s tohis style of vocalisation.
Now, that s fair n square, ain’t it ? ” A storm of applause
followed, and Mr. Morafferty finished his song in peace.
Then an underground boss from one of the claims went
up on the stage and declared that in his opinion Moraf-
ferty had no more music in him than a bunvip, and
Morafferty convinced him of his error in five rounds. For
five the variety co. drew crowded houses, and each
m^b t Morafferty sang “ I’ll be all smiles to-night,
mothah and subsequently whipped a local critic, after a
more or less animated encounter, whilst the patrons kept
the solitary policeman blaspheming out in the darkness.
It was only on the arrival of a relay of constables from
Launceston that the argument about Mr. Morafferty’s
vocal abilities was abandoned, and the company fled
loaded down with gold and glory,
A waxworks show recently struck a certain Australian
tmvn, and, amongst its attractions, announced that the
effigy of a notorious murderess would be shown. Before
the opening of the exhibition, however, the showman re-
ceived pathetic appeals from many well-connected
people to eliminate the feature alluded to from the exhi-
bition as the unfortunate woman was related to them.
The showman complied with the request. On the day
I! gu °? r °P a lady-like woman madeaprivate’appeal
to the showman to see the figure. “ She was our mother,
you know . said the visitor. She saw the waxen model
of her mother and wept over it for an hour. During the
stay of the waxworks in that town nearly every relation
of the murderess had a “ private view.” Human nature is
indeed a queer thing.
Main entrance to Melb. Royal, on a crowded night,
too/is a veritable death-trap. Stalls, upper-circle and
gallery all pour occupants in to swell the jostling mob on
the ground-floor entrance, which is like a funnel, with
the narrow end towards the street. Imagine how, in a
few moments of panic, this would become choked with a
surging mass of terrified stragglers ! Emergency exits
may exist, but are not made sufficiently conspicuous by
notices on the walls, as they should be.
S.S.” : I object to the stupid indifference with which
the actors and actresses receive the rattle of epigrams in
some of our better class latter-day plays. When a char-
acter in drama utters a particularly good thing, it makes
the same impression amongst his audience of “ pros.” as
if he had made some casual reference to the weather. A
clever talker would not continue to scatter his pearls
before such intellectual paofaydenns as he is usually-
associated with in the theatrical drawing-room. The man
capable of epigrams would rather waste his heart’s blood
than squander them on the intellectually- incompetent,
and an appearance of interest is called for in the recipi-
ent of a bon mot on the boards. “ Dot ” Boucieault took
care that his people should. manifest an intelligent
appreciation of the things they were supposed to listen
to, but then Bouci. was an artist every inch of him, and
a little over,
Telescopic William Don, when Southerly in Austra-
lia, was introduced to a certain individual now a Judge,
and said afterwards, “ Why, he was a turnkey in America,
and locked me up for debt.”
lie the want of smoking accommodation at Covent
Garden Opera House, a London musical scribe can’t
understand “why, on chilly nights, some of the best
blood in England is condemned to smoke its cigarette on
a sort of parapet.” The Bulletin sympathises with the
amazement. Some of the best blood on this journal rims
cold at the thought of a deah duke chappie being ex-
pected, bai jove 1 to toddle out upon the dam roof and
catch a beastly cold in the—haw I—shirt-front.
Clement Scott has related some of his theatrical ex-
periences of 28 years ago, when he was the dashing young
pioneer of “ independent and truthful ” criticism in
Hingland’s metropolis, and managers used to send fre-
quent notes to the editor requesting that another person
should be appointed in the place of Mr. C. Scott, whose
name had been struck off the free-list. If the gushful
Scott was a pioneer in “truthful” notice writing, what
sort of criticism did the drama receive prior to his “ bold
and fearless ” advent!
Speaking of critics, there is none more terrible in his
wrath than the representative of a certain cycling rag
when he has to deal with a management which is back"
ward in paying for its little ad. He goes behind the
scenes, and, fixing the impecunious lessee with his busi-
ness eye, says : “ Now- look here, So-and-So, if that little
account isn’t paid by to-morrow afternoon, I shall take
the ad. out of the paper (the Wheelers’ Miscellany, call
it), and withhold my review of your show. And (with
awful emphasis) you know what that will mean to you ! ”
The chances are that he doesn’t get the little account
settled, and then the almighty ad. ceases to appear, and
the world looks in vain for the missing review, and the
show probably- goes bung. Whereupon the Miscellany
man pulls his haf, over his eyes so as to look like a
destroying angel, and smokes a cigarette on the footpath
outside the deserted playhouse, gloating over the ruin he
has wrought. It is only necessary for a cycling jour-
nalette to say “ Die !”to a showman—and hie perisheth.
Talk about the power of the Press ! Our colonial !
“Hans”: The average mummer’s opportunities of
seeing a play from the front are so infrequent that he is
as much impressed as the greenest backbloeks visitor.
Close observation of several prominent Melb. actors in
the auditorium of different theatres showed me that those
who were not superciliously criticising rivals on the
boards were regarding the most flimsy situations with
clenched hands and staring eyeballs. At the “ Idler ”
matinee recently a popular comedian was dissolved in
sympathetic tears.
John Norton apparently thinks of oppos-
sing Ashton at Goulburn should the latter accept
office.
“I will be down a little late this morn-
ing,” N j.W. Supreme Court Judge Manning
telephoned to his court last Monday morning.
Half-an-hour afterwards he was dead —of phthisi-
cal hemorrhage.
In asserting that Zola’s father had been
dismissed the French army for theft, the novelist’s
detractors confess themselves reduced to that last
forlorn device of impotent spite—the libel per
parentes suos. The Esterhaziness of their side of
the question, too, is fast being cleared up, if there
is anything in the confession of the major’s cousin
that said cousin assisted Esterhazy to forge the
Dreyfus pidee de conviction. Looks as if truth
were this time really going to prevail in the long
run.
The irrepressible Captain Slocum, who
voyaged round the world, lone-handed, in his little
yawl, the “ Spray,” writes to a friend in Sydney
that it was when off the Brazilian coast, near the
mouth of the Amazon, he first heard of the
Spanish-American war. “ The cruiser Oregon
came foaming up astern, asking had I ‘seen any
Spanish men-o’-war ? ’ I replied that I hadn’t,
and ran up my signals, ‘ Let us keep together for
mutual protection. ’ Captain Clark of the Oregon
considered that unnecessary, I suppose, for he
steamed away with a rush, looking for the
Spaniards. I was loaded, however, and had the
Spaniards attacked me I would have sunk ’em
with one of my lectures.” This is real Yank.
The interesting case of Wallace v. Wal-
lace is down for hearing at Melb. on 11th inst.
Old Johnny Wallace, M.L.C., is accused by his
sons (or some of them) of maladministering the
estate of his late father-in-law, Tommy Monahan,
in which many relatives of that unlovable million-
aire are interested. In short, pbre Wallace must
either disprove certain assertions made by plain-
tiffs, or lose his executorship of the estate. By-
the-way, it was old-man Wallace who paid a
£lOOO-fee to surgeon O’Hara for amputating, or
mending, the leg of one of his sons. Is the ex-
pensively-doctored young Wallace a plaintiff in
this case ?
According to N.S.W. Government’s in-
spired organ, Sydney D.T., it is now proposed that
N.S.W. Parliament should appoint delegates, and
ask the other Parliaments to do likewise, to con-
sider alterations in the Convention Bill. In
short, N.S.W. Parliament, which annulled the
popular majority vote on June 3, now proposes to
abolish the people’s elected delegates—the ones
whom the nation specially appointed to make a
Constitution, and whose Constitution the national
majority accepted ; and to create a new lot who
are not elected for the special purpose by the
people, and the delegates the people didn't elect
are to overrule those that it did elect !! ! Majority
rule and the Referendum and the voice of the
people have a good deal to put up with at the
hands of Reid’s alleged “ Liberal ” party.
“ Sabretasche ” : Nicolson being almost
the last of the Victorian police-cadets, I rake the
fires, or ashes, of memory in regard to a few.
Standish queerly eluded the rungs of the ladder,
and the more so because he came from England
under a cloud and alleged false name. Hare,
Hookey, Burton, and Brook Smith were among
the most dashing, while Palmer, Chambers, and
Beaver were about the quietest. None became
more popular than Kabat—once an Austrian
cavalry-officer. Walstab drifted to journalism.
Chomley alone attained the top of the tree, though
Winch and Nicolson at times held the billet of
Acting-Chief Commissioner. But the cadet-
officers were, taken altogether, unsavory, through
a little leaven acting on the lump, what with a
penchant for wine and women and borrowing
money from subordinates, who lent only too
gladly.


IELLIN'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
inay be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excel enee, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases —especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & 00., Manchester.
ffASGARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
I - rise's Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Publications, etc.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 9X3, U.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
JANO or ORGAN PLAYING
• LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT’S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
' A QUipK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With one can become an expert pianist accompany-
ing -Soijgs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the NEAREST APPROACH TO A READY MADE KNOW-LEDGE
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
\ 84 QAllCf-Q frnp To introduce to every home PRATT’S CHAET
i UT oUllgo II CO Published at 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
Df 184 Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt s Chart
of Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
Anglo American Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
KTEW MUSIC.
“The Chimes of Normandy,” by Stanhope Gray, a song
certain to please ; “ Saucy Sally,” by Will Godwin, a good
song with a good ehonis ; “ Pat Magee,” a pretty, witty,
Irish song ;Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henri Laski,
composer of “My Polly” Waltz; “Pierrot et Pierrette”
(Gavotte), by Henri Laski, composer of “My Polly ”
Waltz; “ Frascatti ” Waltz, by Theo Bonheur. Of all
dealers. Catalogues post free on application to W.
PAXTON & CO., 203 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOKS.
BOOKS. Books.— NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.—The Soiled Dove, being
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy; Miss
Skittles, Ihe Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence—
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
sContinental Supply Agency,
» Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
A GOLDEX SHANTY (collected verse and !
A stories), Is. 3d.
GUIHEFIi’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere
Dear Bulletin. — Re England’s losing
of tricks in the Anglo-Russian game at
Pekin. China has plenty of cause to hate
Britain for being the first to force her out
of her hollow-log, with its blissful ignorance
of the outer world. Further, Britain is very
far away ; its promises are indefinite; and its
support unreliable according to Li’s reading of
its rail-sitting policy during the past 40 years.
Also, its (xovernnu nt is at the beck of the people,
which Li looks on as the mob, and for the mob he
has a profound contempt. And Russia is very
near and very powerful, and its Government is an
autocratic and masterful one after Li’s own heart.
Likewise, Russia promises what China wants, while
Britain promises only what the British merchant
and missionary want. They both lie, but that
doesn’t matter. China’s question is—Which is
most to be feared ? —C. J.T.
“ Holy Roman ” to The Bulletin :
Archbishop Carr, a few weeks ago, interviewed Pope
Leo Xllf. at Rome, and on same occasion introduced
little T. E. Verga, printer, of Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Verga’s claim to hobnob with His Holiness was
that he raised the funds to build the big church of St.
John’s on Clifton Hill, opposite his own house. The
story of how Verga began the church is worth telling.
The land -one of the finest sites around the southern
capital —was reserved for R.C. Church purposes, but, for
long after, the neighborhood was uninhabited. When
Clifton Hill was colonised and named, the land-grabbers
arose and looked about for sites to buy and re-sell at a
big profit. Inquiries were made about the fine slice of
land on the crown of the bill on Heidelberg-road, now
known as Queen’s Parade, and it was found it was a R.C.
reserve. This was too'much for the Yellow Pup, who
started to sneak round and bite the Papal calves. The
calves were sheep of Bishop Goold’s fold named Mul-
cahy, Hooligan, Fogarty and a lot more Bulgarian and
Cuban settlers. A petition was taken round for names,
asking Govt, to cancel the reservation, as no use was
being made of the land. Well, little Verga, though he
has a foreign name, is a Cheshire man, and the promoters
of the petition didn’t know he was a papist, and they
hauled the petition in for his blessing and autograph.
Verga, however, made some excuse for not signing, and
when the L. 0.1. had gone, and were well down the street,
he clapped on his bat and drove up to Archbishop
Goold’s. Next morning a big ad. appeared in the papers
announcing that the first stone of a new church would be
laid the following Sunday at Clifton Hill. On that day
the Bishop, Verga, the choir of St. Patrick’s Cathedral
and Father W. Kelly, the versatile Jesuit, went in force
to the Hill, assembled in a tent, and laid a stone that
crushed the hopes of the L. 0.1. then and for evermore
regarding that coveted allotment. And if ever such a
dignitary is created as the Lord Bishop of Northcote and
Oollingwood, the united diocese has a splendid Cathedral
ready-made right off.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM
FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
1 Silver match Free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for thelii is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed'envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
w'ith our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 A PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMA.UI/T & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
COLEMANE’S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUCH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
«
TXTANTED to send for our Book, containing information
regarding the Disease of ‘nvunlronnoee !
and its cure by Eucrasy, which- UrUn - Kell i lebß *
can be given secretly. Posted Free, sealed, Two Stamps.
Address Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
SVoflVilWJ
jojf^Hag]
3? ?alo) Syooo}
SatffloM ftjiviyC
cjn^iS
1© 'XlkVd.
t\
w
‘l’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
(lucer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. (i<l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st,, Sydney
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
Bee
HIVE'
-KNITTING
Wools
Scotcli Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
IP
THIS TRADE"/AARI!C%
SEE
ON S
Trade Mark Registered.
Estab'ishecll7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Alsu “ Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
rvrar manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive Wools.
J.J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEI
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re-tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been I
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all •
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
o Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
■
Mffiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiji
Mf'!!!!!! iijH i iiiiiii
R!!!H fl.'i'iii'iiiiii
rUMiifiiiiiiiiiii
nm
111 •
iii'ii.ii
yj
■ in";; J
jcj;;;;:. <•)
'IS
'"I"! 1 !!!!!! liliffl
!!!!!!!!'i*u
M'iiiiiiiiii,
Hiitiiiiiiin
Hl'jiiiiiiiii
!!"iiiiiiiiii
i'liiiiiiiiii
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Biding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 '-, trimmings included.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
dlinerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. Od. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co-,
Manufacturing Chem : sts 8s Food Specialist'’.
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 Margaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
r M «TMENT D
S/Oflf M£/\SEf
AND WO VA/D5
or £ VER Y
DESCRiPTiorf
d?roberts
ALTERiS
Pius
FOR SKIN DISEASES[
AND ALL D/SOHDERS OF THE
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/srs //// X 2/yEACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L° BRIDPQRT.
MELBOURNE.
vm t?
FREE
wVTCHES-CLOCKS-JEWELLERY-BIRTHDAY* I
WEDDii\lc z Christening Presents
H'NeWMAIVI- 1755177-ELIZABETH Si*
OPPOSITE C:RO.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man Electricity.
Our E'ectric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in nil stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
in'; current that can be felt
1 v the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount,
paid. We mean exactly
what, wo say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Married Ladies.
K3T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning yonr welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.


THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING. & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
[Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WERB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
SKND YuUR ORDKR TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, fc irrhes high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 c.-trve manual o keys,
ssets, 10 octaves of our beautiful goldrr-’cr.ed meds, i3stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ wa; ranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refe ence, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
BOULE&TIN BRANDY.
The finest French Brandy imported into Australia.
May be had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the leading Hotels and Wine
and Spirit Merchants.
ASK FOR BOTJLESTIN.
fci «-«Ss
9 \\
WUWST
W'u.oWfliST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL. BE WORN
PERFECT IN SHAPE.
LEN GTHENS THE WA I ST.
BE A UTIFIES THE fYg URE.
W'WoWAiST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
A S K FOR
W'm-owa'ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESAUE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F. w. LEE, Camden Buildings.
aSS, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
..
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Parkr Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst gf the Fashionable Quarter.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
. —i :
h-.nAj >
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEA.M
Cultivating
Machinery.
\
IN
m
m
I M
Vm
m
7? •• - v Viifc.
E
k
i).
m
mm
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po: table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY .
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL EHOIHE.
General Debility
and Nervousness
A Truthful Narrative of Great Suffering
and A Radical Cure.
THE CASE OF MRS. JAMES WILLIAMS.
(From the “ Mrtrriehville Revieio,” 1617/98.)
(BY OUIi special reporter.)
“ Get the plain, unadulterated truth ! ”
These were the instructions given to cur
(Weeltly Reviev)) reporter when he was de-
spatched to interview Mrs. James Williams,
of Holmesdale Street, Marrickville, Sydney.
Our reporter was fortunate enough to find
Mrs. Williams at home, and on his explain-
ing the motive of his visit that lady ac-
corded him a most hearty welcome. No
one, to look at Mrs. Williams now, would
ever suspect that she bad suffered from any
serious illness. She is a fine specimen of a
woman, and looks in grand health. Our re-
porter complimented her on her appearance
“ I was very different a little while ago,”
said Mrs. Williams, with a smile.
“ And that's what I want to hear all
about,” responded the newspaper man.
“I suffered,” continued Mrs. Williams,
“from great
General Debility and Nervousness,
for I was seriously ill for many months.”
“ How do you account for it, Mrs
Williams ?”
“I was travelling by rail once, and three
pickpockets followed me, and jostled me as
f was getting into the car, and they suc-
ceeded in picking my pocket of my purse,
which contained » considerable sum in gold.
They were very violent, and the shock of it
all
Seriously Upset Me.
A few seconds after the assault I got very
faint in the train, and then commenced to
vomit violently. From that moment I date
all my trouble. When I got home I was
Entirely Prostrated.
Terrible headaches came on, which were so
violent as to nearly drive me mad. It was
ten times worse than neuralgia. Day by day
I got worse. I had no longer any desire for
food, and I never got any sleep, but only
dropped off now' and again into an uneasy
doze. Then I should get wide awake in a
moment, and find myself
Shaking all Over.
Of course I was not able to do any of my
housework.”
“Isuppose not, Mrs. Williams. I wonder
at your being able to get about at all.”
“Yes, during the earlier stages of my
disease I managed to get up and sit in a
chair, and sometimes I felt as though the
chair was sinking through the floor with me,
and at other times 1 shoidd feel benumbed
all over. And when I attempted to stand
up I was seized with giddiness, and fell
back in my chair.”
“Were there any other marked symp-
toms ? ”
“Yes, in addition to the headaches I have
spoken of I had a pain in the chest and
between the shoulders. It felt as though
there was a moving ball of wind around my
heart. ”
“Had you obtained medical advice at this
time ? ”
“Yes. One doctor thought
It was Consumption
that had attacked me, and another medical
man suggested that fatty degeneration of
the heart was the cause of this pain. They
prescribed forme, but their medicines had
no effect upon my complaint. Then they
recommended a change of air and scene—
they said nothing else would do me any
good—but I was unable to act on this
advice.”
“ And how did it all end M rs. Williams ?”
“Well, I got from bad to worse, and i.
was forced to
Take to my Bed,
and to get my sister-in-law to come to nurse
me. I had now got into such an irritable
and nervous state that the noise of the
traffic (and there is not much of that down
this way) would throw me into fits of
trembling! I wasted away terribly, and I
was the colour of death. The many doctors
who attended me w r ere unable to do anything
for me, aud at last
They Gave me Up.
I never expected to get better. I thought
my end was near. I was in this state when
a neighbour brought me in a small bottle of
Clements Tonic—it was nearly full. She
pressed me most earnestly to try it. ”
“ W hich you did do ? ”
“ I did, and for which I am devoutly
thankful, for this small bottle was the be-
ginning of my recovery from my dreadful
disease Clements Tonic worked wonders
with me from the first. It gave my shat-
tered nerves a calm and peaceful tone, thus
allowing me to get some natural sleep, the
want of which
Was Killing Me.
It strung me together, and braced me up,
and I soon got that I could stand more
noise and conversation, which only recently
would have thrown me into
A Shaking Fit.
The remedy gave me an appetite, and 1
could eat a hearty meal.”
“ I suppose you soon became entirely re-
suscitated ? ”
“ Yes, being able to sleep and eat once
more, I so n got strong, and my cheeks filled
out rapidly. A few bottles completely put
me right. lam sure there is no remedy in
the world to be spoken of in the same
breath with Clements 'I onic, and I have
proof of that, for, in addition to my own
cure, it
Rescued my Little Girl,
of three and a half years of age, from a
most distressing malady.”
“ I should like very much to hear about
that,” said our reporter.
“ Well, I will tell you all about it. I
took the child to a funeral, and I now think
it was a very unwise thing to do. My little
girl was very frightened, and went off in a
dead
Faint at the Graveside.”
“ What was the result ? ”
“ For seven months she suffered from
what the doctors said was
St. Vitus’ Dance.
Herlimbs would shake and move in a strange
way. In addition to this eczema broke out
all over the back of the child’s head. It was
a very bad case. She was a fine fat child be-
fore she received the shock to her nerves I
spoke about, but afterwai ds got very thin.
Her appetite was very queer, and she craved
for strange foods.”
“ How came you to give the child
Clements Tonic, Mrs. Williams ? ”
“ I read a case in a little book very like
that of my child’s. It much. impressed me,
and I started to give the child Clements
Tonic. Perhaps you will hardly believe it
but it is perfectly true, two bottles
Entirely Cured Her
of both her complaints—the St. Vitus’
dance and the eczema. I was astonished
that the remedy should drive away these
two very serious ailments so very speedily.
The child at once started to eat with a
natural appetite, and got fat and well in no
time. Clements Tonic cured the St. Vitus’
Dance in
A Marvellous Manner,
and the little girl’s head was perfectly clean
in a very short time. So now you can see
why I have such faith in Clements Tonic.”
“ And may we publish all this, Mrs.
Williams ? ”
“ Every word of it. It is but my duty to
make it known, that other sick ones may
have the benefit of Clements Tonic as my
child and myself did.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Elizabkth Williams, of Coree House, HolmesdaU;
street, Marrickville, near Sydney, in the Colony of New
South Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare thai
I have carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of ten folios and consecutively numbered from one
to ten, and that it contains a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the same in
any way; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New' South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
Declared at Marrickville, near Sydney, this 80th
day of June, 1898, before me,
R. G. BRERETON, J.P.
I can endorse every word my wife says as to both
her cure as well as my child’s cure by Clements
Tonic.
4 ( hCu<s.


SIBUOIS 3HX Nl iZdOdO
m
i
33UJ SUV3IO
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N.S.W.
LA. WREW CE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter,
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION - .
WINES IV Best R Z" h onlv 0) SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
s
-<=s
SR
<* 4%’ JT
1
J&
1
1
n
i
<r
OTi
Ml
M (CCt.
Sarah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was always Sarah lately. A rasping, complain-
ing voice was for ever querulously crying out
against Sarah, keeping up a running fire of accu-
sations against Sarah’s honesty, against Sarah’s
faithfulness, against Sarah’s capabilities, and even
against Sarah’s morals. To all of which the child
would not, or dare not, reply. But when the
voice meandered momentarily away to an up-
stairs floor she would lift up her head proudly and
the hot tears would trickle down her cheeks un-
restrained. Then, the voice coming back, she
would dry her tears with hard, wicked blows of
her small hand on her face. The voice would re-
commence :
“ ’Taint no use of me talking ; you don’t take a
bit of notice of me. I’m nobody lately. It’s a
poor case that I can’t ”
Sarah went outside ; not defiantly, with a slam
of the door, but very gently. She was crying
again. It seemed such a large, incomprehensible
world, and she was such a small Sarah.
People said it was the baby that troubled Mrs.
Wilson. She should never have been a mother on
that occasion, they averred. She was too old—
they guessed 45. And the child was such a mite
—a poor, tiny little thing that never cried, but
lay looking up into its mother’s face with a
thoughtful, painful gaze, as though it felt itself to
be a very queer kind of baby indeed, and was
pondering the best way of breaking the news that
it could talk and think and read and write—in
fact, was quite an old man. The doctor saw at a
glance that it must die soon. But, being a com-
passionate man, he kept his knowledge to himself.
In three months the child died.
Then it happened that Sarah, the little orphan
and domestic servant, aged nine, began to find her
life a very hard one. Mrs. Wilson, whose young
husband had run away with dashing Polly Bin-
ders, became suddenly very harsh and irreconcil-
able. She was kind and gentle and patient no
longer. And Sarah missed the baby, too. She
wondered where the queer little fellow had gone
to,
“Where’s Freddy?” she asked once of the
mistress.
The woman did not answer.
“Oh, I know, ’cause Jimmy Smith said Freddy’s
dead.”
Mrs. Wilson commenced a hysterical sobbing,
and Sarah, not knowing enough to get out of her
way, was fiercely grabbed, and thrashed unmerci-
fully.
That afternoon she lay in wait for Jimmy Smith,
the butcher’s boy. He came along as usual.
“Greasy, greasy, slip along easy ! ”
The shrill cry of Sarah rang out, and, with her
apron full of stones, she made an onslaught on
Jimmy and his white horse. They fled. Sarah
was revenged.
“That’s for telling lies,” she said. “And
now,” she added, with an air of business, “ I
think I’ll go and look for Freddy.”
It was Mrs. Shaw’s darling baby-girl she kid-
napped. She had watched her chance for hours,
and then made her swoop when she considered
herself undetected.
Her mistress was upstairs when she returned,
so Baby Shaw was easily smuggled into the
front room, and gently deposited in the little
empty cradle which the lonely woman would still
rock sometimes just for the sake of rocking
back sweet memories. It sometimes mercifully
happened that she rocked herself to sleep.
Sarah went upstairs.
“Please, Mrs. Wilson,” she said, in a matter-of-
fact way, “Freddy’s come home.”
“Freddy ! ”
“ Yes ; he’s asleep in the cradle.”
Mrs. Wilson gave a short cry, and her thin lean
face went very white. Her iong fingers closed
over the girl’s hand. Sarah was trembling now.
“ What do you mean ? ”
“ Freddy’s—come—home.”
They went downstairs and entered the room.
The woman saw the cradle and the child sleeping
peacefully. She fell on her knees.
“God ! ” she said, “ help me ! ”
Sarah was kneeling beside her.
“ God! ” she said, “ please don’t tell on me ! ”
A knock was heard on the door, and the handle
turned. Mrs. Shaw, breathless and alarmed,
made a rush at Sarah.
. “You little wretch !” she said, as she caught
sight of Baby Shaw in the cradle.
Mrs. Wilson, still on her knees, smiled bitterly,
and did not speak.
The other woman lifted the child out of the
cradle and carried it in one arm out of the house.
With the other hand she led Sarah. She gave a
look at Mrs. Wilson as she passed. The baby was
crying.
Outside, she laid the child roughly on the
ground, and shook Sarah till her teeth chattered.
“ You little devil,” she said ; “do you want to
break that poor woman’s heart ? ”
“ Don’t beat me ! ” murmured Sarah.
But Mrs. Shaw knew she owed a Duty to
Society.
N.S.W.
J. J. O’M.
“ C.R.” : Flinders Petrie’s discovery that
Beer was the ancient Egyptian national drink
seems considerably subsequent. Years ago I
remarked in The Bulletin that the A.E. tipple
was beer and was called Booza, and drew the
obvious inference that our slang epithet Booze is
of Pharaohnic origin and older than the Pyramids.
Either Herodotus or Diodorus Siculus (filtered)
was my authority.
Thus the Argentine Consul on the “ Rise,
Decline and Fall ” of New Australia: —
Some 4000 or 5000 members were enrolled in Australia,
and over £20,000 subscribed to the movement. It is one
thing, however, to project an ideal state, but quite
another to enrol people fitted to populate such a place ;
most of the citizens enrolled had their own ideas and
were not backward in expressing them. From the taming
of a bullock to the building of a house each had his own
plan. The chairman of the concern held very strong
views on the ideal life to be led, but the majority of the
people were entirely out of touch with him. Thus ill
feeling was caused and secessions took place. When a
second batch of immigrants arrived from Australia
further differences were engendered and another separate
colony was established by malcontents some 80 miles
away. The very essence of working co-operation is
mutual good will, but these people had not got it in them
to bear and forbear with one another; they had neither
the religious element of the old Pilgrim Fathers nor the
fanaticism of fervent political reformers. This Utopia is
now a Government colony, though the administrator is
one of themselves. Whether the colonists who still cling
to the ideal —and the 60 squares of land—are able and
strong enough to revive the idea which underlies New
Australia, time alone will tell.
It sounds sarcastic !
Three Cards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Challiner’s eyes shone with interest as they fol-
lowed the fall of the cards upon the worn um-
brella. The man who had just left the group.it
was evident from his contemptuous grin, had
halted on the margin of temptation. The bearded
man and the tall one who lost his silver with such
wanton exuberance, were only second-rate “ but-
toners.” Next to Challiner stood an elderly man
who had just transposed himself from the opposite
side of the improvised gaming-table. He moved
closer and examined the cards.
“Thought so,” he drawled. “A fellow can
tell the queen every time. Drop of rain’s fallen
in the corner. ”
I seized Challiner’s arm, and told him not to be
an idiot, but he made an impolite remark, and
shook himself free again. After all, it wa3 no
business of mine.
Challiner kept his eye on the card in the middle.
The tall man staked ss. and picked up one from
the outside—the ace of clubs.
“ Plain as pie, if you’d only followed the cards,”
commented Challiner. “ Here’s the queen.”
When the dealer suggested another try the
bearded man forestalled his tall confederate, and
won. The tall one staked again and won, and
went once more and loit. Challiner fumbled in
his pocket. Meanwhile the cards fell with the
spotted one uppermost. Challiner handed over
5s. —and turned the ace of clubs. Astonishment
was plain upon his face.
A second venture was suggested, and Challiner
lost again. A third ; but he intimated that he
was moneyless. The cards were already distri-
buted, and the tall spieler had taken another
chance and gone down. He also proclaimed him-
self cleaned out. Next time he proffered his
watch, but the virtuous dealer refused anything
save money - “ heaven knew what charges
mightn’t be rigged up against a bloke.” The
elderly gentleman near Challiner offered a loan.
The tall man gave his gold watch as security,
picked the q ueen, and redeemed his property.
The cards went down once more, and someone
hinted that Challiner should borrow money.
Again the cards were dealt, but he was obdurate.
Again, and he watched them as a cat about to
make a spring. A fourth time, and Challiner had
exchanged his watch for £i of the elderly gentle-
man’s.
The bystanders crowded closer. The confede-
rates nudged and worried Challiner. Simulating
intense interest in his fortune, the elderly philan-
thropist pointed eagerly to the soiled card. Then
I was astounded to see the simpleton pocket the
money and stride away from the excited group.
The elderly philanthropist was the first to over-
take their departing victim.
“ What’s your game now ?” he shouted. “ Any-
thing wrong ? ”
“ No. Changed my mind, that’s all.”
“ ’Off about th’ four quid ? ”
“My concern entirely. You see ”
A foot twisted dexterously round Challiner’s
ankle, and he fell. As I ran up, a leg shot in
front of mine—and there was a shove from behind.
Challiner and I sat where we had fallen, and
sheepishly regarded three retreating figures.
“ Satisfied now ? ” I asked, at last.
“ Cert’nly,” chortled Challiner ; “I’ve diddled
’em out of four quid. Chain’s only Yankee rolled
gold Oh, the land of the wooden nutmeg’s
a glorious country. Great scheme, isn’t it? Got
anything like a thirst on you ? ”
I admitted that I had.
* « * *
But the scheme did not appear so wonderful to
Challiner when he was passed along to the gaol
authorities for uttering a counterfeit sov., three
replicas of which were found upon him. Nor to
me, when I was permitted to depart with a sting-
ing reprimand.
A magisterial Solon told Challiner that, if his
yarn about the spielers was veracious, six months
would suit the case admirably.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.
From Printer’s Ink, New York :
0. E. Osgood Co., house-furnishers, of Boston, an-
nounces that any of its patrons having unsettled accounts
who may enlist [i.e., to light Spaniards], may have pay-
ments omitted during term of services, and in case of
death the bill will be receipted in full.
Thus interestingly; “ Eko ” to The Bulle-
tin re Victorian Usury Bill :
“ I served for two years as clerk to the lead-
ing pawnbroker in a big Vic. provincial town, and
know a little about the subject. We had a large
‘ Saturday night ’ clientele—people who pawned the Sun-
day go-to-meets on Monday and took them back on
Saturday night. The boss used to talk of them as ‘ two-
penny lousy pledges,’ and truly many were ‘ fitted ’ by
the remark. The charge was, and still is, 2d. per month
per 2s. 6d. For this a duplicate was given to the
‘ popper,’the ticket written, the name, address, occupa-
tion, &0., re-entered in the pledge-hook, and the pledge
shelved, labelled and fumigated. All for twopence. The
pawnbroker had also to pay a heavy license-fee, bring
references of good character from neighbors, and run the
risk of losing his money r through the article being stolen,
he receiving no compensation. The idea that the pawn-
broker lives on the misery of the poor is all rot. Take
our office, for instance. We took in on an average
20 pledges a day, of which 15 ranged from 2s. 6d. to 10s.,
giving an average of 6d. per month, which means £l4 per
month. When you took out of that my screw (£lO a
month), and allowed for risks, you can judge how much
we screwed out of the poor. It was in the other five
pledges, ranging from 10s. to £25, where the profit lay.
These stood him in £4 or £5 a week. The pawnbroker
doesn’t give a rap for the washerwoman’s musty petticoat,
but he smiles with giee at the hard-up swell’s diamonds.
In proof of my statement that pawnbroking is not a good
game, can anyone show me one who made a pile by the
game? Of course, many of them do a large bill of sale
and promissory-note biz., and these prospered when they
laid to. their book. The man I worked with had
been in the same shop for 23 years, had the
biggest trade in , the place, and rarely speculated.
Like all Jews, he was economical, and yet, with all
this, when he went aloft, he left behind about £4500. He
screwed about £4500 out of the poor—in 23 years. There’s
barely a single trade that does not give better returns.
For example : When I left him I opened a photo.-studio in
the same town. The other photographers charged £1 a
dozen for cabinets. I reckoned it out. One plate, 2Jd. ;
12 sheets of paper, Is. ; chemicals, 6d. ; mounts, is. ;
printing, 2Jd. Total actual cost, 2s. lOd. I charged 15s.
a dozen. The second week I cleared a tenner over exes.
Then the other men dropped to 12s. 6d. I retorted with
10s. They fell to 7s. 6d. ;I to 6s. ; they to ss. As they
had more money than I, they drove me out, and returned
to their higher price. What per cent, per annum would
this reckon out? The pawnbroker, besides his other
handicaps, has to compete against the moneylender and
second-hand dealer. The latter, in nearly every case, is
an unlicensed pawnshop, and the former lends sums at
exorbitant rates to hard-up minors, and others. I could
name two of Vic.’s most famous lawyers who clear over
£lOOO a year by ‘ trust moneys to lend.’ What is needed
is a strict hand on moneylenders who fleece the unknow-
ing. A pawnbroker’s rates are fixed by law, but the in-
terest charged by the David Henry class is fixed by the
lenders.


The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
r*
tin
X
N
REPUBLIQUE
FRANCAISEj
PEARS
& F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Burgoo on the Border Line.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a most distinguished mau,
With high silk-hat and manners fine,
Professor Dugald of the clan
He rode up in the coach with Dan
To Burgoo on the Border Line.
Now, Burgoo is a thriving place,
And built it was by thrifty men.
Tis famed for canniness and grace.
There Macs and thistles thrive apace,
And everything is Scotch, ye ken !
No Mac is easy taken down,
And chaps who go to prey, rem tin
Till done a crisp, inviting brown,
And clever spielers up from town
Depart, and never come again.
But of its hospitality
The town is proud, and men win shine
In art, or boast a pedigree,
Get bed, and board, and whisky free
At Burgoo on the Border Line.
The suave Professor was a Scot
Of goodly lineage ; apart
From which his dialect was not
Impaired by time and change—a lot
He knew of lit’rature and art.
He posted bills about the town,
And far and wide his dodgers spread.
These testified his great renown ;
And wit and learning both did crown
His famous monologue, they said.
“ Scotch humor ” was the theme, an 1 he
Was pressed by happy Macs to dine.
They gave the man a haggis tea,
And one protracted whisky spree,
At Burgoo on the Border Line.
The hall was crowded on the night
With sober men of middle age ;
The curtain folded out of sight;
Expectant of a keen delight,
The Macs beheld a darkened stage.
They waited long, the room was cold,
Yet no man murmured, but instead
The red assembled nobs they told
To see what Burgoo Hall would hold
In cash at half-a-crown a head.
An hour crept by like this, and they
Saw just an empty stage. No strain
Of Scottish humor made them gay;
And then at last to their dismay
The curtain drifted down again.
They yelled. Their wonder was intense.
The bold Professor, bowing low,
Stepped forth. “What is it, friends? Comm
Why, bless my soul, how very dense !
The show is over, don’t you know.”
The patrons wore a studious air,
But soon they grasped the base design,
Then sought the stranger here and there,
And fast he fled on Elkin’s mare
From Burgoo on the Border Line.
EDWARD DYSON.
On Our Selection—Two Horses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had two saddle-horses at our selection — a mare
and a colt. “ Nell ” and “ Ned ” we called them.
Fine hacks they were, too ! Anybody could ride
them, they were so quiet. Dad reckoned Ned was
the better of the two. He was well-bred, and had
a pedigree and a gentle disposition, and a bald-
face, and a bumble-foot, and a raw wither, and a
sore back that gave him a habit of “ flinching ”
a habit that discounted his uselessness a great
deal, because, when we weren’t at home, the
women couldn’t saddle him to run the cows in.
Whenever he saw the saddle or heard the girth-
buckles rattle he would start to flinch. Put the
cloth on his back—folded or otherwise—and, no
matter how smart you might be, it would be off
before you could cover it with the saddle, and he
wouldn’t have flicked it with his tail, or pulled it
off with his teeth, or done anything to it. He
just flinched —made the skin on his back—where
there was any quiver. Throw on the saddle
without a cloth, and he would “give” in the middle
like a broken rail—bend till his belly almost
touched the ground, and remain bent till mounted ;
then he’d crawl off and gradually straighten up as
he became used to you. Were you tender-hearted
enough to feel compunction in sitting down hard
on a six-year-old sore, or if you had an aversion
to kicking the suffering brute with both heels and
belting his hide with a yard or two of fencing-
wire to get him to show signs of animation, you
would dismount and walk—perhaps, weep. We
always rode him right out, though.
As a two-year-old Ned was Dad’s hope. Point-
ing proudly to the long-legged, big-headed, ugly
moke mooching by the door, smelling the dust, he
would say: “Be a fine horse in another year !
Little sleepy-looking yet; that’s nothing ! ”
“Stir him up a bit, till we see how he canters,”
he said to Joe one day. And when Joe stirred
him up—rattled a piece of rock on his jaw that
nearly knocked his head off—Dad took after Joe
and chased him through the potatoes, and out into
the grass-paddock, and across towards Ander-
son’s; then returned and yarded the colt, and
knocked a patch of skin off him with a rail
because he wouldn’t stand in a corner till he
looked at his eye. “ Wouldn’t have anything
happen to that colt for a fortune ! ” he said to him-
self. Then went away, forgetting to throw the
rails down. Dave threw them down a couple of
days after.
We preferred Nell to Ned, but Dad always
voted for the colt. “You can trust him; he’ll
stand anywhere,” he used to say. Ned would l
Once, when the grass-paddock was burning, he
stood until he took fire. Then he stood while we
hammered him with boughs to put the blaze out.
It took a lot to frighten Ned. His presence of
mind rarely deserted him. Once, though, he got
a start. He was standing in the shade of a tree
in the paddock when Dad went to catch him. He
seemed to be watching Dad, but wasn’t. He was
asleep. “Well, old chap,” said Dad, “ how are y’ ?”
and proceeded to bridle him. Ned opened his mouth
and received the bit as usual, only some of his
tongue came out and stayed out. “ Wot’s up w’
y’ ? ” and Dad tried to poke it in with his finger,
but it came out further, and some chewed grass
dropped into his hand. Dad started to lead him
then, or rather to pull him, and at the first tug he
gave the reins Ned woke with a snort and broke
away. And when the other horses saw him look-
ing at Dad with his tail cocked, and his head up,
and the bridle-reins hanging, they went for their
lives through the trees, and Blossom’s foal got
staked.
Another day Dad was out on Ned, looking for
the red heifer, and came across two men fencing—
a tall, powerful-looking man with a beard, and a
slim young fellow with a smooth face. Also a
kangaroo-pup. As Dad slowly approached, Ned
swaying from side to side with his nose to the
ground, the elder man drove the crowbar into the
earth and stared as one that hadn’t seen a man on
horseback before. The young fellow sat on a log
and stared, too. The pup ran behind a tree and
growled.
“ Seen any cattle round here? ” Dad asked.
“ No,” the man said, and grinned.
“ Didn’t notice a red heifer ? ”
“ No,” grinning more.
The kangaroo pup left the tree and sniffed at
Ned’s heels.
“ Won’t kick, will he?” said the man.
The young fellow broke into a loud laugh and
fell off the log.
“ No,” Dad replied—“ he’s 'perfectly quiet.”
“He looks quiet.”
The young fellow took a fit of coughing.
After a pause. “ Well, you didn’t see any about,
then ? ” and Dad wheeled Ned round to go
away.
“ No, I didn't, old man,” the other answered,
and snatched hold of Ned’s tail and hung back
with all his might. Ned grunted and strained
and tore the ground up with his toes; Dad
spurred and leathered him with a strap, looking
straight ahead. The man hung on. “ Come
’long,” Dad said. The pup barked. “ Come ’long
with yer l ” Dad said. The young fellow fell off
the log again. Ned’s tail cracked. Dad hit him
between the ears. The tail cracked again. A
piece of it came off ; then Ned stumbled and went
on his head. “What the devil !” Dad said,
looking round. But only the young fellow was
laughing.
* * * *
Nell was different to Ned. She was a bay, with
yellow flanks and a lump under her belly ; a
bright eye, lop ears, and heavy, hairy legs. She
was a very wise mare. It was wonderful how
much she knew. She knew when she was wanted;
and she would go away the night before and get
lost. And she knew when she wasn’t wanted ;
then she’d hang about the back-door licking a
hole in th 9 ground where the dish-water was
thrown, or fossicking at the barn for the corn Dad
had hidden, or scratching her neck or her rump
against the cultivation-paddock slip-rails. She
always scratched herself against those slip-rails—
sometimes for hours —always until they fell down.
Then she’d walk in and eat. And how she could
eat!
As a hack, Nell was unreliable. You couldn’t
reckon with certainty on getting her to start.
All depended on the humor she was in and the
direction you wished to take—mostly the direc-
tion. If towards the grass-paddock or the dam,
she was off helter-skelter. If it wasn’t, she’d go
on strike —put her head down and chew the bit.
Then, when you’d get to work on her with a waddy
—which we always did—she’d walk backwards
into the house and frighten mother, or into the
water-hole and dirty the water. Dad said it was
the fault of the cove who broke her in. Dad was
a just man. The “cove” was a union shearer—
did it for 4s. 6d. Wanted five “bob,” but Dad
beat him down. Anybody else would have asked
a pound.
When Nell did make up her mind to go, it was
with a rush, and if the slip-rails were on the
ground she’d refuse to take them. She’d stand
and look out into the lane. You’d have to get off
and drag the rails aside (about 20, counting broken
ones). Then she’d fancy they were up, and would
shake her head and mark time until you dug your
heels into her ; then she’d gather herself together
and jump high enough for a show—over nothing !
Dave was to ride Nell to town one Christmas, to
see the sports. He hadn’t seen any sports before,
and went to bed excited and rose in the middle of
the night to start. He dressed in the dark, and
we heard him going out, because he fell over Sandy
and Kate and their baby. They were sleeping on
the floor in the front room. We also heard him
throw the slip-rails down.
There was a heavy fog that morning. At break-
fast we talked about Dave, and Dad “ ’sposed ” he
would just about be getting in; but an hour or
two after breakfast the fog cleared, and we saw
Dave in the lane hammering Nell with a stick.
Nell had her rump to the fence and was trying
hard to kick it down. Dad went to him. “ Take
her gently; take her gently, boy,” he shouted.
“ Pshaio! take her gently /” Dave shouted back.
“ Here ” —he jumped off her and handed Dad the
reins—“ take her away and cut her throat.” Then
he cried, and then he picked up a big stone and
rushed at Nell’s head. But Dad interfered.
But the day Dad mounted Nell to bring a doctor
to Anderson! She started away smartly—the
wrong road. Dad jerked her mouth and pulled
her round roughly. He was in a hurry—Nell
wasn’t. She stood and shook her head and
switched her tail. Dad rattled a waddy on her
and jammed his heels hard against her ribs. She
dropped her head and cow-kicked. Then he
coaxed her. “ Comeon, old girl,” he said, “ come
on,” and patted her on the neck. She liked being
patted. That exasperated Dad. He hit her on
the head with his fist. Joe ran out with a long
stick. He poked her in the flank. Nell kicked
the stick out of his hands and bolted towards the
dam. Dad pulled and swore as she bore him
along. And when he did haul her in, he was 200
yards further from the doctor. Dad turned her
round and once more reverted to the waddy. Nell
was obdurate, Dad exhausted. Joe joined them,
out of breath. He poked Nell with the stick
again. She “kicked up.” Dad lost his balance.
Joe laughed. Dad said, “St-o-op!” Joe was
energetic. So was Nell. She kicked up again—
strong—and Dad fell off.
“Wot, could’n’ y’ s-s-s-stick to ’er, Dad ? ” Joe
asked.
“ Stick be damned —run — catch her! — d n y’!”
Joe obeyed.
Dad made another start, and this time Nell
went willingly. Dad was leading her!
• * * *
Those two old horses are dead now. They died
in the summer when there was lots of grass and
water —just when Dad had broken them into har-
ness—just when he was getting a good team
together to draw logs for the new railway line !
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
“Sib,” —Are you hard on clothes? You can
get more wear, look nicer, and save cash by wearing our
Gold Medal Tweeds, only 455. per suit, to measure (12s.
6d. for trousers). If in town, call in ; we send patterns
free to the country, so no matter in what town you are
when you strike this paragraph, we can send samples
and give you satisfaction by our easy method of self-
measure. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street (only), Sydney. (These tweeds took the First
Prizes and Gold Medals at the late Royal Agricultural
Show in Moore Park.)


lUTATED BY HOT WEATHER.
TIRED OUT AND ILL.
Tonics (so-called) do no good, but Ayer’s Sarsaparilla builds up and restores to health Mfc)
J. Gough o! Cape Town, Cape Colony, who sends his portrait and writes as follows:
r-
wc.
///
1
W
i
%
in
f
w
11
$
KA
r
“During tii" past summer the extremely hot weather made me seriously
ill. I lost ail. appetite, could not sleep, was incapacitated for work, and
suffered from severe pains in the head. I tried several tonics, but they did
me no good whatever. A friend, who had been similarly affected, told me
to take Ayer's Sarsaparilla, as he had done. I followed his advice, and
soon began to regain my strength, and after using three or four bottles my
health was completely restored.”
Very many people suffer from the effects of a prolonged season of warm
weather in the same way as did Mr Gough. Their blood becomes thin, food
distasteful, and life is positively burdensome.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
makes new, pure blood; restores strength and vitality, and has been the
salvation of thousands who, prior to its use, were, as they expressed it,
“both tired out and worn out.”
See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla— is on the wrapper and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. G. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,'
until it has become
f a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Umpire, for Diteases of the Throat and Lungs?.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
BE SURE YOiJ GET IT.
No Colonial should • ver he wUhout 1/>,
invaluable Remedy , which saves in any live
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRID SE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Cliemisi. Hull.
Sold in bottl s. at Is. 1 frf.,2s. 9<Li, is d.,
t>od Us., by all Colonial Chemists. Stces,
and Patent Medicine Vendors
Wholesale of all London and
Colon al Hou,es.
OOPJKiUHT.
SOLD BY Tin: LA VET," MANUFACTURING CO., 31 UNO STREET, SYDNEY.
Iq tbest Pays of High PreSSOr^
When the incessant grind, necessary for a decent existence, is severe
enough to knock vital sparks out of the constitutions of the best of us,
who shall deny that they are wise in their generation who, without
waiting for a danger - signal, appeal periodically to some proved
medicine which can be implicitly trusted to cleanse and reno-
vate the marvellous mechanism of the human system 1
At no time since the days of Adam have bread-
winners, whether man or woman, stood in such /
pressing need as they do nowadays of a sure,
convenient, and, at the same time, perfectly
harmless antidote against brain fag, irri- S'
tability, and drooping spirits. Well, yT
to balance the bitters, you will
generally, even in this hard yr
world, find the genuine
sweets somewhere,
and undoubtedly
it is just here /
where /
*
come cheer-
fully and cheaply, to
the rescue. A remedy
always pleasantly speedy
—for we have no time to rest
by the way certain in its curative
power, safe and gentle in its action, and
permanent in its results, is it any wonder that
Beecham’s Pills have found, and are ever find-
ing, their way into the waistcoat pocket of every wise
man and into the cupboards of every thoughtful woman—
maid or matron ? Beecham’s Pills have long been prized for
their distinct virtue of pleasingly appealing to the brain vid the
stomach, and by dispersing all “cobwebs,” at once fitting us to face
the struggle of modern life. Vast numbers owe their good health to
Beecham’s Pills nay, more, we repeat the old, bold, but honest statement
that Beecham’s Pills save thousands of lives yearly. Therefore, we con-
sider the forcible assertion that first caught your eye on this page to be the
plain truth, viz. : that “in these days of high, pressure ” Beech am Pills
Ars at) AbSokit* Necessity.
The Suffield Case.
A G 4 p.p. PAM i ll I ET, giving full evidence in this notorious
ease, with c ommentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop tliat Cough.!
. . . TAKE . . ,
IRISH MSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE ( ill tnany cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids.' Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


=#s
.
LARgi
Makers'*
«ksse
w t+Bl
aaHsnavxsa
high-class
Harvesting RffIJII'EJBEICO Seeding
Hay-making IYSMijJ HSSi CO Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 168-169 Wil’inm-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address i
35 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everyv. lv r>.
Illustrated Catalogue l'lee. on app.ic„i.'.cu.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality ivlwre they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
WortSjiogtoi) POropiijg Ei)gii)£ Con)pai)y.
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson brothers.
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, X.S. W.
Agencieg s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
W ORTHINCrTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
BST” Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Boyal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S IiXCKLSIOIt HOTEL.
What is Health?
JRheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA ItKKR, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
YEARS DYEING
fob the ladies.
W_ o. IEJiLIDIRaiIDO-TE] Sc CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRUCT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
THR LAST OP SIX
Permanent Cure.
“OLEfIC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
Jars (coneentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
J DEPOTS;
“OLEAC"
•psn<My n»s
Sydney—M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide— Harris & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J. E. Phillips, 817 Colling Bt,
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
FIRST-CLASS RESIDENTIAL HOTEL.
pEir.'ECT Cuisine. - - Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
"Pinnoovo nf Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
JiUiltJtJlb Ol 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Befrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KINO STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of —Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “Janies” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note.—We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
Bakin 9 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2l7s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price tlO 10s, reduced £8 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand ban . modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l-1, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price 21, reduced £7losea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6 ■ (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Wwidon, Thomas & Co.^_^ m|m|[imiTT[r _ TlMr
THE LONOON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH st., Melbourne,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 0 fi, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for trade Illustrated Price
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Th.e Geo. 3F 1 . Blake Manfs. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W. F. & Jolm Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY.
B. F. Sturtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand—J. BURNS & CO., Auckland.
