

The Bulletin
Yoi 19.— jSo. 969. j
[Saturday, September 10, 1898.
1 e#r stored at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsmper.
McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
Sydney,
m.
107 Kent Street,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Reauisites
EXIM OS IVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(tiiIKNS),
KTortli Queexislatid..
James Wattors . Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see anr
, of bis Australian and North Queensland friend's
if they will ifive him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
a «'4,
1 » ( L
“j ‘- -
531;;
FOREIGN STAMPS.
BMTS8 MTS of 12 Culm, 9ri.; 60 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 I’orto Itioo, 6d.;5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Ooluinbus), Is. (id.; 8 New Oale
donia, Is.; 6 Bolivia, Cl.; 8 Egypt, (id.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, (id.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ
«nt, Od. ; 60, Is. ; 100, 2s. (id. ; 160, 6s.
postage, 2d. Remit P. O. 0., P. N., or stamps
•Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
102 ELIZA1!BTII Street, Mblboi rxe.
WHEN YOU BUY
Enmlf/ptuH Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agrnts : M ! j33rs. ELLIOTT BRCP., L+d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. to., Hobart.
Poverty Pointers I
Four Cue it —
Gough*B Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL
-cutting Machinery.
I/.Q STOP A IM V A r i aao W
BAND OR CIRCULAR SAWS FOR ANY “'SIZE
Up-to-Oat© X'lour & Milling Macblnerr,
•fflMMlßte Mills Erected and Started
OF LOGS.
Engines & Boilers, Steel Windmill!
GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
X 4 Clarence Street,
SYDNKT.
M
9 1 34 MM IS'J JOj 901 *Ofij Suijhj
•soMiavaa hqisni
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
JJjJ’OTICE to MELUOUaVE VISITORS.
®M»*Railwav HOTEL, opposite St.
fi'n w t 'v ri oahle Trams. Largest. Hotel
Boarden, n ’ Ctona - *»OWT.HVE TARIFF for
P er Da .V, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE 'Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Alf H SOLE AGENTS FOR
SAMUEL nSB°RN & CO., SHEFFIELD.
Makers of 35,. Mushat’s Special Self-Hardening Tool Steel
Machine - Cnt Piles, Mining Steel, Wheels, Hollers,
Sheaves, Spnr Wheels, Pinions, Clutches, and other
Steel casting.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Hotting*.
CkfrjjsJ?'/
And ses© tlaab you got It.
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE stocks always on hand.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given tor Large Orders.
Lysaprht Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices Biigh Chambers, Bligh-at., Sydney.
Works-Chiswick, Parramatta T< lver
“COURIER’* BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
■2i QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
L)C
Mi
9\\
PROOF
n E'tZ
THORNE'S
1 WHISHT.
Toronto Hotel,
Macquarie,
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Largo en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tram.vay connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the Noun, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
zfa.
Hadley s Orient (otel.
CLUi,
-4-tout
af£
.
7
b
OO
J
The Leading Belt of Australia.
t y S ( ] (i f or Durability an*! Cheapness.
Used exclusively l.y the N.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J . C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
<=r-
!la - Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“““aSLAND.
is unsnm.. , Imperial Hotel
brooms an?Sm,'i^eUoom 8 and COnvenience ' Spacious
PIONEER
leather
■BELTING
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Higb.e3b A.ward.s wherever SxUilsited..
'/ANDYCK
CIGARS
' v&'** AY£f*y SL
twkrx/i&ywr
smo/<£ Mm
MRumr^c^sypNiy
®P 8
Is


THE RED PAGE.
It occurred to me that a result charming to
Red-Page readers might be reached by asking
three or four capable people to say what they
liked best in Victor Daley’s book of poems, and
why. Possibly swing to the necessarily curtailed
space for exposition, the exercises do not appear to
rise quite to the level of the theme : they interest
me rather as glimpses of the critics’ own stand-
points and characteristics than as admeasurements
of Daley’s work : and they are printed for both
sakes’ sake. J. E. S. Henerie declares that
to name the three best of Mr. Daley's poems is not an
easy task. Infinitely easier to rhapsodise on all the
poems I admire, and surrender myself without analysing
the source of the charm to all their clinging sweetness.
And that, suroly, is the quality the best poetry should
have a magnetism that attracts the reader, and an innate
tire which burns itself into the receptive brain, to be
never recalled without emotion. Its beuuties may re-
quire a mental effort to assimilate, but the music must
instantly allure one to begin that effort. Music is the
first aqd final characteristic of poetry'—the more splendid
the music the more splendid the poem. Rhythm is not an
adjunct of poetry, it is the very essence of its being. The
facts of life or philosophy may find adequate expression
in prose. Quicken them with the touch of love, of hope,
of memory, of grief, and utterance can only be obtained
in music. . . . thus we have poetry. Poetry may take
impassioned thought from life or philosophy, or from
those airy nothings that never knew shore or sea which
spring spontaneously to the poet’s mind.
Having read, with Mr. Daley’s poems, some by modern
masters, I was startled, and the feeling and conviction
grew upon me that by “ Lethe," “ Love Laurel,” and “ A
Sunset Fantasy ” Mr. Daley was entitled to a pre-eminent
position amongst modern writers of poetry. “ Lethe,” as
a specimen of high creative imagination, may be contrasted
with the best poetry and not suffer. To have assimilated
its large, lucid views is to have enlarged the bounds
of one's intellectual and emotional experience. “Love
Laurel’ has the rioh red life of Rubens’ paintings : it
glows with light and colour : but I admire chietiy its
touching human tenderness. “ A Sunset Fantasy ” has
greater lyric brilliance than Shelley’s “ Song of Asia.” It
is supersensual, divine, and has all that wealth of ima-
ginative fervour characterised by an Italian critic as
“ soverchia concettositA.” . The opulence of fancy and
marvellous music enthrall us. Let Lord Acton analyse
the odour of the rose or the glory of the sun, we are
content to be enraptured.
It is not only the splendour of an excited imagination
flashing upon us as we read these three poems, nor that
“ enchantment drear where more is meant than meets
the ear,” which constitutes their fascination, but also the
entire appropriateness of the words and the metres to
the subjects. In reading them our attention is never
arrested by one particular word. Mr. Daley’s syllables
are like notes of music, each composing parts of a har-
monious whole ; and the interest they excite, divided
betvveen the ear and the mind, is a continued 'tide of
gratification, gently hut copiously poured in upon the
soul. There is scarcely a line in these poems that would
not gratify us by its sound even were we ignorant of its
sense; but the perfect correspondence between sound
and sense is what constitutes the souLfelt music of his
lyre. *
* * * *
Naturally a critic who does not altogether en-
dorse this rapturous eulogy prefers to avoid identi-
fication as “ Kiwi.” This sleepy fowl sans a back
toe says
Daley’s poems, “At Dawn and Dusk,” are too dusky.
All through the book there runs the thread of regret, the
pathetic looking backward to the bright dawns that
were. “ The day is fading, and the dusk is cold,” as he
prettily phrases it. “ Love-Laurel’’-the best piece, I
think, in the book-strikes the second dominant note in
Daley’s work—the. revolt against annihilation, the craving
to know what is on the other side of the wall. Half his
poems look back to the beginning of things, and regret
that, the solar system could not be ordered so that it
might be always dawn; and the other half ask the eternal
question of immortality, and metaphorically end with an
interrogation mark. In between (to write Irishly) are
placed some delightful gems of beauty, clearer because
not disturbed by vain longings. Daley is meant to
be the Herrick of Australia ; and yet he deli-
berately essays such pieces as “The Cruise of the
In Memoriam,’ with its crude melodrama and weird
notions of seamanship. “ His Mate ’’ I can regard only
as a huge joke, put in at the last moment in the mistaken
idea that a little broad humor would improve an other-
wise almost perfect array of poetic thought. Daley is
more at home “ In a Wine Cellar,” pledging deep our
land in our land’s own wine, than out on the Never-
Never sacred to Paterson and Lawson. His sonnets
are excellent ; though they, too, are mostly occupied in
butting their delicate heads against the walls of Death.
And through all runs the pathetic refrain, “ What shall a
man remember in the days when he is old’”
* * * »
This is distinctly a cold blast ... and at a
step we are in the summer of Will H Otrilvie’s
sympathy. The best poetry, to his mind, he says,
is that which best fills the requirements of ear, of mind,
and of heart. In other words, the best is that which is
most musical, that which employs the finest imagery of
words, that which is the most sympathetic. And on this
standard I hold that Victor Daley’s three finest poems—
where all are fine-are “The Old Wife and The New”
“The Nightingale,” and “The Sunset Fantasy.”
Take the last of these first. How truly rings the music
of the lines ! How the warm stanzas glow from metaphor
to metaphor, simile to simile, smoothly and gracefully
frqm the first line to the last ! And here our hearts are
chained, and there is no pulse so dull but it must beat t
taster to soft, sweet lines like these—
So, hand in hand, ve watch the sun
Burn down the Western deeps.
Breaming a charmed dream, as one
Who in enchantment sleeps;
A dream of how we twain some day.
Careless of map and chart,
Will both take ship and sail away
Into the sunset’s heart.
In no other of Daley's poems, I think, does he fulfil m
three requirements so strongly, so finely as in this. An
this is surely his best.
Then, where is there more sympathy, more gent
pathos expressed than is conveyed in “ The Old Wife anc
The New ’ ? This is Daley in his finest mood writing to
million hearts :
The sunlight on his gray hair shone;
His thoughts were with a woman dead
And buried, years and years agones
In this poem perhaps Mr. Daley has not chosen his word
with quite such gifted grace as in “ A Sunset Fantasy”
but, less the artist, he is more the man ; and maybe thi
simple life-song of his will be the better remembered.
In “ The Nightingale ” Mr. Daley has written a set o
verses which, for lyric beauty, charm of imagination
glamour and glow of witching poesy, it were hard to sur
pass. There are no tricks of rhythm, no jugglery o:
words, only the strong, true beating of a man’s hear
with sincerity in every line : and this is Daley’s charm o
charms.
• • • •
There is peculiar interest in this from 0. Kendall,
the son of our sweetest poet, and himself noi
guiltless of the Muse-
Dreams,’ “ Lethe,” and “Love Laurel" are, to my
mind, poetically the best of Victor Daley’s verses, because
they seem not merely faultless in rhythm and melody,
but also breathing, organio with Emotion. A poem should
sound alive to us—should be warm with the passion thai
inspired it; so that our delighted hearts go forth to meel
it, and take it to themselves. When good rhythm and
melody are added, what more can we ask? Round
“ Dreams” there clings a tender aroma of Regret. No-
where is that universal key more delicately touohed. A
suggestion deeper than words is in such lines as these—
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of songs and sonnets carven in fine gold;
But all my dreams in darkness pass away ;
The day is 'fading, and the dusk is cold.
This is Daley at his dreamful, melancholy, tender best.
A feeling of near night falling, of ineffable regret, seems
to well from the liquid verse. How happy is the imagery
in the poem !—how effective the link-rhyme at the end
and beginning of the verses ! The song, for it is a song,
haunts you always.
In “ Lethe ” the idea is what charms me. A tragedy is
displayed with artistic power excelled in no other poem
in the book. Then the setting is limned to perfection.
Oould the Lethean landscape be better drawn ?
Breath of wind, or wing of bird,
Never that dark stream hath stirred ;
Still it seems as is the shore.
But it flows for evermore
Softly; through the meadows wests
To the Sea Oblivion.
In the dusk, like drops of blood.
Poppies hang above the flood.
The reconciliation of the Foes by forgetfulness Isa telling
picture ; and how beautifully is the true meaning broken
to us in the last lines ! Slayer find Slain are wrong : the
Woman loves another after all.
... “hi the world above
Long he tarries, my true love.
“ Here beside this river’s rim
1 will sleep, and wait for him."
“ Love Laurel ” sparkles with poetic gems. There is a
graoe in it re miiy scent Of’Swinburne but distinctly Daley’s
own—a mellow, rich fancy that we find in such lines as
these—
Mayhap in death thou hast not lost thy singing,
But chauntst unheard , beside the moaning seas,
A solitary song.
or this—
-1 hee, whom the gold-haired spring shall seek in vain
When at the glad year’s door she stands again ...
Then the splendid height to which the last verse rises
seems to seal its claim for me.
If poetry is that which invokes tears and laughter, joy
and despair, hope and regret, from a few simple words—
that which, like the pipe of Orpheus, draws our souls
after it—that whioh uses sea and sky, birds, trees, and all
things as a setting for passion—then in these three poems
Daley speaks as one inspired, and his are those pearls
“ beyond price ” we shall string with the gems the older
bards have left us. He has his brightest yet to draw
from the deeps ; for, in his own words,
Yet shall I sing my splendid song,
The World is young, the World is strong.
* • » *
The genesis of the next contribution is modestly
veiled beneath initials “ J.R.W.”
Was it Toddie of “Helen’s Babies” who declared that
the effect of a certain primitive little rhyme was to make
him feel nice all over ’ ? I have always liked to regard
that instance as recording the most notable of known
confessions to the mystic influence of poetry. What a
complete surrender it implies ! Unquestionably no poet
in his appeal to critical intelligences could desire a higher
tribute.
But how is it that we (critical intelligences and other)
are able to sharply discriminate,—each to his own satis-
faction,—what is poetry from what is the mere outward
similitude? Without directly facing the difficulties of
that question, I feel moderately safe in asserting that the
place we willingly give any poet is dependent on his
power to summon in us an emotion responsive to that in
which he writes—to take captive our imagiual ions On
which basis I seem to find myself within measurable dis-
tance of an explanation of the appalling “ difference in
taste ” that we everywhere encounter. Call it a differ-
ence of intellectual outlook, and the thing will almost
cancel out to a definite result. By the mere conditions o
the case “ it is wisdom alone that can recognise wisdom.'
Which brings me, by a very short road, to my appre
ciation of Victor Daley’s book. First in the order of pre
ference comes “ The Nightingale.” The idea it presents
is worth to me a little more than that daintiest of pictures,
“A Sunset Fantasy.”
Fades the moonlight golden-pale,
And the bird has ceased to sing —
Ah, it was no nightingale,
But my heart — remembering.
I am aware, however, of a false note in the direct appeal,
Ah, my Love . . .
Hast thou quite forgotten me 1
The descent to that, from the thrill of “a passion fierce
and grand,” is strikingly abrupt. And in any case one
would think there should be (poetically) no question of
the constancy of the dead.
I am less confident as to where to halt after dwelling on
“A Sunset Fantasy,” “Symbols,” “Passion Flower,”
** Sea-Gifts,” and others—lam conscious of their charm.
But I turn to the first page of the book, and re-reading
“Dreams” once more, I find that the majesty of that
second verse has but increased.
**• . •
There remains Chris: Brennan—
To give one’s standard of poetry and what is best in
poetry—suoh request has been well defined: “a fist
thrust under one’s nose."
Not that the difficulties notoriously attending such defi-
nition need reduce the utterances appearing on this page
to the level of mere opinion : no more than rays refracted
in many prisms cease to illuminate.
Shortly, then, as is desired—that Beauty which poetry
would achieve, is a new oreation out of the old and lasting
matter Man and Nature : both being fused together in
unity, that the soul may confer on outer beauty signifi-
cance and in return receive, what belongs to it by right of
birth, all splendour and glory—a nuptial exchange.
This unity constitutes the image j and privately I
prefer such style as directly embodies that unity, and is
not anxious to produce—as affidavit or elector’s right—
what perhaps makes for easier intelligibility, the work-
shop process of combination. The drawing of the poem
should not exceed the line of junction. Or- to darken
counsel more elaborately—it is the crystal and not the
crystallization which we enjoy. The application of these
remarks would mean utter elimination of the simile, as
Poe somewhere advocates (as, like, so, thus, mere bolts
and links), and refinement of metaphor to the vanishing-
point, even to absorption into the essential phrase. The
image would be no embroidery, no garment: but the
very texture, the very flesh of the poetry.
[Parenthetically : Simile is plainly a mere workshop
“ state ” of the work : a first shaping of the material
(The grass is green
and so am I.)
Metaphor is a longer step towards complete fusion, but
nven now too often used in patches, nor are 'writers
Careful of a harmony of metaphors. What we (I) want:
“Absorption of metaphor into essential phrase" (or
change place of the nouns here,, it means the same thing),
*•«•> a phrase caught out of the heart of the image,
building this, latter up around itself, to.musio, as it pro-
ceeds, or, as Mallarm6 puts it, To let the thing unfold like
a flower, &c. You might compare the signification of the
poem to the perfume of the flower, to music not in the
Ivories (words), to the soul everywhere implied in the
body, nowhere runnable-to-earth. To do this, more
work must be put on the living part of the phrase, the
Verb. The nuptials of soul and nature must be a moment
of the action. Cf. for richer use of the Verb, Mallarmd
in I’apres-midi and in the later sonnets.]
—Most satisfying to me in Daley’s book are the “Frag-
ments” : at least the second and third, more particularly
that passage beginning with page 88 and culminating in
A rose of passionate desire
Lone burning in a lonely heart (page 89).
Here X find a more certain communion, a more intimate
marriage of passion with the cadent blossom of the
West; and, tho’ junctures are not conceal'd (which of us
can abide by counsels of perfection ?) a more heighten’d
style than elsewhere. This, in spite of the unfinish'd
state of these verses. Of completed poems I would add
“ Passion Flower,” simple chant of human pride, and, if
the second and third “ Fragments” cannot be counted as
separate pieces, “Cares.” Incoherence is too patent in
“ A Sunset Fantasy” (as In “ Margaret”) and the rich
imagery is a mere embroidery, without significance.
- ;
Knight Wilford : “Magnus” notes that
nnQ±\ ? « ed * n ftj! l ln Moore’s “ Esther Waters ”
(1894). In Michael Scott s “Tom Cringle’s Log,” which
hist appeared in book-form in 1833, it occurs continually
Moore is in no sense a pioneer in this diregard of eonven-
hnT & Be ore 1894, even a Sydney publication
had exhibited the adjective without disembowelment • I
know because I corrected the proofs. ’
“G. 8.”: The slobbering sentimentalists who
have recent y been posturing over Marcus Clarke's grave
knew but little of Marcus Clarke if they thought they
ho ! J . ored K niemory with such cheap ceremonial,
M.fn;n a i- try fu bb l 6 °. f Praise and regret. Clarke was a
Man in strength of spirit and sentiment—the least vain of
clever men I ever met. He had that nice abhorrence of
irresponsible flattery and the ‘‘laudator temporis acti”
vulgarism (as affecting himself) that all wholesome natures
possess. And yet it seems, by the irony of fate, that he is
penodically to be made the subject of such inconsequential
fuss as would have served him, in life, for rare ridicule
and satire. Clarke knew his own height, and breadth
a ", u P^ er_no m ? n better - How he would have shivered
with dismay to have seen these self-constituted experts
adding factitious cubits to a stature which had reached
its limit, and sufficed
to the tune of “ Little Mary Kelly.- hei "' l " su «*
“ Magnus ” : Your quoted lines from T .
Critic seem based on Maupassant—“ Les vrais
femme 6 ” 1 JamaiS qU ’ U " rtve qui a ~r' s une'fonl’e'.de
promotion or rise in screw, not even if half (he *. " *?°
that doubtful honor. All that is ’ ni!"
good report on the school, a rush of new
constitution wrecked by overwork. School-1 eaeifftL f ,n
the “cramming” principle is a slow suicide - ami th.
fault seems to lie with the teachers themselves. ’ U tha
B Y APPOINTMEN T O TO i HIS r EXCELLENCY TH
GEORGE ROBE&TSON AND CO
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS. '
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORIZABA.
Oolquhoun’s China in Transformation, ifl B iiosf 17«
Woodward s Vertebrate Palaeontology, 14s’ post IBs
Perowne 8 Russian Hosts and English Guests 7s id l l
* B -M/tchell's How to Gain the Eye of the YoiS,"’ post
3s 6d , Verbal Questions and Answers, B. and T e'vmi,
for Engineers, Bs, post 3s 6d ; Wilson’s Practical ’To
makiufr ]2s«d, post 13s; Wishaw's Russian Vagabond
Is fld and 2s Bd, post Is 9d and 3s ; Oleeve’s Hoi
Tear, 2s fld and ,3s fld, post 3s and 4s ; Harris' At
Pilgrimage, 2s fld and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s • John shii
28 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Pen’der l Aw
«<* Waide, 2s fld and 3s fld, post 3s and 4s • •
WheelofGod, 2s6d and 3s fld, post 3s and 4s- Lva '
Knight Errant, 2s fld and 8s fld, post 8s and 4s - tin,,,'
House of Hidden and Bs and 4,
Just received :
1200 MILES ON THE RIVER MURRAY
, . By A. S. Murray,
With iac-simile illustration in Colors by the Author
Oblong- gilt edges, cloth 425.
GEORGE ROBERTSON ANI) CO.’S OOLONIAf
LIBRARY.
Cr., Wrapper, 2s fld, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s fld, post 4s.
. „ , „ ABISHAG THE BHUNAMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel anc
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Teleinaehus ”).
IS FEDERATION OUR TRUE POLICY ? or
THE POLITICIAN REVEALED TO HIMSELF
10s fld. Post, 11s 3d.
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
„ OPERATIONS.
By Wm. H. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Cr. Bvo. 7s fld, post 8i
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s fld.
How ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN i
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron.
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
The Bulletin Book Exchange.
Send stamps of any Australasian province
or postal notes, or postal order, to “Th<
Bulletin,” 214 George-street, Sydney, anc
books will be forwarded by return mail
POST FREE at priecs given.
BOOKS WORTH BUYING.
At Dawn and Dusk: Poems, by Victor J.
Daley ; ss.
Pictures of War, by Stephen Crane. Paper,
35. ; cloth, 4s. This includes “The Red Badge
of Courage ” and “ The Little Regiment and
Other Stories ” work more brilliant than
Kipling’s.
Tie Open Boat and Other Stories, by
Stephen Crane. Paper, 35.; cloth, 4s. This
is the author’s last book, and some of the
stories are masterpieces.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boards, 2s. 6d. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
Way-Back People far from book stores may
order any book desired by sending pub-
lisher’s price and postage (which may be
calculated at 2d. in the shilling). Infor-
mation as to price, &c., sent for a 2d.
stamp. Address The Bulletin Book
Exchange, 214 George St., Sydney.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
i George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London .publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
n
READY.
Anthony Hope’s Great Novel,
“RUPERT OF NENTZAU.
Sequel to
“THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.”
Paper Covers, 35.; Cloth, 4s. Post Fre*
W. W. PEARSON, Bookseller, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Tour
CIGARETTE
SHOULD BE
H
CAMEO.”
ASK FOR CAMEOS,
SHOULDN'T IT?


0
r*
Sydney’s Leading Specialists,
•WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN
m.
Vs.
9>m
. ~ r is ”a ‘>
' a! ‘
”I
“ «@y‘ \g‘
(ﬁxﬂéegg 13‘
@ﬁ” 1 c;
Wr'jﬁ 4 ‘ .
\(fgd‘iw \k ,l ,'
\&V4g\\\ ' > ‘
\‘§$§_ \“Y: /I"
\‘i: r b . b
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.—A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for near y aIL the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, .- P , p . ,
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have open y j ° • ' 11
3
which has restored them to a perfect manly state.
This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the • World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
read the symptoms,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkaWetreatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. ERRLMAJN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
Nervous_l)ebility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken 1
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating ?
Do your hands or feet sweat ?
Has'the brightness left your eyes!
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
PECOI
All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
Ji PE. WRITS-US »[WorX
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of (Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
ReScCifd at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 1G colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—m fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
X sV
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
STSTJO 3XrCE3"S2T.
Please mention this Paper when writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
9"na:nt‘§
M
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Phys’cm
and Surgeon, received his education in the Enahsh and Sottish umversi ms and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study °f pEIVATE NERV OUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequal e succe. ■,
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The van m. • \
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery anc su g
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, sitter
from any of the following symptoms, namely Frequent headaches, gidctt
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of tuli-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the snoulder-blade tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, . al " y
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
r3 IBB'ONS
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the .Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of. Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or.
Preferred “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
NERVOUS .WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring’ VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer —in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
{THERAPION g
MARK.
This suecessiul and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Ricord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remarkably short time, often a tew days only
removes all discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of the blood, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c„ to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruinof health. This preparation purifies
tliewholesystem through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England .2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Therapion ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrafion— FELTON, GKIMWADE & Co., Melbourne and Sydney.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
11l
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENT lItEE T
EItEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
4 TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ATROPHY in Men
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address —
J. HINTON-WILLIS,
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melbourne.
WEAK BACKS.
nTTT?
LAME BACK,
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
PAIN in the BACK,
whether the result of a
strain,' cold, exposure,
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism, stooping,
hard work, or dissipa-
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and permanently
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.”
It sends a soothing,
warming, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes RIGHT TO THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation pf blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
remedy for weak back. Read all about it in the little
“ Book No. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
1.” Address Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL & CO, 158
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“T.ight, and. Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address — S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY,
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €n>brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Cnjbrocatioi).


TATTERSALL’S
•. • Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
DEMONSTRATION H. October 3.
25,000 Subscriberß at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERS ALL.
A r
Please allot me__
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
— —Shares in the above.
Name_
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name,
Address,
£ s
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name _
Address
Melbourne C. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race.
Clients will Vinrllw i « .. _
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
-Shares in the above.
Name-
Address,
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price pedaeers
‘friends of the family’
—AND-
Up-Mate (Derehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
ft never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
A Phenomenal Novelty!
The Calendar Hatch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the
year, and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked,
sterling silver case and dome, extra jewelled
movements, second hand, keyless. Price, 455.
Securely packed. Sent registered post free to any
colony.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The Globe match C°-> [td.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D.S.MAIR
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2,6, Jewels,
2/6 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS.
-Ml I J
The Langstsm
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet! It has been used (secretly tti many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an Inex-
pensive hojme treatment, and can be vdthout the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send Boofc,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.fi.C.S., Enq.,
121 Collins Street, Melbauma, Victoria.
Sards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Black-and-White Sketch.
Tip in regions equatorial
Blest with scenery pictorial,
Pursuits mainly piscatorial,
Lies an island known to fame:
Pearling lives and pearling thrives there,
Colored races live in hives there,
White men only risk their lives there—
Thursday Island is its name.
Every race it opes its gates to,
Every country it relates to ;
Key to Hell, and Torres Straits, too,
Though a speck upon the map.
What though whites first trod upon it !
What though Anglo-Saxons won it !
Chows and Cingalese now run it,
Aided by the wily Jap.
Started by Episcopalians
In the int’rest of Australians,
“Allee same now all same aliens '*
Rule the roost and own the sod ;
Darks from all around Batavia,
Dark in skin and in behaviour,
Pearl-shell is their only Saviour,
Pearls—their living—only God.
Captain Torres said good-bye to
Dear old England ; Captain Bligh, too,
Foreign lands set off to fly to —
One in purpose, one in mind.
Keen on travel, keen on fame, too ;
Both at last the same Straits came to,
Straits which Torres gave his name to,
Straits both risked their lives to find.
Bligh unfurled the Union Jack there,
Left an honest white man’s track there ;
Now, it’s mostly brown and black there,
Like an everlasting blot;
Black men came for black men’s wages,
Till at last by steady stages
White men came to black men’s wages,
And the Japs employ the lot.
Morals suffer from relapse there,
For the hordes of female Japs there,
Patronised by all the chaps there,
Don’t increase the marriage-rate;
When a Coral-island farmer
Seeks a chaste and yellow charmer,
Up he goes to “ Yokohama,”
But retains his single state.
Though the flags of England fly there,
Though the bones of white men lie there,
Anyone with half an eye there
Can’t mistake who runs the Isle ;
Cingalese in sweet confusion,
Colored races in profusion,
All resent the white intrusion,
Yet we cherish the delusion
That Australia owns the Isle.
Though what I have here related
May appear exaggerated,
I can swear that what I’ve stated
Is as true as true can be ;
Distance makes the fields more green there,
P’raps I know because I’ve been there,
What I’ve stated I have seen there,
Though I am a—
J.A.P.
Blind Man’s Creek.
A fool am I—and once a week
I sagely tramp to Blind Man’s Creek ;
A fool am I—and over there
I’ve found a maid most wond’rous fair ;
A shimmery water-sprite is she,
But she is flesh and blood to me ;
And where the sun-rays warmest gleam
She laves her glories in the stream.
A fool am I—with startled eyes
I take my fill of sweet surprise ;
I hear her lisp one mystic word,
Such as no lover ever heard,
And rush, full-pulsed, to claim my own—
A fool am I ! —and she is gone.
My friend, be warned of Blind Man’s Creek,
Its flood may fool you twice a week 1
N.S.W.
Leslie Oakes.
A "Tinpot” Station.
(A Silhouette.)
You think I’m only spiteful ? Well, Mac’s was
simply frightful.
A goat would hardly fatten on a twenty-square-
mile block.
The crows in desperation all fled the blessed
station —
The only thing with flesh on was a passing
shearer’s “ crock.”
Mac only wears one legging. For socks he goes
a-begging ;
Except on State occasions he never wears a shirt.
His chairs are empty cases. In fact, his measly
place is
A Paradise (or gunyah) for rags and fleas and dirt.
Tubs, doors, and sheets are lacking. He dries his
face on sacking ;
The stock he mostly raises is fleas and cattle-dogs.
They feed on passing stranger—old Mac. is in no
danger —
He has no picking on him, and they cannot spoil
his “ togs.”
He once bathed every morning—the creek-banks
started “corning”—
Old Mac. had grown so salty with his ancient
“ junk ” of late !
A “ bluey ” that he cherished got stiffened out
and perished—
A snap at Mac.’s old trouser-legs proved deadlier
than bait.
For long-drawn-out starvation old Mac bangs all
creation —
Such tea, such “sod,” such “tucker” I’m sure
you never saw.
He would kill for beef, while groaning (if its case
was past condoning)
A “ waster ” bogged, a cancered “stag,” or else a
“ lumpy jaw.”
He talks of dog-leg fencing ; it’s fifteen years
commencing.
No tank, no dam, no paddock his “ tin-pot ”
place has got.
The banker’s valuator took a squint at Mac’s one
gaiter
And jotted down “Improvements—say, thirty-
bob the lot 1 ”
JOMBUSK.
M
Established 1319.
Pr<widsi)t Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established . „
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £415,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,010
HeadL Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
ﬁghts}. .. day"
7 3‘13"“: “5"
@Rvgﬁ’ﬂs
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 165., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
IBS’ Send for Price List. ISSI
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
T
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The JSesti.nl Ch'a) i est.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-strcet.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
“KHK”
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
\ini>
h
\
¥
WJk
jLY
il
*
I
■m
v-/M
m
mm
W
§
m
m
.
3
r
m
m
Sfffl
s?
)j
m
w
\ ; s§v
R
s
«S!
vv>
SM!
X.
S'h
sss
‘"faii
m
%
m
'^SESSSKsSHi
\.\i
m
1
*
&
JASissisam
The
Celebrated
\ Authoress,
MRS E, LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stepped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
pew growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
'As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
ItOKQ MABICOPAS COY., LTD.,
''VsT BEVIS MARKsI LONDON, ENGLAND,
k > •
Telephone, 26 KOGABAR —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On tub Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, a nr,
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing- Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall will accommodate
vV'ater Baths (a sure Cure tor Rheumatic
also, splendid Stabline: Accommodation.
500 persons, i aige Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
TERMS MODERATE.
fHE
* Plum ’
PfO
THE
Gi ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors un atisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
s trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like i bell and .never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, > e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
ofvears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Tivo Years.
* ’ The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, fid. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
LOOK A.T OXJR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Spegial
No. 2.
M
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brourn-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
BeM.dl for Our Illuatrated Catalogue.


v*«
••v
M
M
%
BAKING
PﬂWIER.
Guaranl’zgd" ‘ -
freq. frum alum
liras]
M
THE
& BEST IN
MANUFACTURED
*»• » ..
WASHINGTON H.SOUL& C°, PITT Si SYDNEY.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
1
Nf
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
KATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereajfh-street, Sydney
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON’’
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
her
When purchasing P & B Huberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Ag'ents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.. O’Conayi-street, Sydney
Agents:
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Mclh.
A. W. Sandfokd & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, JN.Z
HELIDOA SPA WATER
“Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Tab 7 : Water.”
GARLWN ALE.
Tatter sail’s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre); and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
Criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night
TARIFF: - - Bs. per Day upwards.
w. J. ADAMS. Managkr.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. L^VER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
r T'HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
x with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teetn Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means * livifir/<• work.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address
OS King-st., SvrdLney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
—‘ ‘a
, ’ i
Ladies. - can and
see our (’ll IA P
•i. \ <JH I N l<'H,from ‘2os
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
S. ROWLEY Si CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
illehs
MPANv
LIMI?
MI ini
JEJK
Trade
\:Jdr Ma«»
71 Wv rn« rm fcTO w k
'it Distillers Company I?
"** EDINBURGH.
ts ®tos3«?! s (
'• "’AmAnn, nJ 1,1.
* n J an \ Ann •<* nifujniivi jjuf-t&m tfi'c
'lj "“Cyw &£b liuC/aA
Drink
|f|oderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for thestomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
"o drink tlie very best
/oil can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
<-]ass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L’
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ; . . per Po=t Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and HOC k Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all corners.
CHEAPEST « Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
M
K
BIER
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
- - Try it
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants,
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Manager, Aug. J. Mktzler.
Me ere Park, Sydney.
Sec., T. H. Jackson.
ft
S J|
i & vj
8
*&;
'“•- / f‘. s
*• **'< * r*«<- i-., ''■ -
■
■*» ■*- -* ’’w. - —», *» ;v * - , *• *-; '
.« ■;;< *->x>iyS. r ■■■ i '>i*L ■ ' y-*-*- *■-->' >■■•'
mmmm-mmmEm - or
Ip :-4#k;-Y- <^?o-
- -*£*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission ly Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 19.—N0. 9G9.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1898.
Paid, 6d.
THAT SEAT.
YES-NO REID: “ This is precious uncomfortable for me. If it goes on much longer he shall have MY teat !"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not, extending tivo columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<Ss Co.. Cornhill,
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in tiif. Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 JTout st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas, A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria,, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —lJd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1898.
New America.
In the wars of the European Powers, in matters relating
to themselves, we have never taken any part, nor does it
comport with our policy so to do. It is only when our
rights are invaded or seriously menaced that we resent
injuries or make preparations for our defence. With the
movements in this hemisphere we are, of necessity, more
immediately connected, and by causes which must be
obvious to all enlightened and impartial observers. The
political system of the Allied Powers is essentially differ-
ent in this respect from that of America. This difference
proceeds from that which exists in their respective Gov-
ernments ; and to the defence of our own, which has been
achieved by the loss of so much blood and treasure, and
matured by the wisdom of the most enlightened citizens,
and under which we have enjoyed unexampled felicity,
this whole nation is devoted.
We owe it, therefore, to candor, and to the amicable
relations existing between the United States and those
Powers, to declare that we should consider any attempt
on their part to extend their system to any portion of
this hemisphere, as dangerous to our peace and safety.
With the existing colonies and dependencies of any
European Power we have not interfered, and shall not
interfere. But with the Governments who have declared
their independence and maintained it, and whose indepen-
dence we have, on great consideration and on just prin-
ciples, acknowledged, we could not view any interposition
for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling in any
other manner their destiny, by any European Power in
any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly
disposition towards the United States.— From President
Jambs Monroe’s Message to Congress, 2nd December,
That is the famous Monkoe docfc rine—which
so far as American non-interference goes,
the Spanish war has definitely exploded.’
Said Uncle Sam in effect to* the effete
European monarch : “ You leave me alone,
and I’ll leave you alone. I’m all America ;
and by-and-by I’m going to swallow
up Canada and Alexico. In the course
of years you’ll find the Stars and
Stripes floating on the outmost rock of Tierra
del Fuego. Hands off my continent ! And,
ip return, I won’t touch your colonies. I’ll
wait Canada’s own good time for annexation.
* won’t grab the West Indies. I’ll leave you
alone, and you leave me alone.” That was
the famous Monroe doctrine. Monroe saw
America as a self-contained nation under the
Yankee flag, avoiding alike aggression and
cause of aggression ; coveting no external
possessions, escaping all external embarrass-
ments ; working out a magnificent destiny in
peace free from the incubi of army and navy
which crippled the resources and prostrated
the industry of monarchical Europe. Seventy
years elapse—and the United States are the
aggressors in a Avar for Spain’s possessions in
the West Indies ; reverse at a blow the policy
of a self-contained America ; commit them-
selves to a course of action which immensely
increases their chance of conflict with Euro-
pean powers, which necessitates the mainte-
nance of an army and a navy on a grand scale
instead of on the little scale which has
hitherto contented them, and which sets
them afloat on a career of colonisation and
conquest of which Monroe hardly dreamed,
and which he would sternly have forbidden.
New America is born. It is a second and in-
finitely more important revolution.
• * * •
And, despite the war and the victories, it
may be doubted whether the bulk of the
American nation approves. Just how much
of the attack on Cuba was due to speculators’
influences and press agitation only the
Washington authorities are aware. But for
the sinking of the Maine there would pro-
bably have been no conflict : it Avas appar-
ently that blow Avhich shook the nation's
faith in Monroe and made it impossible for
President M‘Kinley to longer refuse to con-
sent. But there have not been wanting
signs to show that sooner or later the old
policy was doomed. A nation so energetic
as America, and brought so much into con-
tact with the outside world by trading
enterprise, was bound to fume under
the restraints which the Dead Hand
placed upon annexations commercially ad-
vantageous and diplomatically possible.
So long ago as 1878 the States purchased
sovereign rights over Pango Pango harbor,
in the Samoan Islands ; and they still ap-
parently claim those rights in despite of the
tripartite agreement. Now the American
flag floats over the Ladrones, the Carolines,
and the Hawaiian islands ; and the fate of
Cuba and the Philippines is pretty sure to
be eventually the same. America will need
all the voted increases to her navy, and
more, to justify and maintain such posses-
sions ; and the naAry pressure for war will be
further reinforced. Naturally enough, that
pressure exercised no small influence in the
decision to proceed against Spain. A soldier
who does not fight, and a battleship which
does not try its guns on an enemy, are
evident anomalies ; and nowhere are they
felt more anomalous than in the service.
The naval caste, like the military caste, pines
for the excitement of battle, with its chances
of distinction and “glory”; and the unfleshed
American navy has been spoiling for a fight
for a long time. The States are now face to
face with the certainty that their new policy
tends always to be pressed to the farthest
possible point; and that every new war-
vessel which they build, every new regiment
which they equip, will become a fresh focus
of influence urging them to embroil them-
selves more and more with possible oppo-
nents. The historian, Bryce, justly says that
it is the smallness of her army and navy which
has exempted the Republic from a source of
danger which other republics have found so
-serious—the ambition of successful generals,
and the interference of the army in political
strifes. “ Strong and deep-rooted as are
the constitutional traditions of the United
States, there have been moments, even in
her history, when the existence of a great
standing army might have menaced or led to
civil war.” And so difficult of government
are the populations of Cuba and the Philip-
pines—especially if governed in accordance
with modern humane notions—that the occa-
sional intervention of the armed hand must
be reckoned a necessity. The States army,
as well as navy, must be formidably in-
creased to meet the demands of the New
Policy. If President James Monroe is
looking over the gold bar of heaven at the
country whose destinies he formerly guided,
the outlook is enough to make him weep.
* * • *
Yet the United States can wear the armor
of Achilles, if any country can. Witli a
population of over 70 millions, increasing by
over a million a year since 1870 ; leading the
world in agriculture and mineral produc.ion;
having resources which it is hardly a figure
of speech to call illimitable ; the United
States have only one peer among nations—
the northern colossus, Russia. Russia’s
population of 130 millions is far vaster, her
lj million annual increase (unfed by im-
migration) even more considerable, than that
of the States. But Russia is, comparatively
speaking, a poor country, Avith finances in-
volved and mortgaged, an illiterate popula-
tion and an unwieldy form of government.
Terrible in defence, she has small power of
attack beyond her boundaries. It is a singu-
lar or not a singular coincidence, according
to the point of vieAV, that at the very moment
when America descends like a new gladiator
into the arena of European politics, the
Russian Czar demands that the arena be
closed and the company of gladiators dis-
banded. Whether the Czar’s action be
purely unselfish or not, there is little doubt
that, so far as Russia is concerned, it is
wise. Russia needs, above all things, Time
—time to concentrate, to develop, to edu-
cate, to control. The kernel of her strength
lies in a famous sentence of W. T. Stead’s—
when that journalist had an Eye and
a Pen—“ The Russian cradle is never
empty.” A solid birth-rate of 1J millions
a year, with its proportional increase, will
bring Russia’s population to 200 millions
before 50 years have passed. In the national
struggle for supremacy the three final factors
of success are Men, Weapons, and Money ;
and the chief of these is Men. In 200 mil-
lions of Russian population there are many
good fighting-men. With 50 years of peace
and stable government, Russia, without losing
her present superiority in Men, may acquire
Money and Weapons enough to be practi-
cally a world’s dictator. Only the United
States will bar her way, unless Britain’s
colonies stand by degenerated Britain. For
the prosperity of Britain shorn of her colo-
nies is factitious, a commercial bubble which
would burst at the shock of a determined
antagonist’s deadly war. And France and
Germany are almost at their limits of mili-
tary endurance already, and have no home
territory for expansion. So 1950 will to all
appearance disclose, as theorists predict, only
two great in the front rank. With
the portentous bulk of Russia, Europe has
become familiar.. And now the Old World
turns, its eyes to the West, and, after 400
years, once more discovers America.
On the Desirability of Federally Going 1
Down George Street.
As a general rule, an ounce of practice is worth
a pound of theory. In the matter of the Federal
Senate, Australia has struck an exception
where an ounce of theory is worth a pound of
practice—or, to put it more exactly, where a
pound of unfamiliar practice is worth a ton of
practice familiar and misleading.
• * * •
In terms of the Convention Bill, the Federal
Senate is to consist for the present of six mem-
bers from each province ; and at the elections
the provinces are to vote as single constituen-
cies—just as (with the exception of Westralia)
they voted at the elections for Convention
delegates. The generally excellent choice made
at the Convention elections surprised many
people—including Q. Premier Byrnes, who
frankly admitted to a BuLLETiN-man that he
had anticipated a much less satisfactory result.
If an occasional nonentity like <£27 Brekker
secured a place by virtue of having been Dull
in a very large way and having been “boosted
up” by S.M. Herald for a very long time, the
balance was more than evened by the unmis-
takeable humiliation of certain shrill and empty
demagogues and clique-Panjandrums near the
bottom of the poll.
• • * •
But the Labor-parties in the three large pro-
vinces seem to have learnt no lesson from the
Convention elections, and (with Q. Premier
Byrnes) never to have assimilated the theo-
retical principles which taught that lesson
beforehand. The Labor-member is a valuable
force in Australian politics ; but The Bulletin
—which chasteneth him while it loves him,
and is reviled therefore by the cheerless Demo-
crat who can’t see that the Labor label alone
will never transform an ass into an archangel—
is not disposed to affirm that he has always the
knowledge and intelligence of a statesman.
And in this matter of the Federal Senate the
typical Labor-member seems to be directly
opposed to the tenets of an enlightened Demo-
cracy.
* * * *
The reference is not now to the opposition to
equal State representation—which is logical
and just and only to be argued against for the
reason that apparently by no other device can
Federation be attained ; but to the opposition
to such an enlargement of the powers of
the Senate as will place it on a legislative
equality with the House of Representa-
tives. That opposition is not logical and
not just. And although by the Convention
Bill • the powers of the Senate—especially in
matters financial—are much less than those of
the House of Representatives, the amendments
to the Convention Bill which Treachery Reid
is submitting to N.S.W. Parliament will, if
enforced, still further restrict the Senate’s pre-
rogative. This seemingly with the approval,
and at the desire, of N.S.W. Labor-party.
• * * *
The Bulletin believes that N.S.W. Labor-
party and the other Labor-parties are wrong.
Their action exemplifies the cramping Force of
Habit. Not so very long ago, the office of this
paper was in Pitt-street. When it was shifted
to George-street, some members of the staff
persisted for a little while in unconsciously
walking down Pitt-street to work —to be
brought up all standing before a closed door
with a padlock and a notice of removal on it.
And they were sober members of the staff—
nearly as sober as E. J. H. Knapp ; and the
red flower of a blameful life had not blossomed
on their noses. Also, they wished to go down
George-street, and intended to go dowm George-
street, and were disgusted with themselves for
not going down George-street. But the Force
of Habit led their well meaning legs astray.
* * * *
That is precisely what is wrong with the
Labor parties. “Down with the Upper
House ! ” has been a Labor shibboleth since the
beginning; and The Bulletin has also shib-
bolethed with its aitches in the right place.
Against the tyranny and incapacity and un-
reason of the obnoxious Council every reformer
has raved ; and The Bulletin has also raved
till it got red in the cover. And now that there
is question of something that looks like an
Upper House in the Commonwealth, the
familiar situation of the old nominee Council is
carried to its debit by the Labor parties; and
anyone who says “shibboleth ” to the Senate is
promptly hacked to pieces in debate. Purely
through Force of Habit. The office of “ the
Upper House” has been removed; but the
Labor parties are still going down Pitt-street.
• * * *
The Bulletin is going down George-street
—for the reason that the Commonwealth Senate
will be no more like the nominee Council of
N.S. Wales or the elective Council of Victoria
than nine dabs and four splutters at Sydney
Society of Artists’ show are like a picture.
Those Councils are undemocratic and constitu-
tionally vicious because one is an asylum for
the byblows of Ministerial patronage, and the
other is a menagerie where rich landlords
devour the measures fed to them like buns by
a foolish people. The Federal Senate will be
just as democratic and as constitutionally sound
as the House of Representatives, for both
Houses will be elected by exactly the same
popular suffrage. One will be no more a House
of Representatives than the other ; and the
titles can be interchanged without room for
one logical Nay of objection. Only, there is
this to consider: the Federal Senate may be
more representative than the House of Repre-
sentatives ; since the small-electorate system,
on which it is suggested that the H. of R. shall
be elected has resulted, in the case of the present
N.S.W. Assembly, in returning a majority of
members to represent a minority of voters. ” (Ic
is true that, if the provinces resolve themselves
into electoral divisions to choose a House of
Representatives, those divisions will not be
neirly as small as the existing constituencies ;
but any and every division will bring a pro-
vince nearer to the abuses of the small elec-
torate.)
* * .
And, even if this Democratic anti-climax is
not completely reached at every election, an
anti-climax only less electorally absurd must be
reached every time the small-electorate system
is applied. The effect of that system is to per-
petually disfranchise a minority of electors
only less than the majority—if a split-majority
of electors is not disfranchised to return the
representatives of the minority. There is a
current delusion that Australians enjoy Repre-
sentative Government. They enjoy no such
thing. Nine times in ten they have mVrepre-
sentative government. An elector is repre-
sented when he casts an effective vote for a
successful candidate—not when he casts a
wasted vote for a defeated candidate. And, in
proportion as it adopts the small-elector-
ate system, the House of Representatives
will no more be a House of Representatives than
it will be an assembly of fire-worshippers
dressed in green-baize petticoats and refusing
drinks by clock-work mechanism concealed
under the left shoulder. And, when it calls
itself a House of Representatives, it will call
itself a mining-expert.
* * * *
But the Federal Senate, if it is elected by
proportional voting in single-State electorates,
will be really representative ; for every voter’s
preference will have weight in deciding what
candidates shall be chosen. Even if the pro-
portional vote is not applied, the Senate mav
still be more representative of the people than
the House of Representatives—seeing that, if
that House is established under the small-and-
single electorate system, a voter will have only
one chance of picking a winner, whereas for
the Senate he will have six—so that the odds
are six to one that the Federal Senate will be
more representative than the House of Repre-
sentatives—a voter’s qualification in each case
being exactly the same.
* » * *
More: the chances are that the Federal
Senate will not only be the more representative
House, but will also be the abler House, the
stronger House, the more intelligent House.
The large-electorate system wipes out the road-
and-bridge-member in one wipe. Probably
Lee would defeat Barton for Tenterfield ; but
where would he be in an election for N.S.
Wales ? Or, to bring an illustration home to
the sporting soul of the community, Carbine
could not have won a pony-race at Kensington
—he was Too Big; but what pony could win the
Melbourne Cup ? Just as the pony-standard
disqualifies Big Horses, so the small-electorate
disqualifies Big Men. But in an all-Aus-
tralian contest they win easily. The
Federal Senate is going to consist, not
of the peddling politicians with an eye for
pickings—but of the brainiest men in Aus-
tralia—the best-known men—and on the whole
of the men who most deserve to be known.
And The Bulletin reckons that the represen-
tative Senate should have as large a share in
the Commonwealth Government as the possibly
less-representative House of Representatives.
There is only one objection : the fear that the
Tasmanian senator may vote for Tasmania, and
the Victorian senator for Victoria, and so on.
In practice, this paper believes that such
cliquism will be found most rampant in the
House of Representatives. It is unsafe to
prophesy, but the Senate looks as if it wrnuld
be the House of Australia.
* * * •
So The Bulletin is going down George-
street.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tradition of Extradition.
A general belief prevails in Australia that, in
case of robbery, maltreatment, or murder, the
police authorities will tumble over each other
in their eagerness to drag the malefactor to
justice ; and that, if needs be, they will re-
luctantly pursue him to the ends of the earth.
How utterly mistaken is this notion is known
to few outside the sufferers from crime; and,
as these are mostly those ordinary, unin-
structed, uninfluential persons, whose con-
fidence in the word of a policeman is one of the
most touching articles of their faith, little is
ever heard of the number of criminals who
go unpunished through the simple device
of taking a trip to an adjoining province.
When the average citizen is battered
and robbed, or when the trusted family
solicitor or the “ highly respected ” ex-
ecutor embezzles the all of the widow and the
orphan, the victims usually make straight for a
police station, and expect to find the delinquent
laid by the heels in the course of a few days.
They have read of such marvels of astuteness
and despatch on the part of the local P.’s (as
served up by the roundsmen of the dailies) that*
to capture a criminal openly living in another
capital seems mere child's-play. But, as soon as
the complainant has stated his case, the police
superintendent calmly produces an “indemnity-
form ” and hands it to the former to
sign. This precious document sets forth that
the prosecutor undertakes to pav all expenses


of effecting accused’s arrest in the adjoining
province, reimburse the Govt, of that province
for the keep of the prisoner while he is in
custody there, and indemnify the police depart-
ment of his own province for any proceedings
which the accused might at any future time
take for unlawful arrest, or for any proceedings
which might be taken, owing to a mistake on
the part of the police in making the arrest.
That is to say, that unless a prosecutor is
successful in obtaining a conviction —which,
even in cases of perfectly evident guilt, he may
fail to do, through jury-squaring, subornation
of witnesses, perjury, or a dozen other causes—
he stands a very excellent chance of having to
pay several hundreds of pounds for having the
audacity to object to being robbed or half-
murdered by a man who has left the province.
It is admitted by all publicists that the first
duty of constituted authority is to protect its
constituents; and, to provide such protec-
tion, the said constituents are taxed in sums
which would take their breaths away did they
have to pay them directly ; yet the moment
one of them asks the authority he has been sub-
scribing to all his lifetime to pursue a fugitive
offender, he is confronted with a monetary
obligation which he will have to undertake
before the police will stir a finger. The prac-
tical outcome of this system is that the sensible
malefactor will confine his operations to the
comparatively poor and then simply cross the
border and have a good time on the proceeds
until a move-on to another province is found
desirable. If there was ever one law for the
rich and another for the poor, it is this regula-
tion of Australian police departments by which,
unless a crime is boomed by the press or com-
mitted against somebody of influence or stand-
ing, the perpetrator can go unpunished as long
as he has the price of his passage to another
province.
On Behalf of the Baker.
“T.P.W.” asks fair play for the much-abused
baker—and sends some comments about N.S.
Wales bread-laws :
Dear Bulletin.— While it is observed now and again that
bakers are fined amounts ranging to hundreds of pounds,
there are no instances of such severe inflictions on the
members of any other trade. A case in point occurred
recently at Wyalong, when a baker was fined £9B 155.,
and not having sufficient money, or goods to levy on, was
sent to gaol for three months. This man, in 277 loaves,
had been 3950 z. short weight—an average of less than
l£oz. per loaf ; but, irrespective of the merits of this par-
ticular ease, I quote it simply to demonstrate possibilities
under the present bread-law. If bakers could make cer-
tain of not having short weight there would be no hard-
ship in present law ; but unless the bread is weighed to
bake 2 or 3oz. over a man is never certain that, through
no fault of his own, he may not drop in for three
months' gaol, as there’s little doubt would be the
case with nine out of ten country bakers, if called
on to pay a fine of £lOO or more. Let me
here say that, as a baker of twenty years’ experi-
ence, any figures I give are founded on ascertained facts.
The usual weight for scaling the dough is 21b. 3oz. for the
21b. loaf, and 41b. 6oz. for the 41b. loaf, thus allowing
ljoz. in the lib. for soakage. Then if oven is at proper
heat, and batch is withdrawn at proper time, the loss of
weight will not exceed loz. per 21b. loaf, leaving the bread
2oz. to the good when first drawn out. But after it has
been out some time the loaf will weigh only 21b. loz. or
less, and before expiry of the 24 hours, during which the
bread is liable to be officially weighed, it very often will
not go the 21b. Injustice No. I. For, allowing that the
bread was full weight when baked, and was not
weighed for eight hours afterwards, every loaf would
be an ounce short, and the baker would stand a
chance of “ doing time.” Because his bread was short-
weight ? No !—but because the inspector did not weigh
the bread till eight hours after it left the ovan. Again,
a baker weighs his batch at 21b. 3oz. per loaf, and has the
oven too hot; every loaf in that batch will be short-
weight, with possible result of ruin or gaol. A nicujnill-
stone to he always hanging over a man’s head ! The
penalty in this case would practically be for misjudgment
of temperature, and punishes an unavoidable error as if it
had been such a deliberate hreach of the law as the run-
ning of an illicit-still. Also, let a baker be ever so willing to
weigh the bread to his customers and make good any acci-
dental deficiency, he remains just as liable to punishment
as t he biggest rascal in the trade. And, more preposterous
still—if a baker accidentally scorch a batch into short-
weight, he is amenable to the law, without attempting to
sell a loaf. “ Any bread found, in any shop, bakehouse,”
&c., is liable to he weighed.. Again, should a butcher’s or
baker’s scale weigh loz. light, the fine would be about 10s.
But if, on the other hand, a scale should get loz. wrong in
a bakery doing, say, 3000 loaves a night, and the inspector
conies along next morning and finds that on the night’s
baking there is a deficiency of 30000 z., the baker is fined
ss. per oz., and all the bread confiscated ; meaning a total
penalty of nearly £800; or, calculated on the Wyalong
basis, two years gaol! The facts, in short, mean simply
that unless a baker runs the risk of severe punishment,
he must pay a tax of 2oz. on every loaf. That is, instead
of weighing the bread 21b. 3oz. and having it full weight
when baked, 19 times out of 20 he must weigh it 21b. 50z.,
and have it 2oz. per loaf oner-weight 19 times out of 20.
Again, if an inspector should have a grudge against a
baker he can make his visit as near the end
of the 24 hours as possinle, and then increase the
chance of basis for prosecution ; whereas an earlier visit
would have found the bread full-weight. Also, bread
returned from the carts will often have lost moisture
enough to make it short-weight, and if Mr. Inspector
comes along the baker will be punished, merely because
the visit was not made before the bread was sent out.
Also, the present law gives the vindictive journeyman
baker an opportunity to “ iret even ” with his employer ;
.. since, by simply keeping the oven heat too Uiirh durinw
the night, he can render his employer liable to heavy
punishment. The essence of the difficulty lies
in the fact that the law asks us to make an article
of a certain weight that cannot be maintained at any
fixed weight—that will vary according to heat, moisture,
to proportion of crust or crumb, &c. Why not make the
law that a baker be fined for every ounce that he sells
light-weight, and that his delivery-cart shall carry scales
to be used at customers’ request, so that any deficiency
can be supplied, as in England, with little rolls of bread.
Finally, at present if a batch is light and escapes the in-
spector’s notice, it is sold and the consumer loses : so that
the present law is not just to either side. —T.P.W.
Writes a man from the North :
Apropos a recent Bulletin paragragh. “How their
seats do stick.” “Toby” Barton is not yet apparently in
receipt of a genuine offer of an electorate, barring brave
old bulldog Copeland’s proposal to vacate his. Mr. Pyers
has seen fit to re-consider what was certainly a pledge,
though an indirect one, to his electors. Nor have others
of similar kidney had the manliness to stand by their pre-
election utterances, and thereby win real honors for them-
selves by opening a door to admit the Federal leader. And,
without doubt, “ Toby ” should be there to see it through
if we are to have Federation. No intelligent person can
trust the Arch-Wriggler. His policy is Georoe—ad infini-
tum - and one almost fancies that he knows this himself.
Copeland is a gunner and must stay to serve his gun. But
what about some of the roads-and-bridges members of the
present N.S.W. Parliament? May not Billjim’s Gully go
without a culvert for a brief space ? Is it essential to the
making of a nation that Sand} 1 ' Creek should have an
anaemic school marm just at the present juncture ?
There are not a few of these Departmental
wire - pullers whose absence from Macquarie-street
would in no wise cause disruption amongst the
Bartonian following. E.g.—there is “ Bob” Fitzgerald,
the silent man from Muswellbrook. Robertson polled
heavily for the Bill on June 3, and returned Bob as a
Bartonian - Protectionist on July 27 by two-to-one
against the Reidite nominee. Will the genial Fitz read
this—and profit by it? Do you think there is any chance,
Bulletin, of his sacrificing his membership of the “ best
club in Sydney ” to make room for a man who does not
merely regard it as a club ? Present writer is a Robertson
elector, and knows of a certainty that no Govt, man
would have the ghost of a show there against Edmund
Barton, backed by Robert George Dundas Fitzgerald.
There are other constituencies whose representatives
might gracefully step down, but the old Upper Hunter,
with everything to gain locally by the achievement of
Federation, is a case in point—and, the writer thinks, a
pretty apt one.—A.
From what The Bulletin hears, by the time
this appears a seat (not Mr. Fitzgerald’s) will
have been provided for Mr. Barton.
4
Australia for the Australians ! Childers (Q.)
Police-court, 27/6/’9B :
POLICE COURT.
Monday, June 27th.
(Before the Police Magistrate).
Barnus Singho, charged with assault of a fellow Indian,
was fined 10s., in default 3 days imprisonment.
Joe, South Sea Islander, charged with disorderly con-
duct, was fined £l, or 24 hours imprisonment.
Bob, 5.5.1., charged with disorderly conduct, was fined
£2, or in default 14 days in lockup.
Ram Suy, charged with horse-stealing, was discharged,
no evidence. *■
Tuesdav, June 28th.
(Before J. Stirling, J.P.).
Hooli, 5.5.1., charged with absconding from the hired
service of Messrs. Witty, Yatala, Beenleigh. Remanded
to Beenleigh, and order made that expenses of employer
(Mr. Moody), £2 15s. be a charge against the boy’s wages.
♦
N.S. W. Supreme Court Judges issued last week
the following new rule defining allowances
which must be made to various classes of town
witnesses:
Barristers, solicitors, medical practitioners, surveyors,
architects and other professional men, £1 Is. per day.
Merchants, bankers, accountants, auctioneers, and the
like, 15s. to £1 Is.
Tradesmen, master-mariners, clerks, and the like,
7s. 6d. to 15s.
Artisans, sailors, journeymen, laborers, and the like,
ss. to 7s. 6d.
Note how their Honors place barristers and
solicitors at the top, with a guinea for each day
they witness in the interests of Justice, while
merchants, bankers, “and the like,” must do
the witnessing at from 155., master-mariners at
from 7s. 6d., and artisans and sailors at from
ss. Their Honors evidently labored over the
list with the solemn object in view of keeping
every man “ in that condition of life to which
it pleased Providence to call him.”
For the first eight months of the year the
Broken Hill mines have averaged one victim a
fortnight, in addition to nearly one a week
more-01-less badly battered. The death-roll
has been built up by unobtrusive ones and twos,
so there hasn’t been any disaster-fund, and
only in a solitary ease lias the hat been sent
round Broken Hill itself with much success.
Moreover, nearly ail the worst accidents have
been underground, and not in the open cuts,
where the operations look the most dangerous ;
and pretty well every time the inspector, or
some other person in authority, has said that
the occurrence was quite accidental—couldn’t
have been reasonably foreseen and avoided.
Once or twice, it is true, there has been an
eagerness to get back to work ; but that always
happens in contracting, when prices are “cut.”
And still every sort of a national-fund for the
success of the widows and families keeps ap-
parently a long way in the distance.
4
“ Paulus ” to The Bulletin concerning the
Hare system :
. Re par. of 27/8/’9B on a Maoriland experiment in the
Hare system. You say that the test was considered un-
satisfactory, as the result placed some minor poets above
the immortals. If this means “ above some of the
immortals,” it exactly proves the worth of the Hare sys-
tem in letting the voice of a substantial minority be
heard ; whereas under our present system, as shown in
N.S.W. late election, a really large majority may be
stifled. The test in question was left to a number of
comps.—not very literary people generally—and, of
course, a good-sized minority, perhaps a majority, would
prefer Jawbone Neild or Trickett, M.L.C., as poets to
all the immortals put together. I’ll give you an
account of another test of the Habe system, if
you like. Prof. J ethro Brown, of Tasmania, who came to
Sydney University to fill (he chair of law for six months,
is a great believer in the Hare system, and one day in
June last he gave his class at Sydney Law School a prac-
tical example of its working. They were asked to elect
three members to represent N.S.W. on a Federal Senate
—candidates from whom to choose being Barton, O’Con-
nor, Wise, Want, Maclaurin, Knox. Result was—Bar-
ton, Wise, Want elected. Observe the working of the
system. The majority of the class—writer was one of
them, so he knows—were Federalists, but there was just
a sufficient anti-Billious minority to put in the “ arch-
destroying angel.” Said minority was chiefly composed
of a Reidite M.L.A. from the North and a Wesleyan par-
son, who are both members of the class. The love which
Sydney students bear to Chancellor Maclaurin was
strikingly shown—that dour Scot was at the foot of
the poll. No Democrat should object to the Hark
system; under it every voter, unless he is a crank of
some sort, has some hope of representation ; under our
present system half the electors, sometimes many more,
are unrepresented. I’m one of them.
4.
N.S.W. Parliament shbuld keep both eyes on
the new Public Works Committee. When ap-
pointed, that Committee will lie in wait for
employment, and will, unless Parliament is on
the alert, be as sumptuously catered for by au
obliging Premier as was the Committee now
defunct. The fees of the new Committee have
been reduced, but bj r multiplying sittings the
sum total for each member could be brought up
to the old figure by the end of the year. Much
of the last Committee’s work was a series of
rural picnics. Members trained or coached
around the country to procure evidence and
compile reports which, when procured and com-
piled, were worthless from all practical stand-
points. Projects, while in the stage of projects,
were given to them to examine, purely as it
would seem to enable them to file bills for fees
and expenses. The present Premier earner! the
reputation of being “ good ” to the dead Com-
mittee in these ways. If Parliament doesn t
watch, he will, no doubt, be “ good to the
new Committee after the same fashion. It is
the country that pays for such good nature.
4.
Is there any reason why the Victorian butter-
factories and creameries should not forthwith
be compulsorily brought under the operation of
the Factories’ Act ? Or why certain clauses in
the Act specially exempting these factories
from boiler-inspection and other regulations
should not be annulled ? The Bulletin is led
to make these observations by noticing a num-
ber of advts. similar to the following, which
appear in Melb. papers every spring
T\/rANAGER for Creamery, wanted; successful ap-
plicant must find firewood, also provide convey-
ance to convey cream 6 miles; salary, £2 per week.
Apply, on or before Ist prox., to
rr j » * SECRETARY
BROADFORD DAIRYING CO., BROADFORD.
QREAMERY MANAGER.
SWANPOOL and MOORNGAG BUTTER FAC-
TORY require Competent MAN, to work Creamery,
provide firewood and cart cream to factory.
Wages, 335. 6d. full time, and 255. half time.
Applications, with references, and stating age, re-
ceived up to Tuesday, 6th September.
TIIOS. F. HARRISON,
Moorngag, Benalla. Secretary.
Here is a man required to work from four or
five in the morning to 3 or 4 p.in., to be a
fairly competent engineer, and good judge of
milk, to take all the responsibility of keeping
such a place clean and healthy (no light matter)
to buy or get or steal firewood for the boiler,
to ditto-ditto a horse and cart and feed for the
animal, all for the magnificent sum of 335. 6d.
per week ! Why, the Vic. Govt., in its relief
works for the unemployed, pays a higher wage
than that—6s. per day of 8 hours for an ordi-
nary laborer without special skill and without
responsibility ! the price of butter
—both exported and locally sold —there appear
to be strong grounds for forcibly applying the
minimum-wage clauses as fixed by a board
under the Act to the whole of the Victorian
butter-trade, from beginning to end.
4.
“ 0.P.” discourses on certain money-lending
matters :
Dear Bulletin.—l happen to know something about
usury. Interest is only one item that wants badly regu-
lating. The “ stamping and noting ” fee, the “ valu-
ation’’ fee, the “registration” fee, the fine, and the
collateral security and “ shilling balance ” dodges
are some of the others. In our “bank” we prac-
tised all these. When an applicant arrived in the
usual condition of nervous collapse we took all deeds,
rent and furniture-receipts, and a note of everything
concerning him except his family history, and charged
him as much “ valuation fee” as he would stand —from
2s. 6d. to £2O. Our Ike never advanced on machinery,
conditional purchase or second mortgage, but he sent the
thirty-bob-a-week “valuator” out all the same and
pocketed the balance in hand over exes. I’ve known a
£lO “ valuation ” fee to be charged when “valuator’s”
time and expenses ran into, at the outside, 10s. Should
Ike decide to advance the amount or part of the amount
applied for (the latter is usually the case) his next step is
to get all possible security—bill of sale, promissory-note,
mortgage, rent-agreement, life and fire policies, and re-
ceipts of all kinds—especially rent-receipts (often run-
ning into some hundreds of pounds), even if the
loan is only to be for a fiver. Out of the fiver the
wretched borrower has to ante-up from 2s. 6d. to 10s. for
“ stamping and noting ” (purely fictitious), and 2s. 6d. to
20s. for registration, which is seldom carried out. All
this in addition to a heavy “ valuation ” fee, from 30s. to
60s. interest, and fines from time to time for being in
arrear with instalments and repayment. When the loan
is repaid to Ike s satisfaction he will hand back Is. with
the borrower’s receipt-book marked “Is. balance.” “To
save you the expense of another document when you
come back for another loan, my goot vrendt.” In reality
to prevent some other Ike from sneaking in with a prior
B.S. In this way the trustful borrower is left for ever in
the position of bailee, and liable to be prosecuted for lar-
ceny should he innocently attempt to sell anything in-
cluded in the security. The Victorian Bill will bring
down a long-suspended foot on the legal assumption that
every sane adult is responsible for his actions and ought
to be nailed to his obligations accordingly. Let me
advise all unfortunates burdened thus to go and get a job
in a loan-office. I have found that the average man and
woman, once in the awful, uncanny atmosphere of
the loan-office, will sign anything anywhere and as
. often as asked ; they will ask no questions what-
ever, nor attempt in any way to read a word of
what they are signing. In three years’ experience
I knew of only one case in which a borrower insisted
upon reading the deed that he had to mortgage his very
soul by, and he was a Scotchman. Distress by night is
another item for reform. The landlord is legally pre-
vented from invading a home between sundown and sun-
rise, but Ike gets there just the same, and is allowed to
burst in and tumble the invalid widow into the street at
any unearthly hour, simply because the poor, stupid
creature agreed (by the deed she hadn’t read, or wouldn’t
have understood if she had read) to let him do so. Let
us hope to see the taxpayer his own aggregate Ike.—O.P.
4.
Q. Government alleges that its immigration
treaty with Japan is restricted to “ laborers
and artisans ” —the very classes of workmen of
which there is a plethora in Q„ The news of
the debarking 011 Thursday Island of 59 Japs
with passports to the Northern Territory of
S.A. so roused up the labor press that it awoke
Douglas, Govt. Resident at Thursday Island,
who nudged Premier Byrnes, and the latter,
to make a show in view of the coming general
elections, communicated with Premier King-
ston, of S. A. The latter’s reply was, in essence:
“Know nothing about it. This Government
refused to entertain proposals made by the Jap.
Consul for the introduction of Jap. coolies into
the Northern Territory.” As a matter of pose,
the Q. Govt, has (or says it has) issued orders
that no Japs, is to be permitted to land in Q.
without proper passports for Q. issued by the
Jap. Government. When the first seething of
the hubbub is over, the little brown man (and
his donah) will get there all the same.
♦
What’s the matter with labor covenants pro-
viding for a fair minimum wage in all Crown
agricultural and pastoral leases hereafter
issued ? The subject is certainly worth con-
sideration in the forthcoming Land-Bill discus-
sion in Victoria. The cry is loud there that
the farm-laborer is the veriest of serfs, sliarac-
lei.-dy underpaid, overworked, and underfed,
and that his prospects are still worse. Surely
the lot of the farm-laborer is at least as well-
worth the solicitude of the State as is that of
the mine-laborer. The latter has elaborate
mine regulations to protect his life and limbs,
and he has at least some certainty of work
by the well-tried, and, on the whole,
beneficial, system of stringent labor-conditions
inserted in all mining leases : while the former
is denied the protection even of the “ engine ”
regulations of the Factories Act, has no mini-
mum-wage provided for him, and has no
covenant-restricted employer to fall back on
in slack times. Moreover, just as the mining
lessee gets his land for a song, so does the
farmer for often the tithe of its open-market
value. So that, if the consideration paid to the
State in the one case is equitably made up by
the insistence on labor-covenants, so would it
be in the other. It is only feudal superstition
that applies modern notions of right and justice
to the tenure of mining land, and allows obso-
lete notions to continue to apply to agricultural
and pastoral land. Mining law b>s been
moulded to suit our own Australian wants and
conditions: agricultural law has been dominated
by precedents applicable a thousand years ago,
but utterly out of place and utterly unjust in
the Democratic atmosphere of Australia.
♦
“ Experto Crede ” on Alcoholism :
Ed. Bulletin.— lf the amiable enthusiast who lately,
through S.M. Herald, presented to the public an “in-
fallible ” alcoholism-cure had not been, according to his
own admission, “ a life-long total abstainer,” he probably
wouldn’t have written such rubbish about “ destroying
the thirst for strong drink.” In very many—and these
generally the worst—cases of alcoholism, so far from there
being any “ thirst,” or even any palatal or stomachic
liking for the liquor, there exists for it a repugnance so
desperate that only a still more desperate nerve-need can
overcome it. The man who, in an advanced stage of
“jamboree”—comic label for a perfectly tragic con-
dition !—will almost commit a crime to obtain fresh
alcoholic stimulus is impelled—not by any desire
for liquor per se —but by the hideous possibilities
of conduct which —especially in the more refined and
imaginative natures—are suggested to him by his dread
that his temporarily-shattered self control may at any
moment utterly break up. Fortunately, as a matter of
fact, it is never the alcoholist of this type—though his
apprehensions have many a time driven him to suicide —
who commits the deeds of which, through attraetion-of-
repulsion, he dreads his capability. It is the man
normally inclined to brutality who becomes —with nerve-
force not relaxed but reinforced—the willing brute when
drunk; but the torments which the other stamp of
alcoholist endures are none the less those of the damned.
And it is simply the desire to mitigate these—to feel, if
only {temporarily, something like “ his own man ” again
—that drives him to forge to an ultimately greater tight-
ness the bonds of a cruel oppression from which he is
frantically struggling to escape—not those of a “ degrad-
ing vice” or a “ brutal appetite,” as per the self-satisfied
twaddle of the poor creature who is temperate, as often
as not, merely because his social instincts were never
strong enough to place him in the convivial circumstances
from which the alcoholic habit nearly always originates.
That there may be cases in which the practice of alco-
holism can be abolished by producing a physical distaste
for any liquor of which it is a constituent, I will not
deny ; but to attempt to eliminate in this way the en-
tirely distinct stimulus-hunger of the nervous system, is
to begin a house at the chimney-tops—except in so far
as the vaunted nostrum will, in itself, and strictly in this
direction, supply the place of alcohol. The only “ infal-
lible ” cure for alcoholism of the intenser type, therefore,
would be to supply the subject with a new nervous sys-
tem, and, as this cannot be done, the next best method is
to patch-up and recuperate, as far as possible, the old
one.
If, as was sworn in a Sydney Police Court the
other day, meat reeking with tuberculosis
passed the Govt, inspectors at Glebe Island
Abattoirs, and was only detected by accident
on the premises of a wholesale butcher, ample
evidence is supplied for an immediate and
drastic change of the law relating to the in-
spection of food. Some time ago the N.S.W.
Customs authorities effectually dealt with the
private-still runners and cigar-smugglers by
increasing the rewards to informers. This
principle might with good effect be applied to
the diseased-meat ghouls. It is hardly possible
for the person benefiting by the trade in
diseased meat to convert a rotten bullock into
innocent-looking sirloin and apparently succu-
lent rump-steak without others being cognisant
of his hideous crime, and if the State offers a
sufficient temptation to possible informers the
trader in tubercles will fall in so frequently
that the game will soon not be worth the
candle.
Vie. Chief Justice Madden, in granting leave
to an articled clerk to engage as auditor in de-
fiance of the rule that outside business is not
allowed, remarked : “ The object of the rule
was that a student’s attention should not be
distracted from his professional -studies. It
would be a terrible thing to have a lot of igno-
ramuses let loose as qualified practitioners. . .
He doubted whether he had power to make the
order, and, if the Full Court should think there
was no authority to make it, he would rather
agree with that view than otherwise.” But
how about successful barristers Isaacs, Hodges,
and others who earned their livelihood in other
directions whilst studying for the Bar? Also,
if the exams, won’t keep out the ignoramuses,
what’s the use of exams, at all ? The best
lawyers are probably those who have had ex-
perience in, or have shunted from, other busi-
nesses or professions. And, finally, Dr. Mad-
den’s declaration that his decision was pro-
bably a wrong decision was possibly appropriate
enough to his nativity, but was a degradation
of the Chief Justiceship.
“ As those in his immediate entourage
well know,” writes S.M. Herald’s London scribe
about Tummy Wales, “ their first duty is to see
that the Prince is amused.” And, as books, it
appears, are “not in H.R.H.’s line,” said entour-
age is probably having a lively time dodging the
little fat man’s flying boots and language. The
Herald is disloyal enough to tell us that the
Coming K. has no intellectual resources to fall
back upon in sickness. Sirjames surely can’t have
been looking when that was printed.
Dear Bulletin. —Amongst N.S. W. Public
Service Board’s most extraordinary vagaries is the
grading of the Postmaster’s assistants and tele-
graph operators. This staff, first graded as
“ clerical,” has now all avenues of advancement
in that direction closed to it, and its position
made only a degree or so higher than the General
Division of the Service. The examination for
advancement on grade comprises, in addition
to the clerical, a stiff exam, in practical tele-
graphy, The P.M.’s and assistants have now also
been appointed where required as assistant elec-
toral registrars, yet to gain a clerical appoint
ment have first to qualify themselves at thp
Board’s clerical examination. —D.W.
The China Mission.
Degrading tribute from the White Man’s Land
To insolent, contemptuous Asiatics !
A hopeless crusade, zealot-led, and maimed _
With woman martyrs and with girl fanatics.
Grim, useless mockery ! A mournful story
Of young, devoutly-foolish hearts enticed
To venture life and honor, for the glory
Of God on high, and in the name of Christ!
The irony of it! From reeking slums,
Where God is only called upon to leaven
Foul curses, from a Hell-on-earth there comes
The messenger of Cant, to promise Heaven.
The irony of it! The vessels laden
With virgin victims for a dragon’s gorge
Are flying, right above the offered maiden,
The emblem and the color of St. George.
Where shall it end ? Two thousand years ago
The temple of Astarte and of Isis
Fell down, for evermore it seemed. But no,
Man builds the fane anew, and sacrifices
His purest treasure on its cruel altars—
A woman’s virtue, as of old, to pay
The ransom from a Fate that never falters.
Thus history repeats itself for aye !
The god of Commerce stands in Moloch’s place,
Hypocrisy his mate—a curse upon her—
And white men daily prostitute their race,
Their soul for them, their flesh and blood and
honor.
I do believe, as darkness grows and widens,
That we are damned eternally to grope,
And though we pray and strive for light and guid-
ance,
There is no hope for us—no hope—no hope !
N.Q.
VON KOTZE.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Fatal Card.”
Her Majesty’s “La Poupoe.”
Lyceum “The World Against Her.*
Criterion. Mesmerist Kennedy.
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Town Hall Sherwin Concert Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Prisoner of Zenda.”
Theatre Royal “ Round the World in 80 Days.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Bijou “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops.”
“The Mikado” reigns again this week
with the Comic Opera co. A revival of two nights
merely whetted the public appetite, and the loud
outcry for more ‘ ‘ Mikado ” would only be pacified
with this extra week of Japland. Nanki-Poo, in
the. hands of Charles Kenningham, gets a high
polish on his character. The tenor dances
like a buoy, or a woman, sings “A Wandering
Minstrel, I,” in a sweet, light voice that is almost
too light for the theatre but is knowing enough to
refrain from over-straining. He also makes the
most beautiful Jap. love to Yum-Yum. Alto-
gether, a nicer Nanki couldn’t happen, even in a
maiden’s dream. Mabelle Parley, as the slim,
dark-wigged Yum-Yum, doesn’t make any marked
effect on anybody’s pulse, and will sing shades
lower than her notes, but somehow gives promise
of better by and by. The real heroine of the
production is the adorable little Pitti-Sing as
portrayed by Dolly Yane, who is all at home
here, and gives the brightest account of herself
up to date. She poses, and trots, and giggles, and
sings “He’s going to marry Yum-Yum ” with the
gleeful naivete of a genuine cherry-blossom. And
Howard Vernon as Ko-Ko makes the same frantio
stir with “I’ve got a little list;” and the beautiful
Pauli is cruelly hidden under a Mikado phiz that
doesn’t altogether suit him vocally or otherwise;
and Mrs. Bracy acts Katisha admirably, but can’t
always hide the fatigue in her throat.
** * *
Despite the classic cravings and high art
ravings of the few, the kind of dramatic article
best calculated to hit the large, unfastidious public
right in the middle of its predilections is well-
sampled by the piece fired-off last Saturday night
at Sydney Lyceum by MacMahon Bros., as the
first of a series intended to run only one week each.
Considering the brevity of its thus-allotted span,
“The Land of the Living” is staged “in a manner
that reflects,” &c., and satisfactorily acted all
round, in full-flavored melodramatic accord with
the way the play is built. “Here they
are again ! ” —all in a row: Virtuous and
elocutionary heroine (fairly forcible in Miss Helene
Burdett) devoted to maligned and expatriated hero
(good-to-middling in Mr. J. H. Nunn)—pompous
old father (appropriately fat-headed in Mr.
Frank Harcourt) designing villain smooth-
haired variety, not “ha-ha ! ” (convincingly enough
villained by Mr. H. W. Diver)—heroine’s sprightly
sister (pert, piquante, and painstaking in Miss
Alice May), and comic young man in love with
aforesaid (quaintly ridiculous, as usual, in Mr.
Harry Shine). Besides these, and hors de Voeuvre,
as it were, there is a sort of supplementary heroine
m the villain’s wife (Miss Ada Woodhill) who speaks
straight from the shoulder, does mighty things with
an empty pistol, and gives a useful hoist to that
ultimate confutation of villainy and vindication of
virtue in which the stage-world has got such a
pull upon the real one. With Mr. Patey’s benevo-
lent policeman (received with scornful incredulity
by the gods), Miss Gilbert’s jabbering old nurse-
body, a belt of diamonds, a man-hunt, an explo-
sion, and a liberal allowance of tear, prayer,
invocation, denunciation, lowered lights, and slow
music—“ The Land of the Living” would pro-
bably have carried good “business” well beyond
the appointed period of its existence.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli all lesser lights are tem-
porarily darkened by the great Biondi, who is
lightning and legerdemain set to music, and whose
portrait appears fourteen times over in this issue
of The Bulletin, so that people who do not like
him in one phase may admire him in another.
** * *
The exact extent to which “One of the
Best ” is founded on the Dreyfus case is undis-
coverable ; but the advt. affirms that it cer-
tainly is so founded, and Bland Holt’s pay-box at
Sydney Royal rattles alike with the coin of Drey-
fus partisans and enemies. Bland Holt even takes
credit for foreshadowing the progress of the
Dreyfus case : so that you have only to go to the
Royal in order to see history unrolling like a
draper’s bundle, and watch (with the eye of
imagination) Dreyfus being reinstated with full
military honors, and La Republique weeping on
his neck. And this unequalled spectacle can only
be witnessed till Saturday evening next, when
“The Fatal Card” will be drawn triumphantly
from the managerial pack.
** * *
Mesmerist Kennedy occupies the Criterion
Theatre, and man who is made in the image of his
Maker nightly (at Kennedy’s request) plays fan-
tastic tricks before the footlights that make the
audience weep with delight. The Bulletin has
already expressed the opinion that it is a shocking
thing for the audience to weep with delight under
the circumstances, and the audience takes no notice
and keeps on doing it. This paper therefore
washes its columns of the audience.
* * *- *
The war - worn John Lemmone whose
Alva season, turned out financially disastrous-
takes a benefit-concert at Sydney Town Hall on
14th Sept., when Adela Verne will play for the
last time in Australia.
. Th® versatile spectacle at Melb. Royal
unproved greatly after the first night, when the
railway train, and the shipwreck, and other details
lett a lot of stage management to be wished for.
Un Saturday there was a matinee performance of
Round the World in Eighty Days, ” and in the
evening it made a crowded house sit up. At
time of writing the show promises to achieve
a popular-priced triumph, so the new managers
should make money by their transaction in
spite of heavy expenses. The shipwreck scene,
especially, has grown larger by degrees, and
W - i u OW i. an i- e ?- ent suggestion of rolling ocean
with the lights of Liverpool in the distance.
JNobody is impressed by certain sacred snakes and
centipedes which come fooling around the widow
of the stuffed Rajah when she goes to sleep in a
grotto, but these comio jim-jam effects are partly
forgiven for the sake of the subsequent ballet. The
ballet is administered to the Rajah’s widow (as a
piek-nie-up) by an unaccountable slave girl who
smacks of pantomime, and would be a fairy queen
if she only had a wand with an incandescent light
in it., The ballet comes under the heading of
lora 8 1 aradise, and numbers about fifty
legs, all told. Flora, seemingly, is a wilful
virgin, beloved by a sweet young she-boy in
mauve rationals, and they “play at chasings”
amidst groups of ballet until Cupid shoots—or,
rather, doesn't shoot—an arrow at wilful Flora,
whereupon she falls captive to her boy and enters
into Paradise accordingly. The same crowd of
agreeable girls have a second appearance at the
Eccentric Club, London, in the last act. A ballet
in a new club room is not a usual event, but, on
the odier hand, it is not more rare than an imita-
tion elephant at a funeral. “Round the World ”
makes no claim to sober realism. Under the cir-
cumstances a stageful of muslin skirts and pink
limbs is a very good thing to finish up with.
** * *
“ Harbor Lights,” at the Princess’s, hav-
ing done a satisfactory month’s business, will
make way for “ Prisoner of Zenda ” on Saturday
ihe last revival of “ The Prisoner ” had to be cut
short when it was going strong, and, although
revivals are proverbially fickle, the next one is
likely to run longer than the six nights stated on
the bill. “ Under the Red Robe” is pretty sure
to follow, in any case.
** * *
Melbourne formed a first impression of
Beggy Pryde on Saturday, and the impression
was very favorable. Female humorists are few.
Peggy is one of the few. Also, she is the sort of
one who grows upon her audience, and gets them
fairly by the wool when they know her better.
1 erhaps she is hardly calculated to enchant some
of the people who came to see Biondi, for she is
not musical, and her character-acting doesn’t
take a wide range. But Peggy is as good as her
mother, in a general way of speaking, and her
songs breathe a Riatic odor of onions that seems
to come from the ’eart, and, Latvd luv ’er ! she’ll
do. Ada Reeve is likewise doing nicely, therefore
frill and plentiful attendances at the Opera can bo
taken as read for the present.
** * *
Fun on the Bristol ” was struggling
along at the Bijou when these remarks left by the
mail. John Coleman retired from the struggle
one night last week, and on Saturday that pere-
grinating Scarecrow joined Cogill’s co. at the
uaiety, where the How of public patronage is still
at high tide.
** * *
Newbury’s Pop Concert, at the Town Hall,
is to happen again on Saturday instead of Wednes-
day, for the future. His next programme is a
long and imposing document, with many new and
w ,° n V', e list ' Organist Wiegand and
vvalter Barker, likewise a musical-melange artist,
the Liograph, Ida Osborne, a fresh young soprano
and a reputedly wonderful male alto. All of
which, in conjunction with Newbury and Madame
foccb ° U “ lt t 0 aiuount t 0 a substantial shilling.
** * *
Madame Amy Sherwin, re-revisiting the
scenes of her girlhood, in the truly rural Huon
district (Tasmania), gave them a sing-song The
local folk got frantic. They had no cannon to let
v ’j SO i , t ley ~ d „ the,r kangaroo-guns and bom-
barded her with flowers. They said she was not
a bit changed excepting her hair. Arthur Dean,
the young Sydney baritone, so excited the love of
a buxom Huon girl, on the occasion, that she stood
up amid the 700, plucked a posy of stocks from her
bosom, and threw it at him.
** * *
“If George Musgrove were an ordinary
theatrical manager,” writes The Bui.leti.v’s Lon-
don correspondent, “ Piccadilly circus, with the
fountain removed, would not be big enough to
encircle his self-complacent smile. As, however
he is merely G.M Syd. Gregory’s moustaclm
would Easily provide effectual concealment. For
the Belle of New York ’ is still ringing a joyous
peal of notes (m gold) into the box-office, and two
co s are to take her through the provinces whilst a
third escorts the übiquitous and fascinating lady
to the Unfed-Billious-stricken land where this is
read through black. The ‘Bowery ’ scene, in which
the Belle comes on as a ‘Salvation’ lassie, will
fetch the Sydney and Melbourne ‘gods’ over
the parapet bars, and Von Pumpernick, a
Dutch polite lunatic,’ will attend to the
humors of the rest of the house. An original
funny character that Australians will appreciate
to an eyebrow-blink. G. K. Fortescue, the pon-
derous Sweet Evangeline whose love for the ‘ Mans
m the Moon will be remembered out there -
k rank Lawton, as a whistling Bowery ‘ tough ’ •
Hattie Moore, a Yankee ‘ larrikiness ’; and a°pair
of weird lortugnese brothers help the fun much..
The Belle is expected to chime in next Xmas
when a ferociously-originally named piece, ‘Yan-
kee Doodle, crows its arrival if the Anglo-Saxon
entente eordiale holds out until then. ”
The Gippsland ("Vic.) Fat Girls, likewise
brother Tom, are touring Great Britain just now
under the management of an ungrammatical
person named Wallser. One gathers from Wallser’s
handbills that Australia is chiefly famous for the
bat Girls aforesaid. When they made their first
appearance in Melbourne, in 18S(>, “ thousands
flocked to the exhibitions of these grand specimens
of the giantess race. They were patronised by
the 6ltte, including the Karl of Jersey, Lord
Loch, Lord Carrington, and the special vice-regal
patronage of the Australian colonies.” Any
Bulletin readers who, by playfully pinching the
arms or legs of giantesses Clara and Anne, have
disturbed the equanimity of those fleshy maidens,
will endorse the statement that “they are highly
educated, speaking no less than three languages, and
are also proficient in music, sculpture, and paint-
ing (oil and water-color).” Culchaw was (next to
bulk) the most noticeable characteristic of Clara
and Anne. They acquired it on Sundays, no
doubt. During the rest of the week they were
employed in waiting peacefully for the next
visitor to ask them whether they felt like ordinary
human beings or otherwise. To which they made
monosyllabic re] dies in the Gippsland, Melbourne,
or Little Bourke-street language, according to the
tone of the questioner, and then they resumed
their ponderings o'er the fine arts and sciences.
In the concluding words of Mr. Wallser’s circular
“These are facts none can deny, and, I icing so,
why really I must call it useful knowledge."
* m *
One “ cronk ” variety of theatrical mana-
ger is better described as “the Landlord’s
Dummy.” He gets the services of a co. on credit,
and the landlord puts his own agents into the pay-
boxes. As long as the takings suffice to pay rent,
and the eo. is prepared to work for such crumbs as
may drop through the managerial sieve, after fall-
ing therein from the rich man’s table, the show
proceeds. The arrangement isn’t a fair tiling all-
round. It would be a fair enough deal if the
landlord ran the show himself, appointing his own
manager (on credit) and ranking as an unsecured
creditor. He would, even on those terms, get the
lion's share of the receipts. The house, being
hired, ought to count as a laborer, in no way more
worthy of its hire than any other laborer con-
cerned in the spec.
** * *
J. C. Williamson thinks that the most
interesting project he ever had on foot was one
which he nearly brought to a head some years ago
when Henry Ward Beecher was alive. It was to
import both Colonel Ingersoll and Beecher at the
same time, and let them orate alternately—a night
with “Colonel Bob” and the “Mistakes of
Moses,” followed by a night of Beecher and
eloquent orthodoxy. Beecher rather liked the
idea, but Ingersoll’s immense practice as a lawyer
did not permit of his making engagements out of
America. As a matter of fact, the heterodox
Colonel has not yet been heard even in England
on the lecturing platform, though ho has promised
to come over next year.
** Poverty Point ” see pane 28.
Humors of the linotype in Queensland:
BIRTH.
H . At her residence,
street, the wife of J. G. II of
64 hag's onions, 100 bags potatoes, 3cwt. fiour.
Latest quotations : —Butter, prime, Is. 6d. per lb.
Sohier, the Australian waxworks man, has
a death-mask of Napoleon Bonaparte, and letters
from the Little Corsican’s physician, Dr. Fattorini,
to prove its authenticity.
Thus the country correspondent of a Tas.
daily paper:—
There seems to be a continual wrangle in Parliament
over railways. What we want here is the abolition of the
railway, and a return to good roads and coach-tratfic.
The cry of the railway-ruined roadside hamlet.
“11. Gr.”: The Victorian police force is
run too much on military lines, the authorities not
discriminating between the automatism necessary
for a soldier and the intelligent self-reliance
required from a constable, whose action will fre-
quently decide whether a man shall become a
habitual criminal or remain a respectable member
of society. The arrest of a boozed-up mechanic,
instead of shunting him home, is too often the
first step to habitual criminality. The status and
pay of the force should be raised, as an induce-
ment to a better class of men.
Melbourne pressmen have been largely
amused in respect of a newspaper quarrel in
Queensland, where Mr. “ Bob ” Butt, formerly of
Melbourne Age, is editing a country paper. Burt
attacked a local undertaker, one “ Alderman Fish-
bourne, gravedigger,” in a column of sarcasm.
Thereupon “ Alderman Fishbourne, gravedigger,”
replied in a rival paper, commenting on the young
man who came there with his fashionable clothes
and his disease germs (Burt has lung-trouble), and
expressing the opinion that it was unwise for the
young man to attack him in his capacity of a
gravedigger, as he might some day have to bury
the elegant satirist when the disease germs had
done their work. The shovel of “Alderman
Fishbourne, gravedigger,” aspires to have a last
say in the controversy.
“ V. J. D. ” • Don’t tell meanything ever again
about nine out of ten women as being appreciative
critics of literature. I was in a tea-shop, picked
up The Bulletin, and began to read Lawson’s
“ Mitchell.on Women.” I was the only customer
in the place at the time. Four girls belonging to
the shop were sitting at another table at the far
end of the room. I had a nodding acquaintance
with them, and when I had got about half through
the sketch I began to chuckle. They looked at me
enquiringly and invitingly, so I moved to their
table and began to read the sketch to them,
feeling sure that they would be soon con-
vulsed with laughter. They sat and listened
like simpering images carved out of soap,
I threw all the dramatic force of expres-
sion that was in me into the reading of
the story. The eldest of the quartette began to
seem interested, The others looked at me as if I
were reading Arabic. When I had finished, the
Aforesaid eldest girl, alluding to incidents in the
aketch, said seriously, and with a sub-suggestion of
pity for the man who could write in such a foolish
way about women : “ I don t believe any woman
would take so much trouble ! ” This is verbatim.
To balance it, however, here is another little
story. One night not long ago I read to
a lady Lawson’s “His Father’s Mate.” When
I had done reading it I said to her, “What
do you think of it?” “I don’t like it at all,”
she said with the tears streaming down her face—
“lt reads too true.” What do you think of that
for criticism ?
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1593
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
£49,349;.231
4,187,.992
10,508,.995'
1,513,749*
198,159,549'
7,513,284
another Life OfltoT,, “f World' ES “ st “dard oI «■"**«> LARGER than thM of
WTT r Tni°J L „S'r REC I ORS ,with •» >“™ Policies and Pay Claim,):
.. * oillL^' c g2 S »I‘A k (a, i r, S h no* HENRY MOKI, MJatt,
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W, and Queensland.-
LLEW2LLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, .. .
.. . LAPIDAItIE-=, Etc.,
177 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Cub or repair any Stones.
Bursa—A. BEBXUOU).
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
TjCHT^
running
m
smachinesi
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
. a- V
‘l' ‘.“‘}. ”‘A‘“! ,
(4.. v, . 7 . It
: a -1
f {"93‘HZ'3J’qﬂ‘
$13144
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Some items from insolvent Hooley’s examina-
tion re the big Dunlop Tyres co., bought for £'3,3(10,000
and sold for £5,000,000; gross profit to Hooley, £1,700,000;
nett profit, less blackmail, £lOO,OOO or 4 200,000, as
Hooley alleges The Official Receiver: “Of what did
your duty as promoter consist?” The debtor: “A pro-
moter buys a business and sells it again. (Laughter.)
1 lie most important part in the whole matter is the front
page of the prospectus.” Continuing, the debtor said that
he drew up the prospectus from information supplied to
him. With regard to the value of the property, he
a ways took the figures of the valuers. He asserted that
all the statements in the prospectus were true, and this
was proved by the fact that many people had endeavored
to get their money back, but had been unsuccessful. He
obtained the directors whose names appeared in the
prospectus.
Th o Official Receiver : “ The solicitors were
John B. Purchase and Mr. Arthur T. Ashweli. Did you
them anything?” The debtor said he had paid them
£-0,000 each. The Official Receiver : “So that the names
on the front page of the prospectus cost you nearly
£lOO,OOO ? ” The debtor admitted that was so. The capi-
tal of the co. was more than fully subscribed, over
£9,250,000 shares being applied for. Before the co. was
bought out, 387,000 shares were underwritten for
£lOO,OOO, but, as the capital was over-subscribed, it cost
him £475,000 to deliver the shares. He also gave what he
termed “ press calls ” on shares. That term was applied
to calls on shares at par given to persons connected with
the press. In order to deliver the shares he was
compelled to purchase them in the market at 275. 6d. each,
and the “press calls ” diminished his profits by £63,500.
lie agreed to sell one-third share of the profits for
£lOO,OOO, of which he actually received £50,000, as he did
not want the other £50,000 at the time. It cost him
£610,250 to satisfy the third share of the profits. Ques-
tioned with reference to the payment of £1250 to Mr. T.
Harrison Davis, the debtor said he was a gentleman who
used to settle with little evening papers in order to keep
them oiuet (laughter), so that they should not pull the co.
to pieces.
The Official Receiver : “ I see the counterfoil
states that the £1250 was for * Quieting* papers g’ener-
ally on the pneumatic.’ (Laughter). Can you tell
me the names of any papers which were ' quieted
down ? ” The debtor said Mr. Davis used to
bring* him a list showing the various payments.
He remembered the names of the Pall Mall Gazette
and the F inancial Post, but he would not like to speak
definitely with regard to the other papers. In all £4250
was paid through Mr. Davis. Other payments amounting
to £5237 were made through a Mr. A. M. Broadley for
advertisements in newspapers, which consisted chiefly of
preliminary puffs. Cheques amounting in all to £1123
had been paid to Mr. E. Beall, who, he believed, owned a
paper called the Corporation* of British Investors. The
Official Receiver :“ I see one cheque for 1 200 bears on the
counterfoil the words ‘to square pneumatic.’ What does
that mean i" The debtor said that was to keep the paper
quiet. (Laughter). In connection with a payment of
£lOOO to Mr. J. Kirby, the debtor stated that gentle-
man was a partner in the Financial Post. Mr. Kirby
came to him with a Mr. Sheridan, and said that if he
would give them £lOOO he could write his own article on
the company. The Official Receiver : » Did you write
your own article ? ” The debtor said he did. (Laugh.)
Altogether, he paid Mr. Sheridan and Mr. Kirby £2500,
but he only wrote one article. He paid the sum of £5OO
to Mr. Jennings, who was on the editorial staff of the
I inancial News. He considered that the articles in that
paper were the cleverest he had seen, and, when he found
out who wrote them, he gave him the £5OO. He denied
that a cheque for £lO,OOO made payable to Mr. A. J.
Benjamin, as broker on behalf of Mr. Marks, was in re-
spect of articles which appeared in the Financial News ;
it represented a deal in shares. In all, the promotion-ex-
penses of the co. amounted to £38,800, while other pay-
merits amounted to £480,901, and the shares of other
persons in the profits represents £825,250. The Official
Receiver : “ So that the result was a net profit to vourself
of £lOO,OOO or £200,000 ? ” The debtor said that was so.
The Official Receiver : “What was the object of paying
the directors to join the board ? ” The debtor : “ I could
not get them to join unless I did so.”
After this the beautiful French system of press
“ chantage ” —under which every financier or financial
undertaking must pay a regular monthly stipend to press
harpies under pain of being blackguarded out of all credit
—can temporarily take a back seat.
* * * *
Great Cobar copper-mine (N.S.W.): Over 86
tons of copper for a week’s run, with probably 3500 z. of
gold, to say nothing* of silver. Somewhere in the region
of £6OOO worth of bullion—£looo a day, not counting the
Sabbath when the smelters work, and the miners don’t.
The 48th half-yearly meeting of the co. was held last
week. “ The mine is still being worked on tribute and is
without material alteration,” vvas practically all the direc-
tors had to report. They might have added, in sorrow if
not in anger, that the tributors now hold the voting-
power. The quietude and resignation of the meeting
showed it plainly enough. One of the old directors pre-
ferred retirement to defeat, and thus the commandinv
seat went to the tributors’ nominee. Dr. Read’s motion”
implying a vote of oensdre on the Board for granting the
new tribute—to take effect after the run of the present '
tribute—is going to a ballot, and the result is fore-
shadowed. The debate brought out the information that
the legality of the new agreement would be tested to the
utmost limit—good news for lawyers, but bad for share-
holders. It is bound to be a protracted legal duel
The present Great Cobar tributors argue that
in taking a course unparalleled in the history of any co.
the directors were sacrificing the interests of shareholders'
and that their fears as to the consequences of the tribu-
tors getting control by share-purchases were groundless.
The tributors declared that at the end of their term they
would be prepared to work the mine as it should be, and
their large interest would cause them to leave it in good


shape; but with this tribute—the terms of which they
regard as monstrous—hanging over their heads, it is only
rational to suppose that their policy will be to make the
most of their time, regardless of the future of the mine.
Another water-jacket is to start by the end of the year,
and in every respect the mine is to he worked to the
fullest possible capacity. Capt. Munday’s recent report
shows it to be a great mine, but no show can stand for
some years an output of 12,QU0 tons a month unless the
development-work keeps pace with it.
♦ » * »
North Cobar : “ Negotiations for the sale of
the property have fallen through, and the £lOOO deposit
has been forfeited.” Bonding syndicates must be feeling
sick. Hard to sell a mine nowadays. Bull is having a
long rest.
» * * •
The Gallymont, N.S.W. (a number of claims
taken over by a Bull co., whose operations are conducted
by the only Eissler), started its 40-stamp mill last week.
The plant was built by the Austral Otis co., of Victoria.
N.S.W. is becoming the home of big mills, none of which
are turned out in the province. Why ? Same with
boilers and compressing-plants—most come from Victoria.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin.— Your correspondent re that
co-operative society at White Cliffs does not put the case
correctly when he tells you that opal-getters are asked to
entrust their opal to private hands. They are asked to
export the opal themselves through a bank, and it is
valued and paid for in London before being given up by
the bank. He also omits to state that miners receive de-
posits at once. The only drawback is that the miners
seem to want field-value guaranteed, whereas it stands ta
reason that it would be more to their advantage to get
London market-value. In either case the miner receives
a percentage of final profit from the retailing of the opal.
—Carl O.
* • * •
It has just been discovered that one Broken Hill
mine, in the boom days thought to be in the first flight,
has been under suspension from labor conditions nearly
four years. And the biggest co. of all has been nursing
it. Let it be put to Minister Cook’s credit that he
promptly ended that scandal.
• » • *
How the old, even the moderately old, blasting
stuffs have been elbowed out! Into Vic. in ’s7 £21,000
worth of dynamite was imported ;in ’97, £874. But
from nil in ’B7 the importations of explosive gelatine have
gone to £51,406 in ’97. This exclusive of stuff brought in
for Govt. use.
Apropos the often-asserted inferiority of ex-
plosives taken to Broken Hill and the carelessness of
of miners in handling them. Mines Inspector Ilebbard,
of that district, has figured it out that only one accident,
due to the handling of explosives, occurred at Broken
Hill during ’97 ; yet 340,6561 b. of “ high ” explosives,
over 60,0001 b. of blasting-powder, and 343,275 detonators
were used. The number of detonators used indicates
pretty' nearly the number of explosions required iu break-
ing the ground.
* * • *
Broken Hill Labor M’sP. urge Govt, to see into
the feasibleness of building zinc-extraction works at that
place ; and the Govt, metallurgist will inquire. Down to
date the best that has been done with the zinc “ tailings”
is to either count them in with the mullock or sell them
for from ss. to 10s. per ton—for export in every instance
so far. Much of this stuff carries 30 per cent zinc (last
quotation for zinc, about £2O per ton) and 6oz. silver ; so
the £6 or £7 per ton that goes clear out of Australia is
worth struggling for. And if Govt, waits until a private
co. takes up the work—well, then, “ vested interests must
not be interfered with.”
* • * *
Junction North, which is alone among Aus-
tralian-managed silver-mining co’s in issuing only’ an
annual report, tripped into the 12 months just ended'with
the spryness of a fairy, but soon fell into the mud and
had eight or nine months of heavy going; still, it winds
up on the footpath with divs. not far ahead. It began
with a balance of £565, sold £35,728 worth of stuff, and
has £6221 to go on with, £4455 of which is cash. Of
course this is wretchedly poor by comparison with expec-
tations. Shareholders were led to suppose that they
were going to feed for years on the milk-and-honey of
divs. from friable ore—only, however, to find that this
material suddenly gave place to milling stuff, which
yields only bread-and-butter after much worrying. How-
ever, the mill is up and is running well, the mine’s ore is
still above the average, and moderate divs. from what is,
nevertheless, the trickiest nine along the line ought to be
certain for a good while.
The Junction North introduces what, on the
face of it, is a bad system, by r including among its liquid
assets the surpluses which it estimates will be received
over and above the amount actually paid for ore sold.
Estimates of what may possibly be received surely cannot
be fairly’ called liquid assets—in many cases, in fact, the
companies have had to refund moneys, the advances
having exceeded the amounts realised.
* * * •
B.H. Water Supply, which in 20 years will have
to yield up its works without compensation, is paying
only 10 per cent, on capital, and is not earning, beyond
that, more than enough to keep the works in fair order.
And now its monopoly is seriously threatened from two
sides. The local municipal council, realising that a
system which directly 7 serves less than 12 per cent, of the
houses is unsatisfactory, talks of projecting works of its
own ; while three or four of the mining companies are
determined to do something “ on their own ” unless the
water co. show’s more reason. Said that at the bottom of
the unyielding attitude of the co. to the mines is an ex-
Proprietary co. magnate who, having dropped out of the
mines, w’as given the cold-shoulder, and w ho now, holding
Water shares very heavily, breathes defiance.
• * * *
Fumes (pyroligneous gas, the reporters love to
call them) from the year-and-a-half-old fire in the B.H.
Prop, mine, have been scenting all Broken Hill again
lately.
* • * •
Avoca Reefs, N.S.W. : “ Reef here is now 2ft.
6in. wide, and showing a lot of gold.” An old mine under
a new name —the old Birthday, at Parkes, which got bad
fortune, perhaps, because it was so much tipped on the
holy Sabbath. May it have luck, an occasional crushing,
and not too many calls.
* * • •
The closing-down of a chrome mine in Gun-
dagai district, N.S.W., is attributed to a shipping ring.
Freight has gone from 10s. a ton to 305., and the rich
chrome of the mine is not rich enough for that, hence a
great industry, according to the local news-hummer, has
had to go to sleep.
« * * •
Ed. Bulletin. —Wardens’ decisions in labor-
suspension applications are often incomprehensible.
Darcy W r entworth mine, Lucknow (N.S.W.), asked for re-
duction of labor because there was not room in the work-
ings to employ all the men required by the Act. “ Appli-
cation granted—4o men to lie employed for six months.”
For another mine in the vicinity’, total suspension was
asked on the ground that the show’ w-as likely to be sold
in London, a cable having been received to that effect.
The application was opposed on the ground that the
owners had had a number of suspensions, but it was
granted all the same. The whole system of labor-condi-
tions needs revision. The ease with which local parties
who have shows under offer in London can get total sus-
pensions, and the trouble to get even partial suspensions
when the mines happen to be sold to Bull, grows a little
too noticeable in England.—Been There.
N.S.W. Govt, geologist Pittman, on the alluvial
of the Murray River flats “If I could only induce the
Minister for .Mines to visit Albury, and see for himself how
futile it is to suppose that the working of such expensive
country can be undertaken by men without considerable
means, the leasing difficulty and other hindrances would
soon be overcome.” Well, Joe Cook had better go and
try his hand at the business. Smith talked a heap, but
performed little. The proposal is to locate the lead by a
number of bores in the vicinity of Albury and VVodongaat
the joint expense of the Vic. and N.S.W. Govts. Alluvial
mining is receiving more attention in N.S.W.; and should
the M.L. system of river-dredging about to be tried by
Mr. Garland on the Macquarie River turn out a success,
we shall have a small boom in that direction. Mr. Pittman
quotes no less an authority than Chief Inspector Slee for
saying that payable gold can be got from practically the
whole of the N.S.W. rivers by means of dredging. Rab-
bits 1
* * * *
Albury, N.S.W. “A crushing of 25 tons from
the Lone Hand mine has given 83oz. gold. The tributors
were eight months getting out the stone.” The novelty
of such candor is quite refreshing. 25 tons —8 months ?
It must be a £-inch reef.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin.—A writer tells you that the
Gibraltar miners refused to accept Bs. a day. In justice
to the men, will you kindly let me contradict that state-
ment. The facts are as follows :—The men were asked by
the co’s late under-ground manager, who has also left
its emplo.y, if they' would accept Bs. as a compromise—if
so, he would make one of a deputation to wait on the
directors and ask them to accede, but, as the offer did not
come from the directors, the men declined to entertain it.
No offer of any' sort has come from the directors, except
that the men could go to work till Ist October, provided
the strike was declared off and they agreed to accept the
reductions on that date. As this bound the men not to
resist, they very wisely rejected the offer. As to the
Captain’s Flat men, we do not think that any of them
will come here to take the places of men who are out
fighting a battle which is theirs as much as our own.—
Max Leslie, Sec. Strike Committee.
» * * •
“ Miner ” to The Bulletin from Watsonville,
Q. : —Fourteen mines here have produced tin to the value
of £200,000 gross (as per mills records). The deepest of
these, Stewart’s T. claim, is down 400 ft. Considering
their depth, the fabulous richness of these “pot-holes”
quite justifies further development. The lodes are not
lost. Southern capitalists languish for investments, yet
they rush past here to Chillagoe, and sink their bit in
wild-cat affairs with no sign of permanency' or dividends.
Stewart’s T. claim was discovered in the early eighties,
and has worked continuously ever since ; yet it is still
operated with a windlass. It has employed on an average
five men, who have raised 100 tons black tin, gross value,
£34,400. The lode in the sink is still large, and shows no
sign of cutting, and the rich ore no sign of growing poor.
How about this mine, which is a fair sample of the others?
Developments already completed, permanency beyond
doubt, and the undeniable fact that tin is going to see its
original price.
* • * •
Editor Bulletin.—Mr. “Randolph Bedford”
seems terribly anxious to prop up Chillagoe boom. He
should remember that success in mining is achieved in
proving the richness of a particular field, and not in con-
demning others. He speaks in a light and air.v manner of
a co. registered in London with a capital of £500,000,
having for its object the development of copper-mines at
Keelbottom—together with the smelting, refining and
manufacturing of copper. He suggests that it is not
necessarily floated. Whence the foundation for this
statement ? Has he ever seen a prospectus of the co. ?
If not, how is he entitled to an opinion ? “S. V.1t.,”
whom I do not know, can doubtless take care of himself—
but as he apparently knows Keelbottom—whilst Randolph
has probably never seen it, his attempt to prove its value
is justified even in comparison to what is now known of
Chillagoe. Let me advise Mr. Bedford to look after his
own baby (it may require many feeding-bottles) and leave
Keelbottom to look after itself. In my humble opinion—
and judging by what 1 have seen—there is more chance of
a copper-ship being built at Keelbottom and floated
through a canal to Townsville, than of the evidently-
coveted warrior’s helmet made of Chillagoe copper,
adorning “Randolph’s” pate. Elijah’s mantle has not
fallen upon “ Randolph”—until he can wear it, he would
be well-advised to play less with the ink-pot and more
with common-sense.— Briton.
* • • •
Ed. Bulletin. — May I invite you to become a
member of the Society for Being Rather Tired of Ran-
dolph Bedford and his Critics?—on the ground that we
have had enough skite for and against Chillagoe for the
present, and are content to let the field talk. —Yours,
Secretary 5.8.R.T.R.8.
» * * *
Eleven tons Ificwt. of stone from Gains and
Webb’s mine at Munburra, near Cooktown, yielded 2210 z.
gold.
• * * *
Croydon items : Waratah co.’s extensive works
at Tabletop are approaching completion. Ten head of
stampers are prospecting immense bodies of low-grade
ores, and a big thing for Bull is likely to eventuate.
Harry Davis, manager, is shortly going ’Ome to tell the
British public what a valuable property he has acquired
for them. Sale of Roger’s No. 1 Golden Gate still hangs
fire. Bull doesn’t seem too anxious to bite. Heavily-
charged mundic stone struck at No. 1 North Grace Leigh,
Golden Valley. Sinking now proceeding at Iguana
(Ophir) Block to disprove Jack’s slide-theory hy' means of
local money, pluck, and enterprise—and it may turn out
stupidity. Jack induced Mines Department to refuse sub-
sidy assistance in order to uphold his theory. But what
is the good of having a theory unless you believe in it
right out ? Various mines on Golden Gate line show
excellent prospects. No. 7 North will be soon cleaning
up about 500 tons for a record .yield and corresponding
div. Croydon miners jubilant at defeat of land-
grabbers by shelving of Normanton-Cloncurry railway
private enterprise proposals. “ Wait and see how the
Chillagoe concessions work,” said Tomjoe Byrnes. By
that time Croydon hopes to have State railway communi-
cation with the Eastern seaboard, via Georgetown.
• • * •
Mt. Morgan, month, 17,353 tons of ore and 926
tons of tailings for 13,7950 z. Shares over £5.
* • * m
Vesuvius, Charters Towers. After six years of
plucky call-paying, this Melb. crowd has struck a forma-
tion iBin. thick, assaying over an oz. per ton —supposed
to be the Victoria and Queen reef.
**• » *
The unwatering of the old Peak Downs copper-
mine (Q.) is going on apace, and there is much trouble on
account of the amount of copper in solution ; it is ex-
pected that some 20 tons of metal will be recovered in
this form. The heyday of this mine was about a quarter-
century' ago. Worked to 275 ft. and about a mile in
length. Generally' admitted that work ceased, not because
the ore bodies gave out, but because the carbonates were
exhausted and the sulphides came in. If so, with a rail-
way near and cheap coal, the old mine should make an-
other and better name for itself.
» * * *
Tas. Government, in response to a West Coast
agitation and a big deputation, has promised to advance
£60,000 for the deepening of Macquarie Harbor bar. A
harbor trust is to be formed to boss the show, and the
total Govt, revenue from the West Coast districts is to be
chargeable with the 3 per cent, interest, and the estab-
lishment of a sinking fund. Of course this simply
amounts to paying the cost of the works out of general
revenue, the provisoes being only Inserted to give the
simple West Coasters a show of responsibility in the
matter. But, all the same, for the Govt, to have under-
taken the removal of the bar is about the only good thing
that has happened to Tasmania during the present cen-
tury.
* • • •
Tas. Government Geologist’s report on the West
Coast silver and copper shows is not encouraging ; but it
serves to illustrate the entire faith put by the public in
the bush mining expert. The Cutty Sark, “ a mountain
of ore,” is mentioned as “ worth prospecting.” The Rose-
bery group, on the same authority, is composed chiefly of
zinc, and most of the other finds are casually touched on.
In each case when the official chipped off assays the result
was shockingly poor, but he doesn't forget to mention,
every time, that he had “ heard ” much richer assays were
made from “ that spot.” The worst thing about it (for
the public) is, that no reliable man is sent to report on
wild cats until after it is all over. The sections are found,
reported (to the press), pegged, floated, boomed, and
burst up ; and just when the shares are at bottom value,
and most of the shows closed down “ waiting for the rail-
way,” the Govt, expert calmly assures the ruined specu-
lators that there was no cause for excitement.. Then the
army of boomers shoulder arms and march on to a fresh
field. Probably Mount Darwin will be the next panic.
* * * *
Bendigo divs. for last week .£15,000, Garden
Gully United contributing over £lO,OOO. The other con-
tributors—Great Southern, Koch’s Pioneer, and New
Moon—are on the Garden Gully line. The G.G.U. has
taken a new lease of div.-life, if the yarns about the extent
of the new find are correct, and they generally are, coining
from Bendigo. Early last year M’Tear, the South African
cyanide-expert, could have had the Great Southern for
£37,000, and it has since paid more than that amount in
divs. Some men, whose opinion is worth having, regard
the New Moon as the most permanent-looking mine on
Bendigo. Hitherto its divs. have come from spurs, and
the idea is that the saddle-formations have not been
reached.
* * • •
Some Vic. mining co. registers are strange
mixtures —English, German, and Chinese names pre-
dominating. A Castiemaine “show,” the Spring Gully,
which has just paid its first div. for very many years, has
such a cosmopolitan proprietary; “Jimmy” Lamsey,
doctor and speculator, and at this moment, probably Vic.’B
wealthiest Chow, has the biggest yellow interest.
* * • *
The Macarthur-Forrest people, after fighting to
the death in the Transvaal, England, and Maoriland, are
now trying to get their cyanide specifications amended in
Victoria. The Commissioner of Patents decided against
them, and has been upheld by the Attorney-General, from
whose decision an appeal is now being heard in a long-
winded case before Judge Holroyd.
• * • *
Westralian gold production for Ang., 59,3950 z.,
next to the record month. Kalgoorlie, of course, con-
tributed the lion s share, but a lot of it came from outside
fields, several of which are not regular producers, there-
fore it is reasonable to assume that this month’s return
will not be so large. How solidly progressive Westralia
would he to-day but for the awful “ wild cat ” boom, from
the effects of which it is writhing ! The world has never
seen so many gold-mines in so small a space as that
including, the big producers of Kalgoorlie the Lake
View, with its 10,000 oz. a month ; the Great Boulder,
between 6000 and 7000 oz. ; the Associated, with an average
of about 50000 z., and arrangements well on the way to
more than double it. The Ivanhoe produced 56000 z. last
month, and looks like keeping it up. The Brown Hill is
the other big producer, while the Golden Horseshoe and
Kalgurli can be regarded as coming certainties as soon as
their plants are ready.
• * • *
Great Boulder for fortnight—lB2o tons, 33390 z.
To date, 75,885 tons, 219,5710 z., or about 6f tons of gold.
And it was floated as—well, never mind. A good mine
works like charity.
• • • *
The man sent by Adelaide shareholders to in-
vestigate the Boulder milling contract wires from Kal-
goorlie that, after interviewing the manager and the
patentee, he found the position much improved, and
hoped to be able to satisfy shareholders on his return.
Have the terms of the contract been altered? If not,
there is no gainsaying that the contract is a much better
thing for the milling co. than lor Boulder shareholders.
» * * *
Burbank’s, Coolgardie—93o tons, 12280 z. To
date, 15,305 tons for 30,8140 z. A good, well-managed
mine which stands alone. Not much shakes in the opinion
of many men who saw it in the early days. Reefs and
gold became more permanent in depth, and improvement
general by development.
» * « •
Lady Shenton, Menzies, "W.A. Profit on the
year’s work, £36,413 ; £24,000 paid in divs. and £6600
written .off in depreciation. This was the first mine found
there and is by far the best. Curious how often this
happens. The finder was Menzies. When there was not
a hole three feet deep in the reef gold could be got for
such a length on it that Bratnober, who had declined all
the white-quartz mines for hundreds of miles round, made
for the show a sporting offer which was declined.
» • * »
“Tickler”: Just been down Lady Shenton.
Three years' work in sight., crushing every day with 20-
head battery ; mine looking tip-top. Slugs from sdwt. to
16oz. lately found in pug alongside reef ; gold in diorite,
which also holds arsenical pyrites and galena. They are
also prospecting on outcrop of another reef running
parallel to the main, and getting good specimens. The
Lady Florence, adjoining, threatens to be an equally good
claim. Menzies district just now is very sound and look-
ing up. Mt. Leonora, Niagara, Mt. Ida, and Muliine are
likely to feed it. The railway seems to have given all an
impetus. L. R. Menzies, of Menzies’ Barossa fame, is now
prospecting with camels out back from his old field. D.
Doolette, one time of Northmore and Doolette, of Niagara
celebrity, has dropped back to prospecting also. North-
more has the sense to keep in London long enough to
give his silk hat an airing.
* * * •
Again alluvial diggers are practically in posses-
sion of the Ivanhoe Venture lease. Several claims are
said to have got on to rich gold and washed lOOoz. from
a small quantity of stuff. Other dirt has been bagged and
removed, and men are charged with stealing ore. Alto-
gether, a nice kettle of fish arising from the anomaly of
having a dual title to the same land. This trouble will
never end till the absurdity is removed.
* * * »
Murchison (W.A.) people begin to kick against
wholesale exemptions, so far recommended on the
smallest provocation. A specimen case is that of the
Princess Royal, just hung up for three months. Regis-
tered in the name of the W.A. Gold Concessions, Ltd., it
has yielded 5011 oz. from 5795 tons, returning £19,300 ;
expenses have recently been paid out of gold won. But a
row starts between the Concessions co. and the Princess
Royal co., which in ’95 bought the leases (four of them),
former claiming £5500 in re alleged advances ; and, pre-
sumably to suit the London directors’ book, funds are
stopped and the mine is shut down. Good stone showing,
scores of men anxious for work—but exemption recom-
mended to allow ol a settlement of the litigation in
London.
* • * *
The alleged Kanowna 1001 b. nugget, christened
the “ Sacred Slug,” was still a mystery at date of writing
from the field. After the big rush ’for the alleged (by
Father Long) locality, and the public found they were
fooled, a lot of talkee-talkee eventuated. The priest was
to be chopped into small bits and distributed around, and
a lot more harrowing things. Mostly the thing is
regarded as a hoax ; others say the Padre is keeping the
nugget for the coining K.O. bazaar, and there will show it
at half-a-orown a time. Others, again, associate with it a
recent corpse. By the way, one Sydney paper had it
that the nugget was found by two fishermen. Fisher-
men on a salt lake 1 Ha, ha 1
• * • •
Tho most popular theory rc the Mrs. Harris
nugget (in daily journalism, the Sickle or Sacred nugget)
has had a hole knocked in it in Kanowna Warden’s Court.
It had been suggested that a party of six, mostly chris-
tened Michael or Timothy, had quarrelled, and that the
priest had been approached to settle a dispute as to the
ownership of the speck in a Christian spirit. Anyhow,
one of them, who had paid visits to Father Long, applied
for. an injunction against his ex-mates; but, when the
opportunity was jumped at by warden and solicitor, a
disappointed crowd heard on cath that the biggest find
made had been a 240 z. slug.
• » • •
Twenty head of stamps were lately erected on
a Westralian mine, and alcohol flowed like water at the
christening. A run of 000 tons was put through for les3
than a total of one ounce of gold. The directors will
blame the experts and manager. The experts blame the
assayer, the manager blames the mill-foreman, who in
turn blames the underground boss. The miner—well,
you can imagine what he savs about the whole crew.
• • • •
“Kink,” from Kanowna, W.A. : —“ There is a
great dissimilarity between anything found here and the
famous * banket ’ formations of the Transvaal. The
cement here can only he described as consolidated aurif-
erous gravel, comparatively easy to disintegrate in most
cases, hut sometimes extremely hard : the gold, water-
worn more or less, being contemporaneous with the
pebbles forming deposit. Now, at the Witwatersrand, and
other places in S. Africa, ‘banket’ formations are pro-
perly called conglomerates— i.e., solid rock composed of
waterworn pebbles cemented together, hard as diorite.
The gold is invisible, having been deposited either in
solution or vapor. However, the conglomerate along the
Mossman River, N.Q., between the Laura and Maytown,
has visible gold in it; any invisible gold has, so far, never
been tried for.”
* • • •
Queensland Menzies (W. A.) :—95 tons, 3700 z.
llow well the average grade keeps up ! But the little ton-
nage indicates a small vein, hard ground, and a short
gold-run.
• • « •
Dear Bulletin. —What price a Usury Bill for
N.S. W. 1 My wife has some money on the way out from
England. Waxing impatient, she meandered out “on her
own ”to borrow a few pounds. Called on advertising
shark who asked her to call again, when he introduced
her to shark No. 2. She got £2O cash, for which she gave
a security for £3O, repayable in one month !—6OO per cent,
per annum for a loan absolutely without risk. One of the
harpies said he would not like to see her “fritter” it
away. “ F'ritter ” is hardly the word for this sort of
tiling, is it?—A.W.
« • * *
N.S.W. Postal authorities have no fixed rule
about delivery of correspondence addressed to two or
more different names. Officials therefore follow their
own notions in this matter, so that the inquirer who has
his correspondence directed to him under several names
may find his queries answered one day, and he the next
informed that he has only one name —anything else being
an alias. The use of various surnames in “ to-be-called-
for” correspondence is certainly objectionable; and, in
the matter of forwarded letters, though occasional use of
an alias is a trifling matter, yet, when a Government
dept, undertakes to forward all letters addressed to
“Jones,” and also to his aliases, “ Vincent,” “Spencer,”
“Henry De Vere,” etc., it is indirectly playing into the
hands of the “ confidence ’’-man and spieler.
* * • •
When the long-talked-of Savings Banks Amal-
gamation Bill conies up for discussion in N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, attention should be drawn to the indecency of
certain members taking partin the debate. The amal-
gamation is to he the first step to the establishment of a
State Bank, and members holding office as directors of
private hanks, or weighed down with millstone overdrafts
from private banks, should leave the slaughter of the
proposal to less visibly self-interested opponents.
* * • »
The Cootamundra bench states a hair-splitting
case for adjudication by N.S.W. Supreme Court. In effect
the bench decided that a publican who spends 18 out of
24 hours on his licensed premises does not live on the
premises, and thereby fails to comply with the law. The
S.C. will go learnedly into the mat ter.
• • • •
The friendly little arrangement so frequent
under Vic. deeds of assignment has been knocked on the
head—the Court’s arrogation of the right of examination
of all parties concerned, as in an ordinary insolvency,
with the advertising schedule. Another set-back to a
safe and secret method of whitewash.
* * * *
Somebody protests, in a letter to the Argus,
that the mining departments of Vic. and N.S.W. use the
word “ chute ” incorrectly when they apply it to “the
concentration of ore along a certain line in the vein or
reef.” In its early Hinglish days “ chute ” (French) was
purely a weavers’ word, identical in meaning with weft.
The chute fell across the wrap in a piece of silk. Vul-
garised into “ shoot ” it gave the name to shot-silk, which
has a warp of one color and a weft of another. Tim Bul-
letin, after due consideration, will still permit the mining
departments to employ the words chute and shoot indis-
criminately. A quartz-reef may be chuted with gold.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin.—l desire an explanation of the
difference in the shapes of miners’ picks on several Aus-
tralasian goldfields. At the Thames (M.L.) the miners
tinkered their Collins picks into a shape resembling the
bottom line of a £—the handle being at a right angle
with the line of the hammer end. At Ballarat the pick-
head is a straight line with a slight bend at the point, but
the handle is not at right angles with the iron. At the
Thames, too, there was an idiosyncrasy as to handles.
The miners there disdained,to use the imported American
hickory handles, preferring a handle roughly spokeshaved
out of local manuka. I never knew diggers to be “ fin-
nicky ” about their shovels, gads, or drills ; why, then,
should there be local fashions in picks ?—Tim.
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUKG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUTKR OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
It. BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
Aus. | PHILIPS & PIKE,
Reps, t Equitable Buildings, Svdney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
“TbcRCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whiskv.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
The 10-head battery at the Beacon Gold Mine,
Bucoa Creek, N.S.W., ran continuously for 13 months
without a stop, and has now put through 10,500 tons ore,
and only had one short stoppage for overhaul. This bat-
tery was manufactured and erected by the Austral Otis
Engineering co., of South Melbourne, who are well-
known makers of all kinds of mining and other machin-
ery. They have lately purchased the plant and
st ock of the long - established firm of Langlands
Foundry co., now in liquidation, and, as they
have all the patterns, can supply duplicate parts of any
machines made by Langlands.*
* * * •
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * ■ *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MKTt CIIA NTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney, JO-
- LARGE STOCKS OP ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining* Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Lit harge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavinjrs, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining: Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mblbourkk ;
11 But-eU, Sydney ; 68 Currie*t., Adel. ; Queen*t., Brink


Society
The K.C. Church has satisfied its con-
science as regards James Crotty’s widow by
Tealonl n f t 0 n 7 16r £s ,°° a year ’ uncondi tionally.
Jealous Jim C. bequeathed the lady £lOO a year
to be increased to £5OO if she would bury 'her-
self among the nuns. The Church will allow her
the nun s income without insisting upon the nunb
* * * *
It is good for A ustral ian-Go vernors to take
a trip Otne and forget some of their Antipodean
greatness Take the case of Lord Brassey A
tnddW ri prev f lous to u hi * having Melbourne he
o i f S, Jh lrb u an municipal banquet
hinWg t . h ®. local loyalists how pleased he was to
t hmk that his presence would “ add lustre ” to the
T \ S I 1 6"? old f? en t felt himself every
T lc ’ a king at that time. And now we read in a
Comm,, newspaper the casual news item that
S r Mn;lh WaS SU , m ™ oned (by the County Council),
his^kftnh 0 ° U if- h ’ Street Polme-court, for permitting
Ins kitchen-chimney to be on fire. “ His lordship
d " Wlt iV 2s - CO t s '” When be Fets back
to Melbourne and hears the band play, and finds
f 7 m the,r 7 afcs eve,, y time he enters
a theatre on the never, lie will hardly know
' l ' r “ S(i f f f ° r the Sa .“° Brasse .y who got proceeded
feJKSasT"* ” oot to * oo " m " ute ™ i-k
*
£5O reward is offered by N.S. W. Govt, for
information leading to the conviction of the per-
-7°o n o° r 51>o OnS W !i° P ois oned nine pumas at Sydney
wZ +Af a 7 l ? offer ed for information lead-
ing to the conviction of the person or persons
who murdered an infant at North Goufburn-
and people are making a noise about the differ-
THE AUSTRALIAN IN LONDON.
“ Why do they call this Rotten Row? ”
“ Oh! because, of the riding, I suppose! ”
ence. Well, in N.S.W. small, pink babies are
much more plentiful than big, black cats. In a
T reetrade country the law of supply and demand
must be allowed to operate.
• • * *
The unpretentious missus of a lately-
knighted up-South newspaper editor-proprietor
opened a Sunday-school bazaar the other day.
And, ye gods ! the boss’s papers printed a verba-
tim report of the lady’s platitudes.
* * * *
There is great outcry in Adelaide because
Mayor Tucker has not announced that he will ab-
stain from running for the position a fifth time,
i he Mayor is ex-officio a member of the Hospital
Board, and, as chairman, Mayor Tucker did great
work in re-establishing that institution when it
was disorganised by the medical strike. Hence
lory anxiety to displace him from the Mayoralty.
Adelaide doctors, by the way, recently tried to
establish a “ People’s Hospital,” but the attempt
signally failed ; meanwhile, Adelaide Hospital is
overflowing.
* * * *
On June 30, ’97, there were on N.S.W.
police pension-list 4 superintendents, 6 inspectors,
10 sub ; inspectors, 1 acting-sub., 15 senior-ser-
geants, 21 sergeants, 41 senior-constables, and G 7
constables. Ten widows of policemen were draw-
ing pensions, at the top whereof was £75 to the
widow of Sergt. Beatty, killed at Penrith by an
Indian hawker. Mrs. Mitchell, whose husband
was killed at Coonamble by Angel and Thurston
—afterwards shot I>y police—gets .£5O. Mrs. Cod-
rington, whose husband was shot at Wyagdon an
unpunished crime—gets £lB ss. ; while Mrs.
Nelson, whose husband was shot, in cold blood, by
John Dunn, at Collector, in 1865, gets the princely
sum of £l5 per annum. Ten widows and mothers
in 1897 got gratuities from £4OB 6s. Bd. to £3l 10s.
The Knights of Leperland—Coolies. The
Earls Chows. The Dukes—Japs. Yet scoffers
say that Australia has no aristocracy
In Maoriland, by a strange survival of a
strange aboriginal British law, a woman has no
redress in case ot slander unless she can prove an
actual cash injury-damage to her feelings or her
reputation doesn’t count. The Maoriland male
can get redress for his wrongfully-injured feelings
or repute, but the lady of his species can’t. Par-
liament now proposes to put both sexes on the
same footing- though whv it slmuMn't have done
so before in Woman Suffrage Land
passes comprehension.
SHE SAT CORRECTED.
STYLISH FEMALE (to draper): "Please show me
some black lady's stockings."
DRAPER: “ Certainly; for a kanaka or gin ? There
is a difference in size. ”
S. F.: “(Neither, sir; they arc for myself !”
D.: “Oh, beg pardon — ladies' black stockings."
Why do the people of Auckland, M.L.,
want a naval station at their port? About a
year or, in fact, two or three months less
than that—after the last visit of H.M.S.
Nelson to Auckland, the secretary to the
Charitable Aid Board reported that in four
weeks 37 very improper babies had drawn the
breath of life at their lying-in home, the fathers
of which were stated to be members of the crew
of the warship. It was reported from other
sources that the population of the Corinth of the
South had been increased by about 100 through
that one visit of the Nelson. Now, if the whole
squadron goes to the Maoriland city and remains
there for a month or two
* * * *
“ Moonbi ” to The Bulletin :
. In your issue 27/8/98 (re sketch of Rabbi Davis’ life) it
is mentioned that 36 years ago William-street, Sydney
was called the “ bush,” and that five-corners were
gathered there by sons of the rev. gentleman. This
statement is erroneous, as the nearest “bush” to Wil-
liam-street at that period was “ Macleay’s bush,” better
known now as Roslyn Gardens, and five-corners were not
to be had, excepting a few grown in private gardens on the
Macleay estate.
* * * •
“ Bunsgrove ” : Rabbi Davis says that
when he came to Sydney 30 years ago William-
street was bush, wherein his boys used to gather
nvecorners. I remember Woolloomooloo long
before that, and besides two historic gum-trees in
Rdey and Palmer-streets, I can recall no evi-
dence of the locality having been “ bush ” at any
time. William-street started with a house-
corner of Yurong-street— to which Gov. Fifczroy
used to retire to ease the cares of office. And the
str j* e t—then nearly as full of houses as now—
J°hn Tate’s residence on one side, and
the 1 our Roads pub. on the other. The Rabbi is
figurative.
* * * *
Two petitions, one from the jurymen en-
gaged on the case and another from the residents
of Dubbo, praying for a remission of Judge
Dockers cruel sentence on the girl, now
await the consideration of Justice Minister Lee.
Mr. Lee has yet to prove the quality and quantity
ot his brains as a Minister, and so the upshot may
be satisfactory or the reverse. Therefore, instead
of taking risks, the public should insist on the
sentencing power being given to juries.
* * • f
The W.A. meat-ring, taking advantage of
the promised reduction of the tariff, now wants to
raise the price of meat—to “publicans and
restaurant-keepers only,” says the butcher—and
points out to the unsophisticated miner that “It
won’t affect you.’ - The miner replies “Rats!”
course, hotelkeepers are stirring up the
crowd. Although the public are indignant at the
proposed rise, they scoff much at Bung, who still
charges Is. per glass for spirits. Four years ago
freight was =£4o to £BO per ton ; to-day freight is
<£4 ss. 7d. per ton, yet the price of grog hasn’t
changed.
* * * *
Fremantle (W.A.) Board of Health was
recently assured by several vendors of alleged
milk that, if the Board insisted on the supply of
the pure article, business would have to go bung.
The charming candor of the confession appeared to
enlist the sympathies of one member of the Board,
who thought it was rather harsh not to allow
dairymen to put a little water in their milk. He
knew that in the other colonies they were allowed
to dilute the milk with a percentage of water.”
The gentleman forgot to explain, however, why,
if the milk-perverter can’t make an honest living
at one business he shouldn’t, like other people, have
to try something else—or go duly to chokey !
From memo.-heading of Coolgardie Indian
shopkeeper Speciality in silk goods is un-
speakable. The cheapness of this shop is well
talked and matchless.”
* * *
“ M‘G.” : “ Timi ” repeats the oft-quoted
assertion that a third-generation white Indian
does not exist.
I know one, at
any rate —Detec-
tive Potter of
the Melb. C.I.
branch, born in
Bombay, where
his two parents
and four grand-
parents all first
saw the light.
Potter isn ’ t a
weedy individual
either, as the
fact of his pass-
ing the police
test proves. In
an English ma-
gazine of 80 years
back, I remem-
ber reading that
same thing about
Australia, the wri-
ter contending
that the popula-
tion of this country
would need replenishing
at intervals, as it was im-
possible that white people could
be fruitful in such a climate. Yet
what do we find ? A top-notch birth-
rate and two columns of “ regularity -
restoration ” advts. in almost any paper
you pick up. Experience shows that
whites can live, work, and propagate in
any climate better than colored races,
even those native to the soil.
• * • *
Ashfield, a Sydney suburb, has its
78 miles of streets looked after noctur-
nally by five policemen !—about 16 miles to a
beat. And the enterprising burglar has appa-
rently made a note of it.
• * . *
Herodias : Where do the Australian im-
pressionist alleged artists see in nature those
wondrous masses of blue-and-yellow ? It is in-
deed pitiful to see the little blue-and-yellow Aus-
tralian artist fleas piling themselves year after
year upon the basks of the bigger blue-and-yellow
artist fleas it is pitiful because it means that in
the long run not one out of forty of the cult will
ever be able to earn a living. Who on earth
wants to live under the same roof with the bilious
nightmares now being turned out by the hundred
in the name of Australian art ? The public vision
is sane—the vision of these so-called artists is
utterly insane. These men are surely drunk on
Art ’—they see blue and yellow snakes crawl
out of their boots.
* » * »
As a result of the operation - for - abor-
tion cases, the authorities are likely to find
themselves in a strange position before long,
roll owed to a logical conclusion, a curious com-
plication results. For. now, advertising by such
professors must cease, and as most of then-
patients are not simple girls in trouble, but
married women unwilling to increase their families,
it follows that the number of operations by women
on themselves win greatly increase, and the number
of deaths will proportionately do ditto. Now
there is no power on earth to compel women to
bear children, nor to stop their self-operations if
they feel that way ; consequently, the authorities
must either revert to the old (present) bad system,
or legalise this class of operation by duly-qualified
surgeons. v\ here is any other alternative—except
the acquirement by women of common-sense?
* • » *
The Wallace family boil, which has come
to a head at Melb. law courts, is interesting even
in a political sense. Old Johnny Wallace is the
typical batman, with a name for profound shrewd-
ness, capacity, “hard commen-
sense, and all the other fatmanly virtues. Natu-
;-( ll jy \ be holds a seat in Vic. Legislative Council.
Toryism has ever regarded him as one of the
sohdest bulwarks of the State. A developer of
the country’s resources ; a man to be “followed ”
JT [speculations; a Napoleon among capitalists.
Ihe Family’s case against old man Wa lace
is briefly that, by the will of Tommy Mona-
han, his father-in-law, he was appointed trus-
tee for an estate of .£900,000, none of which
was bequeathed to him personally. The property
bar some £40,000 worth, was to be invested by
him in Govt, stock, or in first mortgages on real
estate, for the sole benefit of his children who
now, rightly or wrongly, allege that their master-
ful parent, Wallace, M.L.0., has departed from
the terms of his trusteeship, and made bad invest-
!° SS UP tf> dafce of about
«£z(X),000 of grandfather s money.
*•* ' *
Be the case of Wallace v. Wallace : the
young Wallace for whom “Old Johnny” paid
surgeon O’Hara a £tooo-fee for amputating a leg.
is not a plaintiff, as he died of consumption
at Quat Quatte station, near Gorowa (N.S.W )
several years ago. The whole story of the Wallace
fortunes is a sad one. The family inherit a ten-
dency to consumption from their mother’s side
and two sons, prospective heirs to enormous
wealth, have died of that fell disease. P'ere Wal-
lace’s second marriage to the daughter of H R
Reid, M.L.C., a few years ago, did not tend to
improve the domestic relations between him and
THE TELL-TALE BLOUSE.
Every Sunday prim and pious little Gwynnie
Trips to chapel full of sweet devotedness,
To receive the good advice of Father Denny,
And her dainty little sinlets to confess.
But the modest little maid forgets precaution,
For her neatly-done-up blouse all creased and flat
Tells a naughty little tell-tale of devotion
In another—Cupid’s—temple with young Pat!
N.Q.
K.H.
O TIME, MY FOE.
You are my foe, O Time, you are my foe ! .
When you but din my sorrows all the day,
Your lagging footsteps slower, slower go.
It is not that you love to linger. Nay !
You are my foe
Since desolate, since desolate you stay.
You are my foe, O Time ! you are my foe
When clear skies circle joy, and hold no sigh
Save of the winds, the Sybarites, that blow
Murmuring at the leaves ; and Love is nigh.
You are my foe
In happiness, such happiness, to fly.
O Time, my foe !
Vic.
LEONIDAS.
d
ORIENT
N CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. )
SYDNEY.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
TJae Famous French
Chocolate.
CHOCfICITHiJIEg
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
Wm. Cameron <£• Co.,
249 George-st., Sydti


his family, and, combined with the dissatisfaction
shown by the latter (or some of them) at the
management of the estate of millionaire Monahan
by the father, has doubtless led up to the present
“split.” Perhaps no greater exemplification of
the envious man’s theory that “ wealth does not
always bring happiness ” can be found than in the
affairs of the Wallace family.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Phenomenon described
by “F.P.” (8., 27/8/’9B) was not a lunar-rainbow
proper, but merely an extra-brilliant halo. The
true moon-rainbow shows no prismatic tints, but
shades from dazzling-white to silvery-grey, and is
seen as an arc of a circle on the opposite side of the
sky to the moon, the arc being, as in case of solar-
rainbow, large or small, according to the height of
the luminary.—S. [The true lunar-rainbow does
occasionally, as already recorded in Bulletin,
faintly indicate the spectrum tints.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
A railway ticket-collector, at North Melb.
the other night, found one passenger apparently
asleep in the corner, and utterly oblivious to ver-
bal requests. Then the collector shook him, and
found that he had gone on a long journey, and
that Peter had collected his ticket at the golden
barrier nearly an hour previously. So quietly had
the unfortunate consumptive given up the ghost
that six people had unwittingly travelled all the
way from Bendigo with a corpse.
* ♦ * •
“ M.Gr.” on a social grievance :
Dear Bulletin. —The trail of the W.C.T.U. is strongly
over one M 'll), paper, which loses no opportunity of
“ showing up” any unfortunate girl whose lapse from
virtue has directly or indirectly been revealed in evidence
at a police or coroner’s court. In neither of the morning
journals is the name of an unmarried mother or female
abortion-witness published unless a verdict of infanticide
r suits in the one case or the witness be a police “ fizz ”
in the other ; but, despite the fact that the police thein-
s 'lves have definite instructions not to drag the names of
the mothers into oases unless there are suspicious circs.,
the paper to which I allude seems to take a delight in
trumpeting forth the minutest particulars of pitiful cases
of unmarried motherhood. Recently the trouble of a
girl of 18 was the subject of enquiry at the morgue ;
hut, although there was not the slightest suspicion of
foul play, that kind paper devoted half-a-column to the
matter, giving names, addresses and occupations of the
girl’s relatives, with the result that the whole family will
have to leave a locality where they have lived for years.
A couple of years hack the paper, in a similar outburst
of virtue, published the names of two girls whose
ch istity was aspersed during a police-court case. Shortly
afterwards the girls swallowed strychnine together, and
were only saved by severe stomach-pumping.
» * * *
As a set-off to the Vic. Scottish Volunteers
in their kilts of new-fangled tartan, old man
Fitz Gibbon may as well raise a Vie. Irish brigade
from the employes of the Melb. Met. Board of
Works, and charge it on the rates. Melb. City
Council, too, could put a host of Sons of Erin into
the field. Out of 36 drivers (employed by Mitchall
and Sons, contractors), who recently petitioned
the Melbourne fathers for an advance in wages,
no less than 25 had unmistakably-Irish names.
• » * *
Rules for the new Melb. Scottish volun-
teers : No person is qualified to join the clan unless
he was born in Scotland, or is of Scottish descent,
and is between the ages of 18 and 35, but the age
limit is extended to 45 for Scottish persons who
may have carried arms in any previous warlike
capacity. Even an ex-marine will pass muster if
his name begins with Mac. The “Scottish
descent ” clause looks somewhat vague and uncer-
tain, however. Take the possible case of a young
Muldoon, whose mother is partly Scotch, on the
paternal side. Will he have enough “descent ”to
put him into a kilt?
Unique case of maternal impression (T. W.
Pairman, L.R.C.P., of M.L.), in Australasian
Medical Gazette (20/8/98)
During her seventh pregnancy, Mrs. M. had residing in
her house a gentleman boarder, who was devoid of the
left thumb. Her husband, again, had necrosis of the
right thumb, which ultimately necessitated partial ampu-
tation. The deformities of the two men were often dis-
cussed in the family circle. The child was born minus
the left thumb, and the right was atrophied, incapable of
movement, and lyinsr almost parallel with the fingers.
The rest of the family were normal.
THE WORM TURNED .
THE BEAT: “’ Sense me, sorr, but could
yer spare a few coppers to get me a meal? ”
“Aw, ’twould suit you bettah to ask for
mannahs.”
THE BEAT: “ Well, I asked for what I
thought you had most of, sorr.”
Tas. Parliament was lately exercised over
two female employes in the post and telegraph
service. The ladies were in the same office, and
the superior noticed something which convinced
her that her subordinate was “ no better than she
ought to be.” The observation of other officers
confirmed the suspicions. A report to the depart-
ment followed instanter, and Government re-
ferred the matter to a medical officer, who
reported that the “something” was absolutely
“ nothing.” For the imputation on the character
of her fellow civil servant the “superior” lady
was discharged. Her Parliamentary friends de-
manded a select committee to hold an exhaustive
enquiry into the trouble, and feeling ran so high
that the motion was only defeated, after miles of
talk, by one vote. The disputants now propose
going to law ; funds are being collected on behalf
of both females to that end, and the bad old men
and good young women of Tas. gleefully await a
blast of scandal.
• * * *
When an admittedly semi-imbecile person
was charged at a Vic. country police-court, the
other day, with indecent behaviour, one of the
magistrates, it is alleged, declared “ that people
afflicted with weakness of intellect required a flog-
ging the most, and that if he had his way he would
impose the maximum allowance of gaol and lash.”
Also, he took part in prescribing a lashing in this
particular case. In face of the fact that this
gentleman is a doctor, The Bulletin is com-
pelled to believe either that he was incorrectly
reported or that his own intellect requires a little
of his own prescription.
* * * *
A Fremantle (W.A.) parson struck an
original pulpit -advt. lately. He got 50 self-
righteous sneaks of his flock to watch, one Sab-
bath day, 20 hotels and two wine-shops, to count
the number of drinkers who entered. Although
the “watch was incomplete and a liberal allow-
ance was made for genuine travellers and lodgers,”
the count totalled 3386. Parson next Sunday an-
nounced the figures, giving thd name of each pub.
and the number who had visited it. A sermon
against Sunday-drinking, of course, followed.
* * • *
In view of Australia’s heretofore immu-
nity from the curse of canine rabies, we can’t, of
course, be too careful about quarantining imported
dogs; but that’s no reason why N.S.W. Govt,
should lay itself out for such pickings over the
business as are evidenced by the fact that, irre-
spective of size, a dog’s six-months’ quarantine-
bill comes to 12s. Bd. ! Also, the 10s. charge
for conveyance of any tyke to and from the
quarantine-station is nothing short of an impudent
imposition.
• # * *
“ Eoro”: Pentridge with its “model” sys-
tem is the bedrock of criminal ignominy. Aprisoner,
after being shaven, is numbered and masked.
He becomes a dumb figure, not allowed to talk or
sing to himself in his cell—the sound of his own
voice is lost to him. He takes exercise with his
mask on. The gaol chaplain visits weekly
asks how he is and does he want another volume
of the Sunday at Home —stereotyped questions
followed by a rapid exit. Meals are passed
through a small aperture without sound of voice,
and the debris finds exit the same way. That
three months of the “Model” doesn’t always
transform the prisoner into a lunatic is surprising.
Be Tasmanian sleepiness, a dog is able to
accompany the tram 35 miles from Zeehan to Deep
Lead and back every day, finishing in front every
night. Also, Toby further exasperates passengers
by making short excursions into the bush after
badgers and wallaby, and then catching up to the
tram and racing ahead, as if to .‘how how cheap he
holds the darned thing.
♦ * * *
“ Hermes ” : At Sydney Public Library,
the other day, a straw-chewing person from the
back blocks fell into the
first chair and
grabbed
the nearest pa-
per. It was
a rel i -
gious one
from
Chicago,
and in it
he read:
“Whatever is
not sanctified
by the Word of
God, and by pray-
er, is not to be
eaten.” Then
followed a
swingeing con-
demnation oj
pig-meat as food,
because Chrisjt
sent not less than
3000 devils into
2000 swine.
Therefore, said the
. religious paper, pig-flesh
is really compressed and materialised Devil. The
backblocker, strangely disturbed, pushed the
paper under my nose and growled : “Hey! read
that there.’’ I read. Said the b.-b., huskily:
“I had a sister Rachel once, wot went to the
bad, an’ I often wondered wot made her do it.
But I know now. She \yhs always a terror for
bacon, an’ pork, an’ ham ; wot this paper calls
devil-meat.” He sighed,''his blue eyes were
glistening ; then I watched him calmly steal the
paper. He stuffed it into his pocket, and as he
slouched off he leant over to growl to me: “ I’m
a goin to post it home to tell the old people whv
Rachel did it.”
• * * •
Schenk’s carbohydrate theory fascinates
one. Of course, it is correct. The thing is so
evident.
“ Melb.,” on a police grievance .
This morning a constable expatiated to me on the griev-
ances of the force over the arrest of night drunks. The
constable, on night-duty, has thus to appear at the police-
court in the morning and spoil his sleep. There has been
a dangerous system of tossing for drunks. Four police-
men (say) would club their drunks in charge of one while
the other three went home to bed. Suggestive of the
Lloyd Lindsay cavalry shooting, where one man holds the
four horses while three do the firing, as infantry.
* * * »
Constable Hooligan was on night-duty and
so pre-occupied with thoughts of a wedding he
was invited to next day that he nearly trod on a
man stretched across the footway.. “Arrah, he’s
spacheless, an’ if I lock him up it’s at the coort
I’ll be instead o’ the weddin’.” He bent down and
then muttered : “By the powers, ’tis dead he is—
bad luck to him.” Hooligan saw visions of an
inquest instead of the wedding, got the cadaver
on his shoulder, carried it a quarter of a mile,
and dropped it on Doyle’s beat. But a few
minutes before rounds were changed, Hooligan
nearly fainted at kicking up against the same old
corpse in much the same place. Doyle was going
to that wedding too.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Why not compel all
medicos to write their prescriptions in plain Eng-
lish and forbid them compounding them them-
selves? The properly-qualified man ought not to
object to this, and I believe it would settle the
quacks and stop their game of filling up their
dupes with unknown ready-mixed nostrums.—
Jack Shay.
» * * •
“ 0.P.” : Dreamt last night that a re-
spectable friend of mine “stoushed” three ladies
in a respectable ballroom and there seemed to be
nothing unseemly in the proceeding. This, with
similar experiences, points to a dreadful elasticity
of conscience in the dream state. No telling
where investigation of the subject might end —pos-
sibly in a justification of the “monster of crime’’
and a wholesale alteration of the moral, civil, and
criminal codes. “The prisoner states that his
moral susceptibilities were in retirement at the
time of the deed, yer ’onor.”
i Another liberal landlord. In an Austra
> lian city a poor woman who managed to support
a blind husband and a little girl by odd jobs of
; charing fell ill, the other day, and had to betaken
to hospital. There was hardly any food left in
the house, and the usual os. for rent was not
forthcoming. But the landlord wasn’t going to
be robbed. He marched straight to the hospital
and tried to collect the rent from the secretary l
• * • *
A Bulletin scribe has got a new light on
“ What women read ”: —
Was in a city circulating-library tasting new books
when a young lady entered. She didn’t trouble the
catalogue, nor the list of new works, but went to the
shelves and picked out a book here and there. Finally
she selected one—a treatise on naval construction ! I
remarked to the young man in charge on her apparently
peculiar choice. “That’s all right,” said he, “she’s not
going to read it. She always chooses her books that way.
See those half-dozen she looked at—well, they’re all
bound in pretty much the one color. Go down the Block
now—you’re sure to see her, and notice how well tb£
color of the book-binding matches her dress. And she's
not the only one.” I strolled on and presently met the
damsel. She was dressed all in grey, with what a man
would call “facings” of scarlet, and how artistically the
color of the book did match the shade of red on her dress
and hat!
Publishers please note.
* • * *
“K.K.” : The chief cause of suicide is
the treating as life that which is only an episode.
* * * *
Definitions :
Gossip—Conversation dust, blown from your
neighbour's dust-bin.
Humor—The teeth of the savage showing through
the lips of civilisation.
Pleasure—The sugar-coating on the pill of life.
Life—Pain with variations.
Death—Nature’s painful effort to be merciful.
Onlys.
• * * *
“ Ponte ” : Australia of the future will be
the hunting-ground of the oculist, for eye-troubles
are increasing enormously with the new genera-
tion. One factor in this, no doubt, is indiscrimi-
nate focussing. For the sake of uniformity and
military precision, State-school pupils are made
to hold their books the same distance from the
eyes, whether they are “long” or “short”
sighted. Result: Straining of the eyes. Why
not, as in Great Britain, have Govt, oculists to
periodically visit schools and test the sight of all
pupils ?
* * * *
“ During my long and extensive practice,”
said a M.L. teetotal physician, lately, “1 have
not known or seen a single disease cured by
alcohol. Therefore I don’t use alcohol.” And
the local grog-organ replies in a cross frame of
mind: “Did you ever see a single disease cured
by novels or playing-cards, or jewellery or theatre-
going, or bell-toppers or dress-suits ? And why
do you use them ? ” Which has a certain amount
of logic in it. Anybody can prove that he never,
in his whole life, knew a clean collar to do any-
thing towards relieving an ingrowing toe-nail.
But that doesn’t absolutely prove that everybody
should wear a soiled collar.
* • • •
A benevolent Melb. millionaire, very
large employer of labor, injudiciously told an in-
terviewer, awhile ago, that he never assisted
male beggars, but never turned away a woman.
Since then he has been pestered out of his life by
wives of men seeking employment. Moral: Well,
it is stuck all about with ’em.
PERHAPS!
HE (who knows all about the affair) : “ Well — er —
you know his relations weren't exactly—er—
moral.”
SHE: “Well, but he himself may be a very decent
fellow, even if his relations aren't all they
ought to be. ”
“J.F.D.”: Many Sydney restaurant-
keepers find it much less expensive to put the
whole bread-loaf on the table than to place cut
pieces. Whether it is laziness or a dislike to
bread-carving, the patrons very rarely hack at the
loaf more than once in a meal ; if cut for them, a
restaurant-keeper tells me, some diners can clear a
plate. “ That tired feeling ” again.
THE MELBOURNE MASHERS.
(A Ballad of the Near Future.)
Mick Murphy played the football game
To show how he was built,
While young M'Tavish found his name
A passport to a kilt.
They both were ardent suitors for
The smile of Sophy Beggs,
Who knew not which she loved the more—
The Scotch or Celtic legs.
One day, returning from the field
Where Murphy played “half-back,”
She thought—“ His covered limbs must yield
The palm to bare-kneed Mac.”
’Twas true, she once had held him dear;
Well, next to Julius Knight :
But now the Scottish volunteer
Seemed nobler in her sight.
She put M*Tavish through his drill,
She hummed a Scottish air ;
She longed to pinch (as women will)
Those understandings bare.
But when she was about to pick
M‘lavish for his flesh,
A way occurred to jealous Mick
Of winning her afresh.
He lured her to a football match '
She saw him chase the ball :
His arms, outstretched to make a catch,
Had nothing on at all.
And Sophy breathed a tender vow,
And coughed a modest cough,
For, lo ! he wore no stockings now—
He’d taken of ’em off.
So Michael won the maiden’s hand,
Though Mac., the cunning fox !
A last, despairing coup had planned
In letting down his socks.
The uniform would not permit
A fair display of charms ;
His ooat-sleeves didn’t “ thrill ” one bit,
Compared with Mickey’s arms.
SWEET SEVENTEEN.
No wonder that we fight and cuff
In youthful greed to try it—
And that we soon have had enough,
And sicken of the diet.
And:
SUGARCANE.
Wonderful plant, I vote 1
From it there come
Poison and antidote :
Woman and rum.
V. KOTZE.
V
7
futjAvE You
TTSOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTIOKT
STANDS A LONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station anti Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S. W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
WHISKY AND HEALTH.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “ D.C.L.”
Scotch (Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is
good for body and mind, it preserves health, and
is often an invaluable remedy in disease. Note
“ D.C.L.”*
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne;
11 Pitt-str«efc, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 6, IS9B.
My Dear Myee—
Last week there were two concerts, and a dinner,
and a supper, and a conversazione, all on account of
-Florence Schmidt.
The dinner was a gay matter at the Cafe
Francjais, Bohemian in quality, and limited in
quantity. Mr. Richard Croft was the engineer of
the party. The honored guest sat between Mr.
Steffani and our own “Hop,’’and wore a white
chiffon blouse against her Titian hair. Nearly
everyone speechified. Even the ladies were
allowed to say something, and Madame Soldene’s
rippling toast to “the Gentlemen” was really
worthy of its cause. Then Mr. B. R. Wise had
something encouraging to say, and the quiet Mr.
Steffani was induced to throw off a few words, and
‘ ‘ The Banjo ” edged in a fewmore, and the President
of the party presented a silver brush and comb,
chosen, I presume, out of compliment to the
songstress’ artistic tresses.
A pupils’ concert was the second outbreak. All
Steffam’s choicest singing-birds were got together
for this, with Florence Schmidt and Hetty Holroyd
as leaders. Lady Hampden came of her own
accord. She wanted to hear Miss Schmidt again,
and brought along the Duke, the real, living Duke
of Manchester, who succumbed to the pure,
crystallized tones of Miss Holroyd and went away
declaring he would use his influence to get her into
opera.
Florence Smith wore pink. What ? Didn’t you
know that auburn tresses swear by pink these days ?
Jan Van Beer set the fashion, painting his red-
haired ladies in dull rose frocks. With her hair
dressed quaintly over her ears, her round, spark-
ling face and humorous smile seemed to cry aloud
for a place in Opera Comique. At present Grand
Opera is the game, but it isn’t improbable that
Europe will change her from an Aida to a Mignon.
She shook out her silvery notes over her favorite,
“Je suis Titania,” with a sort of luscious light-
ness that suggested warmth and mellow pears.
Listening, one wondered if all the great things
that are prophesied for her will come true. An
over-accentuation of the shock of the glottis is a
fault of her vocalisation at present, and a nervous-
ness that few credit her with crops up everv now
and then, and makes her singing fluctuate "in its
emotional value. Sometimes she grips you : some-
times she doesn’t. But always there is the cer-
tainty that an immense lot of cleverness and
insight is packed away inside that level head.
And when she forgets herself, and is in good form,
and the notes grow rounder as they go higher, and
break from altitudes without the sharpness that
mars the high notes of the finest voices, a wet
blanket could not help having hopes of her future.
The other “star,” Miss Holroyd, made even a
bigger splash. The house rose at her hotly, and
yelled and loaded her with flowers, and made more
fuss over her this night than over Florence
Schmidt. The two voices, both sopranos, are as
unlike in quality as a concertina and a fiddle. The
Holroyd voice is a big, pure organ, exquisite in
quality, but cold. No one ever knows what a
voice may come to, but at present this doesn’t lure
you on to hope what Schmidt’s voice occasionally
suggests.
At the supper that followed the concert Mr.
Mahony presented Steffani with a purse of sove-
reigns on behalf of a crowd of past and present
pupils. By the way, one successful pupil makes
even teaching worth while. Since Florence
Schmidt’s sensational recital that afternoon at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall, pupils have poured in on Steffani
so that he could have made his “ pile ” here in no
time.
Of course other teachers are hard at work put-
ting this down to luck. Well, the luck of getting
two such voices as Miss Schmidt’s and Miss Hof-
royd’s isn’t to be denied. But who that heard the
Queensland soprano singing “ Tell Me a Tale of
the Sea, Mother,” in a throaty contralto, before
she went to Steffani, would recognise her voice to-
day?
Then the Armand Behic took them all away to
Milan on Monday, and here endeth the chapter of
Florence Schmidt in Sydney.
It doesn’t matter how old the “Mikado ” is.
This very week his place is assured as ever among
the brightest and lightest play-things of the age.
And Dolly Yaneisthe most adorable Pitti-Sing
that was never run away with. She wears a dull-
blue Jap gown, just wide enough at the ankles for
her cunning little trot, covers her head with pink
and blue fal-lals, and makes her fan human.
Women try to fascinate with rouge at half-a-guinea
a box !.* All such are besought to see Dolly Vane
flip open a fold of scarlet paper behind her left ear,
crook it into a Dolly Varden over her head, crush
it into a rearing cap, like a Normandy peasant’s,
make it flutter like a bird at her ankle, and fling it
out extravagantly from her waist. Her tricky,
clever little ways in this part argue well for the
great “ Doll ” business that begins next Saturday.
Inez Bensusan’s dramatic recital, with afternoon
tea thrown in, proved a great draw last week.
The rainy afternoon without lent a cosiness to the
hall and the hot tea and the good things of the
programme, and I hear that the successful experi-
ment is to be followed by a second shortly. The
chic, dark-haired reciter, in a blouse of cherry-red
piped horizontally in the very latest mode, was at
herbesst in the light, smart comedy of Anthony
Hope’s “Little Wretch,” Kipling’s “Rival,” and
a delicate little French monologue, “An April
Shower.”
Her voice, which isn’t one of your big, porter-
house organs, was happier in these bright conver-
sational things than in her late plum-puddingy
parts at the Lyceum. Ordinary drawing-room
recitations seem to have remained over from the
Inquisition; Torquemada recited, you be sure.
But, given the brightest flashes of Anthony Hope,
and our brighter hope, Rudyard, and a pretty
little woman with a cultured voice, and palms,
and afternoon and hot scones, a dramatic recital is
far above —well, say, concerts.
But why doesn’t somebody cremate “Iler
Letter ? ” “ Billy’s Rose ” died long ago. A tre-
mendous concourse of respectable people attended
the funeral of “Little Nell.” “Betsy and I are
out” wouldn’t be let in at the back-door of any
self-respecting auditorium. But “ Letter ” lingers
on, and even Inez Bensusan’s revival in a Yankee
lingo merely made the dying slower.
And now we come to the real cause of the reci-
tation anguish. The sting lies in the stuff that’s
recited. Everything mawkish—G. R. Sims and
such. Everything greenly sentimental—Will
Carleton and “Gone With a Handsomer Man.”
Everything, in short, that you would never read
to yourself. But feed the programme on tho wits
of Kipling, Anthony Hope and other light, smart
writers who couldn’t bore you if they tried, and
you can listen to a recital just as cheerfully as you
could read it.
The rest of the entertainment came from Mr.
Burns Walker (whose voice is picking up form
agai n after the strain of an over-worked winter),
Herr Vollmar’s ’cello, and Laurence Phillips’ soul-
ful pianoforte rhapsodisings. Oneof these, a little
piece called “ Grace,” by Meyer, was a particularly
haunting trifle that gave full play to the pianist’s
romantic touch.
Amy Sherwin began to take farewell of this city
last Saturday— goes straight to England on
leaving Sydney. The long epidemic of concerts
which, beginning with the Albani outbreak, in-
cluded the Alva-Verne eo.; the concerts of every
local musician, from Straus, Lottie Hyam and
Florence Schmidt, down to Connie Usher; and
the numerous invitation evenings, and pupils’
evenings, and pianoforte recital evenings;— has
filled the public so very, very full of
music that nobody is taking much concert
this time o’ year. Government House came
out strong on Saturday, and the back seats
had their usual shilling congestion ; but no
one had to “move up” in the centre of the hall.
The Nightingale was in grey watered silk, with a
pink chiffon flounce looped up with different styles
of flowers. She sang “Maritana,” and Gounod
as sweetly as ever; and the rest of her co.
sang “ Mari tana ” only after the interval.
Miss Kitty Grindlay, with a wreath of roses
round her locks, and a white frock, was bold
enough to brush the dust off ‘ We’d Better Bide a
Wee.’ Mr. Arthur Dean sang with all his old
sentiment, 1 Oh, Promise Me! ’ and let his fine
-baritone out to its full length in two Sullivan
songs. Harry Stockwell and Lawrence Phillips,
who was encored for the opening movement of the
programme, left no blanks to be filled anywhere.
The next big concert will be Adela Verne’s
benefit to Lennnone. This comes off at the Town
Hall next Wednesday, and is expected to make up
some of the money he lost over Alva.
Miss Lily Gotthelf’s marriage to Mr. George
Michaelis, of St. Kilda (Melbourne), was accom-
panied by a record downpour on Wednesday, the
31st. A Hebrew knot-tying is always interesting,
apart from its ceremonial peculiarities, for it is
generally a signal for a gaudy display of eastern
color and gem-sparkle. On this occasion the
Synagogue was arched and festooned with ferns
and arum lilies (lilies everywhere, to underline the
bride’s name), and the Twelve Tribes rolled up in
gorgeous apparel. There was a choral service, and
the superstitious made a stampede at the close of
the ceremony for bits of the wine-glass shattered
bravely by the little bridegroom. The general
exodus was delayed by the torrents aforemen-
tioned, and so I had a second glimpse at the
wedding-party, and discovered that the brides-
maids wore real Limerick lace slips, over
cream satin, with true-lovers’ knots worked
here, there and everywhere in niched bebe
silk. Their hats and lily - wreathed wands
were blue, and their yokes and sleeves were
“« jour ” —such a nice, cool idea for our un-
principled summer ! The regal - looking bride
towered high above her new-made lord, and de-
parted for the mountain mists in a frosty-looking
frock of white embroidered cloth.
Another wedding—semi-Hebraic this time—will
be Miss Salomons’ marriage with Prof. Wilson.
The Presbyterian clergyman is to tie the knot at
All Saints, Woollahra, Wednesday, 14th Sept.
Every day on the balcony at the Australia Hotel
people crowd round coffee cups, and stare at Mr.
and Mrs. Vallange as if they had paid for the
view. The girlish bride takes it all coolly and
reads hard at the Melbourne papers. Next week
the young couple go to Govt. House, and coffee
drinkers will turn their attention to the lovely
lady in black who lias come back to her native
land with a highly dramatic story in her train.
Another beauty, Miss Elliott Page, didn’t quite
hit the mark with her latest effort. Leaving
Australia, she sent round a booklet illustrated
with her own and Momma’s portraits, and one
little verse from Byron. (Did Momma knoio it
was Byron ?) But the likenesses were not very
like, and dear friends are sadly mystifying them-
selves over the delicate attention.
Melbourne has cast a lance at Sydney’s modes.
The biggest chiffon-shop in Victoria set up a show
at our _ own Metropole lately, and did some brisk
biz. with Potts Point. Melbourne prices made
our suburbs hair stand up on end. Five guineas
for a wing and a pair of strings was nothing. One
customer in search of a bonnet was asked seven
guineas for a mere jet bow, that hadn’t even
strings to it. She turned it round on her head.
“Does it speak?” she asked ingenuously. She
thought it must do something.
The same week, our own shops smartened up in
sudden fear. Windows underwent positive trans-
formations. Hats and bonnets were touch'd up
daringly, and materials we hear of, but can never
get, were suddenly forthcoming. A rival is still
the champion stimulus this wicked world can offer.
Brother brushes give each other nasty cuts
sometimes. _ One local Art Society is advertising
how many pictures it sold in the Home Exhibition,
and how many the other society didn’t sell. The
moral of the ad. is: “Come to our show, don’t
go to theirs. ”
The Society of Artists throws its exhibition-
rooms open all the month for social jinks. Miss
Oliver and Miss Rundle have a tea-party next
Friday, Mrs. Ashton and Miss Rose Scott on
Monday, and Mrs. Bland Holt will give a big
theatrical afternoon at the end of the month.
I want to air the sad little tale of a typist—
possibly of many. This one earns 10s. a week :
others less, perhaps. She consulted a doctor about
a little affection of one of her ears, the other day.
He made a record of her age, parentage, occupa-
tion, examined her ears, and, altogether, spent
ten minutes on her. Then told her that general
weakness was the matter, gave her a prescription,
and asked a fee of two guineas. “Special attend-
ance after office hours,” he said; “the usual fee
is one guinea.” She paid two, and paid away
the bad ear’s only chance of bettering itself with a
Xmas-trip.
Hundreds of educated girls are keeping them-
selves and their general weakness on 10s. a week.
When they fall ill, they poison themselves further
with patent-medicines. Their station in life for-
bids the half-a-crown quack, and the guinea of
your reputable medico is out of the question. Of
course it’s only one blur among hundreds, but
surely it’s a nasty, dirty blur—two guineas, even
one, for advice to a girl who lives on 10s. a week !
It isn’t only Lady Clare who hankers after lily-
white skins. Up in the backblocks, they know
all about boiling-water for freckles, and oatmeal
for a sore nose, and lamb’s fat for rough lips. A
young milkman in a backblock-dairy made a hor-
rible discovery the other day. The two daughters
of his dairy-keeper used to examine the milkpans
every morning, before the milk went out to cus-
tomers. Sometimes, they kept the milkman wait-
ing a long time; and, one morning, patience
wouldn’t stand it, and he travelled into the dairy
to demand the cans. Petrification! One fair
daughter was sponging face and shoulders in the
milk, which had been emptied from the cans into
a galvanised tub. The other had just finished,
and was just wiping a milky brow with infinite
satisfaction. It seems cruel to add that the milk
went out just the same that morning, and that the
milkman was inconsequently sacked soon after.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“I am told that the daughter of a high (white)
Chinese-official who ran away with a married
(yellow) houseboy from a certain Mission was
brought back with her admirer. The former, safe
under British protection, is taking her consequences
in the old womanly way, but her fellow-sinner,
poor wretch, has more than a tarnished reputation
to put up with. These Oriental governments are
unco strict and paternal, ye ken, and you’ll guess
the erring son of this particular Administration is
eating his leek with a vengeance when you learn
that those innocents, his deserted wife and children,
were condemned to imprisonment for life for
hubby’s fault while his old mother, in addition to
above, was publicly flogged. If I were a perishing
Heathen, bless me if I wouldn’t rather bow down
to wood and stone to the end of my days than be
bothered with John Bull and his pious-hysterical
womankind.
“ The sending of those youthful missionaries to
China has provoked an indirect protest from
Bishop Field Flowers Goe. The good man in
gaiters doesn’t openly rail against the latest pic-
nic party, but he calls upon his dear friends to
remember “the needs of the heathen who dwell
among us ’’—meaning the seductive creatures who
vend vegetables at our back-gate. Reading be-
tween the lines of his letter to the morning dailies,
one learns that the Bishop is not a red-hot cham-
pion of missions to the Flowery Land, and would
rather save the soul of the ‘John’we have than
issue invitations for another massacre on Chinese
soil.
“At that ‘ Ministering Angels ’ bazaar, in the
Town Hall on opening-day, Janet Lady Clarke, in
her widow’s weeds, sold cakes with the help of
daughter Mary, who had magpie revers to her
blouse and a, double red ruche round her hat,
while the reigning baronet’s wife took another
turn, out of her Cup suit of blue brocade and green
velvet. Mrs. Geo. Chirnside and Miss Gumming
wore finely-tucked, pink-silk blouses with creamy
skirts and floating embroidered waist-scarves.
Lord Richard Neville prattled harmlessly to the
different stall-holders and afternoon-tea-d them in
squads, palpably elated by the total absence from
the scene of rival male attractions. He’ll soon be
in harness again now that the Brasseys, with
Countess de la. Warr and two children, have
announced their coming.
“ The feature of the aforesaid was the sale
of the alleged Vallange-Madden wedding-cake
in little gold and white boxes at a shilling
each. Loyal persons of crawlsome aspect ana
hangers-on of the sassiety crowd rushed the cake
with their ‘ bobs, ’ and rumor has it that so fast did
the boxes sell that a speedy youth had to, be
despatched to the nearest pie-shop, where he
arrived breathless and demanding ‘ two pounds of
currant-cake, and cut it up small.’
“ They talk of that bridegroom’s dead-and-gone
ancestor as a publican. As a matter of fact,
though not bred up to beer, the new benedict’s
beneficent grandpa carried on a brewery here-
abouts : he is remembered by old-timers as one of
Melbourne’s finest-looking citizens.
“ That Victorian heiress leaves London for Mel-
bourne almost immediately, and will soon be
launched on local society. After three years of
European top-notes, culminating in presentation
at Court, not to speak of special religious culture
by a prominent English bishop, the young lady
with her good looks and annual thousands should
be armed at all {joints for the coming fray. Her
strong board of guardians includes more than one
local notability, and, of course, Field Flowers
Melbourne and his subordinate shepherds will
exert themselves prayerfully in the social interests
of an orphan whose deceased parent remembered
the fold and its enterprises in his will.
“Rumor, in the natural course of things, has
discovered a future No. 2 for Melbourne’s ‘nicest’
widow, but rumor sounds much too probable
to be true. The alleged parti is so very suitable
for the position that the lady, instead of choosing
the doughty little professional man for her-
self, as stated, might have left him to be ap-
pointed by a sassiety Board of Advice. Not being
the Unexpected, he is hardly likely to happen.
Meanwhile, the amiable widow has made her first
public re appearance in evening-dress—dimly re-
ligious evening-dress, of course—on the quiet
occasion of Frances Tyrrell-Gill’s lecture, at the
Athenaeum. Said discourse, by the way, turned
out to be an interesting entertainment of the
highest culchaw order, for after the learned spin-
ster had held Mrs. Browning’s muse up to adora-
tion a couple of learned professors, Tucker and
Rev. Rentoul, clearly combated her views on the
subject. The second lecturette of the series, fixed
for Thursday (Bth), will deal with ‘Some Women
Poets,’ and Mrs. Cornish is to recite some little
poems by Miss Gill.
“Old William Morris, the poet, used to lay
stress on the importance of what he called ‘ the
lesser arts of life, ’ such as dyeing, needlework,
wood-carving, and weaving. He taught his daugh-
ter to do fine work in colored silks with the needle,
as preferable to painting pictures for an over-
crowded market. One did not know that such
fine work was done in ‘ the lesser arts ’ in this
country till an exhibition of art needlework, held
in Melbourne last week. The artist, Miss Mac-
george, is an Adelaide girl. Walter Crane-y and
Morris-y designs, rich color blends, subtle silken
harmonies, are her characteristics. People at the
exhibition said her things were ‘ pretty ’ —an in-
evitable woman’s word. But they were not
merely that—they were beautiful and better worth
looking at carefully than many pretentious pic-
tures in oil. They tended to make one ‘get the
needle ’—and use it.
“ The worst feature of the Show week is the in-
evitable resuscitation of that hoary old chestnut
about finding a man’s hat floating on the mud and
a man under the hat and a horse under the man.
Auother painful little circumstance of last week’s
show happened in a city caravanserai, where, on
account of the hopeless state of the lodgers’ boots,
the cleaners struck for overtime wages—as they had
to work all night on the boots, and then they
didn’t get a shine. Next morning the mid-day
visitors had to put on dirty boots and hunt about
for street-shiners. The strikelet was embittered
by the fact that country folk don’t tip : a solitary
‘ thrippence ’ was the only silver seen by one
‘ boots ’ in exchange for acres of real estate knifed
off the donor’s footwear.
“ Some of the harder sex tenanting offices in the
building where the Austral Salon hangs out are
disposed to curse that school of culchaw in loud
asides. Everytiine there is anything special ‘on,’
or about to be ‘on,’ at the Salon, the lift attached
to the building is monopolised by soulful females
of various ages who gaze aggressively at any in-
truding man and pass remarks upon his vulgar
commercial presence in their midst. After a
couple of journeys to and fro his office near the sky
he feels like a wrongfully-convicted criminal,
and, to make matters worse, he returns home
reeking with Salon perfumes and plus a hairpin
in his overcoat pocket, dropped there from the
tangled locks of some sarcastic angel who had been
standing on his pet corn.
“Awhile back, when the popular and long-
established doctor of Victoria’s richest and toniest
squatting district broke the news of his approach-
ing marriage, lady patients made no attempt to
hide their fury. Somehow, they’d always chosen
to consider him an inveterate bachelor, and more
than one dashing matron thereabouts apparently
hugged the delusion that as she herself was other-
wise appropriated her medical attendant would
dree his solitary weird to the end of the chapter.
“ Anyhow, whatever the future may bring, the
belated Benedict will always have a rosy bachelor-
hood to look back upon. More moneyed god-
children and uppercrust youngsters named after
him than he can count, not to speak of such tokens
of esteem as game, spring lamb and asparagus.
Time and again a rival practitioner came to dis-
pute Sawbones’s supremacy, only to retire in the
end regretted by no one but the overworked
monopolist himself. Also, the latter’s own efforts
to lighten his labors by means of professional
assistants were similarly defeated through his
patients’ obstinate partiality for Simon Pure.
“In that district (the native heath of half our
Pure Merino clans), the magnificent homesteads
are rallying-points alike for local tip-toppers and
visiting somebodies. So it wasn’t for want of see-
ing smart, pretty women that the doctor suddenly
hooked his affections on to a trained nurse, neither
desperately young nor lovely. Oh, those caps and
pinnies! When the worst was known, womanly
well-wishers cajoled and threatened in vain. The
middle-aged Romeo went his own way, and is now
furnishing and building larger mansions—O my
soul! —and otherwise unloading, after the manner
of elderly bridegrooms in general.
(Continued on page 21.)
The Callaghan Attention
Just Opened—
Ladies' Choice Button and Lace Boots.
means more than may at first
sight appear. It ensures every
customer receiving the benefit of
a half-century’s experience in accu-
rately fitting feet. What others
regard as trouble we regard as merely
our business. Our attention always
sends customers away perfectly satisfied.
- Kindly call on us for your next pair of
boots or shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
“Save Your Teeth.”
Mr. Charles X. Harris, who is Dentist
by special appointment to HIS EMINENCE
CARDINAL MORAN, has published a little
book entitled “How to Save the Teeth,” and
as he can do so without causing the slightest pain
whatever, owing to the very latest invention
known to Dental Science, he will forward a copy
to anyone free of any expense.
This should be the means of preventing many
from needlessly having their teeth extracted.
In this book Mr. HARRIS also publishes his
list of fees. Address —
Mr. CHARLES I. HARRIS (Dentist).
ST. JAMES’ CHAMBERS,
Kina Street, SYDNEY,
Telephone 1482. ' opposite the Queen’s Statue.
GLOBE TEAS have E^uai -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
New Guinea-pigs—Vine and Lowles.
Small as is Tas. Parliament, it is supplied
with a Hart, a Bird, a Rooko, a Eysh, and a Grubb.
The Reid Ministry (N.S.W.) consists of
six natives of N.S.W., one Scotsman, and three
Englishmen.
Saul Samuel also among the prophets !
The veteran is said to have his autobiography
almost ready for the printer.
“Baldy” Davis, member for Bourke in
N.S.W. Assembly, is, says Mudgee Liberal, the
father of 24 children—of whom 17 are alive.
“William,” superintendent of the Adelaide
Bushmen’s Home, is a grand-nephew of Victor
Hugo. The S.A. cricketer Victor Hugo is his son.
In a Tas. agricultural district there - is a
family named Death, and their next neighbors are
the Coffins. Very naturally, they have inter-
married.
Lord Hampden is the first Governor in 56
years who has visited Paterson township, N.S.W.
The last vice-regal visit was made by Governor
Gipps in 1842.
Bryan O’Loghien, baronet and barrister,
has never taken “ Mr.” off his sign in Temple
Court, Melb. There it still is, “perched upon his
chamber door.”
The death of Mr. Thos. Richards, last
week, leaves two N.S.W. ex-Govt. printers still
living, Mr. William Hanson, aged 80 years, and
Mr. Charles Potter.
Found dead in the snow near Gad’s Hill,
Tas., Harry Stanley, one of the escort which
accompanied Sir John and Lady Franklin across
the Island to the Gordon River.
The De Moleyns, brothers of the Countess
of Hopetoun, are making a success of a coffee-
plantation run by them on the Russell River,
about 40 miles from Cairns, Q.
Janies Cock, M.P. (S.A.). arrived in that
province with Capt. Hind marsh, the first
Governor, by H.M.S. Buffalo, on 28th Dec., 1836,
and has never since been out of S.A.
On September 8, 21 years ago, an attempt
by means of an infernal machine was made on the
life of N.S.W. Govt. Astronomer Russell. Each
anniversary breathes new life into the tale.
Arthur Renwick, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), “the
little doctor,” is descended from James Renwick,
the last of the Scottish martyrs, at whose tomb in
Edinburgh a public fete was recently held.
S.S. Aramac’s passenger-list on her last
trip to Brisbane includes “Hon. T. J. Byrnes and
valet.” Now, if Reid had a valet, he might
manage to get into those Federation pants.
A S.A. Labor-member says that no gradu-
ate of Adelaide University ever wrote a line worth
reading or spoke a word worth listening to. And
apparently no one has yet contradicted him.
John M‘Connell, the father of Moreton
Bay station-hunters, still survives at Dnrundur
(Q.). He purchased Durundur in 1846, and suc-
cessfully devoted himself to stock-raising. He is
now in his 90th year.
J. H. Angas, S.A.’s wealthiest land-owner,
is in his 75th year. His father, who was born in
1789, was associated with Wilberforce and the
first Fowell Buxton (Gov. Buxton’s grandfather)
in the anti-slavery agitation.
The Duke of Manchester, while in Adel-
aide, struck up a friendship with King
O’Malley, who states that the Duke has pro-
mised to introduce into the House of Lords his
Bill compelling testators to make proper provi-
sion for their widows and families. But (to be
Irish for a moment) wait till His Grace gets a
widow and family, begorra.
WAS HE THAT KIND?
“He said my beauty intoxicated him."
“ My dear, some men get quite tipsy on one small whisky."
A. review, lately published in a Perth
(W.A.) paper, of the “Mutineers,” a Bounty
mutiny romance, called forth a letter from A.
Young, great-grandson of Lieut. Young, one of
the original Bounty mutineers. Extract: —
It has long been my ambition to, as much as lieth in
me, redeem the lost character of my ancestors, Edward
Young, great-grandfather on father’s side, and John
Adams, alios Alexander Smith, mother’s, who have so
wrongfully dishonored their country, king, and people
by deeds which, I presume, have already come under
your notice through the pages of the hook referred to
above and others. It is my intention, I say, to redeem
the lost character of my forefa hers by proving myself
1 yal and true to the laws and regulations enacted for the
g iod government and for the peace and tranquillity of
t le public in general within the bounds of our Gracious
- Majesty’s dominions.
1 n what walk of life is A. Young redeeming the
Jest character of his forefathers? As a philan-
thropist in a large way, perhaps ; as a bishop, or
even as a humble missionary to the heathen?
Nothing of the kind. A. Young is a policeman.
“GL.”: Be Hannibal Rowe,(27/7/’9B).
He drew out of mullock-carting, successfully car-
ried on the principal hardware biz. in Castlemaine,
and became a borough councillor, &c. Also had
a large and fruitful orchard open to the public on
Sundays on payment of 6d. per head, the visitor
being entitled to some fruit or a glass of wine.
Hannibal was the most unlovely-looking man
that ever pursued the writer out of an apple-patch.
A London society paper on our visitor, the
Duke of Manchester :
The Duke is short, strongly built, with sometimes a
boyish and sometimes an old face. While not in any way
handsome, there is a certain indescribable power and
command about him which compels attention. He is an
indefatigable worker, and infinitely prefers a seat at his
organ to one on his horse. He sings extremely well in
French, German, and Italian, as well as in English, and
he has a keen taste for acting. Low comedy is his forte.
Marshall-Hall tells how he once risked
poisoning by a professional female poisoner.
Down in the South of England he visited a
criminal lunatic asylum, and was very graciously
received by a lady who offered him some attrac-
tive sweets. He was about to take a few when a
keeper called him away. “ She’s poisoned forty
people,” whispered the warder; “likely the
sweets are all right, but those women are the devil
to steal.”
A rather subsequent apropos of Plimsoll’s
death. He has left his mark in more places than
generally credited. In Marau Sound, Southern
Guadaleanar, British Solomon Islands, the natives
have duly affixed the well-known loading mark to
their gondola-like canoes, and are not a little
proud of the fetish. They believe it, of course, to
be a powerful spell invented by the white man to
protect vessels from the demons of the deep—and,
come to think of it, so it is !
The owner of an immense pastoral pro-
perty, Thomas Edols, died last week at Burra-
wong, on the road between Forbes and Condobolin
(N.S.W.). The old gentleman had resided on his
station for the last 20 years. Burrawong contains
nearly 150,000 acres of purchased land, besides a
large leasehold estate, and as much as 4500 bales
of wool have been produced there in a year. Mr.
Edols was the first to introduce station traction
engines and scoops for dam-making out West.
Golden Penny, a weekly published from
the same office, and owned by the same co. as
London Graphic, tells the world how Premier
Seddon, of Maoriland, came to cross the stormy
seas and rise to colonial eminence. It says :
His brother, while gold-ininiiur in New Zealand, was
assaulted by another digger, and he wrote home for
“Dick” to come and avenge the insult to the family
honor. Dick went, and saw, and conquered.
After which Dick ought to trot out his escutcheon,
and buy a lOin. space in Debrett.
The promotion of Capt. Townley, late
Sheriff, to the chairmanship appointment of Q.
Public Service Board, is an appointment of more
than doubtful wisdom. Townley is an amiable,
good fellow, and not the man to grunt an empha-
tic “No!” to the army of influential and greedy
loafers who besiege the Govt, offices for light
employment and heavy pay. In fact, the Captain
(by whom, in his capacity as Sheriff, it would
have been a positive pleasure to be hanged) is just
the sort of kindly man who will try to please every-
body and end by making a host of enemies.
At one time little fourpenny-land-taxer
Harding, badly defeated in the election at Alma
(N.S.W.), belonged to a Sydney debating-society,
where he never spoke upon any topic without re-
verting to Georgism—his King Charles’ head. The
members determined to thwart him, and intro-
duced the subject of compulsory vaccination. But
Harding was not to be beaten—“ You are ready
to compel people to endanger their lives and pos-
sibly to afflict their children with the worst con-
stitutional diseases, yet you are not prepared to
impose a tax of Id. in the £ upon the unearned
increment that ” Then they gave him up.
“Father John Murphy, who died at
Franklin on the Huron, Tasmania, last week, had
lived there 43 years without ever having been out
of Tasmania. In ’52 and ’53, he was assistant
chaplain at Norfolk Island, and the old lags
“ swore by ” “Father John. He brought out a
consignment of them in the Lord Dalhousie in
’52. In his young days he used to walk to Hobart
and back— 7o miles—with sandwiches and a bottle
f t { hi He took the pledge from
-b V,, Au m 8 „„„ „„„ w>lro ir
Bather Matthew 60 years ago, and never broke it.
Colonel Richards, ex-Govt. printer of
N.S.W., lately deceased—by the way, Mr. John
Ferris, the veteran Vic. ex-Govt. printer, also
passed away the other day—died with his desire
to represent the Hawkesburyin Parliament unful-
filled. He was a native of that region of physi-
cally big men and was well liked by a number of
voters. Every election, as it drew near, found
the ex-printer in a state of fascinated expectancy,
and when it passed without the necessary requisi-
tion he degenerated into sudden limpness. He
was in receipt of a very substantial pension and
passed his latter years gazing on the sea at Manly.
TALENTED.
“You are always [?] smashed up. Either you
run into a tramcar, or a cab knocks you
down. How do you account for it?"
“ Don’t know ; unless it is a pure gift."
“E.F.D.”: The name William Ewart
Gladstone supplies a number of anagrams singu-
larly suited to various periods of the G.O.M.’s
life. “We want a mild legislator ”is surely a
call to Parliament, and “Go administrate law
well” follows on his election. During his Mid-
lothian election campaign, “I’ll waste no glad war-
time ” fits well ; and “ Allow me, I . . . glad Erin
waits” suits his attitude towards the Irish ques-
tion. (N.B. Erin still “waits.”) The Tory de-
finition of him, “ G., a weird inan we all list to,”
is all right, but, considering his penchant for
tree-felling, “ A man will go wild at trees ” seems
the best of the bunch.
Parson E. J Brewster, the first Chairman
of Quarter Sessions in Port Phillip, died at the
Cape in March last ; he was a shipmate to Sydney
in 1839 of James Graham, who lately died at
Melbourne. Graham was Brewster’s agent in
Melbourne, where the deceased parson owned a
lot of land and houses. Brewster laid the first
stone of the first bridge over the Yarra, the
predecessor of “old Prince’s Bridge.” John
Batman, founder of Port Phillip, became a tenant
of Brewster’s in the early Forties. Graham, who
for years was in Yic. Upper House, was buried
close to Batman, whose monument was raised 18
years ago through the exertions of J. J. Shilling-
law, the antiquarian of a new country.
“Scribe”: Major Reay, of Melbourne
Herald, popularly known as “Morejaw” Reay,
finds that teetotalism, W.C.T.U.-ism, vegetarian-
ism, and the Jubilee are insufficient to blow off the
internal pressure of the condensed oratory from
which he suffers, and accordingly the Herald
staff is being treated to a series of lectures on
Journalism. The principal joy of an evening
pressman’s life has always been that his day’s
work ceases at 4 p.m., but the Herald has
changed all that, and now, on different evenings,
the staff is rounded-up in a big room while the
gallant Majah holds forth. The worst curse that
can befall any paper-stainer is to be connected
with an office where anybody in authority is
ambitious for public notoriety. Just ask any
S.A. or W. A. reporter.
T’other day, a new photographer opened
at Hobart, and induced Gov. Gormanston to
put ’em all on —Indian medal and everything—
and sit for his photo. The artist at once adver-
tised himself as “By special appointment to His
Ex. the Governor.” Whereupon another man up
street remembered that Lady G. once sat for him,
and brought the baby, therefore he stuck up a
card, “ By special appointment to Lady Gorman-
ston and Family.” The following week, a little
travelling artist, in one of the back streets, got
Gormanston’s coachman to sit, and he inter-a-
dooced the footman, and now that photographer
travels over the island announcing himself as
“Photographer to the Tasmanian Vice-regal
Court.” The signature at foot is “So-and-So,
Court Photographer.”
The Bulletin’s Loudon correspondent :
Ilook-.V, rapidly dtscu.ding to the oblivion of the
snoring farm he had promised himself in view of catas-
trophe, is trying to tumble as many as. he can into the
roadside-diteh before he passes the bankruptcy hedge
that shuts him out from rural nonentity. Karls Alber-
marle, De la Warr (who entertained Trott’s team so
regally at Bexhill and beat ’em afterwards) and Winchil-
sea have had the alleged prices for their names exposed,
which should assist these noble nobles in future when
similar professional directorships are open. Minor ex-
poses are threat entd, but the big “blackmail” list so
much was heard of is very much missed. The boastful,
silly ex-millionaire was going to fight and choke a steel-
teethed, iron-jawed mastiff,' hut contents himself now
with flicking the shaven legs of well-fed, aristocratic,
French poodles. Amongst those who, according to
Hooley’s evidence, true or untrue, received thousands to
square the Press with was a Maorilander who has not
been in England very many years, but during the last
two met E.T.H. to the mutual disadvantage of each-
according to themselves. His (the Maorilander’s) wife is
her husband’s secretary, and aspires to be regarded as a
novelist. Her husband’s city offices run him in some
JE2OOO yearly for rent alone, so it will he judged he has
been here to some purpose. Hooley won t clean the
Augean stable —he'll mere]} show the verdigris stains oil
the front-door-knobs.
Dr. Harrington, deceased, one - time
Warrnambool (Vic.) surgeon, was formerly settled
at Campbell Town (Tas.,). He was a bard rider—
never stopped to open a gate. Writer once sum-
moned him, in a case of sickness 16 miles away.
On his return home, he found the
doctor lying on his back near a fence,
bis horse standing by, with forelegs
well barked. Sawbones had come a
cropper. However, he presently re-
vived, sat up, and looked around
dazedly. “Ha! boy!” said lie,
“ it’s all right. The old horse took
off too soon, eh ? But don’t say a
word about it. I wouldn’t have it
known for a hundred pounds ” —and
here he lighted up the atmosphere
with much lurid speech—“ Give me
your word you’ll keep silence.” The
promise was given, and kept until
now. Years after, the writer met
the old fellow in Victoria, when he
said, “Every man has his weakness.
Mine is the conviction thatthe horse
never lived that could throw me off.
And I want to believe it—see ? Say
what you like about my morals, but,
d—n it, don’t impugn my seat or
bands.” And old Basil Gray, who
was killed the other day in the
hunting-field, was possessed by a similar sensi-
tiveness.
New yarn of Old Man PavKes. One M.,
a collector for a metropolitan jotirn d, used to call
on “ the Hairy Bismarck ’’ every Monday morning
for a settlement of his account, whereupon H.P. :
“Good morning, Mr. M. Called about that
small account, eh? That will be all right. Sit
down and have a glass of wine ! ” And “ Mr. M.”
had his glass of wine nearly every Monday morn-
ing for seven years, but never got the account paid.
Queensland Premier Byrnes was educated
by the Jesuits at St. Patrick’s College, Melb.
The acute clerics saw a sucking-statesman in young
Byrnes in those early years. The man who diag-
nosed T. J.’s mental calibre was Father Nulty,
then boss of the college overlooking Fitzroy
Gardens. Father N. is now chief of the Jesuits’
College in Bourke-street, Sydney ; and when
Premier Byrnes was lately in the city of the
Beautiful Harbor, trying, with Reid and Turner,
to addle Somers Vine’s New Guinea egg before it
was hatched, he ran round to Bourke-street and
embraced the ancient wielder of the birch at St.
Patrick’s.
“Native”: Bulletin mentions the death
of a Mrs. Wilson and suggests that she was the
oldest native. 1 know an old lady, Mrs. Carey,
living near Collector, in the Gonlburn district,
N.S.W., who was 98 on 12th April last. She is a
native of Parramatta. Her oldest son is a boy of
72, and her youngest is nearly 60 ; her descendants
to the fourth generation number upwards of 100.
She is hale and able to read the paper, and can
tell the time by an ordinary clock from the middle
of the room. She usually walks a mile to church.
A brother of hers, also a native, resident in
Princes-street, Sydney, is over 90, and looks good
for another 10 years.
John M‘lntyre, the new Tasmanian Judge,
is one of the best lawyers in the Island, yet has
hardly ever appeared in court. But he has been
for years a Judge without a —bench. People have
had such faith in his squareness that to save law’s
delays and lawyers’ bills they have gone to arbi-
tration before him and got first-class justice cheap.
He lives a kind of hermit life when at home—
except that his family are with him. His house
is on a point on the Derwent between Kangaroo
Bay and Bettana Bay, and it’s the only residence
there. He goes over in an open boat, and when
he lands he is cut off from all Tasmanian society
for the time being.
The pledge against intoxicants taken by a
N.S.W. Parliamentary candidate on a pub. bal-
cony in presence of his constituents, the other
day, recalls a similar act of virtue performed by a
veteran Queensland politician, one-time Attorney-
General. He took the pledge in public like a
man, dubbed himself “a regenerated politician,”
and was for the occasion the hero of the electorate.
But next day—the similarity ends here—he was
wheeled down the middle of the main street in a
barrow under a placard bearing the legend “ A
Regenerated Politician.” The pledge had given
way somewhere, and the hero, fast asleep, had
fallen into the hands of his enemies.
“The prospects of the would-be rescuers
of the Calvert exploration remnants ever receiving
their wages,” writes The Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent, “may be ganged from the following
general extract from the local West Australian.
When the jackals run riot over the carcase, it must
be very dead ”: —
The Passing of Calvert.— According to the latest re-
ports, Mr. Albert Frederick Calvert, sometime known as
a mining-engineer, has taken to himself wings. The
career of this man, so far as it concerned the city, was
meteoric in the extreme. Coming from no one knew
where, possessed of a pair of eyes that would have made
the fortune of any woman, smooth of speech, if dilettante
in method, Calvert was one of those people who are a
puzzle to the world in general and themselves in particu-
lar. In 1894 he dazzled the herd by “ discovering Western
Australia.” Three companies, as worthless as they were
large-sized, owned their existence to him, and out of them
all he secured huge profits. They also have passed into
the “ Never-Never,” from whence they are unlikely to
emerge. Calvert was a many-sided creature ; some folks
say all “ side,” but we will let that go. Also, he was
ambitious, and always ready to reap where he had not
strawed, or to enter into other men’s labors. He was a
poseur from A. to Z. ; it might even be said that he stood
before & mirror and convinced himself he was some other
body. A schemer of no mean capacity, yet only quarter-
educated and bound to fail at the pinch. Calvert claimed
to write books, run horses, explore Antipodean wilds,
collect stamps, grow orchids, command armies, drive
drags. Likewise he aspired to a peerage, to Parlia-
mentary honors, was a member of at least a dozen clubs,
and for a long time owned this journal. Now he is
nothing, and his departure calls forth scarcely one
syllable of regret. Albert F. Calvert never made a friend.
Had his hirelings feared him, they would have hated him
for his fleeting success. Withal, there was not in his
whole body a little finger’s worth of a man.
SMOKi:
THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTE
_ I— 111
Z (OUJ
OQJhIL
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
FPlease mention this Paper.]


CORN MEDICINE,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A well-bred horse l but he won’t get fat,
Though Fve done the best I can;
He keeps as poor as a blessed rat J”
Said the sorrowful stable-man.
Fve bled and Fve blistered him—and to-day
I bought him a monster ball;
But, blow the horse t let me do what I may,
He won’t get fat at all.
"Fve given him medicines galore,
And linseed oil and bran,
And tet the brute looks awfully poor”
Said the woebegone stable-man.
One glance the intelligent stranger threw
At the ribs of the hollow weed ,
Then asked, urith an innocent air, “ Did you
Forget to give him a feed ? ”
THE BREAKER.
Aboriginalities.
“F.C.”: Re aboriginal surgery, writer
was at Gray’s Kentucky station, near Howlong,
N.S.W., in ’B4. An English medioo was also a
visitor. In those days the blacks were frequent
round that way, and tribal fights sometimes hap-
pened. They did not usually amount to much,
but now and then serious injuries resulted. We
were witnessing one of these ructions once when
a boomerang thrown slashed an opponent across
the abdomen, cutting a long, deep gash. The
man fell rolling on the ground, and when we came
up his entrails were protruding on the sand.
Medico opined that the man must die. It was
almost impossible to attempt anything. Then the
tribal medicine-man took a hand. He went to a
near-by creek, dug up a certain bulbous root,
pounded it up and made therewith a poultice.
This he laid over the replaced entrails, carefully
bringing the skin together, and then bound the
whole, over and under and round, with pliant
strips of the inner gum-bark. In five weeks the
black was walking about, and eventually com-
pletely recovered. We tried to get particulars of
the bulbous root, but the blacks would give no in-
formation.
* * * *
“H.W.C.”: Re phosphorescent horses’
ears. “Chug” confuses fluorescence with phos-
phorescence. The former is light produced by a
substance which reduces or increases the undula-
tions of in visible rays of light (as the ultra blue
rays of the spectrum) and thus makes them visible
to us. Phosphorescence, on the other hand, may
be produced by friction (as in water by fish or by
the rubbing-together of quartz stones in the dark).
The light emitted from horses’ ears is probably
similar to that produced by any fur or hair to
which friction is applied in the dark. Let any-
body comb his own hair (dry weather) with an
ebonite comb. So-called phosphorescence is a
form of static electricity.
* * • *
<t Dear Bulletin.— On a certain N.S.W.
“ bank’’-station, the out-station boundary-riders
are often left a week or more without feed for
their horses. Not a bite of grass. Boundary-
rider expected to pack out meat and rations to
scrub-cutters, and attend to his own work as
usual, on a starving horse ! No man with any
feeling can use a starving horse, but it’s instant
sack otherwise. Suppose it’s no use expecting the
Animals’ Protection people to make note of this-
seeing that, while they’re continually snivelling
over sick dogs, they take no notice of the mon-
strous overloading of the Sydney ’bus-hack.
• • * •
Dear B.— Re turkey-driving. A cocky’s
wife leads a drove into Goulburn sometimes. She
drives a ricketty cart, with a dent on one wheel-
tire, and has a box of corn in the back of the cart,
with a hoop-iron attachment that scrapes along
the tire until it reaches the dent, when out drops
a single grain of corn, a bright look-out for which
keeps the whole flock well up with the cart.—J.T.
■ • • *
“Camiro”: “Raspberry” asks (B.
13/8/9s) for some substitute for the barbarous bul-
lock-yoke. Well, any country saddler should be
able to make collars after style of draughthorse-
gear, which, with hames and chains, have, to
writer’s knowledge, replaced the old-style yoke
advantageously ; the beasts getting far more
power on to the load with same exertion. It’s not
inventiveness that’s lacking, but a revolution in
the natures of bullocky and owner, to whom the
sufferings of the poor brutes, perpetually flogged
and cursed, are of no moment compared to ex-
pense of getting more humane gear. For same
reason, mountain teams may often be seen with
the wretched animals’ hoofs worn almost to the
quick, with, generally, some beasts behind dead-
lame, although any smith can fit a bullock with
shoes as well as a horse. Some of the city fuss
about dog-killing methods, and so on, could be
well applied to the unfortunate working bullock.
* * * *
“ Eko ” : While cycling in the mallee, last
year, passed three girls working a plough; one
guiding nag, second wielding whip, and third
holding plough—all barefoot, and eldest perhaps
14. Leaning over the fence was dad, pipe in
mouth. “ What’s the use of the kids,” he said to
me, “if yer don’t make ’em graft?” Another
time, I called at a selector’s house for a drink, and
saw four strapping lumps of girls, each wearing a
pair of the old man’s pants, busy shearing the
cocky’s midget flock of crossbreds. The old man
was sorting, and his wife was picking-up and
pressing.
* » * *
“D.W.”: Re jackass’s swallowing capa-
city. Have myself seen a tame jackass swallow a
large rat, and walk round for two or three hours
afterwards with the tail hanging out of his mouth
Fact.
Ed. Bulletin. —Take it from me
—kangaroo doesn’t wallop ground with
his tail when galloping any more than
a bear does. Down a mountain is the
only place it touches at all—then it’s
accidental. But going up — never. The
tail is feet from ground, and any yahoo
Who knows a ’roo from a hollow log
must be aware of this. Also ? that thud !
thud ! heard when he’s hopping leisurely
isn’t caused by the tail but by the flat of
the foot, and it’s the only time he goes
on the whole of his feet. When he is
pressed and has it all on, he “gets
down to it,” and springs off and lands
on his toes. ’Roo that has ever had a
tail can’t stand without or get speed up
with it broken (’less break’s near end),
and if your naturalist who, with the
aid of a muzzled dog and a few inches
of beautiful snow, and an eye-glass, and
a nice little paddock with white palings
round it (I suppose) discovered other-
wise, will come with me and shoot the
tail off one, or break it near the butt, I’ll
undertake, for sake of science and old
times, to run down the damaged ’roo
on foot.—Steele Rudd.
* * • *
Some years ago a Queensland tra-
veller related in The Bulletin how he
once found a deserted hut with this
notme on the door: “3 miles from
wood, 5 miles from water, 6 inches from
hell gone to live with my mother-in-
law. That could almost be pasted on
the township of Mossgiel, N.S.W.
Writer has been there four times, and
the coolest day of the four it was 112° in
the shade (beer 2s. 6d. a bottle locally).
Ihe nearest tree is 4 miles away ; the
nearest water, the Willandry, is 7 miles,
though there is a Govt, tank of pea-soup
“ miles out, from which the town
draws its supply. A dose of salts is put
m a 400 gall, tankful, and when allowed
to settle, pans out 300 gals, water, bal-
ance mud.
n • »
Croatsi are a fearful curse about the town-
ships of Central and Northern Queensland. They
flourish on palings, riot on bark, paper, and iron-
fences, and positively grow fat on wooden
SB?! kerosene-tins. Writer once struck a
town all corrugated iron, dust, withered
vegetation, dry bones, and miscellaneous profanity.
here ; he asked a weary old resident, of a
von tU , rn, Tvn Where ’ 8 y° ur scenery? Have
you got any? Did you ever have any?” The
wrmlded old heathen coughed doubtfully a
IT the ? rnnted J ‘‘Used to have sSme
once, but the goats ett it ? **
* • • •
Warrigal ”: He light-emitting horses’
ears. Stookspur ” must have been well swamped
with snake-juice when he saw this thing. Have
watched as many cattle on as many dark wet
mghts as any man, mounted on every shade of
cuddy on the face of the earth, and never saw a
glimmer!
* * * *
P*® ” : When my friend,
r u yne l! ell in ,ove Wlth old Brown’s daughter
e bought a cottage, and then a cow, for prospec-
tive family mi Ik and butter. First time he
started to milk that cow he passed his hand along
her flank, and immediately threw a spirited somer-
sault—with every assistance from the cow. Next
"wk h t e u ated . argument with the animal as to
whether the milk or her hind-leg should go into
the bucket. She settled it by putting in both her
hind-legs. Next,
with a lump of
caked mud on
the end of her
tail, she smote
Strayne a mighty
•smite on the jaw,
but then he tied
the tail round his
waist, and the
milking went a-
head for quite 5
secs., when the
cow suddenly re-
membered an ap-
pointment, and
made off to keep
it, and Strayne
went with her.
As they careered
down street, like
a fire-engine, old
Brown rushed out
to head-them-off,
but just then the
tail gave way and
Strayne stopped
so suddenly that
old Brown, after
gathering him
up, ran off for
some wire to fas-
ten him together again. The yonng lady came
out and looked at Strayne, and, in a cold,
haughty voice, asked if he 'were much hurt. He
replied that, while he was not fatally injured, the
cow would have had to drag him a good deal
further before he would have laughed. Then pa
came along with the wheelbarrow and wheeled
Strayne home. And now the match is off !
* ♦ * *
“Treb.” : Re bunyips. On the Murmm-
bidgee in 53 I was in the saddle for the second
night-watch when I heard a row down towards the
river. Afraid that some beast had strayed from
the mob, I set off, and was on to the bunyip—for
that s what it was—almost before he knew. I
couldn’t stop, so I brought my whip down crack
on to his rump, and he was the most surprised
bunyip there ever was. For a moment I thought
he d go for me ; then, with a slow, clumsy move-
ment, he turned, lumbered off to the river, and
plunged in. Not a bit like a Newfoundland dog-
more like a half-grown calf ; only bigger in the
barrel and. shorter in the legs. Apparently not
very formidable at all events.
* • • •
“ 0.p.” : The railway arrived here (Finley,
N.S.W.) last week, and beat the Engineer-in-chief
by a neck. A large deputation of townsmen turned
out to broach the big man on the subject of long-
felt wants. Asked to specify, the crowd was
paralysed, until an old resident came to the rescue
with a suggestion that the corner-post of the new
fence, which had made some slight encroachment
on the old road, might be painted white, to pre-
vent the inhabitants from running into it through
force of habit and bad beer. The genial Chief not
only met the demand like a man, but promised to
go one better and paint the whole fence. Where-
upon the deputation made a trail of dust, Hies,
exultation, and aitches to the nearest pub.
m m * *
A tale of Chummy Brown’s conversion.
Brown was never what you could call a heavy
drinker, but he was persistent when he began.
However, he had a clearer idea of his capacity
than most tipplers, and generally pulled up at the
crucial moment, so that never in his life had he
seen things that were not. Consequently when
he awoke one Sunday after a two-days’ “ bender,”
he was unspeakably shocked to see his boot run-
ning about the floor of his skillion. Brown took
a tight grip of the bunk with his right hand,
rubbed his eyes with his left, and looked again.
Sure enough, there was the boot cavorting around
on its own.” As Chum, gazed the perambulat-
ing hoof-case became stationary, and then out of
it bobbed a mouse, then another; a third and
fourth sprang out and scampered along the floor.
These were followed by a blood - red frog,
and after that flirted a pink lizard. At
this Brown fetched a yell, and springing from
the bunk kicked the boot across the room,
and fled down the horse-tram to the shop of
Evans, the chemist. Chummy subsequently
joined the local Band of Hope, and became a
shining light of temperance, and often recounted,
with horror, the story of the mice and the bloated,
blood-red frog. And yet it was a simple triok :
the boys under the skillion worked the boot along
a crack in the floor with a stick—having first
awakened the sleeper—and then, when the hole in
the bottom of the blucher corresponded with a
knot-hole in one of the flooring-boards, they
liberated their mice up through the aperture ;
ditto the lizard and the frog, steeped in red ink
for the ocoasion.
• • • •
Dear Bulletin. — Re the jackass and snake.
“ Fivecorners’ ” bird must have been of ante-
diluvian proportions, or else the “ snake ” was
merely a big worm. I have four tame “ jackies ”
which roam about a large garden and occasionally
catch lizards, but they have never been known to
swallow even an Bin. lizard under a couple of
hours, and that after much battering of reptile on
ground.— Warrigal.
* * » •
“ Gippslander ” : Re “ Snell’s ” statement
(B_. 16/7/98) that “the only noises the wretched
things (lyre-birds) uttered at night were horribly
suggestive of murder.” I have spent years in the
home of the lyre-birds, and never knew them to
call at night. Their time for whistling is about
10 a.m. and 3 p.m.
* » * *
Notice in W.A. hotel bathroom: “ Bathers
are requested not to remove plug. Waste water
required for camels, etc.” On investigation,
“ etc.” proved to be washing of cooking-utensils.
• * • *
“ Mattie Worris ” : Recent Sydney D.T. :
With a view to reviving old memories, Mr. John Olds,
a miner, who has returned to Cargo, arranged to give a
free ball and supper there three nights in succession. No
expense was spared, and the affair took splendidly.
My colonial ! Revives memories in me of a public
school picnic in Ballina district in the good old
cedar days. It lasted three days and two nights.
Consumed -849 worth of grog, nearly all rum, and
OVERHEARD IN A PUB.
LOAFER : “Hullo, boss ; what’s matter? ”
BOSS: “ Indigestion
L.: “ Try some chalk.”
B. : "Chalk! Chalk he hanged! I've had enough
chalk from you already—look at the slate.”
£> J 1 O
ST
THEVIO
.l||ji||j|sß > ZE6BMEDA^M)^
[P AP.sor^
aHORCESTERs^
fßonTh t 's2-'Htci?s
'*,„„ tURRIES
'SsmsssgSi
■»* Fll ! IHHtTEB mi.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract 01 Malt


Answers to Correspondents.
I—General
Booth.
2 — Mascagni.
3 — Gounod.
4 Verdi.
5—August Manns.
6 Wagner.
7 — Dan Godfrey.
LIGHTNING- CHANGE ARTIST BIONDI ,
at Sydney Tivoli.
8—Biondi as him-
self.
9—Abbe Liszt.
10 — Strauss.
11 — Bellini.
12— Donizetti.
13— Suppe.
14—Arthur Sullivan.
2 to notice will betaken o.f communications insufficiently
stamped,. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
*«* an y Province) accompany.
quarrelled about the ownership of a baby, and
had a smart set-to, the unfortunate kid being used
as a weapon. When the teacher came on the
'scene, he was sufficiently sober to remember
Solomon’s decision in a similar case, and, taking
infant he said “Now you, Bridgit O’Hooli-
ean spake t’ th’ choild an’ see if she do recoognise
ye!” Bridget spoke with difficulty, but the child
had no difficulty in not recognising her as mother.
Same plan was tried with the other woman, and
f inst then a black fri.n appeared and
failed, but just then a DiacK gm appeaieu, aim
the teacher handed her the baby and cleared.
* * * *
“ Aiax ” • i2e women working ; once on
Great Western Road, not 100 miles
ney, I met a tinker m his cart going down a
steep pinch, g-mile long; and fastened to axle was
a chain, to the other end of which an old woman
was clinging by way of a brake.
* • • •
Dear BULLETIN —When (in B. 26/2/’9B) I
Dear BULLETIN. vv lieu yii / / 1
innocently mentioned that the roo, when on tne
move, doesn’t use his tail as a spring-board, but
merely as a balance-pole, I didn’t know it was
loaded or perhaps I should have hesitated about
niacins' so much free education where it is appar-
placing so iuuui ueo M , . Vantrarno has
ently badly wanted Mother s pet kangaroo has
just been laid sadly to rest in the family-vault,
having been simply “shood to death by every
recent visitor to our selection, and having, before
negging-out. done just on 160,000 miles without so
much as knocking the dust from his tail. In fact,
. d ruithing but
people up this way have \ al K ed ™ "? in^ UC
“’roo -jumping for the past six months. ULP
Man.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—You’ve had jackass and
1 K.nnmr nnfl nnrkcr and cat ad lib but
snake, and bunny, and porker ana oau aa. uu., uui
can any of your naturalists by appointment
give us a wrinkle about a beast or bird that win
satisfactorily supply the over-rated pussy s place
as a rat-destroyer ? That interesting quadruped
is one of life’s chief burdens up this way. And,
h ,I’a Vieennip of the Indian mongoose ’
apropos—what s become ot the Indian mongo se
—E.H.W.
* *. . . , , ,
“ H.8.P.” : Driving into a bush town-
shiD about three days before annual races, met a
irmn literally covered with flies. Told me he had
inan Ii ..■ *y ~ .., l u a( j
been paid to get at one of the.horses but naa
lieen caught in the act, and the pus 11 _ nau
rolled him in fat, then in sawdust, and lastly in
treacle and booted him out of town. He was
making his way to the nearest creek, about |-mile
in clothes and all.
away, to plunge in, ciocnes „
~ ~ • •
“ Malle reminiscences on lasmanian
liobbydom :
The police do have a good time in the Isle of Grim
Remembrance. Writer was in Hobart as a boy, and
one Sunday a bobby he’d met asked him if he liked straw-
berries. Said be, “ There’s beauties at Johnson’s—acres
of’em inst ripe. They’ll be all gone to church to-night,
except the old people. They don’t keep a dog, and if
thev hear you they’ll send for me, and I won’t run a
hi!.’’ He recounted how he once dropped on two boys
li"htiu". cutoff their retreat, and said, “ ‘ Now, just you
A, ahead, and I’ll lock up the one that gives it best.’ The
Uovs waded in, and presently, when one of ’em wanted to
cave t said,‘Thev might let you off with a month.’ Then
thcv’he«'an again,' but the same one cried go after another
round. ~‘ Poor little asterisk !’ says I, ‘if I take you to
court with that face you’ll get three months, sure’; hut
it was no good. I could have heaved him off the wharf
and he wouldn’t have put up his dukes again ; so I told
him I'd let him off this time for the sake of his big sister.’
F.F.K. : Bit involved for illustration E.M.
(M.L.) : You say “ No less a critic than Sir Robert Stout”
approved it. Alas ! R. Stout’s poetical ways are .not
our ways, nor his thoughts our thoughts. .....F. O’F. :
Trust it has gone to a better world. Anyway, it has gone.
Lampooner : Wish we could put the poet along with
the poem. .A.W.11. : Declined gladly E.A. : May
pass ; but why is poor Venus “ foul ” ? J.C.H. :If you
want your copy read, make it readable. A thin ink-
straggle over a dozen quarto pages has Buckley’s show.
p.K. : Kindly take it down the backyard and wring
its neck Eleanor (M.L.) : Your cordial recognition of
your own unknown talent is impressive Bushy: We
more than half agree with you. Since Bulletin par.
was written, Griffith, M.L.A., has amended his motion,
and asks for a commission on the Suffield case “ forth-
with.” And his motion is carefully set down for hearing
when? On Oct. 25, two days after Suffield comes
out! If half the members of N.S. W. Assembly weren’t
miserable time-servers and Government sycophants,
Suffield would have had his enquiry long ago.
This paper has done all that a paper can do
without going into Parliament itself J.P. : Thanks
...Marion M. : “ Two ” is now four—pieces
Thos. McLean: Will devote as desired. Have you
noted numbers —-27914-5 —for we won’t see lists R.
(Thursday I.): The Bulletin will publish Brady’s book of
verses about the end of the year F. 0.5.: Insufficient
novelty and force T.O.F. (M.L.): Regretfully judge
not grit enough.... Constance : You say the M.L. Parlia-
mentarv reporters hunt lady dittoes out of press gallery.
Shocking ! But is there nothing to say on the other side ?
Pegasus (M.): Will read Yellow Ag .- To hand
A.N.A.: “ Anglo-Australian ” was interesting ; you aren’t.
Bulletin is always ready to give the other side,
but it must be made lively Old Dan: Labored
lie .... .Arch M. : Can’t encourage such _ battles:
space forbids Eo: 7000 miles of public roads
have been fenced into Vic. squattages anyhow.
R. Hartley: Too weak for direct reproduction;
will re-draw Bungarra : Thanks . Eomato : Why, the
Canadian Govt, charges a royalty of twenty per cent, on
Klondyke gold J. Fairnie : Will print “Worth it ’
but much doctored The Reefer : Too laborious
Meviobo : But tell us—who is “ that notable Australian,
Mr. W. G. L. Showers”? . ..K.K. : “All criminologists
acknowledge that sexual laxity in a woman indicates
entire absence of the moral sense.” Rubbish ! Some
criminologists think promiscuous sexual-tendency_ in
woman is a degenerative character, involving congenital
moral aberration Kekekerex Koax : Glad to hear from
you again, but will let that screed go J.T.A. (Q.):
Probably loaded Coro: In a word, whom the Law
hath joined, let no man put asunder ! .... Diorite : Will
just do .. J.M.Y. : The form of your question suffices to
show that you have no earthly chance of writing any-
thing likely to be acceptable B.L.W. : Thanks; but
that Bulletin poem was nothing to “ blow” about. Not
proud enough of it to reprint 6x 8 : “Lachlan J.
will print .. .Sewarra : Buy the rights of a mummifying
process. Booh ! Anyone can make a mummy with a bifif
syringe and a few shillings’-worth of chemicals. And
who wants to make mummies, anyhow? It is cremation,
not mummification, which is coming along all the tune.
A.J.B. : You send us your bare say-so about the
attempted job—no prospectus, no newspaper advts., or
anything—and calmly expect us to denounce a person
with whom we are utterly unacquainted and who, for
all we know, may be a brother-in-law of the archangel
Michael C.P. : Hints excellent. Address, please
J.E. : Fire away ! Amuses you, and doesn’t hurt us !
Mirracri",va : Acceptable Gerard: Five pages to say
that'the blackfellow douched his inebriated consort .....
H.E. (Brisb.): None of any value Thos. M‘G. : Not
dealt with yet A.N.A. : Don’t want to “poll-axe
modesty like yours..... Ben : Name been suggested before.
Non Est: Well, it isn’t J.H.R. (W.A.): ljcol.
of what should have gone into a decent-sized paragraph...
Munca : Ideas, perhaps, for illustration H.W.R.: The
letter was signed by girls only as a protest against the
Argus suggestion that the “ Professor had insulted their
womanhood,” or “shocked their sex,” or something
equally absurd. As for the male pupils, it has been re-
corded that some of them talked about “laying down
their lives” for their musical deity Pig’s Cheek : Joke
old Mao. :The Biondi business you object to is worked
in two instances only ; and in one instance it is known to
belong to the character Embryo : Thanks H.L.G.:
Name and address. Tells us, please, are those children’s
rhymes original? “Morning Star” story : Name and
address? Windorah : Type-written. Also, type-
written Kam : But when he said she wasn’t “nice,” he
spoke in a Pickwickian, or rather in aßurdekinian, sense.
Blacksmith : We note your criticisms on the allegedly
ornamental gates and ironwork generally of the new
Sydney markets Ban. : Criminal libel in every line of
the medical-extract verses. Harry Monck : Only one of
that lot can possibly serve. .... E. Carvosso : Bulletin
regretfully admits that it has received no glittering
suggestions for a name for the Federal capital C.W. :
But the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners will not be
allowed to take Hyde Park, Sydney, for a central station.
T.P.B. : Mr. G. D. Clark talks pure bosh about
alcohol being useless as a medicine. Alcohol, pro-
perly used, is just about the king of all medi-
cines. The human race has yelled this out with a loud
voice from the days of Noah—and it is still yelling it.
E.R.A. : A grotesque advt., but the world would see in it
tears as well as smiles... .Casa : How can a 6d. restaurant
possibly give its customers butter at present prices ?
Ellow : But then, you see, the worst form of debtor a
man can have is “ a gentleman.” He is so cursedly
smooth-tongued ... Mendo : Bulletin wants facts and
points more than elaborate “ style.” It cannot always
undertake to extract needles from bundles of hay
M‘G. : How many years do you think we’d get for
publishing that “Payment in Kindness” item?
J.L.F. : “Current”-and-raisin’-joke ancique. Yarn will
do R.A.S. :No story in it .... Met: Not “ well-met.”
2l: Humorous but crude F.K. : “ Bar,” too
bumpy. “Susan,” too slight. “On the Track,” not
quite up, Also, collective heading is already speciality
of Bulletin contributor, “E.S.S.”. Yang A. :
“ Poonai,” not finish enough. Be “ Jailer,” please call.
D.L.: A sparkle here-and-there on the dullness
Yarrum : Bull-pup-gag palseozio .... S.D.O. : Very dry
hash ! Rats : Long and weary Cosmos : “Woman’s
Way,” not our way Lance L. : Stiffness without
strength Evan : Sd/iouetto-work needs a defter hand.
J.F.H. : You “ purpose more of it ? ” Rash
man, refrain! .Mak-Nax : Unmitigated bosh!
T.Q.R.: “ Inscrutable ” doubtful; “ Maroubra ” not badly
done, but climax weak 6xB: Will use slang F.L V
(M.L.): Received : will write Takapuna : Thanks
Kangaroo : You confounded the Aboriginalities column
by leaping right out of the office on the strength of your
tale L. 0.: “ 8.M.C.” declined ... ,P.J.S. (Adavale): No
use in present form ; but, if you like, we’ll try and get it
re-written by a more skilful hand ... . F. D.S.: Declined.. ..
Burns’s Mate: Burns says you lie F.Q. : Very small
rhyme in very short frocks W.S. : No value .....
Neva : Would make grand ballast W.L. {Bris-
bane): Fairly handled; but idea and plan archaic.
J. Jingle: The diseased-meat-and-milk question isn’t
pleasant, but it is one which concerns the very founda-
tions of life. And so The Bulletin has pegged away at
it for years —with excellent results Eddo: Most unin-
viting copy. Bad ink, bad paper, hideous, microscopic
scrawl —and no necessity for any of these things, accord-
ing to your own showing. We are all nearly blind
J.F.D.: “One person has, and can only rightly use, one
surname.” Nonsense! Nothing, except possible incon-
venience, to prevent a man from assuming as many sur-
names as he pleases. There is property in names of
things—none in those of persons Boweroo : Not
worth while W.H.P. : Caustic, but clumsy
H. R. M‘o.: “ Hope ” mildly meritorious. Other two
may use W.A. : Funny enough, but would require
too much patching. Benvolio : Beaten “on the post.”
Semper S. : Well-written, but hardly interest enough.
“Onlys”: “Claz” unequal Ermo: Well enough
done, but lacks novelty Funky : Right stamp of
handling, but not yet strong enough. Djali: Decent
verse, but not much in it F.A.L.B. : ineffective use
of effective situation.. .....F.M.N. : May use Baltna
Some skill, but too thin in texture. Hush V. .No in
sDiration S H.S. : May do—with a touch to last verse.
P G.B :"ldea good, but no skill in presentation
mu (a: Very crude work.
Received by a N.S.W. State school teacher
on back of an absentee notice . ..
Dear Sir, Marton cod not cume to schul becase he had
hopping-coff and was bad in his insid.
Besides Premier Reid, only one man in
Australia wears a single eye-glass with kood effect
and that is “ Bob” Burrowes, ex-governor of Melb.
gaol and Vic.’s newly-appointed P.M. .Burrowes
monocle was a source of wonder to every new
prisoner who entered and many are those who
have had reason to regret hasty sarcasms burled
at the man who deceivingly wore what is considered
the hall-mark of imbecility. Despite his recent
utterances re severity of treatment, Burrowes was
a first-class man for the position, an earnest
student of criminology, and one who erred, if any-
thing, on the side of humanity. While he certainly
favors flogging the human brute and making the
State a brute at the same time, Burrowes is dead
against the indiscriminate lashing served out at
the present; and considers that perverted-sexual
offenders, who constitute nine-tenths of the
floggees, should be treated as the lunatics they un-
doubtedly are. First offenders, his experience at
Melb. gaol tells him, should be the subjects of
lenience; “but,” he concluded his valedictory
speech the other day, “ with the man who has been
convicted at least five times and who,, caring for
neither himself nor others, robs people and
assaults them in a brutal manner—there is no
way to deal but by interminable sentences.”
This photo, of Charles Kenningham (Wil-
liamson and Musgrove’s new tenor) show him as
Marco in the “ Gondoliers ’’—represents him as
the harmless, necessary tenor as distinguished
from Charles himself. He came to the stage via
the church via the army. Eleven years ago, as a
12st. 71b. dragoon, he forsook the regiment for the
choir ; but four years as solo tenor in Canterbury
Cathedral thinned the 12st. 71b. soldier down to a
feeble 9st. 71b. civilian. He was forced, therefore,
to risk the good of his soul for the good of his
body ; forsook the Cathedral for the theatre ; and
regained his well-being to the amount of lljst.
He was principal tenor at the Savoy Theatre for
nearly seven years, and his Australian engage-
ment is for 12 months. He intends at its expira-
tion to do some more forsaking—this time, the
stage for the concert-patform; for more money,
less work, less voice-injury. Comic opera, he
says, is more arduous than active service, while
the atmosphere of the theatre is detrimental to the
voice. He was Dorothy Vane’s first London stage
sweetheart—in “Haddon Hall”; sh,e was his
Dorcas, he was her Oswald. The ,pair, with
their life and go, are the soul of the pre-
sent company. As a dragoon, Kenningham
fought at Tel-el-Kebir and at Kassassin. He
shared in the Kassassin cavalry charge; his recol-
lections of it are few and vivid, like lightning-
flashes in a night-storm: “First a most deadly
feeling of funk ; next the moon shining bright as
day ; then the consciousness that I was one of an
immense number of men and horses galloping
‘ hell-for-leather ’ down-hill; the enemy, there,
where the flashes burst from the earth; the
thought-shock that any one of those flashes may
HAS. KENN INGHAM, as Marco, in 11 The
Gondoliers
Photo., Stump & Co., Adelaide.
bring me or my horse down ; a blur, an oblivion ;
slashes everywhere; and out of the blur, the
oblivion, the ghastly white face of an Arab riding
at me with upraised scimitar; the parry, the
stroke, the instant perception that the Arab was
no swordsman, the feint, the slash, and the scrunch
of my horse’s hoof upon the face of the Arab-
that is the horrible thing I never let myself think
about—ugh !"
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
3 MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
X
Soft Cai) VaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per 14-clozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. VI Kh JillU i
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk-


THE MODERN MERCIA AND THE SIRENS— THE . MAID AIJD THE MONGOL
Three more young ludy mis notaries for China are leaving Melbourne this uxek.


The Disarmament Proposal.
MONEY LEANT
ON EVERY DES-
CRIDTION OF
PROPERTY
- r Another thick fog enveloped the city and harbor
early yesterday, causing the usual lneonvenienpes
common to these recent visitations.
The latest "safe" seat for’the onO-
, time Federal leader Is Robertson, whose mem-
ber, Mr. R. O. D. Fitzgerald, has for some years:'
successfully defied* opponents.
M
s ce AA/r 2)
Opinion in London commercial circles Is
not optimistic, however, and the Gzar’s pro-
posal is attributed to the embarrassed eco-
nomic condition of Russia. It is also suspect-
ed of being a mere attempt to allay suspicion
preparatory to heavy borrowing in connec-
tion with Russian schemes in the Far East.
Sfi?? Jefunjy f Russia fcct/i/*'*? f'r
et'x/ ") o'-cffrhr
/a/jf o/m^
yt/rj scc,rJf ',n s - ' Mu
a*c( fo oftfrafeb Cap*tc(a.tcs J
~ Air "Jccttujf- s£ey *s-<r Sa 3 *
<y 7 7fer 4 eft/tefej
Mr. Cook considers that inoculation is the
tiue safeguard against the tick, and hopesi
in a few weeks to be able to give some defi-
nite information respecting the experiments
now i.rv progress at Norfh Head. Stijl, he.
considers that the commopsense methexj’ is
to ke£p the disease out, and particular atten-
tion will be paid to the buffer area to pre-
vent infected cattle passing southward and
"carrying the plajjue with .them.
fycac/ty A Critic -
//~ 77 /j ou.r l CLfr»y a-P {pa- "
~yf- S• tijC~ /7/-/sy/~ Tp'f'Q<i7~ $ P /j //~ j*
<7 a.c/ a. y <x. // sTh- f~,
e «/cT 5~/a.*yJt. /ft for
~7<> ?£? <foct- /ear/p* < foS?rt ? tje*f<ij4
fy/i a 7/cfo
/ .' € ) f p sa/})/70~ 0/ /je A<*rs. JpuT?) Anitas
f>%frc,aj faojT/zy cc^Jed
CARTOON LETS.


In the early Fifties there was much cattle-
duffing about -the Vic. goldfields. One morning
as a youngster was riding into a certain township
whose glory has long departed, he passed a local
butcher’s slaughtering-shed. Saw a beast killed,
which he recognised. “ Why, Mr. he
cried, “ that’s father’s cow ! ” The butoher didn’t
flinch. “ That’s all right, sonny,” said he—
“ bought it for =£lo. Fine day, isn’t it ? ” The
boy rode on. The butcher watched him out of
sight, and then mounted his horse and sought the
owner of the cow. Managed to buy it for a
tenner. When the boy got home he mentioned
the matter, and the old man reckoned things up.
And next day he went off to the butcher. “ I
want another tenner, Blank,” said he—“ that
bargain was ante-dated by you. And then there’s
my conscience, and yours —see ! ” The butcher
“parted.” He afterwards became a great man.
One of his maxims as a politician was—“ Make
sure of your cow.” His friends used to think that
this was an old-country-folk saying. As a fact, it
was the echo of a sinister memory.
A photo, was rather familiar, 20 years
ago, of Pauline Lucca and Bismarck, and eaused
much scandal, the clerical party terming the lady
a “Bathsheba of the opera.” Bismarck was
trapped in the matter, buo had nothing to be
ashamed of. Many thousands were Bold, and
some reached Australia.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
“ H.G. J. " : j ße killing by explosives.
Was schnapper-fishingoff Granite Island, Port Vio-
tor, during making of breakwater, and was land-
ing fish freely when bites suddenly ceased. Sus-
pecting shark we pulled ashore, got lib. dyna-
mite and 6in. of fuse, which we Btowed-away in-
side a 91b. schnapper. Returned to fishing-
ground, and, when a 16-footer passed under our
stern, out went the bait and was greedily swal-
lowed. Result : terrific thump down below and
surface covered with hunks of shark from the size
of a billy-lid to that of a side of bacon.
LATEST LONDON DESIGNS
Gold BELL and CHAIN BROOCH, 12a Bd.
iiliiiilb
Real Ruby or Sapphire BROOCH,
15c., 18s 6d ; 90., 13s 6d.
Our GOLD NOVKiVi'iT BROOCH, 20s.
With Octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
llililo||*
Oil
Mi
GOLD 2-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
90., 10s 6d; 160., 17s 6d.
Gold HEART and CHAIN BROOCH, 0s Cd.
Gold BUCKLE 2-BAR BROOCH, Pearls and
Red or Blue Stones, 17s'6d.
Lucky 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
10s each.
Beal Amethyst
HEART
PENDANT,
S/6 each.
Beal Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK,
Very Pretty and
Useful,
ts 6d eaots.
GOLD AMETHYST HEART BROOCH,
13s ed.
13c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 265.;
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set with Red
Blue Stones, 12s.
m
Gold S-Bar PEARL BROOCH.
oa, Us; lfia, 2256 d.
HEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s M.
Pearl and Ruby or Sapphire*
00., 12s 0d ; 16a, 21s,
Gold and Amethyst SHAMROCK,
Lucky Wishbone Brooch, 3Ue.
Gold Name or Motto BROOCH, 8s 6dj
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hope and Charity
PENDANT, 6s each.
With Pin and Chain, 8/S
New Rustic Bar, Ivy and Gold Pearl Set
BIRD BROOCH, 13s 6d.
Gold IVY BAR BROOCH, 10b Cd.
With Looped Chain to Heart.
Please send for our Illustrated Slips of Vtrj Latest London Novelties—POST FREE.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY:
The ||nion Bank of flustralia, [imited,
71 CORNHILL, LONDON, E.O.
Report of the 60th Animal General Meeting of the Proprietors,
HELD ON THE 25th JULY, 1898.
MR. ARTHUR FLOWER IN THE CHAIR.
Mr. W. R. Mewburn (the Manager) having read the advertisement calling the Meeting, the following Report of the
Directors and the Statement of Accounts were taken as read:—
“ The Directors have to submit to the shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet of the Bank to the 28th February
last, duly audited, which exhibits a net amount of profits—inclusive of the balance brought forward from previous
half-year—of £72,199 9s. 4d. Out of this amount the Directors have decided to apply £lO,OOO in reduction of Bank
Premises Account in the Colonies, and £37,500 to a dividend at the rate of Five per cent, per annum, equal to 12s. 6d.
per share, which will leave £24,699 9s. 4d. to be carried forward. The Directors have, as usual, carefully investigated
the business of the Bank, and have made what they consider to be sufficient provision for doubtful debts. The
drought referred to at previous meetings of shareholders unfortunately continued with great severity over important
districts of Australia to as late as last month, and has caused heavy losses to pastoralists and agriculturists. The
rains that have since fallen warrant, however, the hope at the present time of a good season generally. Since the
last meeting of shareholders a branch of the Bank has been opened at Pittsworth, in Queensland, and the branch at
Finley, in New South Wales, has been closed. Charles Edward Bright, Esq., 0.M.G., and Sir Robert George Wyndham
Herbert, G.C.8., are the Directors who retire by rotation, in accordance with the Deed of Settlement, and they now
offer themselves for re-election. The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Whinney, Smith, and Whinney, also retire, and offer
themselves for re-election. The Dividend warrants will be transmitted by post on 27th instant, and the Dividend will
be paid in the Colonies at such date as the General Manager may fix after receipt of telegraphic advice.”
London, 16th July, 1898.
BALANCE-SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1898.
1 LIABILITIES.
Capital .. .. £4,500,000
Less : Reserve Liability 3,000,000
Paid up
Reserved Fund
Invested as per Contra .. £500,000
Balance employed in the busi-
ness of the Bank .. .. 250,000
Contingent Account ..
Circulation
Deposits (including Inscribed Stock De
a. d.
1,500,000
760,000
250,000
456,681
posits
.. 16,226,464 1 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (in-
cluding Reserves held against Doubtful
Debts) 2,457,974 18
Balance of Undivided Profit* 62,199 9
£20,703,319 9 S
ASSETS.
Specie on hand, and Cash Balances
Bullion on hand and in transitu
Money at Call and Short Notice in Lon-
don
Investments :
Consols and other Stocks
of, or guaranteed by,
the Imperial Govern- '
ment .. .. £91,975 10 0
India Government Ster-
ling Stock and Indian
Railway Guaranteed
Stocks .. .. 215,709 0 0
British Municipal and
Colonial and Foreign
Government Stocks
and Debentures .. 300,567 10 I
614,252 0 7
Reserve Fund :
Consols .. £250,000
Local Loans
Imperial Gov-
ernment Stock 160,000
Indian Govern -
ment Sterling
Stock .. 100,000
500,000 0 0
Bills Receivable, Loans, and other Securi-
ties at London Office
Bills Discounted, Bills Receivable, Loans
and other Securities at the Branches
Bank Premises and Pro-
perty in the colonies ..£612,632 1 •
Less :
Amount transferred from
£ s. d.
2,988,064 9 0
86,149 6 1
735,000 0 0
1,114,252 0 7
2,857,826 0 11
12,189,509 16 9
602,632 1 «
129,895 7 10
£20,703,319 9 2
STATEMENT OP PROFITS.
Balance of Undivided Profits at 31st August, 1897
Out of which a Dividend was declared of .. „
'/ Leaving a Balance of .. .. .. .. .. :
Profits of the past Half-Year, after making provision in respect of Bad
Doubtful Debts
.i. Less :
Remuneration to the Local Directors, and Salaries
and Allowances to Colonial Staff .. £72,542 8 5
General Expenses in the Colonies, including Bent,
Taxes, Stationery, &c. .. .. 27,260 10 8
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and Auditors,
Salaries of London Office Staff, Bent, Taxes, Sta-
tionery, and General Expenses .. .. .. 14,472 15 2
Income Tax ... .. .. .. .. 936 17 8
£ s. d.
62,003 1 10
37,500 0 0
24,503 1 10
£102,916 5 0
115,218 17 0 47,696 7 t
Deduct: 72,199 9 4
Amount transferred to Bank Premises and Property
in the Colonies ... .. .. .. _ _ _ .. 10,000 0 0
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date
. £62,199 9 4
London, 14th July, 1898.
ARTHUR FLOWER
C. A. GALTON
W. B. PERCEVAL
Directors.
W. R. MEWBURN, Manager.
T. O. O. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
tVe beg to report that we have verified the Cash, Investments, Bills of Exchange, and other Assets in London,
and have had access to the Accounts sent to London from the various Branches in the Colonies, and having examined
the same and the books and accounts of the London Office, we are of opinion that the above Balance-Sheet is a full
and fair Balance-Sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs as shown by the Books of the Company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHINNEY
(Chartered Accountants),
- Auditors.
S<3
...
11 1 :!:;
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL.
COLLINS STREET WEST,
MELBOURNE.
(Situate Close to Stations, Steamers , and Centre of City).
This magnificent Hotel is replete with every modern convenience. It offers
a greater variety of accommodation than any hotel in the world.
CATERIIVG.
PUBLIC DINING HALL (on Ground FIoor).—MEALS SERVED a la Carte, from Is.
FAMILY DINING HALL (on First FIoor).—TABLE D’HOTE, BREAKFAST, LUNCH
or DINNER, 2s. 6d. (open to non-residents).
CAFE (on Ground Floor).—OPEN ALL HOURS, DAY AND NIGHT.
ACCOMMODATION.
ROOMS ONLY can be BOOKED at from 2s. to ss. per day for Single, and 4s. to 10s. foi
Double—according to floor. MEALS as required.
BOARDERS (inclusive of Three Meals per Day, Attendance, Hot or Cold Baths, Storage of
Luggage, <fcc.) —From 255. to <£3 3s. per Week, according to accommodation selected
Electric Light in every Room.


The QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS
are now open.
rrHE CITIZENS of Svdney are politely informed that
1 the following FIRMS are NOW CARRYING ON
BUSINESS in the QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS,
GEORGE! ST., SYDNEY.
No. L—Thh Singer Manufacturing Company.
3 and 4.— Thomas Bergin, Wholesale and Retail Tobac-
conist.
A-Frame & Co., Hatters and Mercers.
” o.— Thomas Dowling, Boots and Shoes.
” 7.—the Bijou ; Toys, Dolls, and Baskets.
” si— M. Goclston, the Well-known Tailor.
" 9.—R. E. Blanchard, Bookseller and Stationer.
” io.— The Newmarket Mercer.
’ ii —T. Carter, Fruiterer and Confectioner.
” 44, and 45.— Stanley & Co., Fruiterers and Ship-
’ ping Provedores.
15. A. Kopb, Ladies’ Emporium.
_ 14.— Reubin Hbrrod, Fruiterer and Confectioner.
" 15,— Quong Tart, Tea Rooms, Confectionery, &c.
16. —Quong Tart, Wholesale and Retail Tea Depot.
” 20.—Queen Victoria Pharmacy, Dentist and Chemist.
21.—S. Rowley, Sewing Machine Importer.
~ 22.— Beehive Tailor & Mercer (S. M. Canton, M’n’g’r).
„ 23.—5. M. Hewitt, Fancy Glass and China-ware.
25.— Pattinson’s Drug Stores.
„ 26.— Wylie’s (Abel & Co.) Tea Rooms.
27.—M. Nathan, Tailor and Outfitter.
„ 39.— M. P. Roarty, Hair Dresser and Wigmaker.
„ 40.— Edward Atkins, Jun., Florist.
tt 41.—P. Offer, Job Printer, Rubber Stamps.
„ 43.— Madame Satanella, Palmiste.
„ 63.—M. Cohen, Novelties in Toys.
„ 66.— Paul Ferris, Palmist and Phrenologist.
Well-lighted Shops. Goods of the Latest Style. Prices
Lowest in the City. The most magnificent Promenade in
Australia. Room for Thousands.
LIF€BUOy
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
DESTROYS INFECTION, IS USEFUL and
ECONOMICAL for ALL PURPOSES.
LIFEBUOY SOAP.
A Doctor’s Opinion:
“ We cannot overrate the value of clean-
liness of person, that is, clothes and
body ... to avert siokness and main-
tain the body in health, such a soap as
LIFEBUOY SOAP is beyond all
praise ; its softness and purity must
oommend it to all.
“ Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N.
LIFEBUOY SOAP
can be Purchased from
ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
WHOLESALE FROM
LEVER BROS., Ltd., Sydney j
BRABANT & CO., Brisbane;
WALTER REID & CO., Ltd., Rockhampton j
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Townsville.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
‘ffieeffim’s
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS,
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham.
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
In M.L. recently, a young man charged
with being three weeks in arrear with a payment
of Is. 6d. a week towards the support of his
mother, had the amount reduced by a considerate
bench to Is. a week ; but in another case, where
the defaulting son was six weeks behind, th e
beak, to assist him to get square, gave him a
month’s “ hard ” —at end of which not only will
he be so much the more in arrear, but will, with
the gaol taint on him, find it harder than ever to
get work. In another town a person summoned
for letting his father starve made excuse that he
was studying for the ministry, and wanted all his
money for religious hooks l When poor pagan
Cornelia pointed to her sons as the brightest
jewels in the crown of motherhood, she little
dreamt of the brand of filial devotion that was to
grow up under the Light that Fails every time it
comes in contact with the dollars.
“Melb.”: One of our shopkeepers, an I
enthusiastic religionist, shows in his window a ]
news-extract re Jonah. The statement is that
James Bartley, A. 8., was swallowed by a whale
at the Falkland Isles, Feb., 1891, and out alive
out of its stomach by his comrades. He had only
been driven half crazy by the terrific heat.
Dan was a remarkable Irishman. A wood-
carter, lacking education, he had nevertheless
contrived to stow away many scraps of informa-
tion about Irish history and wrongs. He had a
bitter hatred of the Sassanach, and when drunk
was very violent, and heaped tons of abuse on his
Fnglish foes. He much frequented a Brisbane
suburb where there were many Chinese gardeners,
who all feared him. While orating from his
wood-cart one day, Dan observed a Chinese
slinking by him and felt called upon to re-assure
him. “ John, don’t be afraid,” said Dan, “ I’m a
foreigner myself. ”
HICK SIMMONS.
NEW DEPARTURE. CASH TRADE ONLY.
All Sporting Materials at Lowest Cut Prices.
oricke landown, it m t s?% T 2ffei? o s^Sk^ iTTLEs '
Cricketing Gtooc3l3 Auatrali®.
NEW SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’ All-Cane Handle, 4/-,
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9,
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-Cane Handle
„ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International)
„ Bryant’s Men’s All-Cane Handle (President)
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-Cane Handle
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Reperousive)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s6d, 7s6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
„ Full Size
TAN LEO GUARDS.—Youths’
„ Men’s
„ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d; ditto Match ...
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
„ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in two pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d,
„ With pegs, runners, &c. &c. 40s, 50s,
7s,
9s 6d,
6s,
6s, 7s 9d,
4/9, 5/6
4/-, 4/6
11s 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
, 9s 6d
12s 6d
18s Od
6s 6d
7s
12s
12s
4s
6s
9s
10s
6s
6s
4a
80s
208
60s
OOP © CO © O O C 5 0 05050'
Q*o*Qi Q* Q-> CL Q* Q. Cu
109
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-Cane Handle, 68 6d, 88 6d,
„ Feltham’s ditto
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special)
~ Lilly white’s All-Cane Handle ...
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic)
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto .. 0/8, 9/0, 10/6,
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller)
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver)
~ Dark & Sons’ Patent Cork-Cased Handle ...
„ Dark & Sons’ All-Cane Handle
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, per pair
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ...
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs) per pair...
„ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ...
BATTING GLOVES 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
„ Surrey Shields
ABDOMINAL GUARDS ... ...
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d,
BALLS.—Wisden's Special Crown ...
Compo. —Nicholson's, 3s 6d; Eclipse
„ Match, 6Joz., Is ; Boys’ ... 3d, 4d, 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
Youths’, 4s, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 6s 6d; Men’s, 8/3,10/6, 12/6
Youths’ Cane-Handle Bat, Compo Ball,
and Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-Handle Bat, Leather Ball,
Brass-bound Steel-shod Stumps ... 16sOd
10s
16s
15s
12s
16s
16s
16s
9s
10s
6s
7s
2s
6s Od
2s Od
C»c»oocssp«>oosogso>osoioiojoaos
A VISIT to OUR NEW AND COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st,, 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers,
Sb?ep Braodiog Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
OASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxatives.
SAVAR’SGUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Reader. man Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale s OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. V.'
n
(yio 0
L
r
-J-
-m
V
GUINEA- ,
Jr GOLD
Cigarettes
M*C.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar KTone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you.’
Read this letter and Try fob Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joeephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any otner medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’— =—
—- Buchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chroruo
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them -
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not .i <1
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness. .
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. —It is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows:
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
rr ' r "" r vassal
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE
It cannot harm you, but must do gooa to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW &. CO.,
Sydney.


POLITICAL
POINTS
u ggosted names for the Federal capital
—Wriggleton, Wantford, Wait-a-While, How-
°r Nevertire. The latter three are tovvns in
N.S.W., and should find favor with the Reid
crowd.
Q. Parliament waxes desperate over the
alien question. Minister Foxton, in reply to
Sim’s demand for legislation effective enough to
check Chinese irruptions, ejaculated savagely,
“Only way is to kill them on the border ! ”
A Bill prescribing mutilation for offences
against young girls is being brought before Yic.
Assembly—and by a journalist. Of all men, a
journalist should be the last to be guilty of the
appalling self-righteousness involved in such a pro-
posal.
For the nrst time on record the debates of
one Australian Parliament are being written up
by special reporters of the dailies of another pro-
vince, the discussion on Reid’s proposed Federal
amendments in Sydney Parliament having drawn
special men from both Melb. Age and Argus.
Solomon, M.P., strives to induce S.A.
Assembly to sanction the continuation of the
northern railway line to Port Darwin on the land-
grant system, Solomon's “catch” provision, in-
tended for the Laborites, is employment of white
labor onlj', but there is a solid majority against all
private schemes.
Premier Reid, in his 3| hours’ speech, the
jeered “ the hysterical impatience for
Federation” manifested by his opponents. And
yet in other parts of the same speech he admitted
that the people have been ready for Federation
for years, and that since 1801 he himself has been
sleeplessly looking for it.
S.A. Full Court has been wrestling with a
deed-of-gift of <£200,000 given just prior to his
death to relatives by millionaire Simms, on
which Govt, claims <£30,000 succession duty. The
cost of the litigation amounts to several thousands
already, but if Govt, wins the case the decision
will affect other wealthy men who think they
have found a loophole in the Act.
Alleged copy of circular received by a
Forbes man and sent to The Bulletin :
Loyal Orange Lodge,
_ _. Sydney, July 18th, 1898.
Dear Sir,—Our people are going to support Mr. Reid
and Labor-party at the coming elections, kindly leave no
stone unturned to secure the return of our good friend
Mr. Holman.—Yours faithfully, , —. k ’
“ Our people ! ”
When Barton went to the country on
the Convention Bill he declared he wouldn’t alter
a line of it,” shrieks Reid, “and now he advo-
cates half-a-dozeu alterations.” And the nobly-
eonsistent George went to the country not long
ago on a Land-tax Bill, declaring that neither a
sentence nor comma should be altered ; but when
the Council made 77 amendments in the measure
George accepted 71 of them.
Dear Bulletin.—About two miles from
Childers (Q.), a kanaka, who has leased a cane-
farm, gives a white (married) horse-driver £1 ss.
per week and double rations—this, of course be-
cause the law does not allow a kanaka not holding
an exemption-ticket to be in charge of a team on a
public thoroughfare. Also, on two out of three
places in the Maryborough and Bundaberg dis-
tr«rirf<^nd whiles employed by kanaka farmers.
—W.H.R.
Member Frank Madden is a source of con-
tinuous joy to the radicals of Yic. Assembly
Speaking on the Plural Voting Abolition Bill, the
other night, lie sent them into paroxysms of
delight by plaintively remarking that “a prin-
ciple which vas so important, and had been
debated in the last 30 years, should not now be
rushed through with unseemly haste.” After the
allusion to 30 years waiting, “ unseemly haste ”
was reckoned good !
Macdonald-Paterson, M.P., the prominent
Q. politician who announced lately that he “ could
not any longer support the Ministry as at present
constituted,” is a pompous parliamentarian of the
old school, who would be a much more acceptable
Premier to the squatter-huckster crowd than Tom-
joe Byrnes. As a man, Mac.-P. is generous
blunt, and voluble ; as a leading politician, he is
ornamental, open-pursed (especially to needy press-
men), and—impossible.
Mining potentate “ Willie ” Knox was
among the illustrious fourteen fatmen who walked
into Vie. Leg. Council the other day withe
opposition. The other thirteen had been the
before under the same easy circumstances, and
Knox was the welcome stranger in their midst.
Unwelcome strangers are not admitted into the
House of 48 Rich Landlords, but a patriot of
the newcomer’s calibre simply knox at the door,
and it is opened unto him.
Caldwell, M.P. (S.A.) agitates for the ap-
pointment of a Standing Committee of Finance,
of five M’s.P., to annually examine public
accounts, and, presumably, to ascertain how the
average surplus is arrived at, and make sure
whether it isn’t really a horrible deficit. Cald-
well’s idea, if properly carried out, would give the
average Treasurer a heavy blow ; but there is no
guarantee that the Standing Committee itself
wouldn’t start “faking” from mere force of
habit.
A proposal for co-operative granaries is
being pushed in Victoria. The Age is urging the
railway department to aid the notion by forthwith
setting about building the necessary sheds in an-
ticipation of a forthcoming season. Apart from
the conveniences of safety and nominal cost, the
receipts for grain deposited in such national
granaries will be a valuable addition to the cur-
rency of the country. The carrying out of the
proposal will be a Socialistic step forward.
Some Chinese residents of Tasmania waited
on Attorney-General Urquhart, the other day, and
placed in his hands a petition against the pro-
visions of the Natal Act for the exclusion of
aliens, now before Parliament. As in duty bound,
Urquhart presented the petition to the House,
whereupon his irate West Coast constituents tele-
graphed their utmost indignation at his “per-
fidious action in championing the cause of the
Chows ” ! West Coasters are evidently learning
to stay awake, a fact so refreshing that their occa-
sional excess of zeal is easily forgiven.
Tasmanian Assembly continues a moth-
ea,ten custom of making a member introducing a
Bill go to the bar of the House, hold up a scrap
of paper, and cry out, “A Bill, sir!” The
Speaker appears surprised, and tells him to “bring
it up,” as if he’d like to see what a Bill really
was. The member, looking very sheepish, walks
up the House, and hands a scrap of paper to the
clerk. The chances are 50 to 1 that it’s not a bill
at all, but a, scrap of paper with the name of a bill
written on it. The other night. Bird appeared at
the bar, and, holding aloft a piece of paper, sang
. out “ A bill ! ” The Speaker didn’t notice him
for a moment, and then Hartuoll yelled out.
“ Bird has a bill ! ”
Coolgardie having gone over to the Govt,
for the consideration of an extra railway, and
other conveniences, Vosper, the long-haired, re-
taliates as per subjoined advt. :
I\/TAGNIFICENT OPPORTUNITY FOR POLITICIANS
IT - L STARTING IN BUSINESS.
MESSRS. JUDAS ISCARIOT AND CO.,
Auctioneers and Brokers,
have pleasure in announcing that they have been favored
with instructions from Sir John Forrest, K.C.M.G. (the
present lessee), to sell the perpetual lease of all that desir-
able piece or parcel of land called
“COOLGARDIE.”
situated on the Eastern Railway, at a short distance from
the flourishing towns of Kalgoorlie and Kanowna.
This valuable Property consists of about 5000 acres
(more or less), and is heavily stocked with
ABOUT 15,000 MIXED INHABITANTS
of various breeds and colors.
This valuable Estate was originally the seat of co-oper-
ative enterprise, but the mines in the vicinity having
been ruined by English capital, the whole was perpetually
leased to Sir John Forrest in consideration of a large sum,
payable on easy terms in public works.
THE INHABITANTS
will be offered as a job-lot along with the Estate, and
consist principally of sharebrokers, deadbrokers, commis-
sion-agents, publicans, and washerwomen, Japanese,
Afghans, camels and other animals. The whole will be
sold absolutely
BODY AND SOUL.
The Estate is offered as a Going or Gone Concern, being
fitted with a mayor and a corporation of extensive
capacity.
About two dozen journalists will be thrown in. All
first-class,' upstanding liars and boomers, being bred by
the late A. Nanias. Esq. The whole have been fed on
SOPS AND PROMISES,
and are in fair condition. All are well broken, thoroughly
trained, and perfectly docile, great care having been
taken to eliminate all those troubled with independent
thought and such-like diseases. A large number of
WILD CATS
(Felis Ferox) are known to exist on the Estate, and are
of great value to company-promoters, etc. At certain
seasons they are in considerable demand in London and
elsewhere. The whole will be knocked down to the
highest bidder.
ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT RESERVE.
Apply to the auctioneers :
MESSRS. JUDAS ISCARIOT AND CO.,
30 Silver Street,
Gethsemane Square, Pottersfield,
or the Mortgagees :
MESSRS. B. L. ZEBUB,
APOLLYON AND CO.,
666 Brimstone Terrace, Tophet.
THE OBJECTIONABLE COOK .
SHEARER (complaining about the cook): “ He's no good-lie alius gives us
our bluemange cold. Why can’t he give it us ’ot? ”
Payment, of members of Sydney Munici-
pal Council begins to agitate a section of the pub-
lic mind. Unpaid membershiD has borne the
curses of stupidity, laziness, and log-rolling in
municipal as well as in Parliamentary affairs.
Ibe patriot who works for the public for nothing
is being everywhere found out a sham or a fraud.
“D.T.": What a fine, fat guinea-pig the
Public Works Committee has been for N.S.W.
legislators. One of its stodgiest members, who
made nearly ,£3OOO in the last three years between
his Assembly screw and committee-fees and exes.,
publicly admitted some time ago that his earnings
averaged less than 255. a week for a year before
he entered Parliament.
Certain Q. Govt, organs now profess to be
enamoured of a scheme by which the Jap is to be
admitted into Bananaland and (apparently) shut
out at the same time. In brief, the Jap is to be
engaged for a term of years, like the Kanaka, and
then returned to his own country. It is averred
that, by this method, the little aliens can’t do
much mischief, because their stay in Australia
will be necessarily limited. Inasmuch, however,
as the returned alien will undoubtedly be imme-
diately succeeded by a fresh alien, it is hard to
see in what respect Australia gains by the inno-
vation. The Bananaland ruling gang is prepared
to try every pitiful artifice to hinder the adoption
of a total-exclusion policy.
A well-known Northern ex-syndicator tells
this mournful yarn re the private - railway
question. Years ago he formed one of a co. de-
sirous of running lines through the Vic. mallee.
Submitted proposal to Premier Patterson, who
examined plans, interrogated syndicators, and
finally summed up : “ Very well! Of all the pro-
posed lines through the mallee, you say you will
undertake these two as being practicable and pro-
bably profitable ventures. Good! We believe
your estimate correct—so Govt, will build the two
lines you mention, and you can construct any
others you choose.” And the lines were built
accordingly (on the butty-gang system), and paid
remarkably well ; while the baffled syndicators
adjourned to seek a land where pawky political
humor was less common.
Glassey announced definitely a few days
ago that Q. Labor Party would take on itself the
responsibility of calling itself the Parliamentary
Opposition. Apparently there was nothing else
for it. The alleged legitimate Opposition has
dwindled down to a pitiful Remnant of uncertain
views and hazy prospects, and if Labor isn’t the
Opposition in Q. Assembly then there isn’t any
Opposition at all. Of course this step implies the
abandoning of the old idea that Labor was to win
by holding the balance of power ; and it is to be
hoped that the Q. Socialism in-our-time party
(which luckily is not numerous in the Assembly)
will recognise that the new Opposition can only
succeed by proceeding on the broad lines of a
Liberal-Democratic policy with every variety of
Paradisaical millennium strictly banished from
the programme. There is much enthusiasm in
Queensland for progress, but not a grain for the
fat-headed fads of fanaticism.
T h e latest
M.L. Prohibi-
tionist Bill was
shot out very
suddenly. The
proposal was
that a bare ma-
jority should
have power to
absolutely pro -
hi bit drink
throughout the
land. The great
whisky majori -
ty, when it heard
this, was too
much shocked to
speak, but it
rose and heaved
the Bill out with-
out a word, and
the House heard
its skull crash
on the pavement
and then blow
with a clatter
down the windy
street. M. L.
Parliament sim-
ply grovelled to
the Prohibition-
ists once, think-
ing, from the row
they made, that
they were a pow-
er in the land.
But the teeto-
tallers rashly de-
manded (and ob-
tained) a nation-
al plebiscite,
and thereby showed how few they really were,
and no M.H.R. grovels to them now.
Q. Labor-leader Glassey badly wants roast-
ing at a caucus of his party. It is impossible to
raise a discussion in the Mongrelian Assembly
without being bored by a long, irrelevant harangue
from Glassey. Now, the man—however clever
and wise—who is incessantly dogmatising and
spouting becomes a public nuisance ; and the
writer will raise his hat to the man who will move
at next caucus of the Q. Labor-party: “In the
interests of the Labor Movement it is desirable
that our leader vote personally and speak by
proxy. lo stand by Glassey is to stand by
Byrnes.
A SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
NERVOUS LADY : “ Don't you think it very danger-
ous allowing a small boy like him. to row
people across ?”
BOSS: “ Dangerous! no fear, m’m ; thet kid can
swim like er rat. ”
Absurd as the notion seems, may it not be
that the Czar’s disarmament proposals are really
genuine? After generations of effort, Russia has
at length secured an open ocean port, with all the
possibilities of enormous industrial and commercial
development which that implies. Further terri-
torial aggrandisement can hardly strengthen her
now without in vol ving dangers and responsibilities
which may threaten her compact might. Besides,
the chances of developing the possibilities of the
Pekin-Hankow railway may well be worth the
laying on her military oars for a decade or so.
The repeated mishaps that cripple the
little boat “Premier” and break communication
between Gladstone and Rockhampton prompt the
question, “ Why not complete the Coast Railway
as far as the Central line ?”. By this means Wes-
tern Q. will be connected with its natural port,
Gladstone ; travelling between Brisbane and
Rockhampton will be unhindered ; the criminal
waste of money on the wretched Fitzroy will be
ended ; and, last, but not least, Premier Byrnes
can thereby effectually cripple his Separationist
opponents, if he wants to, by bringing Rockhamp-
ton, that creation of the log-rollers, down to its
legitimate level.
The Harrold insolvency case in Adelaide
will probably be a record one now that definite
charges of fraud have been laid against one of the
partners. The whole of the assets will before
long have been mopped up by legal costs.
A MelK paper quite spoilt one of Murray
Smith’s illustrations in the House the other week
by printing—“ The fact is that the Primrose
League, which I thought when if was started was
somewhat of a joke, is becoming an enormous
electoral farce.” Smith said “ force.”
A strange sort of “ shivoo ” took place at
Melb. Gaol the other day, when Capt. Burrowes,
the retiring Governor, was “sent off” by the
officials. Every department had its representative
present, except the largest body of the lot—the
prisoners—but, in one of the speeches, a warder
related that the Captain’s popularity was so great
that he had been approached by the oldest resi-
dent of the institution (a man serving a life sen-
tence for murder), and asked if he might not be
allowed to look in at the spread and add his quota
of eulogy. The request was not entertained, but
the grateful old lifer had his way, and, as the
crowd in the Governor’s quarters heard their own
chorus of “He’s a jolly good fellow” die away,
what seemed a faint echo broke upon their ears
from afar, and was eventually traced to the east
wing, where the hoary-headed homicide had risked
14 days’ solitary by organising an invisible choir
to show its appreciation of the late Governor. The
sorrow in parting is accounted for partly by the
fact that Burrowes is to be a P.M. “Gawd!”
remarked one prisoner, with a fallen jaw, when
the news was broken to him, “’e knows every-
one of us.”
SPIRITUAL BLUE-DEVILS.
(A result of too much Orange and Green.)
I gazed upon the noble arch
That spanned the rain-swept skies,
It seemed a vast prismatic gate
To ail-hued Paradise.
Methought I heard diviner strains
Than e’er on earth had been,
A-mingling of “ The Waters Boyne ”
With “Wearing of the Green.”
I saw a green-cum-yellow band
Who cherished firm the hope
That long united would remain
King Billy and the Pope.
To both they quaffed a loving-cup
In which I saw them fuse
With Oramre bitters, water-blest,
Potheen and green chartreuse.
Dour Rentoul then confessed his sins
Unto Archbishop Carr,
And Moran hummed abstractedly
“ ’E dun no where ’e are !”
The Yellow Pup, with shamrocks crowned,
Barked out “ St. Patrick's Day,”
And Papists blessed the Glorious Twelfth
Till Nick began to pray.
And then I woke and found myself
Back in this vale of tears
Where pastors preach of peace—and set
Their fool-flocks by the ears !
Vic.
H. W. KIRWAN.
TIME !!! TIME !!!
WHAT TIME? HIGH TIME—to BUY the BEST!
BREAKFAST TIME—
GKRAWUMA, King 1 of Porridge
Foods,
LUNCH TIME- '
GrOLDENIA, Best Ceylon Tea in
the World.
DINNER TIME—A Wee Drappie o’t
White Heather Whisky.
Pure, Mellow, and Matured. "
THE TIME—
BILLY TEA is BEST!
NTGEIS & CO., Sydney & Brisbane
\ts and Proprietors. Wholesale Only.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
A G-reat Sufferer.
You who have always enjoyed good health ;
who have never suffered from pains in the back or
groins ; who have never felt nervous, low-spirited,
or run down ; who are free from giddiness, nausea,
fickle appetite or general debility; who are
strangers to distressing flatulency and coldness of
the extremities, gradually growing weaker and
weaker, with loss of flesh and strength, cannot
appreciate the joy and gratification which comes
from relief after years of hopeless pain. Mr. H.
C. Ives, Orroro, S.A., was a victim to kidney
disease, and says: —“I was a great suferer from
kidney disease, which caused me terrible suffer-
ings, and reduced my strength so as to make the
lightest work impossible. I was advised to try
Warner's Safe Cure, and after taking the first
bottle, I began to feel a joyful change for the
better, and after taking 18 bottles, as according to.
directions on the label, I was completely cured.
This was five years ago, and I have enjoyed good
health ever since.” *
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Room?, 324 Gsorg3 Street, Sydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art. '
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st,


“City charitable societies are fond of exporting
hard-up families to country districts ‘for their
own good.’ Certainly the waifs' pick up wood,
&c., gratis in their new quarters, but, on the other
hand, they miss the broken bits and old clo’ of
friendly neighbors. Travellers tell of white savages
on the banks of the Darling. A mother and child-
ren, camped thereabouts, face the frost in a few
tatters, and one youngster runs about minus a
rag. When interviewed, they had cooked under
the hot ashes a pumpkin and a fish, just as it came
out of the water, scales and all. The family
squatted round and grabbed handfuls of cod and
squash, with the blackest claws on record.
“ Mildura is a prohibition settlement, of course,
but where in all the world beside can you see such
a lot of empty bottles? Old-clo-and-bottle men
are the poorest of the poor in communities of
‘moderate drinkers’ (see Blue Ribbon reports),
but a member of the tag-rag guild wdio went to
the irrigation town aforesaid without a sixpence
in his pocket is still there, bringing up his well-
fed offspring as ‘ bottle-merchants, ’ and laying by
a snug balance in the bank. All the same, the
liquor laws seem ferociously strict until once you
understand them. An acquaintance tells me that
once, when passing through the fruit colony, he
thow/ht he was bitten by a snake. First he had
to hunt up somebody who knew him to propose
him as lion, member of the club. Then he sat
in cold perspiration until a club domestic brought
him on a magnificent salver a notification of his
election—all with as much pomp and ceremony as
if it were ‘John the Baptist’s head on a charger.’
Then he called and got a glass of whisky.
“Melbourne telephone belles have for some
weeks been in a state of revolt because the
authorities at the Exchange have yoked them
in receivers that strap over the ears, and are
not considered becoming by the fair autocrats
of the bureau. The new appliance, it is said,
will occasion headaches, hysteria, and much
cussed ness and nerve-trouble amongst the ‘hello’
girls, and somebody is going to get his nose
scratched if the harness is not immediately with-
drawn. The apparatus is much lighter than the
average .cottage garden hat with which the Ex-
change maiden afflicts herself on Sundays, reck-
less of hysteria and all the other horrors. If
boiler-iron head-gear became fashionable for fe-
males, the fragile maiden would wear boiler-iron
till she was bow-legged without a murmur, but the
telephone receiver has not received the august
approval of the Young Ladies’ Journal, and con-
sequently is as destructive to the nerves as a
bonnet of the vintage of 1810.
“ At a recent meeting of the guiding angels of a
Melb. charity a nasty little breeze was started
over the choice of a vice-president. One name in
particular was objected to by many as being owned
by a ‘ mere fashionable butterfly.’ ‘ Why choose
Mrs. Blank,’ snapped one of the opposition,
‘when her only recommendation is her pretty
face? ’ ‘ Well, for my part, I’m so tired of seeing
the ugly faces round this table,’ retorted a plain-
spoken committee-woman, i that I think one
pretty one would be a joyful change.’
“A writer m the Sketch, discussing ‘rationals,’
‘ bloomers, ’ bifurcated skirts, and all the other holy
mysteries appertaining to women on wheels, says :
‘I have not yet seen a knickerbocker costume as
attractive as those in ‘The Amazons.” But then,
the stage world is not this world. Fancy gar-
ments built for actresses would, as a rule,, look
‘ flash ’ off the boards, and, moreover, the ordinary
woman isn’t trained to look as modest as a Mrs.
Brough in ‘The Amazons.’ One might as well
remark that no kilted Scotchman can compare with
Julius Knight in ‘ Sign of the Cross.’
“A ‘Perfection Home Binder,’ offered to the
musical public by Glen and co. in exchange for a
modest 2s. Gd., is the neatest of devices for keep-
ing one’s bits of music unspotted and untorn from
the world. The binder, which is an imitation
leather portfolio, incorporates the music by a
method ‘so simple that a child can put it into
practice, ’ and permits each piece to be opened out
fiat on its little own—a distinct improvement on
the ordinary music-book. The novelty is bound
to catch on. It does everything that Glen’s cir-
cular claims for it, and will commend itself to
everybody who sees it in use.
“ ‘ Lulu,’ the coon serenade sung by Ada Reeve
at the Opera House, has been published (by Glen),
with a capital photo, of her fair young phiz, on
the wrapper. Any coon-song is expected to be
very like another, but the tuneful ditty composed
for Ada by Mr. L. L. Lewis aims at originality,
and nearly hits the bull’s-eye. The music is
brighter than the words. If the coon in this case
were to omit a few repetitions of the word that
plays the name-part, his tale of love would move
along quicker. Perhaps the best way of getting
over the Lulu difficulty is to cut off the third
verse.
“ Yet another batch of Victorian girl-mission-
aries for China. Poor things ! if they imagine
they’re bound for a career of hallowed calm, re-
ligious peace, etc., by all accounts they’re sadly
mistaken. No lack of spiteful squabbling, internal
dissension, and sicli in the vineyard, judging by
the tram-and-train confabs of homeward-bounders
from some big metropolitan religious meeting
t’other night. Girls !if you’ve got any tempers
or manners to lose, leave the heathen in his blind-
ness alone.
“Compared with the she-apostle abroad, the
Kilkenny eat is a lovable thing—at least so say
supporters of that male missionary to the East,
who, according to sympathisers of his own sex,
has been so grievously woiritted and hampered as
a Harvester by female co-laborers among the
sheaves. Even when a patriarch, rich in experi-
ence, sacred and secular, was sent up from Mel-
bourne to pour oil on the troubled waters, the
‘ chits,’ it seems, ignored his verdict because they
considered that, in furrin parts, he took up with
the ungodly, or broke bread with unbelievers, or
something.
“Talking about the photos of Miss Sylvia
Madden’s sorrowful parting glance at the dear old
home where she wasn’t born (fancy photoing a
piece of Guvment House as ‘home’ 1 ) somebody
remarks that the parting in Papa Madden s back
hair goes all the way up and down. It starts with
the shiny streak down his long glossy hat. then
comes the bush track down the hair. iSext, he
carries his shoulders so well back that there is a
crease all the way down his frock coat. Lastly,
the natural division of his—er—legs. The down-
ward line is as straight and continuous as a sun-
beam.
“Another Sunbeam yarn. After doing the
Omeo-to-B 'ight coach-trip, Gov. Hopetoun gave
eoacMriver Mick a handsome travelling-cloak.
Next time a vice-regal party came along headed
by his-at-present-absentee Ex., the souvenir to the
driver was one of the innumerable photos, of the
well-advertised yacht, neatly tied up in brown
paper.
“Biondi is pretty much of a character-actor off
Block, attended by a lady friend or two, you can
the stage as well as 1 on,’ and when he did Melb.
almost hear the other girls sighing in unison. A
recent increase in Block traffic was largely due to
Biondi’s dark Italian eye. Gaston Mervale ranks
as a last-year’s fashion, and Julius Marcus is
merely the reminder of a way-back dream. Just
at present the hearts that beat beneath cor -sets are
pulsating for the chameleonic gentleman who lm-
personates fourteen identities in ten minutes but,
alas ! Biondi is a benedict. Not only married,
but ‘jolly well married,’ as a despondent fortune-
hunter remarks. Mrs. Biondi was a Miss Gatti,
a daughter of the wealthy London firm which runs
restaurants and theatres, and claims to have been
the original source of ice-cream in the great
metropolis.
“ Age advt., Aug. 15 :
WOMAN, young, with some furniture, wanted to
housekeep for young man. Seaman, Age office.
“ Jack provides beer and baccy, the young woman
sticks and tucker. Co-operative housekeeping up
to date
“When Tummy Wales’s princelings visited
Melb. in the Bacchante, recently-dead David
Moore, of St. Kilda, seized with the ambition to
be the only private individual to receive them at
his home, forwarded an elegantly-illuminated in-
vitation ; and, being ignorant of the royal custom
of nominally acceding to such requests, nearly
went off his head with glory upon receiving the
Private Sec.’s note. Gorgeous preparations were
made at the Maison Moore, and, as the matter
was extensively paragraphed, the turned
up in great force. Several thousands of the un-
washed”also gathered around the gate, and nearly
hooted the house down when they realised that
there would be no princelets on hand.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
There are now more Jews in Vic. Leg.
Council than in the Assfembly, and four of them
have got in during the last four years.
Died in Bendigo, John Glen, about the last
of the digger-day pressmen. “Old John” was
largely responsible, too, for keeping cricket alive
in Bendigo, which has given Victoria a long
string of good players.
Thomas M’llwraith, writing last mail to a
Queensland friend, reiterates his determination to
face accusers in Australia. But if he doesn’t
hurry accusers will be dead. Meanwhile, there’s
nothing more heard about that prosecution.
Even a Id. land-tax has its effect. Last
year the Peel River (N.S.W.) co., owners of
300,000 acres out Tamworth way, cut up 5000
acres and auctioned them in small farms, arid arc
at present subdividing 12,000 acres to similarly
auction before the year is out.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Eljjin-st., MELBOURNE.
Keep YoGr BtiSipcss *0 YoGr-Owi) Napds.
The ONLY TRUE and EFFECTIVE BUSINESS COUPON SYSTEM
IS THAT SUPPLIED BY THE USE Ob
The Storekeepers’ Coupon
.WJ-ugaumr A“
2‘.-..1'h0AmounL of.
s’r‘YOUI‘. Purchase. w
‘W ,P
' ‘33:";- 71%372 .2: 7th 2.
‘5 é}: "5 PM}: 73
~—. L2.
‘ 3F» ”72”“ 1}“ *ﬁ-‘i ‘. a
,... 2mm *3
53:12:13.2193 gag, 6%f'avfx5'fﬁ
m;- _. a w i was», my
‘l‘: 1’1‘7‘F—r. G1 ‘9 @‘é—ﬁ “(6‘69 I. "v
‘ “ﬂow .1“, . 5.»: "
: f. __:.- I,“ “3"3‘4‘9'123L;_‘ _ g; ‘f’ .
., ‘ —.mw_¢.q a, “we. 41
929:. 11 ;:;:__:1'1-'£ )rzs—SEE,
\g‘ﬁﬁ ‘FW'F inf" "
. 221$ a ' Rtg”\§? ’3"
1 (3.575:- Mall“
k " Bag—J " ‘21—: ‘
_. J" -.‘W‘ 1,» ,,__._v d;
v-_.“A.’—:=;~=:=-—--—.:‘—£E:€;%::.tr w I
41722:“ - , 6W 1}
\ :zf ' , 12W x. 2.
REGISTER.
IT CONCENTRATES your CASH BUSI-
NESS by giving special inducements to your
Customers to REGULARLY Purchase at your
Store..
IT ISSUES a DATED and NUMBERED
PRINTED COUPON with every transaction,
which is a STATEMENT of the transaction, a
RECEIPT for the MONEY PAID, and which
at the same time bears your Advertisement.
Full Particulars on application to
The national Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 2970. W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager. P.O. BOX, 1035.
you. can, ﬁuy cm
w 1‘; a ‘9
f: '5: ‘ f . ‘ - ‘u
‘. ‘ .. . ‘ a. , ‘
'3‘ 'A' i 5 it .‘.
‘.r P Y .
15‘. .:'v "
g: v‘ ‘5‘": .__
-' :-.'
“an , V. '-
73-1sz Lyri-ywi’iﬁﬁ" :zv- ~ ~
.‘.-2° , _ {... -
.: .. z r, 7%
"13:11:. 5: “In“ '
,Jgﬁisvw
*
Cheaper and
better than any
other House in
V\ Hustralasia
¥
Pianos
©rgans
Music
Violins
Hccordeons
Hutoharps
Mouth ©rgans
Polophons
©ornets
Flutes
Strings & Fittings
For Every Musical Instrument.
M
M
SOLE fIOEHTS FOR
'
(5
M
GUITARS,
MANDOLINS,
BANJOS
ZITHERS,
M
IHE BEST IN THE WORLD!
Used by all the Leading Musician*.
Catalogues
Post Free.
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
.A-HSTID A.T BEISB A.BT3I} & BEWCASTLB.
! W- ! 4 *'■
;
■
£sPsgl
J| get-
ter criterion of the success of an article
cannot be had than the public demand for
same. In this respect
hold an enviable position,
for these tyres have for ten years been the
public’s favorite, and have during that term
proved
The Best Tyres for
all purposes.
Australian and English made Itoadster Tyres
Guaranteed for 12 months.
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 lient-street, Sydney ;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Christchurch (N. 7.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
8.5.1 U. IDont it piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
C ASTEE RE AG-H ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnlfroking Ilramh :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTTEC.
EOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest. '
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
’u
HEAD OFF/ce
1 INTERSECTION HUNTER, BUGH ak»
Castlereagh Streets,
•SYDNEY*
f Mc JSTA BUSHED - IB7S.
Office in Austral* v
/7nn ual Income ahd / nyested
Funds Exceed£2oo,oooßerlin*.
A Silver Watcb
GIVEN AWAY.
1509 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at 12 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends, us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
| T* E T * IVI * F* R E*E*Y* O * Y j
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods
“The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLE3,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HOVIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 ROTTER ST., SYDNEY,
CGtLKM =*s=
MENEII
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
jjauid graham $ |}o.
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TV Trustees, CxecCitorS,
AND
Ageocy Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
capital paid-up ... ;;;
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ...
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
£150,000
£60,000
£45,198
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up . .. .. £2,974,801 lOs.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A •
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornlev,
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gvles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: VVm. Turner, John M’Nall, R. H. M’Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsr/ute Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuebar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wycng), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLIOY-HQLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
W THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites &c
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street:
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTOKS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shan assy, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irvinsr,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne.
ﬂ
2’ 3
y ‘3
«(I ‘ y‘
i=3“ ‘1
’g’ H
FRINGES,
tfatura! Curly, from 3/fe each.
tralla for all Hair‘Work.
Send Color of Hair.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20m. lons, f/«. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ye peroz.
We are the cheane9tin Ana.
W. H. Wigz^ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
- SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
...-’5
[*4 a
ll“ ' x
Send stamps (or full Prioe List.
Prompt attention giv#n to Country Order*
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 10, 2 p.m.
-Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 13, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 17, 2 p m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 13, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 13, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 10, 2 p.m.
- Konoowarra, Tuesday, Sept. 13,5p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday,* Sept. 17, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 10, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Monday, Sept. 12,5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 17, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
lowest <i iti:i:\T i iices to am, pouts.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Building's, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
VIA AMERICA
“ by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SR It VICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MARIPOSA ..
MOANA
ALAMEDA ...
I -
I Leave Leave | Arrive at
Tons. Sydney I Auckland. San
at 4 p.m. | at 2 p.m. I Francisco,
I ickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'onrney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co!
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane
AND -he.
-VIA-
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
IXESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
®IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Cable Address— Biemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moheing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOOIiLUi.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
DR. J. CfILUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEODCHITIS,
DIARBHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNE.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. T never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
EX & P r^? r Se J. vice t 0 and from West Australian,
bouth Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Sept. 9.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, September 13.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Allingra, Friday,
September 9.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, September 13.
BRISBANE -v
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE f,
And Ports North to Cairns J
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
September 10.
S.S. Allinga, Saturday,
September 17.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G- S. YUILL and 00., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
be T d^?a°tchl?al\fc S -i PS ° f the above Company will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching afc the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to cal] at-Brindisi.
f '" 1 tneneetorward every alternate week. Kates of
tITSi'S ••LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to ±llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £515, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
TRi-Timw"! 3 fo 'i Plages from England. EDWARD
I!--—_Z Y ’ Ayent ’ Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
jjiiddart, Parker ( {•’» [iie
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
f*; e T n “ b Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
L m I n B Ii^ LBANY ’ COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
~uuinuav, xuuia, unina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
lU‘|luiraith, & Qo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Steamer.
Tons
Gera
Stuttgart
P.R. L’pold
Friedr. D.
Grosse ...
Bremen ...
Kon. Luise
Com-
mander.
Leave i Leave
Sydney,! Mel-
Noon. I bourne.
5005 W. Meissel
5048 Kohlenbeck
6288
10531
H. Walter
M. Eichel
Leave
Ade-
laide.
Oct.
Nov.
'Sept.
5 Oct.
2 Nov.
Nov. 30 Dec.
13 Sept.
11 Oct.
8 Nov.
6 Dec.
Dec. 28 Jan.
Jan.. 25’ Jan.
3 Jan.
31 Feb.
10525 Reimkasten
10566 Schu’kmann
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Cos Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. IN. C
OY.
.TD.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH — D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


RONISCH PIANOS.
The most; succumaiul of all Pianos. -
RONISCH P I ANOS.
- Wonderful reputation throughout Auebndim
RONISCH PIAN OS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
RONISCH PIANl I S.
1*;ivc different Models, and at. Prices within reach of all
c asses.
RONISCH PIAN OS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS
NICHOLSON &
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.
/
4
M
M
M
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
T\, T HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
'' LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere I go I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations "for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
M
«y
$
M
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.” —P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20 9 97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
E. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST ,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
4r
™ i
IMITEO
'|L
C
°4
V s
ENO’S‘FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
<?
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
- Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYASMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost eyery mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTH HESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
MILTHdM
|\WATCnV
a b
American jjjaltham Match gssnp. UJatches
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the
Sale of WAT/TH A M WATCHES, and also give the Australian people
at the same time a PERFECT WATCH for the same mmev they have been
paying for a poor make, we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES!
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft. v
14c. Gobi Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 5 years £2 7 6
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 10 years 3 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, s,vr. guarantee .. .. .. ~ 0 S 9
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 15 years 315 0
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’ or Gents’, with the “America” movement 10 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee 015 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, syr. guarantee .. .. .. .. 0 8 9
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
Imperial A reade, Sydney. J. Landes, Manager.
Coolgfardie
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply G. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
w THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS are FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand hoilinsr. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which .are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAXINO UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Sum mer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and can recom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial,
menu no ou proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENQ.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., St II- each
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording ■ a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders,, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Dr. TARRANT,
F.K.C.S.E., L.R.GPE., L.R.G.5.1., L.M.R C.P.E.,
. ‘$§§€§% ‘
' V, 2 “£2.51:
. : ~‘ “:1
53;. KS. ’
3M”: 4.
‘ .».:-:-:-;.-~-’ ' > " w
-, r: . an'aﬁ;..::,;
é?“
..
- fitgér
7/“ _.,.
_/z W 4
34’5/69‘25 ‘ér A
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is Unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hvpodernnc medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few' diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. 1 may assure those who confide their
secret to me that, there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
scaled.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, i nsuring not only permanent restoration to health,
hut immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
TXT o Man or W Oman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marrv, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations' and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced their deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
3Dangerou.s Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
A-Tasolutely KTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One PoundL is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fide ?, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense he accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.F.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
The A.J.C. Spring meeting, which begins to-
day (Sat.), should he a inure success, as the entries are
good and ihe prize-money worth winning. The Hurdle
Race (2£ miles) should fail to Playboy, Monty, or Cape
Pigeon ; whilst the Trial Stakes looks well for Battle
Abbey, if he be not reserved for the Derby—in his
absence, Pelissier or Burh-igh may win. The Derby will
bring out a larger Held than usual, and though disparaged
by the touts, yet Cocos may be found good enough to
win. The Epsom is a very open race, but Feu-de-Joie,
Miss West, and The Tola show in the light of genuine
Candidates, and, of these three, the former may probably
land this rich stake. The Spring Stakes seems a “ good
thing ” for Amberite, whilst Sweet Marie, Astronomer,
and Sailor Boy look the best-treated in Kensington
Stakes. On Tuesday, the valuable Metrop. should be won
by Fucile, who was unlucky to lose recently at Rosehill;
if the uncertain Cravat takes it into his head to gallop,
he should push the winner very hard.
• • • • -
Pony owners have always been under the im-
pression that their fliers, taking a line by “time,’' had
most outside “horse” races at their mercy, but, so far,
they have not raked in a fortune, and a general exodus
back to the deserted pony ranks may he looked forward
to in the near future. At Hawkesbury last Saturday'
Crimson started a 5-to-2 favorite for the Park Stakes, hut,
like Hoivlong on the previous Saturday, could not last
the journey out, and Tatnarus heat her by a head.
Shaughraun ran a bad second do Wanda for the Stewards’
Mile, upon which performance the crowd could not stand
him for the Hawkesbury Handicap, for which race he
started at 10 to 1, and beatWahine by a head. The same
thing happened with the Lochiel gelding, Eos. He was
well backed for the Clarendon Handicap, and ran no-
where, whereupon his people allowed him to go out prao-
tically unbacked for the Pace Welter, which he won by a
length from Thulite.
* * * •
Several of the be3t pony jocks have received
licenses to ride from the A.J.C., and, as there is at present
a dearth of good light-weights, there is a good opening
for these lads if they will only keep straight.
* * " * •
One of Australia’s most noted sires, Golds-
horough (by Fireworks out of Sylvia by Fisherman)lately
died at Toca), N.S.W., aged 29 years. His best turf deed
was winning the Metrop. in fast time, carrying 9st. 21b.
At the stud he made a great name ; 280 of his progeny
have won nearly £BO,OOO between them ; and he sired
such mares as Cinnamon (the dam of Abercorn), Frailty
(dam of Trenton, Zalinski, &c.), Melodious (dam of Wal-
lace), and Primrose (dam of the famous sprinters Wild
Rose and Churchill).
* * * *
The proposed N.S.W. tax on blood-stock—the
“ lex stallionis.”
* • » »
It looks as though Ikey Mo’s unnatural allies
are getting converted to common sense. Down at Sey-
mour (Vic.), which is one of the places where Ikey alights
to eat, drink, and blaspheme on his journeys between
Melbourne and Sydney, a;resolution in favor of the tote
has been carried by the members of a Mutual Soul
Assurance Society connected with the Presbyterian
Church.
• b- * * *
Apart from the fact that the Age agitates for a
legalised tote, there are two or three personal reasons
why the Argus should make indirect attempts to save
the bookmaker front destruction. The Argus last week
published in a conspicuous position a yarn from Maori-
land stating that Premier Seddon wants to abolish the
tote, on the ground that it induces gambling. Rats!
Anyway, the question has been shelved for an indefinite
period, so the Argus had no excuse for dragging it into
notice. -j,
• * • *
Jockey Jimmy Hayes popped up again at Melb.
City Court, last week, on anot her charge of “insulting
behavior.” This time the festive James had made him-
self gratuitously offensive to a gas-meter tester, and the
penalty was 40s. or 14 days. He paid the money. One
of these days, perhaps, he will run up against a very mus-
cular citizen and get heavy damages.
» * • •
E. R,. James, one-time “ roundsman ” of Melb.
Telegraph and popularly known as “ The Old Bird,” has
scooped the £lOOO sweep on Perth Cup. First instance
on record of a pressman being possessed of more than
£s—at any other time than pay-day.
• » * •
At a recent Canning Park (W. A.) race-meeting,
on the last race of the day, there were only seven tickets
issued on the “ inside” tote, five on the winner, and one
each on two other starters. The winner paid 12s. on the
half-sov. investments. On the “ outside ” 6s. tote there
were 13 investors, 12 on the winner and one on another
horse. The div. was 45., so that each hacker of the
winner lost Is.
* * * *
Stakes have noticeably increased in the majority
of M.L. race-programmes for coming season. Accounfed
for primarily by increasing prosperity (thanks to the
tote), and partly by Col. Secretary Carroll s hint as to the
improbability of rural horsey haunts being again licensed
if they didn't improve their financial manners, so to
speak. A number of clubs have been already passed out
and others enjoined to amalgamate.
* * * •
“Hiram ”: You ask: “Is racing over the
sticks intended to improve the breed of horses? Ninety-
nine out of every hundred junipers are gelded.” Now I
ask are Pastoral and Agricultural Associations intended
for the improvement of the cattle used in the pursuits
typified ? I have before me the schedule of prizes of
Wagga Show. Compare :
Best Draught Stallion, £4 Maiden Hunter, £lO
Champion „ 5 Second „ 6
Thoroughbred „ 6 Wt. Carrying „ 20
Trotting ~ 3 Second ~ f>
Indian Remount „ 2 2s. High Jump 6 ss.
Ca valry Mare or Gelding 2 2s. Jumped Pony 6 ss.
Will any of those in the second column be stallions ? Not
one. Probably not a mare. I find that among the catLle
£6 ss. is the highest prize. Among the sheep there is a
champion prize of £2l given by the Wool-King co., and a
£3O exhibit, with such entry conditions that the society
is recouped. The useful classes have miserable sops that
will not pay the winner’s expenses; and now I’ll give the
reasons for holding in all country towns the shows which
are got up for the non-promotion of .yeoman competi-
tion. The nouveaux richer and the probable winners of the
jumping prizes wish to he thought old English hunting
squires, who kept the hounds, instead of digging spuds
or shovelling dirt. The ad. with the Esq., of such and
such a castle, is worth the ten guineas (to their vanity).
Fancy old Angus Macllaggis, from Auchnahell, giving
and judging a prize for weight-carrying hunters instead
of sampling muscle-producing brose ! Then the wool-
kings win their own or their mates’ prizes, and they are
actually bonafide patrons and promoters of sheep-breed-
ing, and deserve most credit in the shivoo. The list of
half-sovs. and crowns for really useful classes in dogs,
poultry, garden-produce, dairy stuff, saddlery, and
children’s competitions in patching, &c., is—well—
twaddle and flam. After all, a Show only means Beer.
• * • *
The cross-country jockey deserves a higher
pedestal than the battered pug. His is veritably'an up-
and-down sort of existence- one minute on top of the
horse, and the next the nag on top of him. The ordinary
man, who bets in silver and drinks more liquid than he
washes with, never stops to think what a fall means.
Hear him rejoice in his simple vocabulary when some-
thing he has not hacked comes “ kersmash." Yet the
steeple-rider survives falls that, to a common mortal,
would probably mean a hasty preparation for the Great
Stiff Stakes. Condition, of course, is the secret of it
all, hut—fancy condition on a man whose chief occupa-
tion for his spare time consists in running the fat off !
* * * *
At a recent N.Q. amateur race-meeting a well-
known commercial traveller was asked to act as judge,
and succeeded in restraining a natural impulse to bet
until last race, when, seeing what he considered “ Kosher
goods,” he gave way and accepted 50 to 6 about the good
thing. “ Kosher," however, was left at the post, but,
equal to any emergency, the bagman quickly vacated his
post of honor, and unseen made for the nearest booth.
Outsider won. “ Where’s the judge—why don't he put
up the numbers?” Search revealed the wily one calmly
mopping the remains of a long colonial. To excited
choru9 of officials jelling “ What the devil are you doing,
you drunken swab? ” he answered “Never knew the race
was on." Race re-run. “ Kosher goods ” romps home.
• • • •
Dear Bulimcttn.—How the high-jumping notch
has gone up since the time of Canary’s record of 6ft.
lOjin. at Kirk’s Bazaar ! Writer was one of a crowd who
paid Is. apiece to enter the gates of the old show-yards
on St. Hilda Road to witness a pounding match between
Canary and the 'chaser Ingleside. Fences had been
built especially for it, about sft. high. Canary—l forget
why—did not turn up, and Ingleside, ridden by the late
E. C. Moore, of Ballarat, refused at the first fence, and
could not be induced to jump. The late Sam. Waldock,
owner of Canary, was on the ground, and the rougher
portion of the crowd, seeing him, followed, hooting and
asking for their money back. Sam soon got “full” of
this, and, stopping suddenly, slipped off hie coat and
turned upon them. “Let the best man among you step
out,’’ he said, “ and I’ll give him his shilling back, and a
bit besides." The crowd melted; though Sam weighed
only 9st., he was an awkward customer. The sight-seers
did see some jumping for their money, however, for the then
well-known amateur, “ Mr. Williams,” rode the ’chaser
Nankaboo over the fences. Concerning this horse, and as
an instance of how one picks up information in unlooked-
for places : one evening, a couple of years ago, 1 was yarn-
ing in the hut on a West (Queensland station. The talk,
as is usual in the bush, soon veered to riding recollec-
tions, and Chipps, the carpenter, gave his only experience
of riding a racehorse. He was then living on a Victorian
“ Western-district” station where there was a very fine
King Alfred colt in training. Chipps was a light-weight,
and one morning the boss asked him to ride the colt in
an exercise gallop. Chipps demurred, pleading incapa-
city. But the boss would not be denied : “ Lean forward
and put your weight in the stirrups,” he said, “and
you'll he all right.” Chipps, with the temerity of ignor-
ance, got up and hung on to the horse for his two-mile
gallop. This horse was called Spanker Boom, but the
nigger who looked after him in the stable could get no
nearer to his name than “Nankaboo.” And this was
how Nankaboo got his name.—M.
* * * •
“ Tassy Some too-clever sports took a severe
tumble lately. A big trotting event was reckoned a
“ cert ” for a certain stable which had two horses entered.
And some smart hard-ups, not knowing which of the two
to back, finding one of the syndicate owning the pair
slightly “ elevated,” plied him with liquor, and found out
the elect of the stable. On race-day, however, the syndi-
cate noticing that their best was being freely backed,
decided to “ spiel ” the other, which won easily, supposed
“cert” being unplaced. However, owner of second
horse protested, alleging that winner was “ rung-in,”
being a well known performer in other regions. Stewards
upheld protest, and now two lots of sports are kicking
themselves violently.
* * *
Tod Sloan, the crack jockey of America, has
been overdoing it, and is now laid-up. This season he
has ridden 121 winners out of 259 mounts, a winning
average such as seldom falls to the lot of any jock. At
’Orne, young Madden has scored only 91 wins out of 398
mounts, and next to him come Loates with 68 wins out of
388 mounts, and “Morny” Cannon with 66 wins out of
286 mounts.
* » * *
At Brisbane, on Saturday last, N.S. Wales and
Brisbane played their return football-match. The result
was a draw, each side scoring 3 points. Queensland
played the old team, but N.S. W. had no less than five
new men.
• • • •
Interest in Adelaide football—slight at any
time—evaporated on Aug. 27, when South Adelaide made
premiership certain by defeating Port Adelaide. Nor-
wood, the only other team worth considering, is sadly on
the down-grade. The “Sowths,” who defeated Essendon
in Adelaide in June, are now anxious to meet Victoria's
best team for the Australian premiership.
* * * •
Melbourne youths have got a new gamble.
They run a sweep weekly in their shop or factory on the
football matches, the winner being the club scoring most
points irrespective of merit. Most of them develop into
Calcutta sweeps, each member’s chance being afterwards
put up to auction and bought in or sold outright. The
drawer of Essendon, when playing against. Carlton, can
always iret half the prize money for his chance. A some*
what complicated gamble, but it has caught on.
* * • ■
“A. E. Trott materially helped Middlesex to
‘do’ Somerset by 10 wickets,” writes Tub Bullrti.v’s
London correspondent. “ Although at the first try
Sammy Woods’ team got 221, his fellow countryman cap-
tured 6 for 82, and. later, 5 for 78, and just struck double
figures. His trundling record is now 1277 runs for 66
scalps, equal to 1934 each. Roche, who does not get
nearly so much work, is still third on the bowlers’ roll
with 30 for 421 runs = 14'03, Jack Hearne following with
136 wickets for 1959 wickets = 14.40. The latter is fairly
the best bowler in England, despite the fact that the
Yorkshire pro., Rhodes, with his slow-dropning delivery,
has 113 trophies to his credit for 12 35 each. Against
Notts Castle Roche got 41, not out, as 11th man, and 17
against Hertfordshire, with 7 wickets for 45. In the
Somerset match Trott got three men Lb.w. by making
the ball swerve in the air.”
» * B B
University is at the top of Adelaide lacrosse
tree this year. The ’Varsity can claim to have made
lacrosse what it is in Australia, as, after the game had
been built up in S.A., Hospital troubles sent dozens of
students to Melb. when lacrosse was waning in the gmell-
ful city.
* * B B
A certain swimming club’s published list of
prizes for a coming carnival commenced : “ Mr. So-and-so,
silver cup value two guineas?” The query-mark so in-
censed the donor that he attempted to storm the next
meeting of the club, but, not being a member, he wag
politely fired out. Now the secretary of the club wears
an inside shirt of mail, and carries a revolver after dark.
* • * *
Joe Donnelly’s 22-footer, to the order of Mr.
Sam Hordern, has been launched, and it only now re-
mains to be seen if Donnelly will carry on his record of
beating his previous best. It is almost a quarter of a
century since he turned out his first big racer, the Lottie,
to the order of Mr. S. H. Hyarn, and since then he has
continued building them, each one heating its pre-
decessor.
• B B *
Sydney Y.M.C.A.’s recent attempt at a cyclists’
service was a bit of a frost. Hall poorly filled, and
cyclists a weedy lot. The female bikists had to carry
their wheels up a long stair, while the non-cycling
Y.M.C.A. stood by and grinned. Chivalry is apparently
incompatible with adolescent saintliness.
* * * *
M'Donald, tho telegraph operator now riding
overland from Port Darwin to Adelaide, has cut out the
worst part of the distance at the rate of 60 miles a day,
as against previous riders’ 27 miles. Mac. is paced by a
fair Adelaide girl, whom he is to make his wife at the end
of his trip.
* • b »
Australia is not likely to again see either Zim-
merman or Platt-Betts on the track. Sad to say, Platt-
Betts’ accident and Zimmerman’s illness have practically
settled them as racers.
* B B •
English cycle-race promoters are striving to put
life in a practically-defunct sport by running a racing
quad manned by four of the blackest and woolliest
niggers procurable. “Africa v. England” is the bill-
gag.
* * * *
The Golden Gate Athletic Club, Sydney, brought
off another rattling set-to on Saturday nicht last, when
old-timer Jim Barron and Herbert McKell tried the
best of ten rounds. The bout was evenly contested, and
both men being on their feet at the end of ten rounds it
was declared a draw. The police hare not Interfered In
these mills since the general election, which may be
accounted for by a simile made by Premier Reid when
being bombarded by stale eggs. “It is as unfair, boys,”
Mr. Reid said, “as jumping into a ring and interfering
with a fair and square go between a couple of well-
matched men.”
* • • •
Joe Goddard must have given one of his old-
time hurricane acts in his last meeting with Peter Maher.
The men, throwing science to the winds, stood up and
bashed one another until poor old worn-out Goddard,
smothered in gore, held up his hand in token of defeat.
Goddard must have been very badly used up to cry a go
whilst on his feet. In Sydney, both Choynski and Mick
Dooley knocked Goddard down with blows that would
have sent any ordinary man to sleep, but Joe always
came to the call of time, and worried his men down.
• * * •
The days of fortunes-in-a-fight appear to be
gone. The clubs which engineered the Goddard and
Maher contest lost some £6OO.
* * * *
Corbett and M’Coy meet next Saturday. They
are probably now the two most scientific men in the
game ; but Corbett’s fast life and absence from the ring
cannot be improving his chances, whilst M’Coy is in the
first blush of youth and victory.
* • • •
“ Jimmy ” Lawler, the Yank who beat Tweedie
in the States, says he will come over and fight Tweedie,
M’Oowan, or Hegarty for a purse and side-wager of from
£5O to £250. Should Lawler visit Australia, he will not
find centuries growing by the wayside. They are pretty
scarce in our sporting world just now.
* * * *
Tn Peter Jackson’s case, the “ color ’’-line used
to be the coward’s line. Peter Jackson, Jem Hall, and
Griffo are all “ gone to pieces.” They were probably the
three best of the three classes (Queensberry style). When
they left Australia, it. was considered a close thing between
Fitzsimmons and Hall. Fitz had more devil, but Hall
was cleverer, if anything, and had the advantage in years
as well as in reach. But. Fitz took care of himself, and
Hall didn’t, and the result points a inoral.
* • * *
“ Bargo ”: Hoard a Sydney showman, the other
night, proclaiming that “ this ’ere young lady was willing
to box any 9st. kid in the crowd for a fiver to nothing.”
There were three takers, and the crowd rolled in, myself
included. Acceptor No. 1 went out in the second round ;
No. 2 gave up in the first, and then No. 3 toed the mark—
a hard-jawed specimen from the Rocks, with a push
“ following.” The boss immediately declared that the
“ Lady Boxer” was too fatigued to tackle a third antago-
nist. The “ push ” barracked, hut the crowd laughed and
walked out. 1 was afterwards told that the two men
supposed to have been knocked out were the lady’s hus-
band and brother.
* * • *
Larry Foley’s recent remarks on King-division
election recall that, years ago, he had serious notions of
standing for West Sydney, so as to follow in the footsteps
of “ Senator” John Morrissey and Guliv, M.P. for Ponte-
fract (grandfather of the present English Speaker). “ I
hope yous coves (the press) will give me a lift,” said
Larry, when he announced his intention to Jack Conway.
What’s in a name ? A big Victorian city is
named after an English pugilist, Bendigo; and, worse
still, after discarding it for an aristocratic title (Sand-
hurst) it went back, after a long trial, to the old “ mon-
niker.” Pugilist Bendigo was, albeit strong and clever,
about the most despicable pug. of them all. He was a
foul, shifty fighter in the ring, and owed success to his
blackguard gang outside it as much as to anything else.
The old couplet ran—
“ The Nottingham 'lambs, ’ sir, came down in their might,
And won for Bold Bendigo every fight.”
Then, in his old age, he got "saved ” and became a snivel-
ling preacher. The nickname “ Bendigo ” came, it is said,
from his crouching attitude, “ Bendy go.” He was one
of a triplet at birth, yet so strong that he could fling a
brick across the Trent.
• • • *
Ditty sung by the “ Army” in Melbourne over
the " saving ” of a certain pugilist and his wife
That night they captured Billy,
That most notorious man ;
He used to do all in his power
To bruise his fellow man.
But now he looks so happy,
He’s doing all he can
To pull the Devil’s kingdom down.
And so is Mary Ann.
When Billy joined the Army,
In a sad plight was he ;
His coat was out at elbow,
His breeches out at knee.
But now he’s got Salvation
He’s quite a different man;
My word ! ain’t he a masher now?
And so is Mary Ann.
• * • •
“Piripi ”: I think that the finest physical
specimens of the white race on earth are the natives of
Taranaki (M.L.). It is a picture to see a Taranaki bush-
man pikau an SOlb. pig-carcase up 1000 ft. of hush-grown
hillside. Though the entire population of Taranaki pro-
vincial district is only about 20,000, the Taranaki football-
team beat Stoddart’s All-England team, and has frequent-
ly defeated the representatives of the larger provinces at
the M.L. national game.
• * • *
“ 0.J.” : A brutal person recently maintained
In an English magazine, that women are naturally
crueller than men, and supported his thesis with much
evidence drawn from all times and places. But there is
no need to insist upon such an unpleasant truth. The
world pretends to believe that woman is overflowing with
pity and sympathy for suffering, and politely shuts its
eyes to the predilection of the “gentler” sex for spec-
tacles in which cruelty is the chief attraction. As, for
instance, at Melb. Gun Club’s recent slaughtering of some
400 pigeons. “ Ladies’ Day,” too—with three high-toned
barristers as ladies’ champions 1
• » • •
A Yankee paper publishes, and Australian
papers gravely reprint, an account of Flanagan’s recent
record hammer-throw at New Orleans, with the following
awful final flourish :—“ Mr. Flanagan will go back to New
York with every man, woman, and child at the Fair
Grounds a firm friend for life, for giving New Orleans the
honor of being the location of his famous feat.” Verily,
the perspective of national life must be a lot out of draw-
ing to such anapotheosis of Misther Flanagan.
The new “ Red Bird Special ” bearings are an en-
tirely new departure in cycle construction, as each ball
runs in a separate steel-ease by itself and does not come
in contact with its fellows. It is claimed fully 40 per
oent. friction is saved.
Only posterity can properly express con-
temporary opinion.
At the recent Australian Horse deputation
toN.S.W. Colonial Secretary Brnnker, “Baldy”
Davis, M.P., asserted that he had fourteen stal-
wart sons, who were panting for an opportunity to
join said regiment. With fourteen sons, “Baldy”
should certainly demand a company all to himself.
Even Sydney D.T. cannot depend on its
No-Yes. In its issue of Aug. 2Gth it declared
that “ Mr. Reid declined to be bulldozed (by the
Opposition) into giving any information on the
subject of the Ministerial appointments, which
would be made in due course.” On that very
night the Premier announced the names of his
three colleagues.
Federal Convention Parliaments have
moved from Sydney to Melbourne, from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide, and now contemplate a ses-
sion in Brisbane. A further wriggle may pro-
duce a session in Perth. Thus unwittingly is
proved the practicability, in the main sense, at
any rate, of a peripatetic Federal Parliament as
distinct from a fixed Federal capital.
The ludicrous seriousness with which the
W.C.T.U. cacklers take themselves is partly
realisable from the fact that their Sydney Con-
vention has just been patting the Czar on the back
over his alleged ardent desire for peace and good-
will upon earth. Even if that potentate—which
is to say his advisers —had no ulterior motive in
proposing the practically-impossible, the notion of
the utterly ruthless and unscrupulous Russian
diplomacy being vouchsafed the gracious approval
of the Australian hen-roost is quite too funny for
anything.
The ups-and-downs of the Dreytus case
outdo the wildest imaginings of the romancer.
No sooner had Col. Henry’s confession raised once
more a strong presumption of Dreyfus’s inno-
cence, than the former’s suicide, by official per-
mission—if not suggestion—removes him as witness
from a possible re-investigation of the case ; and,
hardly has Esterhazy received the expected kick-
out from the army, before the charges against
him are quietly shelved on “ technical grounds.”
For petty treachery, disreputable dodgery, and
complicated sconndrelism generally, the case is
probably unrivalled.
“ N.” : Anything more water-gruely than
Knight M'lntyre’s speech over the resignation of
his Opposition leadership, in Yic. Assembly,
could not be imagined. What a lot of flummery
about the scented, gentlemanly Opposition, so
gentle that it is none at all. Here is the business
over again of the French and English Generals at
Fontenoy, courteously taking off their hats, with
“ Gentlemen, fire first.” Bosh. The real Oppo-
sition in Vic. Parliament should be Labor, instead
of Trenwith and Hancock resting on their oars in
sublime satisfaction at achieving so much. Labor
must never be contented ! Drive on !
V'
%
%
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
This is a Cut of a
Red Bird
Special Axle,
showing each ball
running in a separate
case by itself does
not come in contact
with its fellows: re-
sult, no friction or
wear, and an ease of
propulsion impossible
with other bearings
where the balls are all
jammed together.
. ”16%
f;
E”
H; 9
Improved Bearings is Only One Point;
NICKEL STEEL. INDESTRUCTIBLE FRAMES, OVERHANGING
CYCLOIDAL SPROCKETS, DROPPED BRACKET,
SQUARE COTTERLESS CRANKS,
are other features, which will place
The Red Bird Special at the Head of the High Grades.
YES ! It will pay you to get a Catalogue showing our Full Line.
The Goold Bicycle Co., Limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (llbad Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
Agents in Town and Country.
USE THE
Sunliglit in Your Homes.
“ New Sunlight Incandescent Burner.
THE AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner*,
Complete, 6s. 6d.


An improvement in the condition of Mel-
bourne’s uppah middle-classes is suggested by the
latest half-yearly report from the Mutual Store.
The January-July results are the best formally
years.
“Premier Braddon thinks that Federation
will be definitely settled within three months.”
Hin ! “ Settled !” The Bulletin has visions of a
Makin in a backyard and a Butler bending over a
pit. And, strangely enough, the Makin of the
vision has an eyeglass, and the Butler a bingey.
N.S. W. Art Society begs Govt, permis-
sion to be labelled “ Royal 1 ” The Medicean
Venus licking the feet of Queen Victoria ! Apollo
Belvidere coming down from his pedestal to crawl
in the dust before Albert of Wales ! Art a
sycophant on the steps of a throne 1
The doings of the Greek gypsies as chroni-
cled from day to day in the Vie. press form amus-
ing reading. At Nhill, they were “undesirable
immigrants ” ; at Dimboola, “ filthy foreigners ” ;
at Horsham, “starving strangers”; at Stawell,
“ destitute people ” ; at Ballarat, “ honest, clean,
and desirable colonists ” ; and the Mayor of Sebas-
topol invited them to visit the town.
They have a “ghost” at Bendigo just
now—the same old brand of “ ghost ” that always
eludes capture for a while. Whilst the intrepid
citizens of Bendigo are hunting for a mock-phan-
tom in a white sheet the mischievous asses who
work the apparition are sometimes' in their midst,
with the “ ghost ” concealed under one of their
coats. The trick is usually done from behind a
hedge or low wall. The ghost that appears to
spring ove.r the wall is a mere delusion on two
sticks ; it is suddenly jerked into oblivion, and its
manipulators figure (if they can’t get away unob-
served) as pursuers of the “ man in white.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
The last batch of 100 Japs, landed at Port
Douglas (N.Q.) was not even required to “pass
the doctor ’—a formality required by law of every
oversea arrival. Piebaldland prostrates itself
before the Little Brown Man.
“ Ivicardo ” : Bishop Saumarez Smith, re-
fusing to sell St. James’s, Sydney, makes me think
of Ale lb. Anglican Cathedral. In boom-time a vast,
shadowy sum of money was offered for the com-
manding site at the corner of Swanston-street, the
then-incomplete building to be carted away by the
vendors. Dean Macartney, always preferring the
Last Aim), site, was in favor of jumping at this
olfer. Pity that the church didn’t jump at it.
Ihe purchasing syndicate would have duly gone
bung, leaving a forfeited deposit wherewith to
build a steeple.
Legal “subtleties.” Pilcher, Q .C., arguing
a case recently put it thus: “Supposing, your
.Honor, that I were sent to pay Sir J ulian Salomons
some money and lost lt-on the road, the loss would
be mine, not Sir Julian’s.” Sir Julian: “That
would be your excuse. ”
The glorious casualness of Young Aus-
tralia ! T other clay a Southern shoemaker
fell down stairs and broke his neck. His daughter
was next door at the time talking with a neighbor,
and they heard the noise of the fall. But the girl
• “ Oh, it’s only father falling down-stairs.”
ihe old man, it seems, had been accustomed
theretofore to fall down stairs pretty regularly
and with impunity, but this time he overdid it.
Had the British 1789 Government granted
a certain request of Napoleon, the last hundred
years of the world’s history would have been very
different. According to the Naval Chronicle of
1800 Buonaparte, when a young man, applied for,
and was refused, an appointment in the British
navy. Not generally known, by the way, that
Washington was once a lI.N. midshipman.
Dear Bulletin. —The chloroform discus-
sion doesn’t seemed to have touched the necessity
for purity of the drug. The quality of all drugs
should be subject to test by a Government, in-
spector. A chemist said to me, pointing to his
prussic-acid bottle, “ You could take the lot with-
out hurt, because it’s perished, but I’ll work it off
all the same.” This explains why doctors so fre-
quently find their prescriptions pan-out all wrong.
—H.G.
A patient at an Australian hospital died
the other day, leaving JS2S for funeral “exes.”
Unluckily, another man died at the same time ;
and the bodies were mixed. The <£2s-man got a
pauper’s grave, and the other, a pauper, got the
■£2s funeral. To make matters worse, Dives was
a R.C. and Lazarus a Lutheran, and the wrong
prayers were said over the wrong party before
burying him in the wrong allotment. When the
error was discovered the corpses were trans-
planted and the prayers said backwards ; but fears
are entertained that the respective souls had gone
too far ahead on their wrong journeys to be
caught up.
Overheard in Flinders-street, Melb., after
the marriage of Miss Sylvia Madden : “ Didn’s
she look a toff ? ” “My oath she did. Who’s ’er
father?” “ Her father ! Why Vs the bloke wot
gave our Tom three months.”
The Salvation Army, which has apparently
a belief in city properties, has offered £9OOO for
the German Club-house, Pirie-street, Adelaide,
which cost .£12,000 more than that ten years ago,
and which carries a mortgage of £BOOO.
Melb. bakers are now charging fi|d. and
7d. for 4lb. loaf, at which figure, it is alleged, the
profit is something like 80 per cent. Flour, 2.52 d. ;
labor, ,48d. ; delivery, .G2d. Total, 3.fi2d.—or over
3id. But the baker-man points out that there are
such things as bad debts.
The number of distinct and separate
prisoners confined in Victorian penal-gaols during
1807 was 7018 (5747 males and 1271 females).
These by no means represent criminals, as the
most numerous offences were drunkenness, 1348 ;
petty larceny, 10G9 ; vagrancy, 804 ; insulting
behaviour, 575 ; and obscene language, 550.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
The Bulletin hardly needs to apologise
for directing attention in another column to
Hoyle’s prints advertisement. Every—or nearly
every—lady purchaser of print goods knows that
Hoyle’s is one of the largest firms of calico
printers in the world. It has been established
over 100 years. Hoyle’s prints, so long famed for
their quality and guaranteed fast colors, can be
procured at all drapers in the colonies.*
i H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE
boys declare that Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes
have never been equalled for purity and quality.
I hey are the English Bon-Ton smoke.*
Vv/ \J- /WAJ’VAJVTv
Eumma
lurm-imran S
Maamisa c
GO TO HBLL-
KiOLANI) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set, of 14, unused, for Is. <Jd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, aud
l/rat its.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Viudin & Co.
74 ELIZALETIJ STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.VV.
The Dr. Williams Medicine co. has issued
a dictionary of the English language, and the firm
could give no better guarantee of its faith in its
own Pink Pills for Pale People than it does by
handing this dictionary to the cured. Whether
every man, woman, and child needs Pink Pills is
a question which the company can discuss with
the public at large ; but it is a certainty that
everybody needs a dictionary, and so everybody is
hereby advised to write to Dr. Williams Medicine
co. for a free copy*.
W.A. Govt, printer, now on his travels,
brings back with him (presumably if makers allow
long credit) some Alonotype machines, and warns
the to-be-displaced compositors to meantime look
elsewhere. Put the place where a displaced comp,
hasn’t looked lately is pretty hard to find. By
the way, won’t these be the first type-setting
machines in an Australian Govt, printery ?
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Kims to suit
customers.
JF. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“ DOWHIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Iwéﬁf.r':'~.&‘l;q.&wa:+
‘rvi‘ rf‘ (VHF, T15”. . ‘
"0‘ _.U"L_I|t_v|ILg'!1 dL #1 III“
IF :ﬂ'éﬁmgﬂlﬁﬁﬁf‘
_ Fu ; 31.1} It“. “5:12;;- ':r 3.4731135!
~2:::‘ ~ '3'“ V'“
‘ gum» :2! 1:“ J:
I» ~ 5. x; - 3‘1“.“ " ‘- ‘.- "
., "£5.33?” {ﬁg-5:25; '51-.
. ;; 3:“ . fr¥“;1;:ﬁg\!_f: :4“. riff; ‘Jr 51‘.
mummy“:
‘ ‘.“’.I‘? 'szfrjhl' } \ - "
FOB the person who is not a millionaire, there art
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “Til*: OISKM'K.Vr,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Kills’ King-street toiler Tulare,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
TT7E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
£sF Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE. .
(golf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-FTHCE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. tSS" Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American g'cycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPARETL
WAVEHLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
BOULEVARD
MACK LIN
BENLEY
GRiMLEY
QUADRANT
ahso
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainahl •
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
0
50UAGENT5-THE-
AUSTML-CYCIE-AG
ENCY-LTO-nELBOI/RSf
SYDNEY* ADELAIDE
i-rrf
M-’i-t
t*i*t/
m
t
V«. Vi
.J.
I ft
CYCLES
DUNLOP
TYRES.
f
i»
FT- SUCCESSES
For the last Two Months.
AdLelaide Meeting’.
September 1, 1898.
Pive Miles Scratch-
Fir st-Class
Ist, LOU BARKER; 2nd, F. BEAUCHAMP;
3rd, R. H. WALNE
Handicap—
-Ist, R. H. WALNE; 2nd, LOU BARKER
Corack Meeting.
4 Perth.
September 1, 1898.
Leonora Meeting 1 - - - Three Firsts; Two Seconds.
I Sydney.
j July 16, 1898.
Road Race • j-- - - - - Ist. J. ellioti
R. W. Lewis’ fastest time, beating previous best time by smin.
IXTorth Queensland..
j \ July 9, 1898.
Mile Record J - ->■ - - - - Ist. E. PAYNE
Melbourne.
August 6, 1898.
25-Mile Road Championship—
, Ist, A. C. MIDDLETON; 2nd, A. C. CALDER
; ole Agents :
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth. 301 GcCOVge Stveet, Sydney ,*


The mean-man championship has a strong
goer in a Westralian miner picked up blind-drunk
in Flinders-street, Melb., and locked up with £125
in his pockets. Brought before the City Court
next day, the bibulous capitalist pleaded guilty,
and, having been duly fined, was informed that
there was a poor-box awaiting donations from
those whom luck had favored more than ordinarily.
The aged delver went carefully through his cash,
and, selecting a half-crown, threw it airily to the
watehhouse-keeper, remarking, “I suppose that’s
about a fair thing.” By the way, Diogenes need
look no farther than Melb. for* his honest man
when, in the course of only three weeks, police-
men have found and arrested two different drunks
with over ,£lOO in their pockets.
Cable tells of a German proposal to settle
Samoan affairs by “dividing up” that distracted
and troublous Eden among the three treaty
Powers. Fortunately, the kingdom consists of
three large islands, so there’s one for each. John
Bull can have Savaii, much the largest; Uncle
Bam, 'lutuile, with its beautiful harbor; and
Fritz keep Upohi for himself, with the capital,
Apia, and much land acquired by the German
firms and German planters, and a king who is
merely a puppet in the bands of Fritz. Rather a
cool proposal, considering that Samoa doesn’t
belong to any foreign Power to be parcelled
out neatly. Mataafa, the G.O.M. of Samoa, the
deadly enemy of everything made in Germany, is to
be recalled from exile and settled near bis
old home. That sounds generous, but against
that fact place these : Mataafa is over sixty and
Samoans as a rule are a short-lived race ; (2) The
Savaii men, followers of M., and strongly anti-
German, are cut off from their leader; (3) There
isn’t the slightest danger of a religious question
affecting politics, for although M. is a good R.C.,
the French influence in Samoa is nil. (Mataafa
is an inherently great man and the sinall-souled
commercial trader has no use for greatness. It
worries him and sometimes hinders him from “do-
ing ” a native. Therefore he dislikes it with all his
small-souled vindictiveness). It’s a cute division
if carried out, too. For Fritz gets rid of thorny
Savaii and retains the civilised (save the mark !)
third with all improvements,” and Apia has been
so Teutonised with lager bier and cheap, colored
lithos. of “ der Kaiser,’’and enthusiastic keeping-
up of William’s birthday, and playing of the
“ Watch on the Rhine,” that it recalls to the
exiled Fritz that beloved Fatherland which he
adores so fervently and stays awav from for such
lengthened periods. Truly the Great Powers of
to-day out-Ahab Ahab in their Greed. Naboth’s
vineyard went as one lot, anyhow.
F.C. : How some men do hustle round
after a billet! Met a man yesterday—a fine,
healthy fellow with a delicate wife—who worried
every registry-office keeper in town till he got a
good billet as cook—for his wife. He has three
n early-grown-up daughters, all at work, while the
old man stops at home to mind the house and read
the paper and take life easv. Yes, some men can
always find work !
Is this a libel on civilisation, or on modest
women, or a compliment to Phryne? It was given
5 a c^ e P ut ' at ' on ' s t to Premier Turner as a reason
why the onus of proof that a customer was an un-
desirable character should be shifted from the
hotel licensee :
In these days of civilisation, it was not always easy to
distinguish between a prostitute who came into the bar
with a decent-looking citizen and a modest woman.
Whilst barrister Ferguson was stating
the facts in a recent appeal to N.S. W. Full Court,
Dr. Sly who was opposing, interjected and suiote
the table in emphasis, making the tumblers rattle,
the presiding Judge, Stephen J., laughed and
said: What was that you said, Dr. Sly’ I
heard the thump on the table, but I did not catch
what accompanied it.”
The daily conservative press of Australia,
without an exception, ignores the enormous ad-
vance of the Bismarck-impelled Socialist move-
ment in Germany. In ’7l August Betel, the
present leader of that party in the Reichstag was
returned alone. In the ’9B elections just over 58
straight-out advocates of this ticket were returned
26 of them on the second ballot. In France there
are now 57 Social Democrats and 74 Social Radi-
cals in a house of 507 deputies.
impure Blood
Suffered for three years
Mr. F. Westall of Mitcham, So. Australia,
sends us his portrait which shows a smooth
an<l healthy condition of the skin. But hr
has had the following experience :
J A
n
For the past three years I have been suf-
fering from an eruption of the body. I had
medical attendance and liad medicine to take
and a lotion for outward application, but they
did not do me the slightest good. In fact 1
tried all sorts of medicine and nothing seemed
to relieve me. My life was a burden. I had
ao appetite and I could not sleep. I was
strongly advised to try
DR. AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
#y a friend who had received great benefit
from it. I did so, and after taking only two
bot:les the itching left me and 1 felt better in
Jvery way. I coniinued taking the Sarsa-
parilla and altoge her took six bottles. lam
now free from the eruption and can eat and
sleep as well as I ever did in my life. It is
now about eight months since I was cured, so
I am sure I can say the cure is a permanent
me.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
6mn Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
C:E OOND-HAND
0 AND
TVTEW FURNITU 5E
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVF 50 PER CENT.
Saved is equivalent
to £b Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully f-0 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georsre-st. (8 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
D
HEftß
E'W” “Common Sense Ear
Drums'’ relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
[Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Icomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
Igerous) wire or metal attach-
frnent. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
WiiSon Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmf.rs, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA. HOARSENESS, &c.
m
<
COUGH
STop s
Cql
££OONFUL
DOSE.
Oives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’-S is supplied.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, tiie real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking- the broad acres oi
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
7
SORUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents f r lew South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
M
BOULESTIN BRANDY.
The finest French Brandy imported into Australia.
May be had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the leading Hotels and Wine
and Spirit. Merchants.
ASK FOR BOULESTIN.
12-
ITOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By I)r. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not (he slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE AN V WHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by l)r. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post tree Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flankers, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post tree Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot; Abbe Mouret’s Sin; The Soil; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s (id ; post.4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post Sa-
llow TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. TIIE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. .Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Sd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. <&c.. Is (id post.
Modern Etiquette: Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 16 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages.' Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave I)ore. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is (id. Nigger Jokes. Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fats. Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cli'=;a,'p Boole Detsot
16 PARK STKEST, SYDNJ.V,
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra), near
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PJEIODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
HHHH9H
-
lifif? * v v
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW, ARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION.
P.'reWrs of aH classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS
F " r **■, »wly to E. A. Weinbki.g, Manage, Tl.e Smdti-g Conpa-y of A„ str ,lia. Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
iins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


H err ßaSSnjOSSeo’S AlfaliQC Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizaheth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely- cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great 1 enefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, u'rites,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
w'rites that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Ealgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing'of God, as well in
' health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness : John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Piles.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivaxihoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing:
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —‘‘Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona Jides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. — “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HERR RASMUSSENS
pssion in the Herbal UJorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is'quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing their
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine.
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassmussen is held by the Australian press.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • ■
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs any where.
y 4
., ‘
‘. l . _ 7.
is” '
5.11.33if,;,1.;’:~_' ‘ .1 1 1.111;; 1..., 73-1;
$01” . ﬁ/ ' ' 3 ’
9);; A . ,_ .1 . / _. " > g
i.1% -' '. . .’.:‘I ‘-‘~ 1. ‘ .'. . '3':
12233;: :. ' .;.:...;;1" 1. A axis-31.1 -" .11,
.3», . ‘ . . . 3.7.5:” .. 5113 . 3.133241
x \ ,Un
“3'1 6% "12:35 5:4 " '.”' ~z.¢,-I6:::.““
1.11.1211. 3 ’12,; J’WZ’V, ‘ 1 M,.«:;=zu.:.$.
513:3: M‘ :. ' 31:! 1 '.‘j-g . c’ \‘M/ $.15:
1°”- .3 1 2, 1 1 , “’11
we 11 .
$33133 w .3 «>1. VQ ' {fa 3&
»&$3 .1 ‘2 1* a.»
. m<<3S¢3"'*:->: 1"» :1 1‘- 1: "2: :'~ -‘» 3 "
mv‘YzixQK 113; 431-9" . ’95?”
A’ 3‘4233‘ \ » .'.w’hfc é—o
“yaw.“ .’ 301,-: .: ,. .. 1 . .‘3 2.1; 424.:-'1:.:::.31.¢..:1,..1.,.
‘33». "31"" ”3 1 1 .1 1,112: 2 e. 1 1‘12 3.:;=~:-.v::=-:..‘:é
12$ 1- p; “ *3». _ ,Me1,
<33 .3 .1- .1 ; .1 V .1 . .3:;:.;::§5:§i:x1'T-‘;:5.315?
1;"; 3 .1:' . "g ".:;=;,:,E;\< ‘ 3
.1 3 ' 3.1155535;
5-: .J-r,» » ~ 73.32;
5’ :.::“;:'~ : I - ‘3 . i ‘ ‘ '
.1232. - ‘r ‘\ Q
‘3sz ’ ‘
\‘é‘I‘Agy‘ . =1
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist.
Important
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies ran only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page, It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alf aline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(JRegistered.).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassnmssen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS Hassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
AWARD
TWO
GOLD
ALS
y
ini
m
PE
ALFA LINE FILLS?
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD fe NERVES.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfalioe Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfalioe Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussezx’s
Alfalifye Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stout est
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, Bs. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
And. Important Branches sa,s Follows:


At Poverty Point.
The up-country parson must play many parts—or
starve. Thus, from an S.A. print“ The Laura Christy
minstrel troupe gave an entertainment in the Town
Hall last night in aid of the Gladstone Ornamental
Grounds Fund. The first portion of the programme was
occupied by the good old-fashioned nigger circle, with
the Rev. A. E. Green as a most efficient interlocutor.”
For once, anyway, the ancient wheeze would be more or
less appropriate—“ Now, Massa Johnsing, can you told
me where was Jonah when the light went out ? ”
Biondi’s Italian patter in his restaurant-sketch is, of
course, unintelligible to the majority. But writer had
the luck to be with a former operatic artist at the show,
and he translated. When Biondi entered as the weeping
wife his face and voice were weeping, but his words said
that his dressers were pigs, dogs, etc. Then he recog-
nised a friend and compatriot in my companion, and
began explaining his troubles to him, all the while
keeping up the tone of the character, then after inviting
him to supper whisked off for his next change.
Actors and sailors usually cherish in their roving
bosoms a charming little picture of bliss on a ten-acre
farm. Gaston Mervale has announced his intention of
retiring to the vast privacy of a Gippsland farm, and
there spending his life to the accompaniment of the cheer-
ful cow-bell as it tinkles from the neck of a moo-cow up
to its knees in luscious grasses. Evidently he has not
lived in Gippsland, where the local inhabitant has made
a proverb to the effect that if you want to keep your ear
dry you have to sit solidly on it for nine months out of
the twelve ; and where large, wet trees howl to the wind
a dirge as dismal as “Godsave” p ayed on a suburban
piano ; and the local girl has vast, damp feet and freckles
as numerous as the stars in the heavens ; and the police-
man has scarlet hair, and is the most consistent of the
six local drunks ; and the horses are mostly lame, and
the cow the only dry thing in the district ; arid the black,
sloppy patch of dirt that is supposed to crow potatoes
gets on your nerves and drives you to soak your bright
young manhood in colonial beer.
Australians at one time regarded America as the land
of pretty, rather than of “ fine,” women. But the sight
of such “stunners” as Edith Crane, Maxine Elliot,
Blanche Walsh, and Maud Jeffries has considerably
modified that opinion.
Demise, Julius Hertz, founder of Melb. Licdertafel, and
one to whom the profession owes a great deal ; also, he
owed a good deal to the public. A kindly, humorous
little Deutsoher, with a taste for lurid melodrama, which
he never failed to patronise and applaud.
R. S. Smythe : Madame Nordiea had almost arranged
to come out here with me, when she changed her mind,
saying she was afraid she was not old enough for Aus-
tralia.
“ 8.L.” : Apropos your par. (12/8,’98) that the giddy little
actress always nibbles, but never eats, the apple she pro-
fesses to devour. The g.l.a. knows heaps better than to
do any such “ foolishness.” Imagine her trying to sing
with bits of apple in her throat ! There is always a song
to follow this ancient bit of business.
“E.G.” to Tiie Bulletin from Batavia: — lb would be
mean did I even advise mine enemy to take a troupe to
Java. Why? Because the Dutch run Java, and they
also run your show. Taxing is the pastime of the Dutch.
When the unfortunate “pro” arrives, full of hope, in
their land of perpetual sun, they, the Dutch, tax him for
so doing. You innocently dispatch a wire or a simple
letter to your best girl; they, the Dutch, tax you for the
luxury of so doing. The energetic Dutchman wants a
“cut in” at your earnings—he nightly attends your
entertainment, enters your pay-box, ’ demands your
receipts, expenses and other such secrets of state,
then calmly and coolly taxes the same. They are
a “cool” race, are the Dutch. Your whole co.
slowly but surely go down with malaria, cholera,
beri-beri, or small-pox, which in due course is followed
by a greater plague—a Dutch medico’s bill. When you
have paid this, the authorities, like true-born Dutchmen,
tax you for so doing. And when at last, if you get
through alive and take your departure broken in wind,
pocket, and limb, the Dutchman once again comes up
smiling, and taxes you for the luxury. However, fair
dues—Java is all right for a circus (it’s Harinston’s
“Boulder”) or a conjuring show; for anything else—
whew!
“Pro.” : Seeing “The Sign of the Cross” crowd in a
modern piece one realises how much they owed to
costume. Stately elocution may impress in a toga, but
depresses in trousers.
What an opportunity for Biondi to add Signor Hazon
to his sketches of musical conductors. Hazon's eccentric
style was a peg for critic Plumpton to hang his rage on
when the former was in Melbourne. Plumpton’s opera
being a failure, he sought to put the blame on Hazon,
who conducted it.
“ Poverty-Pointer ” : Never mind your scientific mirror
fake ghosts. Give us a ghost that walks. They are very
rare in Melbourne just now.
Dear Bulletin. —Your alarmist who wrote that “the
main entrance to Melb. Royal on a crowded night looks a
veritable death trap. Stalls, upper circle and gallery all
pour occupants in to swell the jostling mob on the ground
floor entrance, &e., &c.,” was writing pestilent nonsense.
Fireman Dave, the escape-doors keeper at the Royal, is
full of wrath against the erring alarmist. Gallery, upper
circle and pit are provided with exceptionally large
“ panic ” doorways, and the “ gods ” pouring down the
staircases (stone, framed in iron) have a broad right-of-
way exit. There are, in fact, escape doors opening into
two right-of-ways, and the people from upstairs wouldn’t
mingle with the escapees from the stalls in a case of fire.
Also the pitites, when leaving the premises, have their
backs turned towards the hacks of the stallites who are
clearing out by the aforesaid main entrance. There are
two broad staircases leading from the d.c. into Bourke-
street. As for the statement that “ emergency exits are
not made conspicuous by notices on the walls ’’—well, the
escape doors tell their own tale. They stare one in the
face the moment one turns to flee. — Enquirer.
Walter Bentley is having a pretty little duel with Wes-
leyan parson James (of Brisbane), who has been attacking
the mummer’s Sunday evening performances. Bentley is
beautifully logical. True—he makes money on the Sab-
bath ; so does the parson. True —he works for a living on
the day of rest; so do the clergy. True—he cuts their
throats by competition, but the clergyman in question
cuts out Bentley and his fellow-stagers by giving enter-
tainments during the week in an edifice that doesn’t pay
the customary license-fee of a regular hall. . . . And,
finally, Bentley invites Parson James to leave the coward’s
castle of a pulpit and discuss the matter on public plat-
form-fair fight and no favor.
Harry Rickards has registered a solemn vow : no more
theatrical companies for him. The music-hall business
he understands, but the other—well, there is money to
he lost at it.
Patti’s voice nowadays is a faint, fitful echo of its old
self, and the Ilinglish public—at the Crystal Palace, say
—simply pays to see her warble, as it formerly paid to see
Sims Reeves, with very little hope of hearing anything
from afar off. As an institution Patti dies hard. She : is
not eclipsed by younger women who play the characters
she made famous, for none of them can touch her in a
histrionic sense. A Melba sings the Traviata music and
her trill is beautiful, hut the audience is chiefly struck by
the recollection of Patti’s superiority at every other point
of the game.
R. S. Smythe in explanation: When I wrote in the
Argus that people were still biting their toe-nails and
gnashing their artificial teeth because of the money they
had spent over the Albani concerts, I was not a bit
“ narked” that the manager should have had the happy
thought to announce that the Queen had congratulated
the Canadian prima-donna upon her safe arrival. Quite
the contrary. 1 have always said that it was a splendid
idea, even if the cablegram was not spontaneous (it was
never published); but if the thing was worked from this
end, then the Firm, or Gye, or Mrs. Gye, or somebody
else deserves a very large gold medal for arranging such
a unique combination as the Queen and Albani. Ninety
people out of every hundred thought that the vocalist
whom the Queen delighted to wire must be the best in
the world. Hence the biting and gnashing. But the
management were not to blame. They imported an ex-
cellent artiste, and were perfectly justified in utilising
such a harmless artifice for inducing people to go and
hear her. Without that, Madame Albani might have gone
away, as many equally-good but less-known artistes have
done before her, unseen, unheard, unhappy.
Ada Reeve had a JE6O-a-week contract with Coghill, of
Melb. Gaiety, ready for her signature. The smart little
woman took the contract to Rickards and gave hnn the
option of engaging her on the same terms. Rickards was
willing.
Phil. Newbury has discovered a fine tenor-alto voloe in
a young Bendigo miner, whoa Bo is now teaching M
sing. The new “ find” will probably appear at the next
Saturday “ Pop.” in Melbourne.
Coleman is going the rounds. Rickards and the Firm
took him turn and turn about for three years or more.
Within the past three weeks he has performed at “ Pop.”
concerts for Newbury, at the Bijou under the humorous
Cosgrove management, and now he is with Harry Coghill
at Melb. Gaiety.
“ All lewd and otherwise London is now rushing,”
writes Tiib Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ to see a
smart and pretty woman undress on the Alhambra stage.
It is a graceful performance, and a revelation. Harry St.
Maur once did something of the kind for the education
of his female audience, and it is time the turn of the
males arrived. Charmian walks on in a Park costume,
and finds herself in a gymnasium-fitted apartment. In
dumb show she indicates her yearning, and on a stirruped
rope is drawn up to a trapeze. Her garments hinder her,
so she moults them. The en-tout-eas drops, 4i gloves are
gently peeled off, a Parisian feathered hat floats away,
bodice, skirt, silk petticoat are shed whilst the audience
holds its breath and the back of a front seat. The eye-
sight blurs with desire to see, and the lady unclicks her
whalebone cylinder and massages her sides with her
elbows with a femininity that makes every man in the
house remember his—mother. Honi-soit-qui-mal-y-penses
are unbuckled and tossed to loud-breathing, hungry-eyed
box-holders, the end of the last white garment is tucked
in between the knees, from which have sunk an airy
fllagreed garment, rapidly followed by silken hose, and
she hangs by her knees on the bar in pink and scanty
fleshings as the chemisette slips over her head and away.
Then the ‘ house' lets go its breath as the acrobatic
performance begins, but—all the men are thirsty."
Lightning-change artist’s wife (to lightning-change
artist, who has been struggling for a quarter-of-an-hour
with a refractory collar): “ Hurry up, now ! Here have
I been ready, gloves and all, for the last 10 minutes
We’ll be late for the theatre again, as usual. You won’t
take my advice, and start to dress an hour beforehand 1 "
An Australian manager is understood to pride himselt
that no cheektakers can cheat him, because he sizes up
the house to a penny with his eye from the stage in spare
moments.
Another play by Oscar Wilde is in rehearsal. Probably
the audacious fat man has drawn his latest hero from the
polite criminal classes.
“ Haresfoot” : The National Theatre, Florence, the
most popular in the city wiLh all classes, and giving the
best tare, has one price all over, equivalent to our
shilling. There is accommodation for 201)0.
The speech from the stage again. Returning thanks
on behalf of a concert beneficiary in a Southern city the
other night, the shortwinded manager said : “ We will
have another entertainment next month, when we hope,
ladies and gentlemen, to have another suffering brother
with a claim on your kind patronage” !
The Firm’s Cup production in Melbourne is to be “The
Geisha,” the musical comedy that has had a long run in
London. Being produced at Cup-time, it will probably
be known as the gee-geisha
Strange that Miss Dorothy Vane, besides being home-
sick, already talks of entering a convent. Clias. Ken-
ningham, too, the minute his engagement with the Firm
ends, means to renounce opera and devote his abilities to
sacred and oratorio music. Is this sudden attack of re-
ligious zeal amongst the members of the Comic Opera co.
clue to the lukewarm appreciation of their hitherto per-
formances, or is “ getting to a nunnery” the Australian
equivalent for having one’s diamonds stolen?
A very unconvincing yarn about Ellen Terry states that
she once played a ten-word part in an amateur show at
the request of her daughter, Miss Edith Wardell. Did
the fair Ellen have a daughter by her second husband,
Wardell (Charles Kelly)?
To what base uses! At one of his Sydney Town Hall
recitals, organist Wiegand played three of his own com-
positions—the “Alderman Jessep ‘Melody in G fiat,’”
the “ Alderman Ives 1 Souvenir de Merrylands,’ ” and the
“ Alderman Chapman ‘ Victory March.' ” Ye gods 1
Our old friend, Locke Richardson, has lately been
around the principal German cities, reciting from Shake-
speare, Tennyson, Dickens, and Sheridan to large audi-
ences everywhere. Locke Richardson by this time, no
doubt, can reel off from memory all the Shakespearian
plays worth considering as monologue entertainments.
He had six or eight of them on the Up of his tongue when
he visited Australia, and what with his bright introduc-
tory discourses and his skilful condensing of the drier
parts of a play into chatty little narratives, he is remem-
bered as the most deserving one-man show that ever
struck this country.
Old Billy Hoskins had a piece on once in which a super
had to say—“ My lord ! the Baron Bois de Castagne
waits without,” and Billy had so laboriously rehearsed
thatsupe in the correct pronunciation that the wretched
man, losing his head at the critical moment, announced,
“Me lord, the Baron Boss de Oastaggin waits without."
“ You’re a liar,” roared Hoskins, “ he doesn't! ” and
he rushed at the super, and throttled him. The rest of
the piece was played as a farcical coined}'. No statement
was made by any actor therein that was not promptly
met from aloft with the yell—“ You're a liar !" It
ruined the piece, but was a good ad. for Billy.
Cyrus Blenkarn, in “The Middleman,” is simply
Palissy, the “ Huguenot Potter," up to date. The charac-
ters are identical, the stories almost so. Didn’t author
H. A. Jones admit the borrow when his drama was first
produced?
“What a back-cloth I” —Fred Leslie, viewing Sydney
Harbor.
Cheery Alf. Massina (of the Melbourne publishing firm),
who died the other week, played Falkland, in “ The
Rivals,” when the Melb. Press Amateurs made their final
appearance. Among his colleagues on t hat occasion were
Bob Whitworth, Walstab, Finn, and Joe Brown.
Coleman is sick to death of the Scarecrow, but the
Melb. public insists on it, even at the Pops.
Wybert Reeve acted Fosco, in the “ Woman in White,”
2000 times.
Pear Bulletin. —R« “ Bogan’s” criticism of my note in
“ B." 16/7/’9B, let me say that in no small town like Nyn-
gan was a man-and-lion performance ever specially adver-
tised, although an animal-trainer has at times in such
places some rough experiences unrehearsed. If “ Bogan"
had been at the show when at Brewarrina, he and the
other gore-lovers would have had the pleasure of seeing
me tearing my hand out of the lion’s mouth, much to the
detriment of two fingers. No doubt “ Bogan ” has much
the same tastes as the lady who was speaking to me one
night in another town, not knowing I was the man she
referred to. “Is it really very dangerous ?” she asked.
“ Yes, madam,” I said, “ the man sometimes gets corn
to pieces.” “Oh ! ” she said eagerly, “Is he going into
the cage to-night ?” “ No, not to-night, madam.” Her
face fell, and with an injured air she walked away ex-
claiming : “ It’s a swindle 1 If I had known that I wouldn’t
have come.”—H.V.
J. L. Goodman (brother of G.L., of Sydney) has suc-
ceeded, almost singlehanded, in getting through Natal
Parliament a Bill for the protection of dramatic author's
rights, hitherto at the mercy of any pirate in that pro-
vince.
“P.A.”: When Federici came off just before his final
scene in “ Faust” he felt in his pocket and found he had
no dynamite-pills. He was very faint and asked a stage
hand to go for them. They did not arrive in time, and
this, as 1 stated before, was the first link in the chain
which led to his death when he fell off the trap with
Chas. Aston Leumane Knight on top of him. You will
observe the composite name of the tenor, for one man
arises and smites me as an ignoramus, declaring that
Leumane played Faust, and another says Knight Aston
did so. We know that he, “ Freddy,” was taken to the
green-room ; it is hardly likely they would leave him on
the floor. My words were : “ lie died ere the restorative
could be procured.” A tablet of nitro was put on his
tongue by Dr. Wilmot, but be could not swallow: Mrs.
Federici declared that had she been there in time she
could have revived him by rubbing the region of the
heart. The facts, as I related them, about Federici’s
death were told to me the morning after the occurrence
by Jack Edwards, the Auckland tenor, then in the chorus.
He carried Federici to the green-room, and he told me
most distinctly that the actor walked to the wings. But
sensation-mongers will have their bit of tragedy. Like
Oscar Wilde's woman, she must be “murdered in her bed.”
There is a creepy sound about that which is entirely lost
if one says: “She was murdered in the back-yard,” or
the coal-shed. However, as “K.,” who was not present !
at the tragedy, contradicts Edwards, who was, I must !
accept the former's version.
Clever Peggy Pryde is, alas! very like the average '
dull-witted stage pro. when she objects to the “ ineon- i
sistency" of Tint Bulletin in not admiring everything j
that «he does. Pros, are children always. They want all !
the nice spoonfuls of jam they can get, but never a nasty j
powdsr in m* el then.
“T.S.J.” : Re slowness of trains in W.A.
Those flower-excursion trains do stop at good
places for picking flowers, but they are specially
sent with that idea—generally on Sundays, when
the traffic is small. Travelling one day between
Newcastle and Clackline Junction, W.A., I had
my hat blown out through the carriage window.
I put my head out (it was a small train of only
two or three carriages) and whistled the engine-
driver, who pulled up while I got out and picked
up mycady.
Learn and be Wise.— Federation is in the air ;
so are the measles. We don’t wish to block Federation,
but can lay you on how to prevent your baby, your
brother, your sister, or your aunt, or even the old man,
from taking the measles. Just drop into M’LEAN
BROS & RIGG’S Ironmongery establishments in Mel-
bourne or Sydney, buy a few tins or bottles of their
specially-prepared disinfectants, and your house is as
safe against- the malady as the cause of Federation is in
the hands of the present Parliament. The reader in-
wardly resolves to buy, preferring to spend a few shillings
to having the measles. Wise man.*
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Muse-rove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Trea3., J. B. Moutrie.
Brilliant Inauguration of the Comic Opera
Season.
THURSDAY, Bth Sept., and FRIDAY, 9th Sept.,
“THE MIKADO.”
SATURDAY NEXT, 10th September—“ LA POUPEE.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and la.
mOWN HALL, SYDNEYS
WEDNESDAY, 14th September.
COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT CONCERT TO
Mr. JOHN LEMMONE
The World-renowned Australian Flautist.
LAST APPEARANCE in Australia of Miss ADJSLA
VERNE, the Greatest Living- Lady Pianist.
T H EATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NTGHTSt
BLAND HOLT’S
Unique Military Spectacle,
OKTB OF THE BEST.
SATURDAY, Sept. 10, special revival for 12 nights only,
“THE FATAL CARD."
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy'g.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Every Evening!
ELECTRIC SUCCESS 1 ELECTRIC SUCCESS !
Professor T. H. Kennedy’s
Hypnotic Entertainment.
AN UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS !
E3T The King Laugh-maker Reigns Supreme.
The audience on Saturday Night being Profoundly
Puzzled, Electrified, and Gratified regarding Professor
KENNEDY'S MARVELLOUS MESMERIC POWER.
Screams of Laughter at the Criterion Theatre heard at
the Town Hall.
PEOPLE’S PRICES-Dress Circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 2s. ;
Family Circle, Is. ; Gallery, SIXPENCE. Seats may be
reserved at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
FRED. HENNINGHAM, Business Manager.
Tivoli the at re, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE SUCCESS of ALL SUCCESSES 1
Signor TJgo Biondi.
The most astounding Quick-change Artist in the world.
Continued Phenomenal Success of
THE POLUSKIS. GOVELL SISTERS.
GEORGE BEAUCHAMP, GEO. H. WOOD,
LOU BERESFORD, ALICE SIMMONS, NETTIE
WAITE, J. W. WINTON,
And our DOUBLE TIVOLI COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss Ada Reeve
JULEENE AND D’ALCORN.
THE SISTERS TERRY. D. 11. CASTON.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANINO.
Foremaxi & Fa.zxna.xi.
tag" PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.,
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mdsgrove.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS I
“THE HARBOR LIGHTS.”
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as LIEUT. KINGSLEY.
Miss ADA FERKAR as UNA NELSON.
SATURDAY, Sept. 10—THE PRISONER OF ZEND A
For Positively Six Nights Only.
_ Box Plan at ALLAN’S and MEMZIES*.
Town hall, Melbourne.
SATURDAYS 10th, 17th, and 24th September.
“ POPS."
«• POPS."
SHILLING
“ POPS."
“ POPS."
NR WB UR Y-SPA BA COY.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
Special engagement of the Society Sketch Artists,
Mr. ALFRED BELLMAN and Miss LOTTIE MOORE,
and THE BlOGRAPllE—Gladstone’s Funeral.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice,
i 2nd WEEK ! CONTINUED GIGANTIC SUCCESS !
The Trip Round the World
In 80 Days.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. Charles Maurice,
and the Brilliant Dramatic Company.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
| PRICES —3s„ 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
JJRISBANK. THEATRE ROYAL.
! Redecorated, New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc., Mr. WALTER BENTLEY.
Th e Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth St Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY,
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
| ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
j —Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
| you will be satisfied.
| Telephone D. COBCROET, Proprietor.
I MM. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
[ all pasts of the Colonies.
moot $ flOEncy comply
Of QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
Capital: £60.000 in £1 Shares.
Payable 2/6 per Share on Application and 2/6 on
Allotment.
DIRECTORS
Hon. W. ALLAN, M.L.C.
HE BURGH PERSSE, Esq. (Director Royal
Bank of Queensland Ltd.)
A. J. CARTER, Esq. (President Brisbane Cham-
ber of Cammerce)
A. C. SANDEMAN, Esq. (Aplin Brown and
Crawshay Ltd.)
R. NEWTON, Esq. (R. Newton and Co.)
OBJECTS:
Sale of Wool and Produce, &c.,in
Queensland.
Prospectus on Application to
S. LARARD, Secretary,
Courier Buildings, BRISBANE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmabers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hair working.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
Worth (SettiQS
Worth Rcadiog
Worth Kccpipg
We have five little books which have
been carefully prepared, and explain in
clear and simple language the cause and
cure of various prevalent maladies. Each
of these popular Medical Guides deals
with a dilferent subject. No. 1 with
Gout, No. 2 with Headache, No. 3 with
Indigestion, No. 4 with Constipation,
and No. 5 is for Ladies, and deals with
Neuralgia, and Periodic Headache, and
their cure by means of YAMBA. Either
or all will be sent Post Free to any ad-
dress by A. BISHOP LTD., Mile
End New Town, London ; or from
their Australian Dep6t, 18 O’Connell-
st., Sydney. When writing, please say
which booklet is required, and write
to-day.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL SEND YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
99mm
Ts positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We, cannot publish «ill the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving from grateful sufferers
who have been cured. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you cratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
your address to
S. COX & CO.,
PATENTEES and SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
42'J Hour Ice Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2a. 6d. and (triple size) 6s.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Bhow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dr. J. A. M'Grill’s “Orange Blossom”
Specific. A positive cure without the use of the
knife for TUMORS and all forms of malignant
growths, allied with Female Weaknesses, Sick
Headaches, Despondency, Hysteria, etc. “ORANGE
BLOSSOM” is applied direct; instantly removes pain
and congestion. All women can use this most wonderful
remedy at home. Thousands of testimonials from young
and old. Pamphlet “ Plain Talk to Ladies,” sent upon re-
ceipt of stamped envelope. Consultation free—lo to 5.
Head office in Australia for Dr. M‘Gill's “Orange Blossom
SpeciOc," City Chambers, lit Elizabeth-st., Mkleoubmi.
TALKS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
trioe Waning; price, I/-; posted, 1/2.


Explorer Carnegie, according to Panton,
P.M., at a Melb. meeting of the Royal Geographi-
cal Society, discovered a race of aboriginals in
Westralia showing marked Jewish features and
strong Jewish characteristics. Victorian bookies
are applying to have the clauses of the new Aliens
Immigration Act altered to apply to this lost
tribe.
London Saturday Review deals with
a book by D.B.W. Condensed-Milk Sladen
—to wit, “ Trincolox and Other Stories.” (Sladen
is the person who laments the deplorable literary
taste of that disgraceful Australian paper, The
Bulletin).—
It is reported that there are some strange places in
which Mr. Douglas Sladen passes for a man of letters. If
this quaint report be true, we are bound to hope, for Mr.
Sladen’s sake, and for the credit of the race, that he has,
at some other time and in some other place, produced
work less entirely devoid of literary qualities than that
contained in the present book, which is as foolish and
illiterate a thing as ever proceeded from a respectable
publisher. The truculent name of the hero aroused in us
some faint hope of melodrama to come, but it proved to
be merely assumed by Robert Kingsley, an ex-Premier of
Victoria, who turned his back on fame because his con-
science was too tender for the political career. His first
wife died, and he became very misanthropic, and sailed
away in a yacht. Then he went to Heidelberg, where, in
a pension, he met a beautiful American who asked him to
marry her. Hereupon he remarked, “ ‘ You beauty ’ ! as
if she were a magnificent dog that someone had pre-
sented to him,” and agreed to marry her. It is only need-
ful to add that the book is wholly lacking in interest of
incident, constructive skill, and grace of style ; and is,
indeed, mentioned here solely because it is a significant
proof that, in these blessed days of promiscuous educa-
tion, there is a market even for such deplorable twaddle
as this.
“ A.J.G.” : The man recently killed in a
building-collapse at Adelaide had just been
appointed to the city constabulary, after having
waited many months for the position. Curious to
compare with this the ending of a last year s
Cassell’s Magazine story:
The face of the man who won the V.C.—calm, heroic,
unelated by success. No longer that of the man who
waited, and hoped, and was neglected. Close to the dead
hand lay a letter, “On Her Majesty’s Service. ’ Miriam
did not weep as she handed me the letter.
“ They remembered him at last, you see. He had waited
so long—so long ! And this would have made him so
happy. The command of the regimental district of his
old regiment. But he did not know. The letter came
yesterday . . . half an hour after he died.”
It’s a “ far cry ” from a Colonel to a constable
but it’s all the same to Fate !
Apropos of the passport system, whereby
Premier Byrnes trusts to block the invading Jap.
The shipping master at Thursday Island demanded
to see the passports of a number of Yokohamans
who dropped in the other day. Japs hadn t any.
Forthwith the gentle reader concludes they were
packed back straight to Japan. But they weren t.
The shipping master had no power (he averred) of
refusing a landing to the heathen, and so the great
passport system ran amok at itself, died a violent
death, and the “ cheap and reliable ” landed
alleesame.
mm
F
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of-all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
/k Solid Silver Watch
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY !
Can you read this :
w*A * S | T* E
T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to stive away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions :—That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Oases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
‘‘BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
7
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
Publications, etc.
$3.
/““fv<'\
‘/
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney &£
Confes-!
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
Barmaid.
To he had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
lANO op ORGAN PLAYING
LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT’S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With it any one can become an expert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the NEAREST APPROACH TO A READY MADE KNOWLEDGE
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
i ft! ennrio fWa To introduce to every home PRATT S CHART
I Ot OUIISO II tst/ Published at 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt's Chart
of Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
A' glo American Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
NEW MUSIC.
“The Chimes of Normandy,” by Stanhope Gray, a song-
certain to please ; “ Saucy Sally,” by Will Godwin, a good
song with a good chorus ; “ Pat Magee,” a pretty, witty,
Irish song; “Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henri Laski,
composer of “My Polly” Waltz; “Pierrot et Pierrette ”
(Gavotte), by Henri Laski, composer of “My Polly”
Waltz; “ Frascatti ” Waltz, by Theo Bonheur. Of all
dealers. Catalogues post free on application to IF.
PAXTON & CO., 203 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-*. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., Loudon,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOKS.
Books
Books
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Farm Management and Veterinary Practice.. 15/- 7/6
The New Enquire Within, 5000 receipts .. 7/6 6/-
Every Man His Own Medical Adviser, 800 do. 35/- 15/-
The Farmer’s Own Book suitable for Breeding 7/6 5/-
Farm Engineering, Irrigation, Water Supply 16/- 10/-
Dictionary of Universal Information 25/- 10/6
Hopper’s Prac. Timber Measure, with tables 5/- 2/6
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £l. All Books sent Post Free.
NEW UP-TO-DATE SSSSE&SK
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy ; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence-
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
M
fORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.——
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
I Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Go., Manchester.
|| Silver Hatch Free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIIVIAULT & CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold b.y all Chemists.
@333 . k ‘
..t :
mfg“!
HOLEMANE’S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers, I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
t» Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
"PAttoT
BR^NE)
sP*aiNs Wound?
CpQ'GH$ c°l p 5 tc
op V
/mitatpmS
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
l’rice, 10s. Gd.
Sole Agents :
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gsorge-st., Sydney
■A CART-LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatmentthat
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligta Sts., Sydney.
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack : With St. Jacobs Oil. xt
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
E V ER Y W HERE.
ITKIHSOBS
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. .A-TKIISTSOISr, Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
I
IQUQR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely a**
Btroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 6 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, ana
may he given without the know*
ledge of the patient, who wiu
voluntarily stop drinking.
PamphLu on the disease of Drank*
enness andits cure sent Fr©6, B©aled*
EASILY
EUCRABY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN. STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
SfiilS
' i I I 'l"
I!:
SifiiffiSSS
■
'
■
■ „
IHmUHHiiiiiiiiiili
HMHiiiijiiiiiiiiiM
■O.iliiiijiiiiiiiiiii
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is man
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/b.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/ -•
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35'-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
1 and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
| &c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
* select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/- Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Bugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6 9/6. Hats, Gaps, all kinds, Cheap. .
Ourßook, “ The Philosophy of Dress, also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, "‘SLS
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
[perua peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation lias not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. fid. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co-,
Manufacturing Chemists & Food Specialist*.
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M.irgaret,-street.
PROVED BY 100 YEARS USE .
D?ROBERTS’^“
Friend
soq
S/aDISEASEf
d?ro‘berts «—am. __
and Wou/vas
or £ VERY
DESCRIPTION
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMA C// <& LJVER .
or ALL CHEMISTS //// X 2/^EACH
BEACH &BARNICOTT L°. BRIDPORT.
MELBOURNE.
ffißSft?
POST FREE v'©' >
MfercriES'CLOQKS-JEV/ELLERYBIRTriDAf"
WeddiNc £ CHRisTErJiHc Presents
H NeWMAAI- 1755177-ELIZABETH ST*
OPPOSITE C.P.Q. -
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
wing .2}.
"(f “viz; L /,
5'4; {‘9 ‘
//§[7/\; ‘
'21 . vi ‘
/,:;_ ‘ . 3‘ ; ‘
‘ /l(/(’;( w, 1" ‘
:._.’ 1/ “ !.,,;'-;=‘:5
€22.22; 1% ~
vift to man— Electricity.
>ur Electric Belts will cure
11 NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that .you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address i
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ONE HONEST MAN.
TXEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
-L* written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address- e. H . ; Box 1.66, SYDNEY.


THE MOST'REFRESHING, COOLING. & HEAJLTHFUIi BEVERAGE.
[Trad® Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co Elliott Rrno
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D.’ Cohen & Co., and The Austrahfn
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co. an
l-g' ’ v
‘ I. ‘ p it,
I. {M ll 1v." 7:1.“ ‘.
,I "311 1.": g
I 1 k: ‘1‘” {“1NK‘ 'l
. V 1* A I ‘l
I) ‘t ‘t .
M ‘ f 2 ‘ .
9-“ 4‘? . ,»
‘ 5&9?“ \ "
.=-"§'=£¥°<~‘S¥’§§ ¢C .
{9“}: 99?? 5%: .‘.!“
Wt! '
'\§‘ 0 ’o' (“0‘ :f? J
Eggs? ,
(A $231? 2
SEND Vullß ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you,
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 toe., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 1 os. Description s Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave-manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-ioned reeds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refe ence, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN
ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
'THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUtE IN THE WORI.U
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOED ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2'- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO
TTI ¥ Agents for New South Wales:’
TII.fOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL, STREETS
LEEDS, ENG.
SYDNEY.
Witto^fliST
turn mark 4
f't Corset
W'fcfcoWfliST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LE N GTHENS THE WA IS T.
BE A UTIFIES THE FIG UR E.
W'uwowa'ST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
A S K FO R
WiwvovVA'ST Corset
of ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS*
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F. w. LEE, Camden Buildings,
210. GEORGE STREET , SYONIV,
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
BAILEY’S
Complete Sanitation
LIFTS
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains oven 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst of the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARlFF.
Gloucester' Road, Lon
IR-O-A-JD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
■
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po: table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOKiT FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HFAD COLONIAL OFFICE;
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKJSgj Colonial Manage
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE
Liver & Kidney Trouble.
CLEMENTS TONIC
Saves His Life.
The Case of
i
i
Mr. Louis Bernasconi.
(BY our special reporter.)
“I was seized,” said Mr. Bernasconi, “with
riolent pains across the back.” Our reporter
was seated opposite the speaker in Mr.
Bernasconi’s residence, at Guildford, near
Sydney, and was taking careful notes of all
chat he said.
“ And,” continued Mr. Bernasconi,
“closely following upon these pains came
Very Bad Headaches.
C couldn’t make out what was the matter
with me. I felt great lassitude and had no
inclination to move about. I didn’t care for
my food, and when it was brought to me
I told my wife to take it away, as I couldn’t
bear to look at it. If people spoke to me
it irritated me, for I took no interest in
what they said, and I felt as though it was
too much trouble to speak. At last I only
said yes and no when spoken to. When I
stood up suddenly I should
Feel so Dizzy
that I was forced to cling to my chair for
support.” •
“ How long did you continue in this
state ?”
“For nine months,” answered Mr.
Bernasconi, “ and during the latter portion
of that time I was much worse. I was
Not Able to Work.”
“ How did you sleep ?”
“ The best sleep I had I used to catch in
the day time, when I was often able to doze
off in my chair, but at nights I never got
any refieshing sleep. Sometimes I would
go to bed feeling so tired and sleepy that I
could hardly keep my eyes open, and yet
when I was comfortable in bed all that feel-
ing would go away, and I lie awake till
morning light, and, indeed, sometimes I
should
Not Get Five Minutes’ Sleep
during the whole night. In the morning my
mouth was dry, and my tongue furred, and
I could feel that what little I had eaten on
the previous day was still undigested in my
stomach. I left my bed more tired than I
had gone to it.
My Liver and Kidneys
were out of order—that’s what was the
matter with me. I got very thin, and
looked wretchedly pale and sickly. I lost
19 pounds in weight, and I am a light man
at my best.”
“ Of course you took medicine ?”
“ I took so many different kinds of physic
that I can hardly remember the names of
thi m. I only know that ncpie of them were
able to, do me any good. I suffered very
much from
Obstinate Constipation,
and was continually taking purging pills
and things for this, but these drugs only
gave me tempprary relief, and the constipa-
tion returned every time worse than ever.
[lt always does after Hie use of violent
cathartics. Purgatives can give no per-
manent benefit, and the temporary re'ief
obtained greatly aggravates the complaints
and injures the patient internally.
I was then obliged to take a heavier dose,
and so on till my system became so accus-
tomed to these purgatives that no matter how
big the dose
They Had no Effect Upon Me.
Towards the end of my illness a great des-
pondency came over me. I fell into a hope-
less state of melancholy, and thought I
should
Never Get Better.
Then I was recommended Clements Tonic.
The man who told me about it lived near me.
He said ‘ lose no time, hut get some at once ’
I answered him, ‘I didn’t want patent
medicines, as I had tried them nearly all
and they were useless to me.’ He said, he
had suffered in nearly precisely the same
way ; that he had been in a far more hope-
less state than I was, and Clements Tonic
Had Saved His Life.’
He was so persistent and cei tain about what
he said that I let him persuade me, and I
got some Clements Tonic and soon found the
benefit of it. It soon restored regular action
to my bowels, and that by some
Natural Means,
for it did not purge, gripe, or irritate me
like the pills I had been taking. I think the
glue and chalk used in coating these pills
very injurious, and the more of those things
I took the more my costiveness had in-
creased. This was quite different with
Clements Tonic, for as I continued this
remedy the pains in my head and back
ceased, and I was able to sleep well again at
night. My spirits improved, weight in-
creased, and appetite returned, and I am
pleased to say Clements Tonic completelv
Built Up My System,
and now there is nothing the matter with
me. I feel better than ever. My wife can
tell you also what Clements Tonic did for
both of us, for she has also been much
benefited by the use of that remedy.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Louis Bbrnasconi, of Joseph Street, Guildford,
near Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly l and sincerely declare that I have carefully
perused and have signed the accompanying document,
consisting of seven folios, numbered 1- to 7, and the
same contains a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions
of an Act, made and passed in the ninth year of
the reign of her present Majesty, intituled “An
act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and
Affirmations taken and made in the various Depart-
ments of the Government of New South Wales, and
to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the
suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and
Affidavits.”
1
Declared at Fairfield this 30th day of June, 1808,
before me,
DAVID DALE, J.P.
Mrs. Bernasconi’s Case.
Our reporter then questioned Mrs.
Bernasconi, who had been present during
the whole interview. Can you confirm
what your husband has said, he asked ?
“ Indeed I can,” that lady replied. “My
husband has
Not Exaggerated
his illness in the least, nor the wonderful
effect Clements Tonic had upon him. It
made a
Different Man of Him
altogether. I, too, got very sickly ; nervous
headaches afflicted me, I lost my appetite,
and felt so heavy that I could not do my
housework.- Less than a bottle of Clements
Tonic put me quite right again. I find that
remedy gives one a good appetite, and it
made me feel quite
Brisk and Lively.
I always reckon to keep a bottle by me now
as a sort of ‘stand by ’ against emergencies.”
U A
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DEFY COMPBXITIO3W.
WINES
The Bed Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
manufacturer# of MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ka.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.


The Lion Beneath His Bed.
From N.S.W. telegraphic journal, The Trans-
mitter, The Bulletin reprints the following
luridly-realistic account of what happened in
Africa to Ernest Brockman, a one-time N.S. W.
telegraph-operator. He was employed at the time
on the transcontinental Cape-to-Cairo line, and
had with him another white man and 50 blacks.
The account, though somewhat magniloquent and
rhetorical, bears ghastly impress of truth in every
line ; and, in any case, a little “ tall ” writing may
be forgiven to the remaining digits of a man who
has left the others in a lion’s maw. Brockman
and his mate, Morkel, occupied each a small hut,
and the former had on this occasion been sound
asleep till—
About 2 in the morning I became conscious of some-
thing moving backwards and forwards and up and down
underneath my bed. Just as consciousness was growing
clearer and stronger, a loud, long, and indescribable sniff-
sniff, broke the stillness of the night. Though my experi-
ence of Africa was not extensive, I instantly realised that
my death was at hand, and that a man-eating lion was
under my bed ! No other animal, as I knew' perfectly
well, would be bold enough to come right into my
hut in this manner. Every one of my faculties seemed
to be paralysed with horror. Though perfectly conscious
of everything that was going on, I was unable to utter a
sound. My heart beat as though it would burst, and its
tremendous throhhings almost suffocated me. I was
almost fainting with terror at the thought of so fearful
a fate. After a moment or two I became aware that the
lion had got out from under the bed, and was sniffing his
way along the edge, perhaps a little puzzled by the mos-
quito-curtains. I then seemed to realise that I must do
something, and instinctively, yet as noiselessly as possible,
I huddled all the pillows and bed-clothes up over my head
and face—actuated by the same instinct, perhaps, which
prompts little boys and girls to dive under the bed-clothes
when afraid of the bogey-man.
No sooner had I done this than the lion, with a horrible
pur-pur, grabbed me by the right shoulder and dragged
me out on to the floor, bed-clothes and all. The brute
immediately commenced to suck the blood that streamed
down my neck and chest, and every time I moved he bit
the more savagely. As I raised my knees to get into a
crouching, protective position, he gave me a little pat
with his paw which nearly broke my leg and inflicted a
dreadful wound. After a moment or two of this awful ex-
perience on the floor of the hut the monster dropped me
out of his mouth, placed one proud and massive paw on
my chest, and then, throwing back his noble head, he
gave one, two, three, four terrible roars of triumph and
defiance. As these mighty, reverberating sounds died
away in deep, hoarse growls, I could hear the devil’s own
uproar outside. The niggers were firing off their guns
like mad—the wonder is they never killed each other. I
afterwards learned that the first thing each of them did
was to swarm up the nearest available tree in order to get
out of harm’s way'. It is necessary to bear in mind that
a darkness prevailed in the clearing which might, in
homely language, have been “ felt.” It seem that Morkel
was awakened at the first roar, and, without a moment’s
delay, he got out of bed, put on his trousers and hat, and
then sallied forth with his rifle, thinking that the lion
must at least be very close to the camp, judging from the
loudness of the roars he himself had heard. He made his
way, or rather felt his way, over to my hut, doubtless
wondering why I had not come out to meet him. He
was guided partly by the excited cries of the Kaffirs
and partly by the loud purs of the fearful brute
that had got me. When Morkel got to the door,
he cried out, “ Brockman, where are you ? Speak
to me, for God’s sake 1 ” I heard him, as indeed I had
heard everything else, but was absolutely unable to utter
a sound, though I was fully aware that my life depended
upon it. Morkel must have worked round my hut, and
seen the hole made by the lion, who simply pushed the
poles on one side, and then tore out the mat walls, and
crawled in under my bed. Then, of course, poor Dan
realised what had happened, and he ran round to the
other side and kicked the door down.
All this time, the only thing I seemed to take an in-
terest in was the loud sipping suck, suck, made by the
lion as he drew my blood into his reeking jaws. I re-
membered, with a pang of regret, that I had not lived a
model life recently, and I began to pray as I had never
prayed before. As I prayed I thought how curious it
was that I should be lying there without the slightest
sense of pain, with a man-eating lion chewing my flesh
and drinking my blood. 1 could not realise the full
horror of the thing. I had been lying on my back on
the floor of the hut, with my neck and head resting
against the side, when Morkel kicked m i he door. Ashe
did so, the lion drove his terrible fangs into my right
g ro i n) a nd next moment, with another loud purr-r-r-r, he
leapt out of the hut into the darkness—almost into Mor-
kel’s face. As he ran with nie he seemed to be twisting
and jerking me round sideways, as though striving to
yet me on his hack. You may imagine Dan Morkels
feelings as he groped around in the inky darkness, scream-
ing out first to one nigger and then to another to bring
lighted bunches of grass, for God’s sake. He found his
vva y j n j 0 in y hut, and on feeling in the bed he placed his
hand in a large pool of blood, which gave unmistakable
information as to what had happened. The lion ran
the clearing with me for about 30 yards, and put
me down under a big baobab tree. He ran with a
springy leap, purring loudly as he went, for all the
world like a contented cat. Even as he ran he was
violently and as the flesh became drv
let me half drop otH of his jaws!
an< * then hit savagely in another place, and com-
menoed to suck again. The brute seemed to resent
gHghtest mov B ement of my body. If I moved
an arm he bit it viciously, and an uneasy jerk of my leg
wQuld fee ished b a terrible scrape 0 f the claws. I
jV on my £»* nt tho'ta. of th. tr,. with the lion on
top of me, occasionally gazing at me with his great,
luminous, greenish-yellow eyes, which seemed to fill me
with unutterable loathing and horror, so expressionless
and cold were they, yet so diabolical in their ruthless
cruelty I ought to tell you that, from ttie first, 1
had not ceased to wonder how it was that the lion didn t
kill me outright-either by biting my head or tearing me
to pieces with his terrible claws. I had seen lions kill
Sbasass
r .
But the lion seemed perfectly content and quiet with
his prey. I felt his long, rough tongue scraping up my
thighs and abdomen, and as it crept up higher and higher
I felt little gusts of his horrible, stinking breath,
which was so utterly loathsome that I thought I should
faint, so intense was the disgust that filled me. I half-
turned my head away, but still the long, greedy tongue
rose higher and higher towards my throat. Up to this
time I had been reflecting, in a strangely calm manner,
on the curious aspect of this frightful affair, precisely as
though I were a disinterested outsider, instead of the
dying victim of the man-eater. As I felt the lion’s car-
riou-soiled jaws near my face and throat, however, I wa9
seized with terror, and instinctively I threw up both
arms, and thrust them far in between his jaws, and, in-
deed, almost down his throat. As I did so the monster
snapped off three fingers off my right hanb, and, horrible
as it may seem to the reader, I actually left my arms and
hands lying idly in the lion’s jaws. “ Thank God,” I
thought, “he is satisfied with sucking the bleeding fin-
gers he has bitten off, and as long as I can keep him at
arm’s length with my hands in his mouth, I will
have yet a few moments of life left for earnest
prayer.” And I prayed—God 1 how I prayed. Some-
times it seemed to me it was a little hard to
die in this way, and I felt I didn’t want to leave my
bones in that horrible place. My life, however, was fast
ebbing away, and, later on, I didn’t seem to mind it so
much. I grew fainter and fainter, and—so I am told
—I kept moaning feebly, “Dan, Dan. Oh, why can’t
you shoot hint, or do something? Oh, Dan, Dan, Dan ! ”
Constantly my thoughts reverted to my people at
home, and I felt bitterly sorry on their account, for I
knew how horrified and shocked they would be at my
terrible end. After thinking of these things for a few
moments, I would resign myself to death with a feeling
0 f complacency, and then next moment, perhaps, I would
bave SO me kind of vague idea that I should be saved after
a ] b i could distinctly feel each bite, because, although
it caused not the slightest pain, yet, as the fearful fangs
were driven into a fresh place in my thighs—the monster
only chose the more fleshy parts—l was conscious of a
strange numbness in that particular part. I kept mur-
muring to myself, gently, “Perhaps he won’t kill me
after all—perhaps he will, though, the moment he has
sucked that place dry. I wonder when he will commence
eating me and then I reflected, quite in a serious sort
of way, “He will find me very dry eating after, all the
blood-s’ucking he has done.”
Dunn' l, all this time the hoys kept screaming “ Nltanga,
Nkanaa’’ ” (the lion, the lion), just as if they themselves
were'in any danger in the lofty trees up which they had
swarmed ' Poor Dan Morin I was simply waltzing round
the clearin'-- in utter bewilderment and agony of mind,
The appalling blackness of the night added a horror to
the thing which no pen could describe. At last my friend
did induce two of the niggers to make a couple of torches
of drv crass and by the lurid and uncertain light of
these' Morkel was enabled, though very indistinctly, to
see the lion standing over mv prostrate body. He was an
enormous o-aunt brute, over 10ft. in length, and with a
luxuriant tawny mane that imparted to .him a most
majestic appearance. Dan told me afterwards that, as
he approached with his gun, I was moaning or crooning
softly to myself. Up to this time my unfortunate com-
panion was afraid to shoot, lest he should kill me instead
of the lion. He screamed out, “Keep cool, Brockman”
—a funny admonition, this-“onlv, keep cool and I will
see what I can do for you.” As h'e approached the lion
took his fangs out of my groin, which was by this time a
mere pulp, and he faced about, growling and snarling
horribly, and with one big 1 paw on my chest. How Mor-
kel kept his head at ten paces from tile lion I don’t know,
but anyhow, he levelled his rifle and fired. The lion ini-
mediately staggered back a few paces, clear of my body,
for he had been hit fairly in the eye, and the ball, after
touching his brain, had come out through the lower jaw,
which it had broken badly. Morkel instantly proceeded
to re-load, but he w-as in such a desperate hurry that the
lever of his rifle jammed, and he found himself practi-
callv helpless. Will it be believed that this desperate
man, now fairly at his wits’-end, rushed forward towards
the lion and dealt him a terrific blow on the head with
the stock of his rifle ? This did the lion no harm, whereas
Morkel’s gun was literally crumpled up. My friend, how-
ever, at once implored his torch-hearer to run over to the
hut and get my rifle, and with this he killed the lion in
two other shots.
It may be asked, what did I do when I felt myself free?
It is important to remember that when Morkel s first
shot rang out in the night air, the lion had been worry-
up on to my legs and ran for 20 or 30 yards ! Then I fell
like a stone to the earth, and I remember no more until
the next day, when I found myself in a warm bath, that
had been prepared by Morkel to wash my wounds—of
which I had one-and-twenty! My poor friend tells
me that my naked body presented so shocking,
so revolting a spectacle, my hands, groins, and
thighs being chewed and bloodless, like paper-pulp,
t-hat he nearly lost his reason and became delirious. All
that night, however, my heroic companion had sat by my
bedside until daybreak, and well do I remember that
with awakened consciousness came the first poignant
shock of agony from my wounds. For many days and
nights I suffered the torments of the accursed, taking not
one atom of solid food, but only enormous draughts of
brandy and champagne. Now comes the horrible sequel
to mv sfcorv. Remember, at this I am hundreds, if
not thousands of miles from civilisation, and even the
nearest missionary doctor is far away from this remote
spot. Without wishing to harrow you with unnecessary
details I may say that every one of my wounds mortified,
no doubt owing to the poisonous filth that incrusted the
man-eater’s fangs. As I was rapidly growing more and
more feverish, Morkel resolved to send me by lake
steamer to Bandawe, where I could be attended by Dr.
Prentice, of the Livingstone Mission at that place. This
steamer was due to make its monthly call the following
day at Domara, only a few miles from our camp. A mes-
sengev was therefore sent to intercept the captain and
ask him to make a call a little further down the lake in
order that I might be put on board. I was wrapped in
blankets and laid on a plank, which in turn was placed
transversely on a cknoe. Just after we had started for
the steamer, however, quite a “sea” arose on the lake,
and the plank shifted on one side, so that if I had not
been grabbed by one of the men in the boat I should have
been drowned ! Is it not painful?
It took a day and a half to reach Bandawe, the weather
oeing boisterious and the water very choppy. A little
hut was rigged up for me on deck, but I had a shocking
time of is. When Dr. Prentice saw me at the mission
station he told me that my case was utterly hopeless,
My right leg, I was told, would have to go, but owing to
my condition, it was deemed inadvisable to amputate it
immediately on my arrival. Then there was no chloro-
form at the mission station, and the ether had gone
wrong through the climate, and therefore would not act.'
Thus I had to lie, conscious and screaming in agony,
while the doctor was cutting and carving away the
mortified flesh from my tortured body. It is per-
fectly clear that my day had not come, for all the bites in
the thigh had mjssed the artery by about an eighth of an
inch !
And night after night I went through the whole fearful
business again. Ghastly, horrible nightmares took pos-
session of ine, and I would have gone raying mad were it
not for the powerful opiates that were administered. A
slamming door, the sudden appearance of a man before
me, anything and everything, threw' me into a perfect
agony of terror pitiful to witness. My mind and reason
u'ere all but g‘>ne, and I, who had been a giant of strength
was like a timid little child, a mere wreck of a man in
mind and body.
The British South Africa Co. have been very kind to
me, for, of course, it isn t as though I had been put hunt-
ing, when, naturally, I should have to take the risks inci-
dental to sport of that kind. I believe mine is the only
case on record of a man-eater taking a white man out of
his bed at night. I still hobble about on sticks, and I
often wake up in a cold perspiration, thinking I can
hear the soul-destroying sniff-sniff of the man-eating lion
beneath my bed.
West ra'lian public-school assistant teachers,
recruited very largely from the t’otherside, find
that under new regulations a male assistant, who
gets a good report every year, must serve six
years and pass three examinations before his salary
exceeds .£l6O. And supplications to the minister
are in present circumstances unavailing.
Harvest festivals will probably be “off”
in future with a certain N.S.W. Anglican country
church. The minister on last occasion raked in
a big supply of picked fruit and vegetables, but,
as some iniquitous person had injected an aggres-
sive drug into portions of the edibles, the good
shepherd and his family came in for a very rough
time.
“ Tom ” Kelynack, Melb.’s histrionic press-
man who “ did ” the last English cricket-tour for
Beuter, had a narrow escape from being trans-
muted into copy himself the other day. With the
caretaker of the city-court, he was in the strong-
room of the old building showing some photo. -
prints when the door swung-to and, bolting itself,
locked the pair in. The air was so bad that a
lighted match immediately spluttered out, and
both were on the verge of unconsciousness when
a passing policeman heard them beating on the
iron door and opened it. It is rumored that
Kelynack was called upon for an explanation by
the Herald proprietary for his disloyalty to the
paper by conniving at his rescue, when his suffoca-
tion would have given the journal four splendid
columns, with portraits and illustrations.
“ J.P.,” from Adelaide :
Editor Bulletin. —Your par. to the effect that S.A.
Opposition, for the purpose of injuring the Ministry, cir-
culated the report that Education-Minister Butler and
his wife had ’verted to R.C.-ism, conveys a false impres-
sion. It implies that if the rumor were true, the electors
would, on that account, become prejudiced and vote
against the Govt, at next elections. Now, in N.S. W., we
know religious intolerance and coarse practices of
many kinds, inherited from the convict system, are
supreme factors at elections. In truly-Democratic S.A.,
on the other hand, people take an intelligent interest in
public questions, and are wont to look out for other
qualities than, dogma in a candidate and his connections.
Here, so long as a Minister is faithful to the trust im-
posed upon him, that is all that is required: he is not
asked about,his church. Therefore, if you want to find
a place in which Catholics are more or less boycotted you
must look nearer to Botany Bay.
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
UE
REPUBLI
PEARS i
| A-& F
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.


Kitty’s Contract.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I will sing a doleful ditty
(I wrote it in B. Plat)
Of a little thing named Kitty,
Not by any means a cat;
She’s a waitress in the city,
And a brainy girl at that.
Always active, bright and willing,
Always neat in her attire.
Her voice is sweet and thrilling,
Her eyes are full of fire
As she selves me (charge, one shilling)
With the luncheon I require.
Oft I gaze in admiration
At her figure and her face :
She is far above her station,
She’s an angel out of place.
When she starts a conversation,
It’s as good as “ saying Grace.”
Once she whispered “ Don’t deceive me :
You’re a married man, I guess ? ”
And I blushed (if you’ll believe me),
Feeling guilty, more or less.
But she did not snort and leave me
When I boldly answered “Yes.”
Kitty’s manner grew quite tender,
Quite inviting was her smile,
So I offered to “ befriend her ”
In a Don Juanic wile.
O, I pinched her fingers slender,
And my heart was full of guile.
Kitty cut me short, however,
With a quick, reproachful look,
And a candid “ Well, I never !
Don’t you think I know my book ? ”
Then I saw the damsel clever
Had a gudgeon near the hook—
’Twas a tall young fellow, seated
At the table by the screen,
Much too foolish and conceited
To dissimulate his spleen.
Him she nonchalantly greeted
When he strolled upon the scene.
“ That's the boy,” she muttered, slyly,
“ He’s a very decent catch ;
But a waitress must be wily
If she means to make a match.
You must help me (coughing drily)
Just to bring him to the scratch.”
So to aid her purpose holy
I perform my daily part—
Soup, entree, jam roley-poley,
Or whatever s on the carte —
And whilst I spoon she is slowly
Nabbing Gussie s jealous heart.
Ah ! the pathos of our scheming !
The sadness of our glee !
In all things that are seeming
A bitter jest I see.
To think of Gussie dreaming
That his Kitty’s gone on me l
I’m to spoon her till he’s told her
The yarn she wants to hear :
Till his precious arms enfold her,
And she gets him by the ear.
Then she’ll give the word “Cold Shoulder!”
And I’ll nod —and disappear.
Melb.
EDMUND FISHER.
Was it a Blunder?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At 20 she had her slight, girlish prettinesses—
little curls manoeuvred out to the freckled fore-
head, and white hands carefully oatmealed every
night. Her dress was tight-waisted and frilly and
coquettish, also there was a vaguely-expectant
look in her blue eyes that looked out on the world
to meet only the expectant look in the eyes of a
score or two other girls.
She moved in society which in the old country
would be suburban. In Maoriland it meant a
country township, a township full of old people
and children, and avoided by the young men
migrating further countrywards or flocking into
the one or two of Maoriland’s “big ” cities.
But the girls remained in their several home-
steads. They did housework in the morning, in
the afternoon played tennis with one another, and
at night went out to “evenings ” and talked, also
mostly with one another. They might have filled
their several homes with girlish laughter, but
there was nothing to incite laughter in themselves
to begin with. So they shot up into the twenties
and broadened into the thirties, conscious of a
moral frostiness in the atmosphere of warm, close
parlors where stocking-knitting mammas dozily
smiled at their spinster daughters and the suitors
that never turned up.
* * * *
And Lucy, her school-days over, lived the same
placid life, from 18 to 23, which was five years,
and from 23 to 25, which was also five years,
though the common rules of arithmetic may not
seem to bear this out. She still went to
evenings,’ sometimes held in the drawing-room
of her cousin and namesake, Lucy Driver, who
had the honor of living opposite Tarua’s one
scandal, the township doctor who “ had trouble ”
with his wife. But by this time the little boys
to whom the “ girls ” had talked of rounders, or,
in sisterly capacity, dealt out bread and jam, had
shot up into slim young clerks ; so at the evenings
there were gentlemen now. These helped them
to play “Judge and Jury,” “Post,” and “A
Ship Went Through the Dardanelles.” The
players generally comprised fifteen girls of from 23
to 35, and six gentlemen ranging from 17 to 23.
When the ages of the girls rose from 25 to 37,
other gentlemen grew up to the 17-23 standard,
their predecessors melting away townwards and
citywards as before.
Lucy long remembered the day when she realised
that the moustachioed young man to whom she
was talking was three years younger than herself.
She went into the garden to think it over. She
knew then that her romance would never come.
The non-use of an attribute eliminates it.
Following this law of nature, the frills and the
curls gradually disappeared, likewise the expec-
tant look from the eyes. Lucy spent her time
lolling in her room, sucking toffee and reading
Mrs. Worboise. Life was comfortable enough.
Occasionally she would stick a hat on her head
and run off to see the “ girls,” in whichever house
they happened to be congregated. Sometimes
she found them languid, sometimes girlishly
excited over a new parlor-game, or a discovery in
montmelluo work.
* • * •
She was sitting with them all in her cousin’s
parlor one evening when the awakening came.
How did it come ? A chance glimpse of the world
beyond—champagne, devilry, pretty, wicked faces.
She shrank in among the window-curtains and
looked at the chattering group.
They were so innocent and good, these girls.
On the other hand their teeth needed dentistry,
and their laugh was rather silly. Barbara had
developed a sniff, and Nelly—she was 28—talked
mostly of what she liked to eat. But 25-year-old
Lucy Driver sat apart, in snowy cuffs and collar,
with a melancholy abstraction on her pale, pretty
face. Her namesake cousin wondered at it, as she
had often had occasion to do these last two years,
ever since—“let me see—yes, almost ever since
the Doctor and his impossible wife had come to
live opposite.”
Lucy watched her and her companions.
She had heard vaguely of other women who
were “different,” who lived lives one must not
think of. It struck her now that the unnatural-
ness of their lives was only Nature exaggerated.
What was hers ?
She turned her eyes to the night-blackened win-
dow-pane, against which a fuchsia-bush tossed
resentfully in the summer wind. Her mother had
told her how these women were to be pitied, for
men never truly loved them, never respected them.
She looked back at the innocent parlor group, saw
herself as one of them. Was it not women like
these that men really despised ? She clenched her
hand. “They laugh at us! These others only
get the semblance of man’s contempt; the appear-
ance of his esteem.”
She drew her hand across her suddenly-burning
eyes.
“ It is we that are unsexed,” she said.
* * * *
Lucy was out in her garden watering the plants.
It was dusk, and the glossy yellow moon was
rising above the rusty hills. A soft wind rustled
the leaves of the cabbage-tree above her, and lifted
—what had once been—the curls upon her fore-
head.
Lucy worked on doggedly, thinking of nothing
but her comfortable seat waiting for her by the
parlor fire. As she moved, the dew-laden red-and-
purple blossom of the fuchsia brushed her cheek.
Out came her plain, large handkerchief to remedy
the disaster, and out with it a coin. It rolled
beneath the macrocarpa hedge to the grey road
beyond. Lucy noticed where it glittered, and
slipped out through the gate.
She was stooping to pick it up, when there was
a rapid footfall behind her.
“ My darling ! ” whispered a voice in her ear.
She rose up suddenly, and, for the first time, a
man’s arm stole round her waist, with its swift
surprise of strength and firmness.
At seventeen she would have indignantly torn
herself away. At twenty-seven one reflects that
the opportunity may not recur. Lucy stood still.
“ Dearest! ” —he spoke louder, and she knew the
voice of Dr. Maguire—“ dear little Lucy ’’ —she
started at the sound of her name —“ I did not
mean to tell you. I have tried not to tell you;
but I can’t go without that, Lucy ; for I am
going; I must; I cannot bear my life with her
any longer. You have guessed what I felt for
you, have you not ? You are my wife.” He held
her close in his arms, and kissed her many times.
“ l am mad to do this, but it is for the last time,
as it is the first. And you love me, though you
have never told me. I know it, Lucy. Good-bye
for ever, for ever.”
* * * *
At twenty - seven, Luoy went back to the
twenties. Her frills and curls reappeared, so also
the little softnesses of voice and manner. People
said she was getting like her cousin Lucy Driver,
whose sweet face was so often directed towards
the great tussock fiats across which the northern
cities lay.
Lucy had often noticed her cousin’s aloofness
with surprise. Now she simply wondered who
her man was.
M.L.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
Launceston Examiner of Dec., 1851:
Another accident occurred on Wednesday which was
nearly attended by fatal results, from the dangerous
practice of driving wild cattle through the streets. A
number of wild bullocks, which had been landed from
the Swan, were being driven up George-street, and at the
intersection of Elizabeth-street a little boy named Tren-
with was knocked down and severely gored. At one time
his life was despaired of, but we are glad to learn the
little sufferer is recovering.
The “little sufferer” recovered, and is identical
with the burly and able Melb. Trades Hall poli-
tician.
J. F. Hogan, in The Gentleman’s Maga-
zine, tells the story of the M.L. “Clean Shirt
Ministry.” But this is not the first appearance of
the clean shirt in politics. In one of his Home
Rule speeches, Gladstone said, “ Gentlemen, we
now desire to start with a clean sheet with regard
to Ireland, after years of misgovernment.” The
Times reported: “we now start with a clean
shirt,” which was much seized upon by cartoonists.
When Dr. Barnard was imprisoned in London on
account ot his alleged complicity in the Orsini
attempt on the life of the French Emperor,
messages were regularly sent to him in Holloway
Gaol, written on thin paper which a laundress,
“ squared " by Bradlaugh, used to iron into the
folds of his clean shirts, which he was allowed to
wear as a first-class political prisoner.
Gentlemen requiring Spring and Summer Un-
derwear and Overwear should call in or drop a line to
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st., where their requirements will
be studied. We exert all our energies to please our
clients, in town or out of town, and give more for their
cash than most firms. As we pay solid gold down on the
spot for everything we buy, we buy cheapest, conse-
quently sell cheapest ; and, being always on the spot,
we have first pick of the newest European goods. Now
what do you require ? An answer on a penny postcard
will do nicely. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST DEFENCE
■ . IS ..
Australia’s Greatest Remedy,
7 ? p viz., q q q
“They Completely Cured Me.”
A PORT ADELAIDE MAN EULOGISES
BILE BEANS.
A SEVERE CASE OF BILIOUSNESS
AND INDIGESTION.
M. A. Roberts, proprietor of the well-known
hair-dressing saloon and hot and cold baths of St.
Vincent-street, Port Adelaide, affords a splendid
illustration of the success which may be attained
by the modern healing art. The case of Mr.
Roberts shows what can be done, and what has
been done, by Bile Beans for Biliousness, not only
to alleviate, but to totally cure such serious com-
plaints as biliousness, indigestion, chronic consti-
pation, and kindred derangements.
Mr. Roberts, on being questioned respecting
his late illness, willingly consented to give all the
information concerning his cure which lay in his
power. He says: —“Some seven or eight years
ago I had my first attack of biliousness. I was
entered for a Sheffield Handicap at Broken Hill,
and my chance was considered a very good one.
On St. Patrick's morning—the day of the race—
however, I was seized with sickness, and as a
result I was quite unable to compete, thus forfeit-
ing my entrance fees and chance of a prize. From
that time for the next year or two I had inter-
mittent attacks of biliousness until about four or
five years.ago, when my appetite almost com-
pletely failed me. I removed from Adelaide,
where I had been working, to the Port; but
change was no benefit. Doctors advised me to
take plenty of exercise before; breakfast. This I
have always done, but it soon became clear to me
that that course alone would not cure me. I used
many advertised ‘ remedies,’ and gave them fair
W ‘ ,
‘ . . .- ."'; ~ g -2) : ’ '
‘ _ , J «
" ‘ . . V ' L L".
. ‘ .
. .- . v.
_.J~‘ ‘ ,‘3
‘ 30!. . ‘ I‘ .‘ '3
._ V A .6.
' r ~ f a ,
L , ' " a
. ~ ' '_ -_’:,-— 4 ‘ .‘
v r - -
. -' <;.
. . 1 - .. \ .
'- u. ‘ " 1‘
r V _
- 1' ’ ' . . .-~‘
.~' H. '. ‘ _'__ ‘ . "
'."'. v‘ .‘ ' " ‘ .
‘ . ‘ ta " 3'
~ L ‘ _ .‘ - ‘ ;.-
‘ . I I , - .‘."
~ '. . - »
' > ' , ‘; . r V
'7. .I .- . I ' '
. , _ . . 4‘
' t-. ’.V' T. 4 - \_ -
‘~o ' . ‘ ~ - -~‘ .
. . ,1, '
3 ‘ ' . ' . o ‘ ' V
V ',-‘- . ~ , a
. _-, 2 .' ‘V ... - .' -
' . _, s .
u ' - , T
. ~ ~ - ,
. . ‘ . ~
' - . . .
‘.15. V\ ' _ ‘
. a. ‘
. ‘ .
.' ’ .
. ‘V .
‘1 ‘ > . o
“ . - _ ’ .
Influenza and Colds.
Influenza is not generally understood by the
greater part of those who suffer from it. It is in
reality an aggravated form of cold, supplemented
by a general weakness of the whole system. Ordi-
nary colds, it is well-known, are caused by the
congestion of the blood, which, as a rule, is most
prominent in the head or throat. Influenza can be
traced to the same cause, and irregular or insuf-
ficient liver action is, in most cases, responsible for
both. When the liver, through any derangement
of the digestive organism, ceases to act in the
proper manner, a certain amount of bile finds its
way into the blood, and, at the same time, the
blood created from food consumed is of a de-
cidedly poor quality. In this manner, the blood
becomes congested, the circulation sluggish, and
a cold results. The circulation of the blood now
being much slower than usual, the entire system
is affected. The nervous organism becomes un-
strung, the appetite poor, and the rest disturbed.
The body is extremely susceptible to chills, and the
slightest draught causes a violent attack of cough-
ing or sneezing. Many so-called cures for influ-
enza fail to get at the root of the trouble, and only
afford temporary relief. A medicine that will
keep the liver in thorough and regular working
order, and the digestion right, will, without
doubt, prove the most effective preventive and
cure for influenza and colds. This is what Bile
Beans for Biliousness will do, and we maintain
that no better remedy can be found for these
ailments.
BILE BEANS
are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick
and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation,
Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregu-
larities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness
all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Influ-
enza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone
Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling. Bile Beans
trials, in the hope that they would afford relief, but they were of no avail whatever During last
November, I was forced to take a holiday, and for a time I felt a little better for it but not for
long. The sickness returned, and though I manged to keep in the shop, I felt utterly unfit for
work. One day a customer dropped in, when I was a little worse than usual, and noticing mv
appearance he enquired what was wrong. On being told, he immediately recommended me to
try Bile Beans for Biliousness. I was ready to try anything, and at once obtained a box I can
honestly say that not one week had elapsed before I was able to enjoy my meals—a thin" as I said
before, which had been impossible for years. I have not had an attack of biliousness since I started
with the remedy, and 1 shall be only too pleased to tell anyone who cares to know how I suffered and
how I was cured by Bile Beans.”
are not an ordinary medicine. They are manufactured in one of the best-fitted and equipped labora-
tories in the world, at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and they have been used throughout tßat country
by the best physicians for years, and the amount of time and labor expended in compounding them
would even if someone had the formula, exclude them from selling them, as it is only on account of
he hons annuall y that the y oan be sold at the low price, owing to the great cost
, Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers generally ; Australian Depot of
Bde Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian agents, Roeke, Tompsitt and
Co. Flmders-street, Melbourne; S.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William st., Adelaide-
W. A. agents, 1. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queensland agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane.


MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
Restored to Health by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A Grateful
Husband and Father tells the Story;
y
,nm
HI" 11
“My wife has all her life long been subject to rush of blood to the
head and fainting fits. In later years these were more frequent, and
her skin became very sallow. She had scarcely any appetite, and it was
not safe to leave her at home by herself for fear of a fainting fit. I may
state we had medical advice both in England and here in New Zealand,
but it did no good, so some months back I suggested that she take
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. She protested against it, believing it to be quackery,
but I purchased a bottle just to give it a trial, and the result was mar-
vellous. Mrs. Moul has taken five bottles, and now she is a new creature.
My daughter has also begun to use your sarsaparilla for skin
discoloration and poor appetite, with considerable success already.
I forward you their photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully,
John F. Moot., Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland, N. Z., Feb. 9,1897.
P. S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
The Only Try© BSood-Punfier.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
JBetvare of Imitations Claiming to be “Just as Good 99
FOR
23 Years
Owbridgps Lung Tonic
has been curing-
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOPPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
f until it has become V
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British \
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs. 1
WHEN YOU ASK FOR '
%
■ m w %&
Uiuflonic
BE SURE YOU OET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION,
it is much, safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at I*. l£d. t 2s. 9 d., it. rtd.,
\ud 118., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and .Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
servKMH*.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MA,K(fI'ACTURIXC CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ARC you AWARC
and have you thought that if you eat “What
you didn’t ought,” a timely box of B€€CNAM’S
PILLS will save you from dyspeptic ills ?
ARC you AWARC
or have you been told, if by the flowing bowl
you’re bowled and stomach’s in rebellion quite that
B€€CMALI’S PILLS will set you right?
ARe you AWARC
and do you know, if pimples on vour features
grow that PILLS will clear your
skin by working outward from within ?
ARC you AWARC
and have you heard that BE EC HAIR’S, are the
PILLS preferred for bilious headaches, since
the cure is always speedy, safe and sure?
ARC you AWARC
and do you think, those nights when you can’t
sleep a wink, that B€€CNAfl’S PILLS would
fit your case, and bid repose your pain displace ?
ARC yOU AWARC
and would you be surprised to hear—on land or
sea—that BCCCHAM’S PILLS, in cost so small,
are WORTH A 6UINCA A BOX to aU?
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
stop tiiat Cougrii!
• • • TAKE • • •
IRISH DOSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RKLLB/N t and CLRE (in ninny cases) all Liver Disorders, -Biliousness,. Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. StinuV
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe,
Is. Box.


O'
IARGEft
Makers
sasssssi
r,t ish flag
ESTABLISHES
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
mam
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS C& LIMITED
Head Offlte and Factoriet - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt'rß, 163-169 William-st. ilelb.
New Seuth Wales Address i
tl Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue tree, on application;
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
Atn>. •
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookmans Building, Adelaide.
N OTIC 12.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director or
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Wortl)ii)gtoi) P(in)piog Efygioc Conjpaoy-
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brothers.
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGI
Sydney, X.S. \\ r .
PEwTTLA R PATTERN.
TRADE MARK*
Agencies s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, .SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terraoe,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Aliee-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept ixx Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W .. C.‘ ELDRIDGE & CO...
’ DYERS 82. CLEANERS;
I ‘0 YORK H'Jili In“ ”'1‘. SYDNEY
(Opp. Cenbouary Hall).
Country Orders by post From all (,ha colonic: promptly
atzeudmi to.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUB.
GRATEFUL—OOHFORTING.
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
M
What is Health?
Sciatica,
Lumbago, &«,,
Completely cured by Mr. C . F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Paradh,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
■these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
83T- A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
- There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesol these grandmedicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
1
K LA
OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
g?
EGZEMA
%
Jm (mm). NO. no» mo
om :
OLEAC”
Sell Applied.
Stdhbt—M. H. Hobwits, 84 Pitt Bt.
Adelaide— Habbis & Kemp, 6 Randle Bt.
Mblbocbne—Fbkd. J. E. Phillips, Sl7 Collins St,
ROBERTS’
HOTEL
re and
Market-Sta.
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Chargee.
A Golden Shanty.
PBICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
"P* TiAAvo x* the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
JTIUIIt/CIS U 1 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery stem of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles. Millr flrpnm Tpp Tin ft at TTiaVi
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES " AIAK -’ V± ed T7 - D j utLer J ilsl1 >
of Sydney with Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KINO STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
135 KING STR]
is ONE OF
SEND ORDKRS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT AT
STREET,
in the WORLD.
PATESON, Manager.
min.
;ti€?
is
fiRJI
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MIXING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of—Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “ James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note. —We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
GoM Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s Baking powder _
- ___, "-——v-g,=5'i;f§g 7 ‘ ~77? .
“aims: é TE
a," ‘ , 77337;?
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring- triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £'B, reduced £2 17s (id each, complete.
s’ Double-barrel Breech -loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best bairels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price -10 10s, reduced 13 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ■ 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6- 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Vree carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
>WF LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Absolutely Cheapest 'in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
. ~ -vv:. Dahhii’d A Q nri'rvcuA MlVvnlp’s 9/Q (rrOQg Sfool Pallc U'ccbonn /I Irl
Saddles 6 6 Bleuniei UorK riantne-ups mu.i" ocw •. muu jut iniue iimsirncen rnce
T/sf Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9. £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
.‘L
.3 ‘ “it;
1.3.. 5, V V/ -=(:..»\Vi> \j
5?; W. 5.. . n ‘y 7
I; 3 A}? /
W 3." ‘ﬁ‘. . . V. v ‘7’,
-‘Exr V ‘7, 4|. 7“?"
_ _, \8..,, A§-g~i§=§§k 'IL‘I ,ff;_ /‘
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tb.e Geo. F. Blate IVtanfg. 00.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W". F. & John Barnes (Co,,
FOOT, HAND, AND STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY.
13. F. Sturtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FOItGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia--.!. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand—J. BURNS & CO., Auckland.
