

The Bulletin
> u< IS).—No. 977.]
("Saturday, November 5, 1898.
Fep'sterod at Ssnera! Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnancr.
j&cE AN’S A LE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
STOUT.
USE
FRY’S HALTED COCOA
cocoa -A.i«ri3
or malx.
«• c»« && cd.,
XOT 3K®mt; Btreat, »;sreS.:sa.«y. “
Mteiar *»£ Sannwlll Maehiawry, MEimi**
MSWGIHY, WWW jum PLANTS ALWAYS AVAfLAILI.
i**
Lu vt Brt
' ■>
[Vi>
1
ia-f?
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGE 5 T SYfiNtY
Made;
BAND €
er-ontting Machinery.
MILL® F©R ANY° SIJLE OF LOOS,
ZS*l
CIRCULAR MILL® F©R ANY
••»*** MS'liKL® 3fe&«,«2G.£aa.«s-r, SBBxfc «*>»<»« Sb £Bw*£.«&*•*,” 'WlmdbMflUL*.
Milh an 4 Eh»rt«d Wy «nr m lipiw., IWH-Q*!®! OYLrSm** m 4 OTHI OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SFECIFIC ATIOKS
■m* *n appHofttokw
*o
Willi su» Flaminf,
94 Clwmw Htrcrt,
trrnxmr.
&& <east
*ss i Sag-
Prize
Medals.
21,201
Steam
Endues
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICK AMD PARTICULAR*.
C»"«5 Mtt stmt, SYDNEY.
MAT! TV STOCK in TO AMHT»~-Fo**A*L*
TRACTTOJI, VEKTIOAL, nXEB m SAUi nXKD
nFimstiom,
STEAM
aocirxr thip nra
Fro©t®r o®. £*«*
ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS
SjSLOKXXKrjKS, SJL'
JJJOTICE T« KEt.BOtmMS TKIV9KS.
Kil'lJ Hiiiill’i E O R<SC HOTEL, o PT ,*ri*» st.
Bonders rv VlCt<>na - TV -VTOVE TARIFF tar
■ l** D*.r, or 2 Guineas ,«r W#*k.
piwur
•'A
PROOF.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie
nrst-Claoi Acee
•r
■ Tiwrftrto
**r Wummm
Boating, Bathing, a»d Titfciag unsurpassed. I Mrtrt
Mt water Swtwnwmg Hath. Freth Watar
Flange «»* Shawsr Baths.
Perfiet Climate, especially smite* to Zwliii.
BIAITTITUL SC'BNERY.
The Taranto Tramway eonneats with all Trains ftw
Sydney er (the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing nin-
sentrrm within a few yards of the Hotel, through tiefret*
wefriK nsned at most Railway Stations. Steamer com sen-
meation from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Hoarders. Letters or Telegrams wfll ra-
eeirs prompt attention if addressed to
the manager,
Torontp Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
—— *
(jadSeys Orient [jotel.
fifa//OsrJ2
'ffiw 'S-fasf.
to
PIONEER
leather
JBELTING
- Australia,
! yf’X- 5 f ° r , Dura '>ility and Cheapness,
exclusivity W. Gotmiroink.
Pnces and Samples Free to any address.
1 aLUDowiar* son,ltd.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
ir^lia E S ’ '^ ueenslanH I Perth, W. Ans-
. Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
I ales of the System.”
PHICE Is.
Fost Is. 84.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
IZia'beat . A.wa,rd.s wliepetror Baclaitoitedl.
yz
T
VANDYCK
CIGARS
m
■o' a vettr
wrx/iGRAtfr
SMOX£
©lf 8
F@E. Is
RRUTTY'kC^YWE.Y


THE RED PAGE.
Was Mallarme a Great Poet?
I.-Yes!
STEPHANE MALLARME.
The autumnal glory of Valvins is lit once more,
again has Nature prepared her sublime and splen-
did theatre, but this time the lucid eye that could
penetrate its signification is curtain’d in death.
Stephane Mallarme has pass’d away in the summer
solitude of trees that he loved ; no more can one
think that somewhere this man walks on earth-and
reads with certainty the signs of our greatness.
Now that the Poet is gone, let the empty legend,
the noisv veil which many .babblings would weave
round his serene presence, fall vain before his
grave. With his mortal body passes the usurping
phantom; the abstracting touch of Death lays
bare the large and monumental lines of his im-
mortal figure. Let it be affirm’d- that here was no
decadent, no Gongorist absorb’d in the scrutiny of
his private sensations, the notation of them in
curiously deform’d phrase. Precious, if you will,
at times; but'this need no longer hide (as in the
dase of George Meredith) the classic poet, the
thinker of broad sweep, of serene and wide-spread-
ing view.
Tliis man.came inti) the world to bear witness to
an idea; having waited for his hour and having
borne witness, he departs. The idea that electee
him was simply, that of Poetry : in him the art
seem’d to become self-conscious!, to develop a
living conscience. He was that rare. Toet—Keats,
our most splendid possibility, ; was on'the way to
become such—who possesses a poetic philosophy, a
poetry that is philosophy, a philosophy that is
entirely poetry ; a systematic body of imaginative
thought wherein reality is transposed, dissolved
into pure light l —-such is‘ the sense his -work leaves
behind it, affecting you almost physically—trans-
muted into a unity of Beauty, Truth, and Justice.
He believed in the supremacy of Poetry—the gold
by means of which man lives the spiritual life, just
as by .means of that other (only a figure of this), he,
maintains his material being—that- m a rights
constituted state, one that should mirror the con-
stitution of the Universe, this art was meant to be
fasti, the communion of man with his glory. Glory
—we seem to have lost the notion of it—the cor-
roboration of man’s ardours by all those “corres-
pondences ” in nature’s spectacle,, which are the
root of all the myths, the secret of their perpetual
newness._ Does not everything tell us with .con-
stant voice that all material beauty is our birth-
right, waiting for the soul to give it significance?
Is not the drama of all passion and dream written
day by day upon the heavens ? Do not all things
concert to proclaim the type, la Figure que Nul
n’est, with which all may feel themselves akin ? To
contemplate this mystery, the ideal likeness of all
things that be, to turn the steps of a generation
towards the source, towards Eden, for this end
Stephane Mallarme lived.
Thus, although his influence was immense over
the younger poets, he neither founded nor desired
to found a school. Not towards Symbolism did
he point, nor towards Mallarmism ; simply towards
Poetry. There are no Mallarmists, nor ever were ;
there was Mallarme.
He himself, having scrutinised his art in its. in-
most secrets, renounced all' achievement on a
lower grade than that of his intuition. ' In how
much of the great verse of the world does not the
poetry supervene adventitiously, erratically, on
much that is excellent, indeed, but not the one
thing hecessary ; so that it has become possible to
speculate on poetry as an art of pure form, a divine
manner of saying—nothing. He desired to extract
from things just merely that essence of poetry, that
musicalite de tout; not things, but the harmonies,
the parallelisms, the correspondences- between
them, what in our poetry is yet scatter’d com-
parisons, hints : to free the spirit from the reality,
ilevei" une. voix en puretefas he defines it, with
subtle anl decisive simplicity—this was his aim.
Necessarily he wrote little—publish’d little, one
should rather say ; for it is known that he pro-
jected a definitive and vast work, embodying his
poetic vision; and the development of style in the
few fragments publish'd points to a great mass of
writing in the background. Little, however, in
this case would be enough, what one would natur-
ally expect, for the ready lyrism, the “inspira-
tion, ” with which must poets are satisfied, was,,
with him, merely so much brute ore to be cast into
the crucible. His was a poetry in which the fitst
spontaneity was ruthlessly destroy’d by the intent
will, the abstracting contemplation, the result
emerging beyond, with a strange, absolute spoil-
taneity, a directness of unbodied emotion, of the
idea itself.
He wrote little, and, necessarily, that little was
not understanded of the general. \
In his verse, just as he had track’d the conver
gences of things back to that point where they
unite in mystery—the mystery we constantly dis-
cern on the far confines of poetry ; so, that he
might utter that mystery directly and as such,
his single preoccupation, he listen’d for the abso-
lute phrase, free from all personal hazard, the
very brea.h of mystery, as it rises out of silence,
with the dark caresses t >f still clinging to it.
J ust as he sought to fre soul of poetry from
the coarse reality, so lie sought to set literature
free from the tyranny of words. One might say
that, having learnt more thoroughly than any
other how great a part reticence and suggestion
play m the supreme art, he organised and elabor-
ated the silences of language, loving words just
for what possibilities they might possess of re-
vealing the perfect silence ; his poem being
rather the direction, the convergence of silenoo to-
wards a certain word, than the word itself. In his
prose, he said eternal things with the air of one
dropping a side remark, a mere divagation. And
the world only noticed the air.
Did he not once for all say the right word on
this question of his unintelligibilitv, and make the
final reply to the plaisanterie immense et mediocre,
that his enterprise was not to exhiber les choses sur
un imperturbable premier plan, en camelot, aoiivi
par la pression de Vinstant, but to tendre Ic nuage,
pric ieux, Jlottant suv Vintime goujfre d.e chague
pensee '1 Is it not indeed a foolish contention that
our fragmentary speech, with its virtual significa-
tion rubb’d away, as the head on a coin is deleted,
by daily misuse, should be abl e properly to render
all the soul, and yet remain as plain as our street-
conversation ?
—Well and good, it is heard, but he did not
realise himself, achieve himself in any work : he
was a fragmentary dreamer. I oppose the simple
testimony of one who knew him only by his pub-
lish’d word, who had no other access to his;
counsel than that open to all, ;, no more
favour’d ‘ Mallarmist ’ who might repeat to
him the master’s spoken phrase.~-[n the work
of Mallarme, even as it now stands, the eye that
knows-how to. look may discern the serfeno and
lofty soul that found contemplation sufficient, and
having the rich.es of vision, was content to forego
the rest. Serene, as few have been; with a cer-
tainty of intuition that begat amor fati and set
him, even living, far, it seemed, above all' eon-
tiugence, all futile remonstrance with destiny.-
Bui there is none who.may speak over ljis tomb as
he did over that of Villiers : perhaps the words he
then uttered were meant to be our present medita-
tion. Seeking an epitaph, I find nothing more
fitly solemn than the simple words of M. Viele-
Gnffin : “77 se \cria une dme humaine” —of how
few. can that be said I
—Et. cette dme, the poet continues, fut solitaire,
du fait gu’e'le fat. Silence and solitude he loved
during his life, and silence and solitude how, alas !
for ever, are close around Stephana Mallarme, who
was- magnificent and benign.
C.B.
II-No!
O mon Dieu, Mallarme is dead ! great Mal-
larme, great Mallarme is dead ! Juste ciel ! also
injuste ciel ! furthermore chopsticks, drumsticks,
and fiddlesticks! Exit “ce crier maitre,” Father
and Master of all who fever their brains in prose
or rhyme! And “Tceuvre,” the Great Work, the
magnum opus, the masterpiece of all the ages and
the consummation of all literature, is unaccom-
plished ! None can ever accomplish it now. The
one brain which could light humanity out of the
dark cellar where it gropes has been coffined and
vaulted away to rot, and all the Little Symbolists
can do no more than shed their tears to rust the
railings round the tomb where the Big Symbolist
reposes. Humanity must continue to grope.
Mallarme is dead ! great Mallarme is dead !
Little Mallarme is dead. A little author has
gone to hide his head in the merciful dust. A
third-rate man lies under a first-rate monument,
with a first-rate epitaph to diddle after his death
the noodles whom he diddled in his life. “ France
weeps !”—with her tongue in her cheek. “The
world mourns ! ” in the imagination of sympathetic
ehromqueurs. However, wondered the disciples,
did the universe exist before Mallarme ? They in-
terrogated earth, sea, and sky,, and found no an-
swer. It was incomprehensible. They gave it up.
And now Mallarme is gone, what does this remark-
able universe do ? It continups to exist. —A't i t
—-??? “Mais .. . pas possible?•” “iia
foi, oui ! ” ii i
Argues shocking taste on the part of the uni-
verse. Summer ! and no Mallarme. Autumn !
and no Mallarme. Winter ! and no Mallarme.
Spring k and no Mallarme. ’Tis prodigious, in
effect. Eclipses, Federation, gravitation, Meagher
and Norton, France and Fashoda, the hydrostatic
paradox, Dickson in trouble, Kingston in love,
lorrest in debt, .Reid in a 56-inch wairtcoat, Tur-
ner in St. Kilda baths, the earth revolving on her
axis and ice-cream a penny a plate——everything
as usual, bar Mallarme ! And this is the thing we
call Life.
Mallarme a great man ! Bah !he was a great
myth. Great men do; Mallarme dreamed.,
Great men are : Mallarme posed. Great riien
leave strong issue; • Mallarme lias left a tribe of
weaklings, literary impotents, sick kittens mewling
to be smothered. Mallarme inherited the tradi-
tion of Baudelaire—that was something, it was a
great deal. Baudelaire was a decadent, but he
was a man and a poet. The verses
A la trbs-chbre, <4 la Ms-belle
would alone have assured his rank. But to in-
herit the tradition of Mallarm4—to cross esoteric
with erotic, and breed a conundrum—o mes jeunes,
this is decadence indeed !
Mallarme was a mystic monkey climbing up a
sensual stick. He grinned and gambolled in a
tired, rheumatic way, and at every grin his fol-
lowers shrieked, “O, great! O, wonderful! Aid
us and bless us ! ” And to the crowd of scoffers,
“Yes, he is a little stiff in the joints, our dear
master ; but wait till his wings come— then he will
soar into the empyrean, away, away ! ” And to
one another, “ Can you see them sprouting-yet ? ”
Alas, Mallarme’s wings never sprouted. In 56
years of life he produced one small volume of
faded fragments. Then he dies ; and his memory
remains the memory of a mystic monkey climbing
up a sensual stick. ' °
The craze even reached Australia. It was the
fun of the world. First, one promising young
man was bjtten, and he bit another, and the two
combined to bite a third. The third never bit
anybody ; perhaps because he was a dreamy kind
of promising young man, and never woke up suffi-
ciently to bite ; or perhaps because he hadn’t been
properly bitten himself, and hadn’t received suffi-
cient virus. Anyway, to the end of things—to the
final Ragnarok— i.e., to the death of Mallarme
last month —he remained only a sort of prox. acc. or
runner-up, a worshipper in the courtyard who
wasn t admitted to the holy of holies. Occasion-
ally the two priests held a meeting to consult their
familiar spirit (they found him strangely dispirit-
ing, so obscure were his answers to their invoca-
tions), and the alumnus sat round the shrine in a
feeble and half-hearted way and prayed for light.
They would read a sonnet like
a la nue accablante tu
(which the translator of Tolstoy’s “What is
Art ? despairingly gave up as “ too unintelligible
for translation ”). Then the lights would be ex-
tinguished, and the worshippers would sit and
contemplate their stomachs fixedly and wait for
the. Breath of the; Spirit. It rarely came ; and
when it did come it never stopped. On one occasion
the alumnus,'was journeying near the Fish Market,
and suddenly there shined round about him a light
from Mallarme on the. third most obscure sonnet.
And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying,
Can’t you understand a little thing like, that ? And
he said, Who art thou ? And'the Voice said, lam
Mallarme whom thou puzzlest over ; it is hard for
thee to kick against the pricks. And he trembling
and astonished said, What wilt thou have me to
do ? And the Voice said, Arise and go iiito the
.city, and find my high priest, and explain unto,
him my third most obscure sonnet. And he arose
from the earth ; and when his eyes were opened he
saw no Mallarme; but they led him by the hand
and brought him into the Fish Market. And he
was three days without sight, and neither did he
eat nor drink. And on the fourth day he took the
explanation of the sonnet to the high priest, and
the high priest said it was all rot: the sonnet
meant something quite otherwise, which he ex-
I pounded. And the alumnus went away in a
greater fog than ever, and has never dared to go
near the Fish Market since'.
Somehow, I always think of Mallarme with his
thumb to his nose- and his fingers outspread. Yet
none of his disciples has ever seen him so. I
wonder — : — ?
H.S.R.
III.—Yes-No.
Stephane Mallarine was born at Paris in 1842,
so that he was 56 when he died last month. The
literary quarrel which has raged round, and about
him for nearly a score of years was a feud in which
men took sides according to their moods and tem-
peraments. To the old school represented by the
Revue des Deux Mundes, Mallarine seemed barren
and ridiculous. The new school (there is a newer, and
a newest) hailed him as the prophet to whom Ver-
laine’s mantle had fallen, and, after the death of
Verlaine, France’s chief poet. This division is
subject to several qualifications ; but it is fair to
say that, from about 1885 to about 1895, Mallarme,
in tha French world of letters, was held by a con-
siderable few to be a god, aid by,many to be a
mere fetish. And perhaps the greater number of
opinions hovered midway.
During the last two or three years Mallarme’s
influence and authority have seemed to be waning,
even in his own camp. He has done so little to
' justify his reputation. Instead of executing, he
dreamt atid brooded. His literary work of a life-'
time goo* (excluding rare uncollected fragments)
into one book, and not a large book. Younger and
more productive men grew restive in the shadow
of a reputation which had so scant an achieve-'
ment to justify it. His friends clung hopefully
on, and looked forward to a great work which
would be the liberal harvest of many years of medi-
tation. That was apriori unreasonable. Mal-
larme was a poet, not a historian. It was his
metier to create, not to criticise and compile. And
no in an ever creates anything in letters after 59.
No man creates anything which is'worth creating
(gives forth a fresh, strong, original impulse) after
40. In middle life judgment matures, but em >tion
goes. You may for a little while appear to
supply the place of emotion by art, using the
technique acquired by experience to give ,an
appearance of life to the ghosts of fancies
acquired “ when the heart was young.” But to
the skilled and sympathetic reader the difference
in the work is manifest, and the difference in the
appeal. All the experience in the world cannot
compensate for lost Youth, for the intimate thrill
of passion, the instantaneous reaction to beauty,
and for the hot surge in the head which transmutes
the impression of passion and beautv intn i
instinctively true and irresistible "Yn
feel is better than to know; and poetry which is
not Young is never (in the best sense) poetry.
And Mallarine was not only old : he was tf Jii
ft"* "tor a s'tomy ,‘S
he settled to teaching school for a W
lihood. As teacher and professor he was busy for
some twenty-five years, while his hair grew grev-
and his brain.. To expect a poetic manw;,
when such a life-burden is laid down is to fjy in
expec a ted°ft P ySI gy - Yetsomeof disciples
Mallarine must have long understood what a
cheat he was. Doubtless he would have realised his
admirers’ hopes had he been able ; but he was not
able, and he surely knew it. He must ha“ had
some of Heine s cynical smiles at the young men
who sang his praise; but Heine earned praise
Towards the end the air of unrest and expectancy
probably galled bun And Heredia was becoming
the fashion. He shut himself up, and refused
society. And so his life trickled out. '
i a darm£ was attached the French-literarv
la,bel of symbolist—he was the chief of the sym-
bolists. .that is, in his later writings, he used
words less to convey direct ideas than to commu-
nicate ail indirect emotion corresponding with his
own emotion. He aimed to make them harmoni-
ous to ear and eye; but, beyond that, he aimed
that the harmony should create an atmosphere
suggest a mood, And, subtler still, he desired
that the words themselves and the atmosphere
which they created should have some relation to a
thought unexpressed, if possible a primal thought
concerning the significance of life, or of beauty, or
of the soul. And to the enforcement and rein-
foreement of this linage, this Symbol, the sound
ot the words, and the look of them, and the har-
mony of their combination, and the idea or emotion
which they superficially expressed, were all sub-
ordinated.
Obviously, the task of the symbolist poet is one
of tremendous difficulty; and sometimes he fails
or falters. Then the Philistines who dwell in
outer darkness call him obscure. And there are a
hundred other details and dexterities omitted in
this inadequate explanation. The whole business
is uncommonly interesting; but it usually stops
at that. Mallarme was undoubtedly a very fine
literary craftsman ; his prose is often charming;
his phrases and fancies occasionally delightful;
but his symbolism, after all, is only a species of
intellectual jugglery. The poet in him found best
expression in his early and contemned Parnas-
sian period.
THE BUTTERFLY OF NIGHT.
A Symbolist Poem , written to commemorate
Mallarme's 56th birthday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chrysalis is free !
No more the spun cocoon of yellow and white
Subtly inwoven with threads of rarer light
Crumples wide wings from infinite liberty.
Unfolded now, their, trembling tips
Darken the confines of the last eclipse.
One odorous plume upslanting flings
In eddying rings ' ' •
The ashes of celestial things.
The nether dips •
Along sealed eyes and ever-silent lips
As, on .eternal flight, '
Floats out the phantom Butterfly of Night.
D.
BY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
■ GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORMUZ.
Wallis-Ta.yler’s Aerial Tramways, 7s 6d, post 8s; Bicker-
dyke’s Practical Letters to Young Sea Fishers, 7s 6d, post
8s ; Schofield, Unconscious mind, 7s 6d, post 8s ; Marie
Antoinetbe'(lschudi), 7s6d, post 8s ; Greco-Turkish War,
ss, post 5s 6d ; Stevens’ Yestei-day in the Philippines,
7s 6d, post 8s ; Griffiths’ Wellington and Waterloo, 10s6d,
post 11s 6d ; Fowler’s Coffer Dam Process for Piers,
10s 6d, post Us ; Hayward’s Geodetic Astronomy, 12s 6d,
post 13s ; Marry at's Why Did She Love Him V 2s 6d and
3s (id, post 3s and Is ; Merriman’s Roden’s Corner, 2s Gd
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Constable, Aunt Judith, 2s Gd
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Train’s Social Highwayman,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Sheldon’s Our Exemplar,
2s 6d and 3s 61, post 3s and 4s ; Le l)ueux’s If Sinners
Entice Thee, 2s 6d and 3s Sd, post '3s and 4s ; Gilchrist's
Willowbrake, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Lyalls
Derrick Vaughan, 2s Gd and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
Nearly ready ; BELOW AND ON TOP. By Edward
Dyson, author of “ Rhymes from the Mines,” eta, 2s6d
and-3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
Just published ; THE BUTCHER’S GUIDE AND FAR-
MER’S COM ANION. By William Dun Stan, Or., 2s 6d.
Now ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN:
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Huron. Is, post free,
Is 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, Georg e-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. 'Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED AS THE BEST . . .
THAT MONEY CAN BUY, are .. .
arettes
They are the finest production, in their line, of
Nineteenth Century Science!


RS
“ v.su*
0
* A
/,. H
• :'V.A.’.' ; ; V H
• : r£:iW
■ \z'h> ■ ‘‘s- <
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
ifiTTfe TC! A S£T*T?TftTTS TVT A'l’T'ER —A man who lias lost his will-power, by continually
THIS IS A SERIOUS MAI that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
committing himself to those habits of dissipation w , T , on one
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists, the experience of 20 000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have op . y
1311 7 m
tvliieh has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
hut it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World -Rene wned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the reinarkable treatment
which lias made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
s
y&i
In the Laboratory
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twite*
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :—■
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble !
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without hailing 1
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Debility-
Th is affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
fWespondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
aiij
ijn
Ifili
■ l«
ill Trams stop at the Boor.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
v\.
7 ypv/fejj
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
tainiug to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rested at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Frice, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
JS-srjonxriEs-x-.
Pkase mention this Paper when writing.} Correspondence, P.O. Eox 1359.
ft
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and,Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Tonny Men!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, fee., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
£1
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbous will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENT 111 EL Y
Eli EE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address :
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l— which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DERILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my hook, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Coliins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REjMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful ami highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Bicord,
Bostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPIOSM No. 1
in a remaika dy simrt tune, ollen a lew days only,
removes an discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does ine-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious di«ea'es.
THERAPION No. 2
for itnpur.t. . I cue oiood, scuivy, pimples, spots,
blo’ches, pains ami swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
tliewliolcsystem through the blood, and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality .harassing
dreams, and all 1 the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates,&c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour 10 the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemists and Men hauls throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ah ve Trade Mark, which is a tac-simile of word
“ Theravion ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is aforgery.
Agents for Therapion—FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSITT & Co.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Pavorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
‘‘ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
in Menl
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marical Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
. „ J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
V Cor. Bourke <fc Liverpool Sts., Melbourne,
VARIGO pELE
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NERVOUS PEOPLE
X
I
1
iV‘
r''
]
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
i the languid, for the
1 run-down system, for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention—Dß.
PIERCE’S EL KOTRIC BELT is a GRAND REMEDY
(t assists Nature >y a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
Dy infusing a mild, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE.—If Ruptured, send also for “Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
NERVOUS
EXHAUSTION
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any.cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tunic Pills.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ;no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
THALES OP THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
X Price Warung. Is. 3d.


TATTERSALL’S
• • • Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TAT TE RSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscriber's at 5.
Drawn on the Day of Each Race.
Address
s :
NEWCASTLE TATTERS ALLS C. Dec. 2
50,000 Subscrilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name _i.
oG
Address
shares in the above.
SUMMER C. December 26.
50,000 Snbacribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address,
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address.
«
SANDHURST T.C. November 30.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name
Address
ROSEHILL S. December 10.
50,000 Sulbscrilbera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address.
CARRINGTON S. December 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name,
Address.
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ .shares in the above.
Name .
Address
NOTE.—The SPECIAL will be drawn on
the advertised day of each Race on which a Sweep is Open.
For fuEl particulars read our Printed Circulars.


be 6laSs
of FaSbioo
QNTHONY • riORDERW S
PORTFOLIO OF . • •
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY —-
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &c.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and ChHdren
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden Implements, &c
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should he without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.— Dear Sir,—l had a had attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, hut nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“Aftersufferingfromasthmaunt.il I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.”. Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
™eGRAPHOPHONE.
UP
Hje
LBE
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
YOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OR MUSIC.
Price (including Reproducer,
Horn, and Record), £2 10s.
2 to 5,000 CHOICE RECORD
always on hand. Send for
List and Illustrated Cata-
logues of Violins, etc., etc.
ALBERT & SON, l!8 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
AGENTS FOR THE PORTABLE VAPOR BATH CABINETS.
Trade Supplied Cheaper than any other house. Largest Importers of
MUSIC, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and NOVELTIES, Goods
forwarded to any part of Australia Doty Free.
COLEMANE'S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “ MONARCH ” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
THE
DEAF
HEAB
US?" “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment,. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
,T. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Various. Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Swallow in Maoriland.
Dear swallow, from a fonder sky,
Why do you leave your happy mate
Within the golden lands that lie
Beyond the evening’s shadowy gate?
Ah ! tender wings, you bear a load
That only Memory may see,
The fragrance of my youth’s abode,
The ecstacy of life to me !
It may be that their beat has weaved
A path by childhood’s starry creek,
Where jealous ferns droop interleaved
To hear the whispering waters speak ;
And thou, perhaps, hast flown aloof,
Athwart the garden sweet and wild,
And rested on the sheltering roof,
Where I and tender love have smiled !
Already thou, on ceaseless wings,
Art bidden to thy loved return,
To all thy flight my vision clings,
For far off home, like thee, I yearn ;
And through the warm, unfolding tears,
I see the sacred fount again
That proved the joy of childhood’s years
The still, supremest, heart of pain !
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
Rejected.
And all is over ! Now I know my fate,
Or know in part, for through my brain there strays
A wild, sweet melody of other days
That will not come to call—l came too late
To walk in Eden ways.
But dreaming I have seen their tender blue,
The darkening field and honeysuckle lane
Rich with deep perfume of the summer rain ;
And with shy rapture, hand in hand with you,
Have heard the night-bird’s pain.
And I have known in vision clear, divine,
An ancient home with green and shadowy bound,
Where you were queen, and children clustered
round,
And all that beauty, sweetness, love were mine,
And all that haunted ground ;
And, as the days shut in and we grew old,
The quiet talk of long November eves
By glowing hearth or through the fallen leaves—
The sacred ending of a tale nigh told—
Ah, now your bosom heaves !
You bend your head to hide the sudden tears
Until I feel your cheek’s soft scented glow,
And I may kiss your lips you whisper low,
The first and last for never-ending years !
Well, let me kiss and go.
And yet I cannot touch your lips ! Again
That tune swells in my heart with agony,
“When other lips ” —I know it now, you see —
“ When other lips,” O aching old refrain !
“Then you’ll remember me.”
Ah, no, forget me quite, or think me dead,
Let r-'ver thought of me make sad your days;
That x have known you fills my soul with praise ;
With your sweet memory again I’ll tread
The old forsaken ways.
Tasmania.
J.H.
The Three Friends.
I wandered forth with Youth,
And Life, and Love—
Three merry friends in truth !
Blue sky above,
Buds breaking at our feet,
Pleasant to see ;
Life, Love, and Youth were sweet
Comrades to me.
Though peaceful were our days
By sun, by moon ;
The parting of the ways
Came soon—too soon!
“ Farewell! ” said Youth in glee,
Turning aside;
“ Love, wilt thou follow me
Or Youth as guide ? ”
“ Ah, stay, dear Love,” cried X.
“ Hast thou forgot ?
Even though Youth go by,
Love, leave me not! ”
“ I follow Youth,” said she;
(Fickle, false Love !)
‘ ‘ Comrade, farewell to thee
Where’er thou rove.”
Fain would I follow too —
Life held me back:
“Old friend, I tell thee true,
Here lies our track.”
So we two wander on,
This Life and I;
Sad ’tis now Youth has gone,
Love passed us by.
Often say I to Life,
“ Go thou thy way :
Weary am I of strife,
Dark night, dull day.”
“ Ah, no ! ” says Life to me,
“Sunlight shall shine
In some sweet day to be,
Comrade of mine ! ”
Life tells of flowers ahead,
Fields, quiet streams —
I reach no violet bed
Save in my dreams.
“ Vain are thy words, false friend,
Leave me, I pray;
Sweeter were it to wend
Lonely my way.”
“ Ah, no ! we will not part,”
Says Life to me;
“ Somewhere beyond, dear heart,
Death waits for thee.
There I shall leave thee, for
He in his ruth
Leads where thou’lt find once more
Lost Love and Youth.”
Maoriland.
DORA WILCOX.
'''iM fPCNNYi
HMrPtHNY
GO TO EEBLL-
TGOLANL) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Australia!}
JUBILEE YEAR.
Established 1819.
ProVidcot Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £145,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman : A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILLIEH. 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENOS‘FRUIT SALT'
ft Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
r 0
a
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick B[eadache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
•with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYjEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the,‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The Summer is upon us, watch your Children’s EYES ;
No house should be without a bottle of the greatest of all Australian remedies.
Ro&e’& Celebrated Eye LotioQ.
The only practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS arising from Sandy Blight, Sun Glare, Inflammation,
Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, etc.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
m- BEWARE OE WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLE PEOPBIETOE :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney.
List of Testimonials Supplied on Application.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
":V ! ;
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotelgrighton,
j Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
5 On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall ivill accommodate 500 -persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating;
also splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
THE
* Plum’
.
THE
‘Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
p . / Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price | gj n „] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK AT OTJR PRICLS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buekboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Not Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NSWXOWN.
Send, for Our Xlluatrated Catalogue.


m
BAKING
POWDER.
Guaranteed''
free from alum
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
\ -yz.: 7 • : ; frv / 'Vv >.";>• :-. \- •
v • *.;• % • '
;• Vv -'A- s,
V-.^-Vv
f- ■ ’
n
’• - ;
>T>s*
H:Edwin Moore,
'
Rates i2/6-oa?£UPWAbds
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
P&B Ruberoid
(3-10ths
railway.
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
at or iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
KS
SI
IR'
*riv
J
E. RICH & CO. Ltd-,
General Agents for Australasia,
24-26 O’Connell-st., Sydney, JV.S. W.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st., Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rose & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quaj', Wellington N Z
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q. ’
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland
Kirk & M Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARLTON ALE.
Tattersall s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt '
hu r nd Jd Um 7, heatre ); and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TARIFF:
Bs. per Day upwards.
VV. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
Condon Oenta!
Institute.
Dr. S. T/EVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
£ Modern Dentistry in all its .Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY —ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
m Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
rsftr«o
CH n
STILLER
QMPfI
LlfflT!
EDINBURG
JH3K
m
Trade mark :|;|||l
•fcotc/ly yi^Udk
DCTIUERS COrtPAOTlif
EDINBURGH.
’^e-s^sssm
‘""‘“'tuftA-fi. $../• ~'l 'iZrLUJHid/rV&M
Si
Drink
Ploderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ ‘ for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
I you can .get. “ D.C.L.*
i Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“ D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.’
PURIRI
THE WONDERFUL.
The Table Water of the Age, Fresh from
the Maori Springs.
NATURE’S
own Simple and Certain Cure for Gout, Indi-
gestion, Kidney Troubles, and Rheumatism.
L ESTIMONIALS, from Medical Men and others, to be had from
E. RICH & CO., O’ Connell-st., Sydney,
AGENTS for N.S.W. and QUEENSLAND.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY comfeititiow.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
' ,
: :
o
X
4'
4/
■w w.
<-
» -*
1
■: * a* * i *
/
fc
... i^ca
fir
JIITJ.UIII
mm*'*
mt
W.m
1
vrv
1 '
«c?
§
•;;
/<v
IK
O
a£
!9r
nr
o
V>J :
>as f
T*
vail
I *?>**.
' k V*S» "
■
r i«
*T
§tu>iow


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, tSvdney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vot. 19.—N0. 977.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1898.
Price 6d.
THE TWENTIETH CENTURY.
A:'
Like moot of the other Churches, it is the wish
of . the Wesleyan Conference in this colony to
celebrate the 20th century in a practical way.
•committee “vse apppiiueu to a raft a scheme, ana
they have virtually completed their task. Their
jproposa! is that a fund of 50,000 .guineas, to be
designated the Century Commemoration Fund,
shall be raised in the colony.
(*> '
M ? J r ‘
V '
, . J)
b<- 0 »r
A lQ >
*fc4^
_ BOMB AX,A,Bator day.
The Department of Agriculture has decided to
seed to toe Bombala Agricultural Society the red*
poll bull Barrister instead of the Kerry ball wbiob
yresfirst offered to the society, and dsclined by it as
. to tUe’retiuirements of the district.
5 C °' rriV ed <OO PcutTi 17 do
4 ? V
\y%i
vX\
* V*
\
<»>J l V'*“
e* a '
d the racing earnivals ol 11 ® 8 ® ualaW £ul
around tne widespread sysw“ wasteful
had, diS Sna y i tooraUty and
? threatening n *££ able , speculative.
eXI as a people and .in-.
T
dusV^ua-
Bat
as far as bis experience went, ordinary'Christian
people came to bazaars prepared to spend a cer-
tain amount of money Ja j&d of tbe objtet lpi view.
nst for selfish gain, but further a gdb^jCausfe
The Government, it was elicited in the ASsem ;
bly last night, has an ample supply of ■amznun>'-
Hon- for the defence forces.
sQtr] i Ach
, A fair and accurate report. published in any newspaper
of the proceedings of a public meeting, or (except where
neither the public nor any newspaper reporter'is admit-
ted) of- any meeting of a. municipal council or local
authority fbymed or constituted under the provision* of
any Act of Parliament, or of-any committee appointed by
any of the abovementioned bodies, or of any uneeting of
anv commissioners authorised to act by letters patent, Act
of Parliament, or crt)ier lawful authority, or 01 any select
commlttei'bf‘either House of Parliament, and the publi-
cation at the request of any .Government office or depart-
ment, or Minister of the Crown, or at the request Of the
lnsi>cctor-GCneral of Police, of any notice or report issued
by »hem for the information of the public, shall be privi,
leged, unless it be proved that such report or publica-
tion was published or made maliciously:
f• B -A* - " I CU7X UjoJ- te
jct-Ke Z*v
J~a*f~s 0 y% /oovej? if~ct hiT
So O- J /~c A//rj Cl CAci*pC?
/6 6cLr/\.-"
tfA-FNCf'
It tniy tjorf ir Tfi. a
±>uf It^.+ ; tyere <J«.^«-'I-
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 .1% 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which yon may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not extending two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Black, and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient, merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. : Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Aroonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street. Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Uout-st,., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.—lF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia ,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Neivspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—tyd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post 'Office, a special' Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Tfc'tfMZe&n.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1898.
The Illegal Department of Justice.
The Suffield case came up again in New
South Wales Assembly last week on Labor-
member Griffith’s demand for a Royal
Commission to enquire into that bygone
iniquity. Labor-member Griffith, was weak
and indifferent and perfunctory, and he
didn’t even, press his demand to a vote.
Also, he didn’t take the trouble to be
fully acquainted with his brief. When
Premier Reid proposed that it should
he amicably dropped, on the understanding
i hat it might possibly turn up again towards
i he end of the session, Mr. Griffith himself
voted for the peaceful and indefinite drop-
ping of his own case. Premier Reid and
his new Minister of Justice (Lee) both ille-
gally refused to give Suffield the new hear-
ing provided for by law, and that was about
i he only definite element in the proceedings.
* * * *
The reason and purpose of the Suffield
case are now pretty well known, and it
stands high on the list of the many judicial
disgraces of Botany Bay. Suffield was
convicted and sentenced to ten years’ im-
prisonment for an alleged criminal assault
on Ann Chamber,s in her employer’s grounds,
.dose to her employer’s front-door, one night
about 10. The girl was heard screaming,
and, on being found, alleged that she had
been attacked by her employer’s bull—at
least she said, “Oh, that bull!” which was
all the immediate explanation she offered,
fhe bull was there, only a few yards away ;
•Suffield wasn’t there. The bull had a bad
i eputation for attacking people, and a few
days later it had to be killed for assailing
another woman exactly as it probably did
Ann Chambers. Ann Chambers adhered to
ihe bull story for 12 hours or more—she was
sensible and stuck to the tale distinctly; at the
end of that time she changed her tune—pos-
sibly falling a victim to the hysterical craving
for romance and notoriety which is at
the bottom of most charges laid by women
against men—and accused, first a shadowy
and uncertain man, and, later on, Suffield,
of assault. She alleged that he began the
assault by striking her a heavy blow on the
back of the head with a stick or stone ; yet
the doctor declared that there was no
bruise on the back of her head. The
same doctor, who examined her immediately
after the attack, declared that there was no
certain evidence that she had been assaulted
by any man. There was also Ann Chambers’
own first statement about the bull as a very
serious proof of her unreliability. The
woman who was attacked by the same bull a
few days afterwards showed almost exactly
the same injuries as those which Ann
Chambers suffered. No one, not even the
man who was passing at the time, saw Suf-
field at the place or anywhere near it.
Two respectable witnesses, his landlady and
her daughter, swore positively that he was
in his own lodgings some distance away at
the hour of the alleged assault, and for some
time before and after. Though the girl’s
clothes were covered with blood and mud,
through the struggle on the wet ground,
there was not a scratch on Suffield, nor a
compromising spot or stain on his clothes.
He left no foot-marks coming or going away.
There was nothing to connect him with the
outrage (which was never proved to have
taken place at all) except the statement of
Ann Chambers, which statement was partly
contradicted by her own other statement.
And there were two respectable witnesses
and all the circumstantial evidence to dis-
connect him from it.
* * * •*
Suffield’s conviction was brought about
mainly by the unspeakable Judge Windeyer,
the man who always “ summed up strongly
against the prisoner ” where a woman was
concerned ; the man who believed in spirits,
and consulted mediums, and formed opinions
about the guilt of prisoners through advice
tendered him by departed spooks, and whose
judicial career (on the criminal bench) was
one long shrieking blasphemy against justice.
Windeyer’s whole management of the case,
as of almost every other criminal case in
which there was any element of either lust
or blood, was a constant effort to minimise
every point which told in favor of the
accused. For instance, when Ann Cham-
bers alleged that her assailant wore a rough
coat and it proved that Suffield's coat, pro-
duced in court, was of perfectly smooth
material, he told the jury to disregard the dis-
crepancy on his own bare statement that a
woman s sense of touch was different from a
man’s. He informed the jury that there
was no doubt that an outrage had been
committed—which was wholly untrue. He
denounced the story about the attack by the
bull as an absurdity, though it was Ann
Chambers’ own story, and objected to the
prisoner’s counsel leaking allusion to that
very material animal. And he endea-
vored later on to break down the evidence
of Suffield’s landlady, who swore to his
absence from the scene of the alleged
outrage at the hour when it took place, by
the unspeakably brutal insinuation, resting
on not one shred of proof, that that elderly
mother was Suffield’s mistress. Windeyer
drove a weak-kneed jury into returning a
verdict of guilty, and then passed sentence
of ten years.
* * * *
Then Suffield, having got into gaol against
all weight of evidence, official routine, as
represented by Ministers R. E. O’Connor,
Slattery, Gould, Reid, and others, con-
spired to keep him there. There are two
conditions, according to New South Wales
law, under which a criminal case may
be re-opened. One is the appearance of
new evidence. The other is the existence
{without new evidence) of any doubt that the
conviction (based on the old evidence) was
unjust. According to the exact wording of
the law :
Whenever after the conviction of a prisoner any doubt
or question arises as to his guilt, or any mitigating cir-
cumstance in the case, or any portion' of the evidence
therein, it shall be lawful for any justice hv direction of
the Governor—on the petition of the prisoner or some
person on his behalf representing- such doubt or question
—or by direction of a Judge of the Supreme Court of his
own motion, to summon and examine on oath all persons
likely to give material information on the matter sug-
gested. s
According to the old lag-time practice of
New South Wales, however, this part of the
statute has been practically annulled by suc-
cessive Ministers of Justice. The law says
that there may be an inquiry whenever any
doubt exists as to the justice of a conviction,
and does not say or hint or suggest that that
doubt must be based on new evidence. The
New South Wales Justice Department has
the insufferable insolence to cancel this law,
and refuse all inquiry except on new
evidence. So Minister O’Connor, who took
the first turn at the matter, gave his verdict
in these terms :
It is only where some material fact or circumstance not
before the jury at the trial has been brought before the
Minister that the latter is just ified in directing an inquiry
• • • Beln - so I hi pressed and .momm, that the conviction
oj this man rests upon the uncorroborated evidence of one
witness (that any man should languish in prison for
years on the not-only-uncorroborated but self-contra-
dicted evidence of a girl 1) “ I should have been glad to
have had placed before me a 113- new fact . . The
verdict of the jury must stand uniinpeached until some
definite statement of material facts not under corisidera-
r7°Jr a |- t iw ' r ! a ! are b, ' ou - ht before me.”—Hansard, pane
1745, Soth October, 1898.
Minister O’Connor, therefore, deliberately
subordinating the law to the gory and brutal
precedents of his department, cancelled the
statute which says that an inquiry may be
ordered whenever any doubt arises as to the
justice of a conviction, and which says
nothing about new evidence being essential.
He himself admitted the existence of the
doubt; he stated that he was “much im-
pressed,” and called attention to the fact
that Suffield was convicted on the evidence
of one uncorroborated witness—and then he
put the statute on one side, and refused to
move out of his own rut of callous and brutal
precedent. The fiction about new evidence
being essential is a legal crime invented
for the purpose of denying a convict the
appeal to which the law entitles him in cer-
tain circumstances. According to Minister
O’Connor’s utterly illegal system, if there had
been no witness at all against Suffield, and if
the verdict of guilty was obtained by sheer
intimidation on the part of the Judge, still
that verdict must stand, unless new testi-
mony was forthcoming. Supposing all the
evidence had been used up at the first trial,
then, even if the verdict was obviously as un-
just as those obtained from terrorised juries
by J effreys or Scroggs, it must not be in-
terfered with ! Where there is no new
evidence, no injustice, however hideous, can
be repaired, and there is NO appeal at all.
That is where Minister O’Connor’s slavish
following of office-precedents leads him to.
* * * *
Slattery and Gould both followed O’Con-
nor’s lead, though Gould went one better
by insolently denying the existence of that
power of enquiry specifically provided in the
Act, and accusing The Bulletin of gross
ignorance when it drew attention to the
actual words of the statute. And Premier
Reid’s reason for refusing an inquiry is
partly that it was refused by O’Connor and
Slattery and Gould, and mostly a repeti-
tion of the old fiction—which has soaked
into the New South Wales judicial intellect
by mere repetition—that there must be fresh
evidence. Some extracts from Reid :
Mr. It. E. O’Connor went into the matter in the most
careful way to see whether he could possibly take action
.... in other words, whether additional evidence could
be brought to his knowledge. . . . The fact that the Par-
liament of Great Britain and the Parliaments of the
other colonies have never yet attempted to ask the
Executive Government to re-open a criminal case without
some fresh evidence enables me to appeal to the House
with some confidence that they will not make such a
demand on the present Administration.
So Reid also puts the brutal traditions of
Botany Bay red-tapeism above the law, and
refuses to be aware of the existence of that
plainly-written statute which says that a case
may be re-opened whenever any question
exists as to the prisoner’s guilt, and which
doesn’t even hint at the necessity for new
facts. And according to Reid’s unlawful law
also, even if a conviction were based
on no proof at all, and it was so glar-
ingly wrong that every person in the
community felt it to be wrong, still if
all the facts for the defence had been
advanced at the trial and no new ones
remained to be presented, that conviction
must hold good for ever. The Bulletin
wonders if Premier Reid understands the
callous inhumanity of his own system.
* * * *
Probably the most remarkable statement
of the Ministry’s position, however, is that
of its own literary scavenger, the Daily
Telegraph :
The demand for a Royal Commission must be resisted
by the Government. Not necessarily because Ministers
or their supporters believe in the truth of the jury’s ver-
dict. There is no more reason to suppose that they have
any common opinion about that matter than the Opposi-
tion can have. They are, however, in a position which
renders them responsible for the impartial administration
of the law, and must face that responsibility even at the
risk of offending a clamorous section of the people, who
think that its own feeling about this matter should out-
weigh the legal decision of a jury. The Opposition have
no responsibility, except that imposed upon them by
political conscience, which, in this case, certainly does
not appear to go for much. All the capital that is' to be
got by embarrassing the Government in upholding the
law, they deem themselves entitled to appropriate. . .
Regarding the merits or demerits of the case against
Suffield, it is not necessary now to have an opinion.
The man was tried by regular process of law ; a verdict
was recorded, and followed up by the ordinary penalty,
which has been duly paid. The whole matter is there-
fore closed, unless some new feature is brought to light
sufficient to create a reasonable belief that there had been
a miscarriage of justice. Nothing of the kind is adduced.
. . . The attitude assumed towards Mr. Griffith's
motion for a Royal Commission is the correct one, and
must be maintained. There is, however, a special reason
why the re-trial of this case in the manner suggested
would menace the interests of justice. The theory of the
defence involves a most damaging reflection upon the
prosecutrix, who, at the hands of someone, was certainly
the victim of a cruel injury. A new trial of the kind
demanded would amount to trying her on a charge of
gross perjury.
* » * .
Which is mostly the same old stereotyped
lie over again. The law of New South
Wales says that wherever there is a doubt
about the justice of a prisoner’s conviction,
he may have a fresh hearing, O’Connor,
Slattery, Gould, Lee, Reid, and the Tele-
graph make a new law and say that even if
there are a thousand doubts as to the justice
of his conviction, he shall not have a new
hearing unless “ some new feature is brought
to light.” Minister O’Connor’s doubt of
Suffield’s guilt can be read in large letters
all over his minute. Gould and Reid both
have doubts. Gould showed it by offering
Suffield his release if he would petition for
mercy (which Suffield refused to do, pre-
ferring to serve his sentence to the last hour
rather than ask for mercy where he was en-
titled to justice in the shape of a legal inquiry
into the grave doubt that admittedly existed
in his case). Premier Reid showed his doubt
in the House last week by his refusal to
say that he was personally satisfied with the
jury’s verdict. The Telegraph admits that
the Ministry and its supporters need not
necessarily “ believe in the truth of the
jury’s vei’dict ” ; it takes for granted that
they may all, or nearly all, have doubts.
Therefore the law providing for such cases
was broken in the worst interests of possible
injustice by Ministers O'Connor and Slat-
tery and Gould and Reid ; and the Tele-
graph backs them up retrospectively in
their high-handed evasion of the statute.
The theory of the whole crowd has been all
along that it was better to break the law and
to keep a probably innocent man in gaol
than to burst up an office precedent and
reflect upon the conduct of Australia’s cham-
pion brutal Judge. And the D.T. further
props up its case by the old fiction that Ann
Chambers was “certainly the victim of a
cruel injury” at “ the hands of somebody.”
It has never been proved, despite Judge
Windeyer’s utterly false misdirection to the
jury, that Ann Chambers suffered any cruel
injury at the hands of anybody. The whole
case for the cruel injury rested on the evi-
dence of two doctors. One, who examined
the girl immediately after the alleged assault,
wasn’t sure there had been any man in the
case at all. Another, who saw her two days
later, said that she had been assaulted by a
man, submitting as reasons to his conclusion
arguments which are and must be simply
derided by all careful surgeons. There was
no certainty either way. As to the “ special
reason”’ above mentioned, you can’t allow an
appeal or even a first hearing to the defence
in any case, civil or criminal, without thereby
in exactly the same way, and to exactly the
same extent, trying the prosecutor for per-
jury and casting a damaging reflection on
him—or her. If nobody is allowed to cast
damaging reflections on the prosecutor; then
the defendant can’t be heard at all.
* * * *
The Bulletin has never asked any special
or unusual concession in this case. It
simply points out that even the code of
New South Wales allows a limited right of
appeal in criminal cases on the simple ground
(which has always been held good enough in
civil cases) that the verdict was apparently
against the weight of evidence. That right
has been so regularly ignored by the old con-
vict traditions of the Justice Department
that most people don’t even know of its
existence, but it exists all the same. The
Ministry, in the Daily Telegraph’s own
words, is responsible for the impartial ad-
ministration of the law. The Bulletin
wants to know why this particular law isn’t
impartially administered, instead of being
buried out of sight and its very existence
denied.
Crime and Insanity.
Editor Bulletin,—ln Sydney, the other day,
one Lisson was charged with the murder of a
young girl, his sister-in-law. Incidentally it
was shown that he-had attempted to kill a man
with whom he had unsatisfactory business
transactions. Further, he attempted to kill
his two children whom he loved. If his wife
had not run out of the way he might have tried
to kill her too.
* * • *
The case was perfectly plain. Lisson
brooded over his business wrongs, fancied or
real, until he decided that the injury to him
must be paid for in blood. He inveigled his
opponent to a suitable place, and proceeded to
kill him. The man escaped. Lisson, with the
blood-lust onhimand the blood-feverin his brain,
ran amuck. He had no conception or intention
of murdering in the legal sense ; but he wanted
to slay, destroy, annihilate everything in his
path. If a hundred men had opposed him
while the fit was on him, he would have tried
to kill them all. If he had found no human
beings, he might have killed dogs, birds, any-
thing. If he had found no animals, he might
have smashed the mirrors, hacked the furni-
ture, stabbed the wall-paper. The case was
perfectly plain.
« * * •
It is a case 'well-known, and, in a sense,
well-understood. In the case of a Malay, it is
historical and familiar. Frank Swettenham,
British Resident at Perak, in the Malay Penin-
sula, says in his “Malay Sketches” (pub.
Lane, London, 1895), page 3 :
A Malay is intolerant of insult or slight; it is something
that to him should be wiped out in blood. He will brood
over a real or fancied stain on his honor until he is
possessed by the desire for revenge. If he cannot wreak
it on the offender, he will strike out at the first human
being that. comes in his way, male or female, old or
young. It is this state of blind fury, this vision of blood,
that produces the amok. The Malay has often been
called treacherous. [Lisson was called treacherous.] I
question whether he deserves the reproach more than
other men. He is courteous and expects courtesy in
return, and he understands only one method of avenging
personal insults.
Nearly every word of this applies to Lisson.
Transported to Perak, his offence would have
seemed natural, even commonplace. He seemed
singular merely because he lived in an Austra-
lian environment.
* * * *
And at p. 38 Swettenham enforces his
general conclusion by a particular case. He
recites how on 11th Feb., 1891, a Malay named
Imam Mamat came into the house of his brother-
in-law carrying a spear and a knife. He shook
hands with his brother-in-law and his own wife,
asked their pardon, and stabbed them both.
Then he chased and killed a woman and two
children, killed another man, and wounded two
more men and two children before he was
despatched. Imam Mamat was a quiet, elderly
man, of good habits and repute, and no cause of
his crime was suggested, except that “ the man
was suffering under the burden of some real or
fancied wrong which, after long brooding,
darkened his eyes and possessed him with this
insane desire to kill.” An autopsy showed
that the man’s body was healthy “except that
the membranes of the right side of brain were
more adherent than usual.”
* * * *
The average person of European blood has
been trained by the habit of living under the
law not to kill when he is angry ; but he often
has the impulse. Centuries of civilisation have
tamed the wild beast in us ; but it is still
there, and when it is roused its first thought
is to tear, kill, devour. The ordinary man’s
impulse to “ smash something ” when he
is vexed is precisely the impulse which'domi-
nated Lisson. In “The Second Mrs. Tau-
queray ” Pinero makes a baronet yearn to drop
crockery. Lays Lady Orreyed :
You know poor Dodo oan’t lose his temper without


smashing something ; if it isn’t a chair, it’s a mirror ; if
it isn’t that, it’s china. ... He doesn’t really throw
things at me, dear ; he simply lifts them up and drops
them, like a gentleman.
“ Like a gentleman ! ” And LiSSON acted—
like a savage. But the impulse which moved
Sir George Orreyed is precisely the impulse
which moved Napoleon Jean Lisson. The
ordinary man, when he is angry, may destroy
crockery or jump on his hat; Lisson was not
an ordinary man, and he destroyed life.
• • • •
Was Lisson insane ? Obviously ; certainly.
Dr. Angel Money apparently astonished Judge
Owen by declaring that a man who walks in
his sleep is insane. But there is nothing surer.
Insane means not sane, not healthy, not nor-
mal ; and a man who walks in his sleep is not
sane, not healthy, not normal. The fissure of
division between such a man and a sane man
may be a hair-space or a gulf; but there must
be a division.
* • *
Dr. Money might have gone further, and
declared that (in a special sense) no man is
sane. That (in a special sense) is just as ob-
vious, just as certain. Perhaps 999 human
beings in a thousand are conceived accidentally,
are born without any direct intent or conscious
preparation on the part of the parents. Even
if the parents are as nearly sound as it is
possible for flesh and blood to be, it is rare that
both are at the climax of health and strength
at any one time. For every weakness or loss
of health in the parents the child pays. So
complicated an organism is the human body
that it may fairly be doubted whether one child
in a million is born as sound as it might be,
from given parents. Often life is a mere his-
tory of the development of hereditary weak-
ness.
• * * *
Again, we begin to die as soon as we begin
to live. As soon as a child draws breath the
influences for decay are at work. While the
forces of life are sufficient to counterbalance
these influences, we live. As they wane, we
gradually die. A man of twenty is twenty
years nearer death ; a man of thirty, thirty.
And when it is considered what a marvellously
complicated machine is the human brain,
upon what myriad influences its health and
sanity depend, it is clear that there never was
a human brain absolutely sane, absolutely with-
out flaw or weakness. lam insane ; you are
insane; Dr. Money is insane; Judge Owen is
insane. We are not confined in asylums
merely because the normal man is as insane as
we are ; that is, from the point of view of the
normal man, we are sane. But there is no
absolute boundary-line between greater insanity
and less. We have to guess, in our poor, crude
way, at the most insoluble of problems. Every
individual is some distance removed from
sanity. If he is only an inch away, we
do not notice it, for we are an inch away
ourselves. If he is three inches away, and
talks in his sleep, a trained observer
notices it. If he is six inches away, and
rambles in his talk, his friends notice it. If he
is a foot away, and stands on his head in his
garden-plot, the butcher and baker notice it,
and express doubts whether he should not be
clapped into an asylum. If he is a yard away,
and strips his clothes off and stands on his
head in George-street, the whole community
notices it; and into the asylum he goes. We
are all mad ; but some of us are not as mad as
others. So is Dr. Angel Money justified.
* * * *
How should the community deal with a very
mad man, or a man whose brain is so unsound
that he can suddenly become very mad, like
Lisson ? The answer is easy. In the .first
place, Lisson should be prevented from doing
further harm ; in the second place, his example
should not be permitted to become an influence
upon others to do further harm. How prevent
him from doing further harm ? Kill him ;or
deprive him of liberty. If killing had no con-
sequences, it would be cheaper and easier to
kill him, for it may be taken for granted that
he will always be dangerous, can never become
a useful member of society. Unluckily, there
is substantial evidence that contemplation
of the death punishment and its circumstances
drives other weak or impressionable brains into
crime or insanity. It is better to lock him up —in
gaol or asylum ; no matter where, as long as he is
sensibly and humanely treated. How prevent
Lisson’s example from influencing the commu-
nity? By locking him up as speedily and
quietly as possible ; and by preventing sensa-
tional accounts of his crime from appearing in
the newspapers. These it is that breed crime ;
the account of a murder sends weak heads
brooding and toppling like the account (yea,
or even the mere known fact) of an
execution. The fact is as well-established as
that the sun rises in the east; there was an
Australian instance when the town-clerk of
Burwood, a Sydney suburb, was decided in
1894 to murder his Mayor by reading in a
Sydney newspaper how one Prendergast had
just previously murdered the Mayor of Chicago.
* * * *
How does the legal definition of insanity (the
MacNaghten definition) apply to the Lisson
case ? It does not apply in the least: it is
crude and stupid. “Practically,” as Havelock
Ellis says, “ it cannot make the slightest dif-
ference whether the criminal is sane or insane.
Sane or insane, he is still noxious to society ;
and society must be protected from him.” Of
punishment there can be no common-sensible or
scientific question, unless the punishment deters
others from crime. Does anyone imagine that
any number of previous executions would have
deterred Lisson from doing what he did ? And
did they deter him ? If the hanging of Lisson
would have prevented other Lissons from run-
ning amuck, he certainly should have been
hanged. As the chances are it wouldn’t, it is
just as well he wasn’t. What does want exe-
cuting is the crime of newspaper-notoriety.—
Yours, Brigham Brown, M.D., F.R.C.S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Matter of Course.
Thk. inquest on the body of the jockey-lad who
met his death through a fall of many horses in
last Caulfield Cup scrimmage was practically
a large and influential gathering of turfmen,
for the purpose of putting the best possible face
on an ugly business. All the witnesses con-
fined their evidence to the question whether
the oval-shaped course at Caulfield or Fleming-
ton is particularly dangerous in an Australian
horse-racing sense of the word, and they all
made haste to say that it isn’t. They were not
asked to suggest reasons why an Australian
jockey is, on a rough calculation, twenty times
more likely to get killed in a flat-race than a
jockey who follows the same risky profession
in the country where “the sport of kings”—
and other thieves—was created. The defect in
the character of the. inquest on James
Flanagan seems a very glaring defect if we
contemplate the possibility of fatalities crop-
ping up in the imported English game of
cricket. If a fast Australian bowler were
to kill two batsmen within a couple of years
the inquest on the second victim would doubt-
less bring forth a flow of expert evidence re,
cricket conditions here as compared with
wicket conditions in England. The coroner
would want to know why an originally harm-
less game had taken such a dangerous turn in
Australia, and the witnesses would have much
to say about the difference between pitches
here and at ’Ome. There could be no shirking
a point so obvious to the public eye. The Aus-
tralian public eye has not had English horse-
racing under close observation, therefore the
true causes of the terrible death-rate among
jockeys in this country are not a subject for
comparative analysis, and the verdict of acci-
dental death in the late Flanagan’s case
(“ with no blame attaching to anybody ”)
doesn’t excite particular dissatisfaction. Al-
though the sport that was adopted as a
cheerful gambling entertainment has become
well nigh as gory as a Spanish bull-fight,
explanations of this awful change have
never been publicly demanded or given.
Let The Bulletin explain. Australia’s prin-
cipal racecourses were planned on popular show
lines, and not on honest sporting principles.
In England, a Derby, Leger, Guineas (straight
mile course for the Guineas), and every im-
portant cup or handicap race is run on the
horses’ merits ; here the big events are won, to
a considerable extent, on the strength of advan-
tageous positions, and jockeys naturally fight
for positions at the turns. The Australian
jockey has so much to gain by hugging the rails
that recklessness is forced upon him. It pays
him better to risk his neck than to cultivate the
art of riding “ with his head and hands,” con-
sequently steady, intelligent, self-respecting
jockeys are fewer every year, and bullet-headed,
unimaginative little blackguards increase in
number. Racing being so much a matter of
luck, and owners being an unwealthy class,
there are no jockey capitalists worth mention-
ing in Australia, and the want of well-to-do
and influential riders causes riding to be more
reckless and frequently foul than it would be
if the young beginners were held in awe by a
leaven of “swells.” A fashionable English
jockey is protected from undue jostling by his
importance—the boy who interfered with him
would be solemnly reported to the stewards
and wiped out. Wealth is at the root of
racing-decency in England, and general impe-
cuniosity accounts for most of the malpractice
in Australia. This is not a “characteristically
BuLLETiN-esque ” argument, but it holds good,
all the same. Given racecourses of the best Eng-
lish pattern, where brainy riding could assert
an affluent supremacy, the Australian turf
would soon cease to be infamous for its deadly
accidents and barefaced swindlings. Fleming-
ton, with a straight six-furlongs run, is a
fairly satisfactory course, but its influence goes
for little (as far as Victoria, the turfiest pro-
vince of Australia, is concerned) against the
many other places where any scrubby little
jockey -Jack is better than his masters provided
he can wallop his steed into and bluff the
next man out of the berth next to the rails.
♦
A Curious Committee.
Dear Bulletin. -—ln your paragraph last issue re “A
Curious Committee,” two major statements are made :
(1) That Bavister’s first petition was unsigned ; and (2)
that the committee, after deciding said petition was in-
formal, subsequently went back on such decision and
decided that it was not informal. Both these statements
are untrue. (1) The petition was signed—in the left hand
top corner instead of at the bottom. (2) The committee,
having pronounced the petition informal, never after-
wards re-opened the question, and the pronouncement of
informality remains unmodified and unrepealed—as the
official minutes of proceedings disclose. Excepting in
regard to these two points, your paragraph is not one whit
less accurate than scores of newspaper paragraphs that
meet the eye.— Jas. Ashton, late member of “ the Com-
mittee.”
With regard to the above, will Mr. Ashton
try writing his name in the left hand top corner
of a cheque or an affidavit, and see if that is
signing it in any ordinary acceptation of the
term. If writing one’s name on the top of a
document is signing it then why was the peti-
tion in question voted informal on account of
being unsigned? The Bulletin’s authorities
that the first petition was unsigned are the
statements made in N.S.W. Assembly by Crick
and Cann, both members of the Elections and
Qualifications Committee, and not contradicted
by Ashton, who was present. The statement
about the reversal of the decision rests (1) on
the direct assertion of Crick in the Assembly ;
(2) on the almost equally direct and very inter-
esting remarks of Cann on the same subject.
Cann complained that Crick “ wished to move
a resolution which would practically finish our
deliberations on the first petition,” and
that Crick knew “ that if the objec-
tion taken to the second petition—that the
time had passed for the lodgment of the
petition —were sustained, Mr. Bavister was
practically out of court.” Also, he added,
“ that is the interpretation I put on the resolu-
tion, and that is why I voted against it.”
Therefore, it appears that the purport of the
vote was—to not “ finish our deliberation on
the first petition,” though it was already
adjudged informal, lest the second one should
prove informal also, and Mr. Bavister be
“ out of court ”; in other words, if Bavister
couldn’t be heard on his second petition be-
cause it was informal, to leave a loophole for
hearing him on the first (already judged to be
informal). There may not be any evidence of
that episode on the minutes—those minutes
which record that Bavister’s signed petition
was declared informal for being unsigned—but,
if the statements of Crick and Cann are true,
the Committee did just what The Bulletin
said. And though Mr. Ashton made a speech
on the subject after Mr. Crick’s statement, he
said in that speech not one word of refutation.
If he is so anxious to contradict the paper
which merely repeated Crick’s statement, why
didn’t he point out the discrepancies in the
statement itself? Above all, why didn’t he
point out the foolishness of rejecting a signed
petition for not being signed ?
A Woman and a Man.
All through the debate on Suffield’s case in
N.S.W. Assembly everybody started by taking
it for granted that some man had assaulted
Ann Chambers, and that it was merely a ques-
tion of which man did it, despite the fact
that the doctors couldn’t decide that there
had been any assault. Judge Windeyer, at
the trial, assured the jury that there was no
doubt that the girl had been assaulted by a
man. Minister of Justice O’Connor commenced
his investigation with the same assumption.
He pointed out, as a matter which settled the
question beyond dispute, that if she hadn’t
been so attacked “ the whole story of the pro-
secutrix is a wicked fabrication,” and evi-
dently implied that such a thing as that was
too shocking to be possible. Dr. Manning
pointed out that it was quite probable Ann
Chambers wasn’t suffering from any halluci-
nation, and quite ignored the very large proba-
bility that Ann was simply lying. The Tele-
graph last week remarked, in the usual off-
hand manner, that Ann Chambers must have
suffered “a cruel wrong” at the hands of
somebody. Yet everybody knows that in
scores of such cases the alleged man is the mere
invention of a hysterical or dirty-minded sen-
sationalist. A case in point appeared in the
very same issue of the Daily Telegraph
wherein Ann Chambers’ cruel wrong was
dilated upon. In 1890, William Henry
Taylor, a respectable married man, was
charged at Armidale (N.S.W.) with a rape on
a girl 13 years of age. He was found guilty of
“ attempt ” and sentenced to 18 months im-
prisonment. Here is the sequel in Taylor’s
own words :
When I went to gaol, it was terrible knowing I was an
innocent man ; a lot of my fellow prisoners tried to cheer
me up, but it was of no avail. My wife, who had stuck
to me all through, used to visit me once a month, and I
had to speak to her through a grating as if I was a wild
beast. Every time I saw her was like a stab in the heart.
At last my time was finished and I was discharged. I
tried, as I thought successfully, to live down the terrible
stain on my character, but a few weeks ago in a civil
action it was dragged into light again. Hearing the girl
was in Armidale I succeeded in seeing her, and when
she saw me she turned pale, and asked me to forgive her
the wrong she did me. I said I had forgiven her ; all I
wanted her to do was to set me right in the eyes of the
world. She said her conscience had been tormenting her
ever since, and her only thought was, how she would re-
pair the terrible injury she had done me. I consulted
my solicitor, who advised me to obtain a declaration from
her declaring my innocence, which declaration she at
once made, and is now in my possession.
And here is the declaration, which every Judge
should paste in his pocket-book for ready refer-
ence whenever he is called upon to adjudicate
in rape and assault cases :
I, , of Armidale, in the colony of New South
Wales, spinster, do hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
and affirm as follows :—-
1. That William Henry Taylor, of Hillgrove, in the said
colony, miner, but formerly of Glen Innes, was, at the
Quarter Sessions holden at Glen Innes, before Judge
Fitzhardinge some eight years ago, convicted of an
attempt to carnally know a girl under the age of 14
years, and sentenced to a term of 18 months' imprison-
ment.
2. I am the person that the offence was alleged to have
been committed upon, being then of the age of 13
years. I am now of the age of 21 years.
3. At the trial I gave evidence against the said William
Henry Taylor to the effect that he attempted to com-
mit the said offence upon me, which evidence was in-
correct.
4. The said William Henry Taylor was entirely innocent
of the said offence, and I am making this declaration in
order to clear him of the stain cast upon him by the
said conviction.
And I make this solemn declaration as to the matters
aforesaid according to the law in this behalf made and
subject to the punishment by law provided in case of any
wilfully false statement contained in such declaration.
Signed before D. P. Clavrrie, Commissioner for Affi-
davits.
The hysterical female in this case first ac-
cused Taylor of a capital offence, but he was
found guilty, luckily for his neck, on the less
charge of “ attempt.” This is one case in point.
The woman on whose utterly false accusation
Buttner was sentenced to death at Sydney,
and who wasn’t even arrested for her crime
when it proved that the charge was pure in-
vention, is another. And there are any number
more. Yet the law, which is an incomplete
animal of low intelligence, always lends a trust-
ful ear to the woman whose horrid tale about a
man rests on no evidence except her own. In
the Taylor case, it is as well to remark, the
prisoner’s fate was clinched by the fact that the
jury found it impossible to believe that so
young a girl could have been lying when she so
circumstantially described certain adjuncts of
the offence imputed to Taylor. From the
lady’s latest story, it would appear that women
. in Australia begin to lie early. Also, there is
reason to believe that they leave off late.
That Outer Harbor.
The Earl of Kilmorey’s Outer Harbor scheme
at Largs Bay (S.A.), when considered from all
points, looks a rather unsatisfactory piece of
shindykitism. The British nobleman or his
syndicate is to have the right to buy 30 acres
of Government reserves, facing the shore where
the new harbor is to be, at £1 per acre. If the
harbor is constructed, the bulk of S.A.’s com-
merce will come that way, and a good-sized
city should grow up there, and the land in
question should be worth £lOOO an acre at
least —the local estimate goes as high as £2OOO.
If the co. spends £1,000,000 on making its new
harbor, the Government is to subsidise it
to the extent of £30,000 a year for 10 years =
£300,000. The Earl has five years in which
to build his harbor, but if it isn’t built he may
still retain possession of part of the land and
any part of the works that have been com-
pleted, so there is no real guarantee that there
will be any harbor after all. If there is one,
the Government has to bring its railway down
there, and Ktlmorey’s new private town will
boom greatly, while Port Adelaide tnay as well
give up the ghost. But the main feature of the
case is this. If the harbor is worth building
the Government could find the money to do it
at 3 per cent. The syndicate will certainly
have to borrow at 5 per cent., for its credit is
so much worse, and there will be shareholders’
dividends, and boodle for the first robbers, and
the enormous cost of London management to
pay in addition. Therefore, if the syndicate
builds the harbor (estimated cost <£2,000,000) it
will probably have to grind out of the people
at least ,£120,000 a year, and send it to Eng-
land, to make the business pay. The S.A.
Government could make it pay by extracting
from the people, and sending to England,
£60,000 a year, because it could borrow more
cheaply, would have no shareholders wanting
large dividends, no London management to
pay, and no first robbers. S.A. will owe Eng-
land the money for its harbor either way,
and S.A. has to find the interest either way.
Of course, Kilmorey may reasonably be en-
couraged if S.A. is dead sure that he will
be a failure, and that his syndicate will
collapse after spending a lot of money in
paying wages to S.A. workmen; in other words,
if S.A. is quite certain of ruining Kilmorey
and a lot of his friends. But if there is any
chance that Kilmorey will not be ruined —that
he will build that harbor and make it pay—
then he should be thrown out on his noble ear
and S.A. should build its harbor itself. And
S.A. wants to be very sure indeed that it will
ruin Kilmorey and his friends, and that they
have enough money to lose to make their ruin
worth while.
4.
Is Parsondom to be subsidised by the Post
Office ?
N.S. Wales Postmaster-General Parkes, in answer to a
recent question, said (a S.M. Herald report) : “ No news-
papers were registered as entitled to free transmission
which did not conform strictly to the conditions pre-
scribed by Sec. 3,4, 5, of 66 Vic., No. 31,” and further
added that “ more stringent regulations could only be
imposed by an amendment of the law.” The Bulletin
lately protested against the free transmission in N.S.W.
of certain publications as “newspapers,” said publica-
tions being simply church advertising sheets, ami it now
desires to state that if (according to Sec. 3, Vic. 56, No. 31)
the “ publications” which this paper protested against,
and of which an example was given, are transmitted free,
then every tradesman has a right to have his circulars
treated as newspapers and passed gratis throughout
N.S. Wales G.P.O. Sec. 3, Vic. 56, No. 31, treating on
the definition of a newspaper, states that: “ Any publica-
tion shall be deemed a newspaper which consists wholly
or principally of political or other news or of articles re-
lating thereto or to other current topics with or without,
advts.” The contents of the 4pp. leaflet (registered as a
newspaper), cited by The Bulletin, were a list of church
services for the month, notices re offertories, baptisms,
and burials, an account of tea-meeting, mission and con-
firmation services, and a list of the Sunday-school
lessons for the month. From this summary of the
contents it will be seen that the “ newspaper” dealt only
with the parson’s own particular little business, giving
the times of his Sunday engagements, his stray jobs
through the week, and a list of lessons for his Sunday-
school pupils, See. The Bulletin hereby, for the benefit
of struggling theatrical shows, bankrupt tradesmen, &c.,
draws attention to the fact that their play-announce-
ments, circulars, &c., can be carried by the State through-
out N.S.W. on exactly the same lines as the parson’s
circular—gratis. Brown’s dry-goods circulars need only
show his hours of business, amount of weekly trade,
orders despatched, cash turnover, and employes’ daily
routine to be on the same postal basis with the registered
“newspaper” published by All Saints’ Church, Peter-
sham, and transmitted free through the G.P.O. This
paper charges nothing for the advice; it is actuated only
by a spirit of fair-play in endeavoring to give Smith, the
small grocer, the same free-advertising pull that a gener-
ous State gives to his sanctified brother, the Rev. Ebenezer
Brown.
Campbell, M.L.C., the extraordinary old wind-
bag who said something to the effect that the
Woman’s Suffrage Bill in Victoria was mainly
supported by Flossies, is now protesting against
the One-man-one-vote principle. Campbell
“ does not believe that one man is as good as
another.” And he’s right.
A desirable corollary to Haynes’ N.S.W. Re-
striction of Capital Punishment Bill would be
a provision making executions private—private
in the sense that only the medical men and
others officially required on the occasion of a
hanging should be allowed to be present. One
reason why capital punishment held its place
so long in N.S. W. was the championship of it
by the daily newspapers. To these an execu-
tion was acceptable “copy,” to be leaded and
scare-headed, like a war, a great fire, or some
similar sensation. Unconsciously, the profes-
sional instinct for “ good copy ” inspired the
editorial pens to defend the system. Haynes,
then, should move to exclude the press ; and,
with the press, the scores of ghouls who, on
mornings of executions, pester the gaol autho-
rities for cards of admission.
Great Britain is evidently in fighting
humor—you can feel it in the air. The recent
naval success of America is no doubt the genesis
of this.
The Bulletin’s brilliant and unique Xmas
number will be published on December Bth, and
agents who wish to make sure of their, orders
being filled should send in early. Single copies
will be mailed from The Bulletin office to i.ny
Australian address (except in Queensland) for 7d.
in stamps; to any Queensland address, Bd, in
stamps. To any English address eightpenco in
stamps.
A VAGUE CONCLUSION.
A bad old gag we often strike
Concerning human nature’s ways ;
All men, ’tis said, are much alike,
Though, seen through a deceptive haze
Of class distinction floating round,
The members of the Uppah Ten
Appear to stand on higher ground
Than common, vulgar working-men.
But one has dared to undeceive
The masses. Campbell, M.L.C.,
Makes bold to say he can’t believe
All people are as wise as he ;
A needy toiler lacks the sense
Of riches, and his clothes denote
An intellect too dull and dense
To understand the Dual Vote.
The Campbells of this world are few,
But, all the same, the earth is theirs :
They occupy a foremost pew
In buildings set apart for prayers ;
By them the fortunes of the State
Are necessarily controlled —
We speak of them as men of weight,
Their pockets being full of gold.
Then let us drop the bad old gag,
And e’en confess it cannot be
That anyone who humps a swag
Is equal to an M.L.C.
Spake Campbell truly t’other night?
We answer with an eager nod,
Are all men equal in our sight ?
No, Mister Campbell, no, by God !


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
; “ The Prodigal Father."
Her Majesty’s “ Under the Red Robe "
Lyceum "True as Steel."
TnW ION “ D cchess of Coolgardie."
D' OLI Rickards Co.
Dante, the Conjuror.
Tmfn*.!, Wilson anrl st - John’s Variety Co.
Town Halt. Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. ..: “ La Poup6e.”
5* JOU “ The Liars.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Iheatre Royal “ Sporting Life.”
Alexandra Dramatic Co.
I own Hall Saturday Pop Concerts.
A finely-caparisoned drama is “ Under the
Red Robe, ” staged on Saturday by the Phirm at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The time of Richelieu
and .Louis XIII. was a period of gorgeous man-
milhnery—at least it appears so when looked back
upon—and the clothes alone make the drama
picturesque and impressive. But, as a drama, it
isnt up to the level of Weyman’s book, or any-
where near it. This is partly the fault of the book,
which aoesnt dramatise well; to do justice the
show would need to start an hour earlier, and the
audience would have to bring its bed along with it.
He Uerault s duel, his arrest, sentence of death
and respite by the Cardinal on condition that he
captures Coeheforet, are cleverly compressed into
one act. Then the guile by which he gets into
Coeheforet s house and into the confidence of his
womankind is omitted to save space. And be-
cause there isn’t time for Berault to find Coche-
foret s lost diamonds, he steals them by a process
ot cheap and nasty prigging—steals them out of
the family-meat-safe, and thereby Weyman’s com-
paratively honest and high-minded swashbuckler
loses public support. Also, the coherence of the
play goes wrong badly. When Weyman’s de
ls lrown out on his head for being a spy
and he returns with the diamonds, and states that
he was dodging after a nice girl to return them—
not to track her brother—it looks reasonable, for
the gems had been lost weeks before on the public
mud-road. When the diamonds vanish out of a
burgled cupboard the same day that they were
placed there, and five minutes later Berault is
found listening at the keyhole, and he says that he
found the diamonds outside and is at the keyhole
for the sole purpose of returning them, it doesn’t
took reasonable. The jury hereby finds Gil de
Uerault guilty of being a common area-sneak who
would embezzle Cocheforet’s cold meat out of the
kitchen.
* • • t
In some respects, however, the drama
goes well. It is well-mounted, and well-painted •
a certain sunrise among the Pyrenees is especially
fine. And the co. is very good in a great many
places, and isn t quite so good in some other places.
•J ulius Knight makes de Berault a strong, impres-
sive strident swashbuckler part of the time, and
m .ip second duel, where he is at his best, he is
quietly impressive—not strident. The trouble is
that he isn t quiet at other places where he should
be - his Berault is often a loud posturing*
mechanical man who would drink in a top
note, and go to bed fiercely with his drawn
sword m his hand, and wash himself bit-
terly m a terrible voice and with one arm
raised to heaven. Gaston Mervale’s Cardinal is a
rather young person with a slim waist and what
looks like a woman s red frock on. He is sufirsres-
tive of Miss Elizabeth Watson. The acting of the
part is good in the main, but the beautiful girlv
waist of the Cardinal is a shock. So is his train
and his lace pinafore, and he looks more like a
gentle tea-meeting than a despot—in the early
stages of the play, at least, for he shows
stronger at the end. Also, Harry Hill isn’t
strong enough for the gritty rebel, Coche-
foret; he shmes more as the kittensome Philo-
demus m “Sign of the Cross.” Cecil Ward’s
butterfly Captain is a big success all through. So
is Hawtrey’s Lieutenant Hawtrey’s hard voice
and hard manner fit the part of the Lieutenant
who is a clanking mass of ironmongery. The
tongueless Cion of Geo. Majeroni is a fine piece of
tragedy; the public approval goes strongly and
deservedly with Miss Ada Ferrar’s Renle; and
Mrs. Maesmore Morris looks pathetic and pretty
as the colourless Madame de Coeheforet. Still
ought to try his hand at dramatising
the Red Robe, ’ and see if he can’t give that fine
story a better show.
Lured to Ruin,” a blast of woe and
crime, in five acts, blew furiously at Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday, and will continue doing so
for the rest of the week. The gallery came out
strong that first night, with its ’am sandwich to
keep it up at critical moments, and went away
full of horrors and replete with dynamite and sin.
Lured ” is the 827th drama within the past 10
years wherein the hero has been chained up in
Portland prison, on account of Cosgrove’s minion
hiding the stolen property in his coat. He is
pounding the big drum in a wild-beast show when
that unfortunate misconception occurs, being com-
pelled to lie low because Cosgrove has shot his
brother, and said he did it (said brother is after-
wards deposited by. Cosgrove in a lunatic asylum
to prevent him explaining). The funny man saw
the crime each time, but, for once, his evidence is
‘■ejected, and he is gaoled also. Also, it .is. the
/ • l i™ 11 * ln wh,ch th e hero is tied on the rails
(with, his wife) when the ’train is coming. The
gang was about to wreck the train for no visible
purpose, but in their own awkward way they hired
the hero to tear up the rails, and, as he not only
did not do it, but also kicked the gang’s
Israelite m the stomach, they resort to
the above low proceeding. Why they didn’t
recognise the hero before they hired him this paper
knqweth not, for they had previously got a good
view of him when he rushed them with two re-
volvers in a public house, where they were engaged
pouring laudanum into his abducted wife —they
had got her about three parts full before discovery.
And the gang’s fatuity in giving the hero £lOO to
steal his own child, all because he is concealed
behind a tuft of hair on his chin, passes belief
“ Lured to Ruin ” grows wilder and madder with
every act, till in the end it is a raving maniac
painted red and running in a partially - clothed
state across a bright green landscape. Eight times
at least Cosgrove, having been told by one of his
many victims to go and do his worst, departs with
a ’orty stride saying that he will do it, and he
generally does it. He has no particular method in
his crimes. There is no reason why he shouldn’t
be dislodged by one well-planted kick at any time,
or why he shouldn’t be arrested in every act.
But respectable old gentlemen break down when
he calls and tells them that a word from
him will consign them to gaol ; and when he
bursts the door m to tell perfectly innocent people
against whom there is no evidence at all that he
will no longer be baulked of his prey they don’t
give him justifiable skull-fracture with a bottle, or
charge him for the door—they simply say that
Providence will ultimately see them righted.
• * * *
Some of the people who meritoriously
hump this tangled row to its destination (which is
m the middle of no place in particular, close to
Cod knows where) are Diver, John Cosgrove,
1 rank Harcourt, Bert Bailey, and Misses Helene
Burdett.and Julie Woodville. Diver and Cos-
grove toil incessantly, and their labors are tre-
mendous ; but all the above-mentioned crowd
deserve a better show. Two people named Mar-
tin and Fitzgerald deserve a worse one ; particu-
larly the former, who moves this journal to parti-
cular wrath, if anything in “Lured to Ruin” is
worth being seriously wrathful about. “True as
Steel ’ follows, when the present show has humor-
ously gibbered itself out.
** * *
That very pretty and clever comedy, “The
Little Minister,” did a few nights at Sydney
Royal, just to let Lesly Thomson show himself in
the character of the small clergyman, previously
occupied by Cecil Ward. As a rule, the second
man in such a part falls flat, and considering the
excellence of Ward’s rendering of the abbreviated
pastor his successor had a hard row to hoe. His
first appearance was the main difficulty ; the two
tiny thin legs on which he mildly climbed the hill
to warn a number of huge parishioners to disperse
peaceably seemed the kind of props that couldn’t be
taken m dead earnest, and the first impression
was that the short expounder was not equal to his
contract. But he got over this, and in the end the
general feeling was that he was a very pleasant
person to meet. Miss Eloise Juno’s Scotch lady
was as huge a success as before ; so were the
thr fe elders, notably Tammas Whamond;
and r rank Hawthorne was a distinct improve-
ment on his predecessor as the captain.
Un the other hand, Babbie’s new parent
wasnt an improvement on his predecessor
b 7 a way. As for Miss Pattie Browne,
she didn t improve on her previous Babbie,
tor the simple reason that it was hardly possible.
Sweet Nancy, ’’ already spoken of with inten-
tional disrespect in these columns, is closing the
season.
** * *
Miss Maggie Moore and H. R. Roberts
are due at the Royal on Saturday with the “Pro-
digal Father,” a comedy about which this paper
has heard excellent reports from various interested
sources, as well as from disinterested persons of
doubtful judgment, and other persons. At all
events, it has heard no bad reports so far, and it
has hopes—in moderation. Harry Leston, Alec.
Cochrane, Walter Rivers, and other good names
are included in the cast.
** * *
4 4 The Duchess of Coolgardie, ” an Aus-
tralian drama which has done great execution at
Urury-lane, London, and in other influential
quarters is to be staged by the Dampier co. at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday.
** * *
Dante continues to produce new mysteries
at the Palace. The weird illusion of his burnt
woman loses none of its popularity, and, though
the American gentleman has probably done more
wonders and done them better than any other pro-
fessor in this country, the lady who becomes a
skull and a small heap of ash remains the most
graceful item of the list.
*# * *
Lucifer, a remarkable athlete and high-
lack fiend, and the clever Lingard sisters have
latelyjomed the Sydney Alhambra co., and these,
with John Coleman, who is a tower of strength to
any variety show, help to make a rather strong
company. The Alhambra fills now almost as regu-
larly as it did in the old days of proprietor Smith
and in the matter of scenery it is better furnished
than it ever was m the rather dingy time of its
bygone prosperity.
** * *
Miss Florrie West, described as the
Dazzler, is the latest addition to Sydney Tivoli
C ?u an( * f dazzles in moderation, anyhow. Some
other attractions are about due, and when the
horse carnival is over, and the public’s head has
got back to its old dimensions, the Tivoli will
break out ag’ain with extra vigor.
** # *
When the hot weather comes and the
people of the torrid islands and the north flop
round limply, the new-chum person who knows
what is reasonable argues that this is the time
when something light” is wanted—musical
comedies and trifles of that sort. But the new-
chum person is wrong nine times in ten. The
tired people don’t want “something light”—
mostly perhaps because they’re too tired to chase
the subtleties of it. Give them melodrama though
or; Irish drama (which is largely comedy laid on
with a scoop), and the manager scores nearly al-
ways. Pattie Browne thus plays to poor business
at Broken Hill—perhaps the best N.S. W. coun-
try “show” town—and Grattan Riggs and
George Rignold follow immediately, and turn
neople away from the door most of the time.
* * # $C-
Last Monday a brief cablegram announced
that Scot Inglis had suicided with a pistol in
New York. Inglis, who died at the age of 30,
was a Victorian by birth, and was one of the best
actors that Australia has produced. This country
has grown good actresses in considerable numbers,
but it has produced only a very few talented male
mummers. Inglis was distinctly one of the few.
His Silver King was among the three or four top-
notch representations of Wilfred Denver which
Australia has seen, and to play the Silver King,
and do it well, is to be pretty near to the top of a
dramatic artist’s ambition. The deceased actor’s
stage career lasted about eight years altogether. It
ended, according to the cable intelligence, or the
cable lie, in a razzle-dazzle on the insidious cock-
tail, in the sack, and in suicide. Many other actors
have had the sack owing to the same insidious
cocktail twenty-five times over, and still live
and draw their salary more or less re-
gularly. Inglis, on the strength of the
success he had already met with in America,
could doubtless have obtained another engagement
easily enough, but being a bundle of nerves he cut
the proceedings short. Two or three years ago Li-
ps s marriage with the beautiful Miss Yda Hamil-
ton was the second biggest theatrical function of the
kind [Sydney ever saw. The bride was little more
than a child then, and is now left a widow of 22 or
thereabouts. Probably the end of Scot Inglis
wasn t quite so pathetic as it looks, after all. He
was a success till he died. And many men of
his profession do worse than die ; they live to be
threadbare, ancient, wind - blown failures at
Poverty Point.
** * *
, new Brough comedy co. had a
crowded house, likewise a series of loud greetings
for its first appearance at Melb. Bijou on Satur-
day night, and the expectation that it would
open in a good piece was not disappointed. “ The
-Liars, all the same, is hardly the sort of four-act
comedy to get Australia by the wool. Author H.
. Jones has made a long story of a small matter,
and a„ purely society” matter at that. “The
J-.iars might have been written by O. Wilde
m one of his moral moods, when he feels that
respectability _is its own reward, or realises the
tact that a misplaced emotion is almost as repre-
hensible as an unbecoming necktie. There is no
heart m Jones’s play from first to last. Much
conversation several sermons (all on the same text)
a fair sprinkling of humor, lots of good “style,” a
harmless purpose—but no heart worth mentioning.
Ihe heroine is a rather detestable Lady Jessica,
01 ? a ‘‘Yes-No” game with a man
other than her husband, merely because that law-
ful possessor doesn’t always stand around with her
smelling-bottle and look unutterable things into
her wandering eye Probably he had made much
or his Jessica at the outset and found her a capri-
cious tyrant Anyhow, the husband and his
brother are the only persons in the cast who don’t
can Rady J essica a charming woman. They wear
beards and take a reasonable view of the situa-
tion. Manly wisdom in stage life usually runs to
hair on its face. The Bulletin has observed—but
no matter. The other fellow whom Jessica
miserable is an African explorer, a
poeticised H. M. Stanley, a hero with a
tragic frown and a splendid career and the
blood of many niggers on his reputation. He
ought to perceive the absurdity of loving this par-
ticular married lady, but he persists in posing as
Romeo always, whereas she only wants to play
Juliet sometimes, she tells him. Her idea of
female virtue is to keep the gentleman at a dis-
tance of two feet whenever she is giving him
nmvidef flf en L i T l* is c Very i ? noble love af T a ir
provides the whole plot for the comedy; the hus-
-1868 fJ™ ° n the sub i e <ff> and sundry
sassiety people tell lies to allay his suspicions, and
ft! wu t6lls tb ? fcruth t 0 the husband, and
ffW n ay + L be - ‘Jamned” to one another,
after which the infatuated explorer is in-
duced to return to his former dissipation of
shooting niggers, whilst the husband takes his
L ° Ut -n fu SU P pe F on the understanding
that he will thenceforth show her all the attention
she requires. It is not a thrilling story, nor even
seriously interesting, but the pity is clever, and
toney and weli-mounted, and the minor characters
give it a humorous turn. Mrs. Brough’s pretty
performance of the heroine (Lady Jessica) doesn’t
get a strong hold upon the audience ; also, W T
Lovell, the new leading man, will have to wait
for another chance to score a big success. In this
bls ££ oom y earnestness grows rather monoto-
nous. Ihe explorer is hopelessly in love with a
woman who doesn’t know her own mind, and he
gets no sympathy from the front of the house.
Brough as the candid friend and sermoniser—a
reproduction of Cayley Drummle in “Mrs. Tan-
qiieray —is crisp and natural, and Reginald
fi S f ai? e derl - y hypochondriac, makes a
stronger first impression than some of the other
strangers, who are not asked to gallop in “The
Mivf w Tbe ? os f- taking of the new ladies is
Miss Winnie Austin, and her part as a maid-
servant amounts to about half-a-dozen lines. None
the larger characters are quite so convincing
waiter aid ‘ servanfc > the man-servant, and the
£{£
The last night of the Maurice-Bateman
season at Melb. Royal introduced a monstrously
unny effect. Little Maurice was not quite satis-
ed (strange to say) with his performance of Mo
Davis, in “Flying Scud.” He wanted to retire
from managerial life m a blaze of glory, so, as he
■a°Wt o “ Son? f h !h h< b decided to sandwich
“TLa TH r' a f i tbe J? ea , between two acts of
The riying Scud. To the great delight of the
expectant gallery-boys, the “famous Bell Ballet ’
scene was dragged in, and lo! the bounding
Maurice came along and shrieked Fred Gilbert’s
song, “Dey can’t build boys of de boule-dogue
ber-re-ee-d dat made old England’s fame.” The
wicked urchins aloft insisted on encoring the
Franco-German warbler seven times, and he
closed his season with a triumphant smile on his
capacious countenance.
** * *
Bland Holt came back t<? Melb. Royal on
Saturday with one more melodrama concerning the
hopeful young man who backs his horse for more
than he is worth, and gets restored to affluence by
the gee-gee’s final rush. Bobadil’s recent defeat
had knocked considerable sawdust out of this
bulky fiction, nevertheless the local public pinned
their trust to Walter Baker’s quadruped and saw
nothing extraordinary in the favorite’s success.
“Sporting Life ” came under Bulletin notice in
Sydney the other week. It is not the most con-
vincing of Bland Holt’s horse shows, but it lias 40
characters and 17 changes of scenery ; furthermore
the feather-weight champion of N.S. W. exchanges
smacks across the nose with the “9st. 41bs. cham-
pion of Vie.” in the third act; and the bad woman
of the drama is pleasingly strangled for her sins,
whereas the girl who merely went astray
manages to arrive at a happy marriage with
a plump, converted bruiser; and things in
general are just as they might be if the
world were rather different. Viewed as a wild
panorama to suit the times “Sporting Life” is
beyond reproach. Bland Holt heads the regi-
ment of 40 characters in the quite new capacity of
a noble-hearted bill-discounter, whose infinite
goodness and mercy fill a long-felt want. Walter
Baker, Arthur Styan, Albert Norman, Charles
Brown, Corlesse, Miss Watson, Mrs. Holt, Miss
Ross and Miss Gill, are likewise praiseworthy
figures in the foreground, and nobody is a con-
spicuous affliction except a small youth who forges
signatures to promissory -notes. The two feather-
weights will bang one another until further notice,
and perhaps, as time goes on, Walter Baker will
improve in the gentle art of propping his adversary
to a finish. It seems hard for Baker’s antagonist
to be compelled to fall heavily upon his stummick
before he gets the least suspicion of a knock-out.
*# * *
The Rickards show at the Opera House
calls for no particular encouragement this week;
for it is wallowing in prosperity, and when the
boneless Ajax (who represents the two contortion
acts of the Eclair Brothers rolled into one) rests
his chin upon the tail-end of his spine and glares
across the footlights he is confronted by standing
room only. At the luckless Alexandra an honest,
commendable melodrama was wasted on a mostly-
empty house last Saturday, so unless business im-
proves with a rush during the week the new
management had better bow to the inevitable and
leave its outlay dead upon the field. The minstrel
show at St. George’s Hall continues to thrive,
likewise the Saturday Pop concerts at the Town
Hall. Several other shows are hanging out their
Carnival-week advts., and doing badly as a rule.
Probasco’s Circus is the financial exception that
proves the rule aforesaid.
** * *
“La Poupee,” which started business at
Melb. Princess’s in the middle of last week is a
light comic opera founded on one joke. If the
opera were not very light, the joke, being no
longer young and lusty, would break down under
its responsibility and leave the libretto without
any visible means of support. Moreover, if W. 8.
Gilbert had been able to take out a patent for this
particular joke casually introduced into “The
Mountebanks, ” he might get an injunction against
“La Poupee.” Time was when Howard Ver-
non as chief mountebank travelling around
with a couple of clock-work automaton figures,
found himself in a difficulty. The automata had
been detained by the police at Palermo, because
they couldn’t show their passports, and Vernon,
who was expecting a duke to patronise his enter-
tainment, converted Lauri and Flora Graupner
into real puppets by means of a potion. Flora
warbled, prior to transfiguration, “Suppose, by
some horrible fluke, I should chance to be bought
by the Duke ! ” And Lauri, dancing, sang, “But
don’t be alarmed about me—l should like to be
bought by the Duchess ! ” Memories of Gilbert’s
many - sided opera come back to the person
who makes these remarks, and he can’t smile
frequently at the wire-drawn plagiarism. “La
Poupee,” without a doubt, was awfully im-
proper in the French unoriginal, but the English
version is not at all shocking; in fact, one could
forgive it for being far wickeder. And yet this
thin opera ran for 600 nights at a London theatre.
Miss Dorothy Vane and Charles Kenningham
share about half of the work, and Melbourne will
probably prefer Kenningham’s tenor monk to the
lady’s doll performance, although her squeak
is a strong point in her favor. The new
tenor sings his music sweetly, and shines as
an actor. Miss Vane’s explosive voice isn’t
nectarious, neither is she strikingly winsome
in her character of the doll-maker’s daughter. As
the incredible doll, with impossible buttons pro-
truding from her back, she is a clever pantomimist
enough, but a community that was waiting for a
prima-donna can’t be expected to go and dote upon
an admirable little squeak. George Lauri is in his
best form as Hilarius, and Bathurst fills the place
which Pauli occupied in Sydney. Other people
also stand as they were : and the music, dresses,
and ballet ought to keep “ La Poupee ”in position
for the next two or three weeks. Melbourne
wanted some comic-opera badly.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
„y®he?Lifo OffiTL th*Worid T ' ES 0 “ eTOry ,tadi,rd ° f LARGER than th« of
LOCAL Dl RECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims) •
WILLIAM SSU MORT - *
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, E.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “ Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
Tight^s-
Sunning
I
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Higgins, M.L. A. (Victoria) takes up The Bul-
letin's parable and urges on Premier Turner the advisa-
bility of making future loans payable—not on a fixed
date", when the financial world may be in a state of chaos
through a tremendous war, and the 3 per cent, liability
of to-day may have to be renewed at 5 or 6 per cent.—but
on a certain date or any time thereafter at the option of
the State, so that if times are bad when the loan falls due
it can run on without any renewal expenses till they im-
prove. The Age objects on the alleged ground that
“ tenderers prefer a fixity of tenure for loan issues.”
How does the Age know' whether tenderers insist on
having their money thrown back at them in exactly 19
years, or whether they wouldn’t be quite content to have
it returned any time after 19 years? They haven’t
been tried. Anyhow, Great Britain runs its debt on the
interminable system, and it can borrow more cheaply
than any other country on earth. Even if the present
tenderer wouldn’t give quite so high a price under the
proposed conditions as with absolute fixity of tenure, the
few coppers difference now isn’t everything. The great
thing is that there won’t he peace for ever, and interest
rate-; won’t keep low for ever, and Australia’s credit won’t
remain good for ever. Something will go terribly wrong
with the money market some day, and then the country
that has huge loans falling due at fixed dates, and must
renew them at any terms it can get or else default, will
come to grief.
* * * •
The Bank of Australasia’s report for the half-
year ended 11th April, 1898, comes along at this rather
belated hour. The half-year’s profits are £48,547, which
is the best result since October, 1894, and about the first
genuine sign of revival the ’Asia has shown since its great
drop in ’92. The earnings for six years have been :
October, 1892 .. £80,346 October, 1895 .. £41,159
April, 1893 .. 60,742 April, 1896 .. 40,568
October, 1893 .. 60,607 October, 1896 .. 40,400
April, 1894 .. 48,571 April, 1897 .. 45,376
October, 1894 .. 45,735 October, 1897 .. 40,278
April, 1895 .. 40,854 April, 1898 .. 48,547
The profits are equal to £4 os. lid. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds. A dividend of 6 per cent,
absorbs £48,000, and leaves £547 to carry forward. The
last 6 per cent, was paid in October, 1894 ; during 1895-6-7
the dividend stood at 5 per cent. And as the ’Asia writes
£lO,OOO off the valuation of its London premises, the pro-
fit and loss balance is reduced from £15,276 at the com-
mencement of the half-year to £8823 at the end.
* * * *
The following is a statement of the rates of
interest earned by the various banks doingbusiness in Aus-
tralasia on their shareholders’ funds (capital and reserve
funds) according to their last-published balance-sheets.
There are a good many side issues to be taken into con-
sideration, yet a general rule is that where other things are
equal (which they are sometimes, but not often), the bank
which earns much less than the average rate has a lot of
its money buried in assets that are yielding little or no
interest, and which can’t be realised at their alleged pre-
sent value ; and these assets are always liable to pan out
in the end for more or less disastrous loss. As for the
bank which shows very much more than the average, it
sometimes happens that it is out on a great burst, and
reckoning as actual profit interest which isn’t really col-
lected, and which may never be collected. This also is
not an invariable rule, but it is a possibility worth bearing
in mind :
Interest per cent,
shown upon
shareholders’ funds.
West Australian Bank .. .. £l3 9 8
National of New Zealand .. .. 9 2 5
Bank of Adelaide .. .. .. 6 0 4
Bank of New Zealand .. .. 5 18 2
Bank of New South Wales .. .. 511 10
Royal (Melbourne) .. .. .. 5 9 0
National (Tasmania) .. .. .. 414 8
Queensland National.. .. .. 4 610
Bank of Australasia .. .. .. 4 011
Commercial of Sydney .. .. 4 0 5
Ballarat Banking Co. .. .. 4 0 5
Union .. .. .. .. 316 4
Royal (Queensland) .. .. .. 3 10 6
Commercial of Australia .. .. 3 9 0
Bank of Victoria .. .. .. 3 6 3
City of Sydney .. .. .. 3 6 2
Commercial of Tasmania .. .. 2 6 2
E.S. and A. Bank .. .. .. 2 0 4
National (Melbourne) .. .. 114 9
Bank of North Queensland .. .. 13 6
A.J.S. Bank.. .. . .. 012 3
Colonial (Melbourne) .. .. 0 9 6
Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank 0 5 6
London Bank of Australia .. .. 0 0 0J
Land Mortgage Bank .. .. Loss.
Some of these figures require to be taken with
explanations. The Colonial, E.S. and A., and North
Queensland stated in their last balance-sheets that a large
amount of capital was lost, and was to be written off.
Their figures are calculated, not upon the nominal capital
in the balance-sheet, but on the capital alleged to be still
intact. The Queensland National pays no interest at all
on a considerable proportion (nearly one-fourth) of its
deposits, which puts it much higher up the list than it
would be on its merits. The National (Melbourne) and
Bank of Victoria are two reconstructs which still pay
in cash the full 44 per cent, on their re-arranged deposits,
and they stand a little lower than they otherwise would
in consequence. The London Bank "really made a loss
last year. It also undertakes still to pay the exorbitant
4J per cent, on its reconstructed deposits, which amount
to a very large sum ; but for the second half of the year it
only' paid 4 per cent., and the other per cent. (£8151) is
a debt carried forward. Therefore, the apparent profit of
£27 7s. sd. is swallowed up many times over.
A 1 so, the profits of the Bank of New Zealand
and the Commercial of Australia are not necessarily all
they seem. Each of these institutions has a spectre in
the background. When they reconstructed they both
struck the great idea of putting a lot of their worst assets
into a separate account (the B.N.Z. Estates Co. and the
Commercial Assets Trust). Also they put a lot of their
liabilities into the separate account against these assets.
Thus the Bank of N.Z. made a gross profit last year of
£172 400, or a net profit, after paying the fixed dividends
on its preference stocks, of £74,900. And meanwhile the
other half of the institution—the Estates Co. —made a
loss of £56,629 on its ordinary business, and £50,000 a year
of the profit made by the visible ha nk has to be handed over
to help its ghost along. As for the Commercial of Aus-
tralia, its ghost is somewhat of a mystery. The Assets
Trust represents more than one-third of the bank. It is
responsible for the payment of interest and principal on
£3,500,000 of deposits, and if it can’t pay them the bank
must. And there is no statement to show very clearly how
the Trust is getting on ; from the scanty information
published this writer, at all events, can form no
distinct idea whether the partially invisible section of
the Commercial Bank is swallowing up the profits of the
visible section to a serious extent or not. At all
events, last half-year, out of £52,363 profits made by the
outward and visible bank, £30,000 was transferred to
write-down the nominal value of its interest in the inward
or only partially-visible bank. And the Vic. Banking Act,
which insists on the full and elaborate publication of ac-
counts, doesn’t seem to worry much though a most im--
portant part of the Commercial Bank calls itself an Assets'
Trust, and publishes no revenue or profit-and-loss account
at all. The Commercial and B.N.Z. have a rather uncer-
tain standing in the above list, by reason of these matters
—the Commercial especially. But, with all allowances
and deductions, the general tendency in the last six
months has been towards improvement.
* * * •
The United Insurance Co. (Sydney), is another
concern which was struck heavily by the great Melbourne
fire, and the year’s profits to 30th Sept, are only £3722, as
compared with £9952 in 1897. The usual 12£ per cent,
dividend is paid absorbing £8528, and £lOOO is added to
reserve, making it £55,000. As £9528 can’t come out of
£3722 the natural result is that the accumulated profit
and loss balance is reduced from £10,576 to £4770.
Whether it was advisable to keep up the 12J per cent,
dividend under such circumstances is very doubtful.
Another notable circumstance is that the income from
interest and rents is only £3405, as compared with £4434
last year, which sudden and severe slump may possibly
suggest that some of these investments are not feeling
well, and want writing down —or it may only mean
that the office property is unlet. The United has a paid-
up capital of 168,226, and its four different reserve funds
and profit balance add up to £83,270. Five years ago
they stood at £73,366, so the co. has made good" progress
in a rather bad time. There are only half-a-dozen fire
insurance offices in Australia and Tasmania which have
grown large enough to be called even moderately re-
spectable, and the United holds a very good place among
them.
* * * *
ThegreatSt. Joseph’sßuildingSociety (Sydney),
after tremendous writing-down of its assets, seems to
totter along almost as unsuccessfully as ever. St. Joseph
—“ no one named Joseph was ever an unadulterated suc-
cess” —reconstructed in ’92, and got its deposits refixed
for a long term at 5 per cent. It reconstructed again in
’95, and got interest reduced to 3 per cent. The £lO
shares have been written-down to £3, so that, out of over
£95,000 capital, only £28,587 remains. The reserve-fund
and profit-and-loss balance have disappeared, all except an
alleged surplus of £262. Even with only 3 per cent, interest
to pay, the St. Joe doesn’t earn enough to cover expenses.
The present year’s loss is £ll5. On paper, the assets
exceed the liabilities by £262, but the board states that
it is quite impossible to promise any fixed instalments in
payment of deposits, and that the whole of the assets
wouldn’t fetch enough to pay the depositors. According
to the balance-sheet, things are like this :
Liabilities. Assets.
Owing to share- Various assets .. £146,490
holders .. .. £28,588
Mortgage .. .. 5,090
Interest .. .. 1,749
Profit and loss .. 262
Deposits .. .. 110,891
£146,490 £146,490
According to this candid announcement, therefore, the
shareholders’ capital is all lost, and the assets, set down
at £146,000, are worth less than £llO,OO0 —how much less
doesn’t appear. Why St. Joseph doesn’t put its assets
down at what they are supposed to be really worth, and
make its balance-sheet a straight-out exact statement of
affairs, doesn’t appear. A ba’ance-sheet that is admittedly
nothing like the real state of things is a document of very
little value.
• • • *
In asking for suspension of labor-conditions, the
Lake George Mines manager said the co. intended to
renew smelting operations at an early date. That end of
the business seems to have had a fair “doing,” though a
former manager contends that, with careful selection, the
ore-body might be worked at a small profit.
• * • *
Capt. Joel Phillips goes out of the B.H. Junc-
tion North to give all his time to the Junction. The new
development in the B.H. North doesn’t improve the North
Junction’s prospects. In fact, the latter is one of the
very few B.H. mines whose at present profitable ore-
bodies are distinctly limited.
B.H. Junction North mill has now got into
fair running order, and an estimate can be formed of the
work it is capable of doing on this mine’s ore. In the
third week in Oct. 928 tons of crude ore was milled ; it
assayed 17‘8oz. silver, 22 9 per cent, lead, and 17'4 per
cent. zinc. The product was 210 tons concentrates,
assaying 32'20z. silver, 62'8 per cent, lead, and 7'6 per
cent. zinc. If the whole of the metal had been saved the
concentrates should have contained 750 z. silver and 97
per cent, lead, the zinc going with the “tailings.” The
present extraction, therefore, amounts to 43 per cent, of
the silver and 66 per cent, of the lead. Spelter (zinc) is
worth about £22 per ton ; nearly 90 per cent, of that is
not saved at present—and the co. would be better off if
95 per cent, were “lost; ” that is, got out of the concen-
trates. But, even apart from the zinc, only a trifle more
than half of the value of the metal is extracted, approxi-
mately a pound’s worth each of silver and lead remaining
for the present unrecovered from every ton of ore. Ex-
tension of buddies, &c., for re-treating the finely-crushed
slimes will, of course, result in the saving of a portion of
this metal; but, comparatively speaking, only a small
portion. And this is the latest concentrating plant, em-
bodying the latest improvements, and running on ore
which is by no means the most refractory on the field. It
further illustrates what has been remarked here before—
the very little real progress so far made in fully solving
the sulphide problem.
* • * •
B.H. Proprietary Co. is drawing heavily on its
reserves of carbonate and other oxidised ores at present,
increasing the stocks at the smelters at Port Pirie, and
thus dodging the advance of freights which, if the Com-
missioner’s intentions are not vetoed, will come into force
in January. In six days recently 4000 tons of this ore
were trucked, against 1000 tons of sulphide product. And
the oxidised ore reserves of this marvellous mine still look
as well as at any time during the last couple of years 1
• * * •
Poor South Australia tries to struggle on with
barely enough railway rolling-stock to meet normal re-
quirements, and if any extraordinary demand is made
there is forthwith disorganisation. A couple of months
ago, when it seemed as if the province was going to have
one of its occasional fair wheat-seasons, the Commissioner
advised the co’s to rush along their ore, even if they had
to store it at the ports, so as to make room for the wheat
presently. The co’s grumbled and said it couldn’t be
done ; but, several wool-ships coming in, the suggested
spurt was put on—and the co’s were at once stuck up for
trucks. It transpires that when a S.A. train comes to a
bit of a rise it drops a truck or two ; and so the trucks go
on accumulating along the track —and the records of
curses go on accumulating in the account against disap-
pointed mine-managers.
Some Cobar notes: Cobar will, before the end
of next year, steadily produce a lot more copper ; also it
will begin to creep up to the high place which un-
doubtedly belongs to it among Australian mining-camps.
The Occidental has set to work with cyanide on its big
heap (say, 50,000 tons) of tailings, in which there will be a
thumping prolit, though they are not. to compare in
average value with the Young Australia tailings-heap of
much smaller dimensions, out of which steady divs. are
now being churned. The Occidental 20-head mill still goes
and makes a small profit; economies lately introduced save
£lOOO a year, and will in themselves about pay a 3d. div.
The mine is said to have in sight 300,000 tons of free-
milling ore of an average value much higher than that
already crushed ; Messrs. Randolph Adams and Barnett
allegedly sampled the 150 ft. and 200 ft. levels at over
29dwts. The directors mean to increase the mill to 50
stamps and put up more cyanide-vats ; they reckon that
when this is done they will be able to pay 3d. div. every
two months.
The Great Western Co. is hard-up and will see
worse days if it isn’t careful. The co. has lately de-
pended upon shipping copper-ore high in gold-value;
but has now reached the sulphides, which will pro-
bably not pay to ship. Want of cash made the directors
back down from their project of putting up a cyanide-
plant. Their tailings, 2000 tons, are very good, and are
to be treated by the Occidental. The proceeds will be about
£4500, of which £3OOO will go to the Western and the rest
to the Occidental. At present the Western is engaged in
about the only sane act of its ill-spent life—it is putting
down a decent shaft, now 100 ft. deep, and promises to
continue that work out of tailings-money. But, as usual,
the board will probably go for a div.
Cobar Gold Mines shaft now down over 200 ft.
Directors propose opening up at 90ft. corresponding to the
old 150 ft. level; also they will open up at 200 ft. and then
make the shaft deeper. The other day they secured
another (the third) partial labor exemption for three
months, and are showing a little activity at last in making
preparations for the big start. They have a splendid
mine, a 100-head battery, the best artificial mining dam
in Australia, and £40,000 new capital, and can hardly fail
to succeed this time. There was certainly no pressing
need for the late reconstruction, as enough gold to get
the co. out of trouble could have been won by working
the 150 ft. level on a small scale.
The Chesney opens up splendidly and has
plenty good ore, but without enough iron for fluxing.
The co. talks of smelting, but will have to buy flux, at
least for the present.
* * * *
N.S. VV. Mines Minister decided to assist the
Bushman’s Co., at Parkes. in sinking the main shaft from
800 to 1000 ft. —to test the reef at a depth equal to the
greatest in the province. Which is a good thing for the
co. Bat —the Bushman’s is a very narrow, erratic vein,
frosted on to the walls of hard country. It has to be con-
siderably stretched to be called a reef. If Govt, wants to
help comparative deep sinking in N.S.W., better do it on
some big lode of the existence of which at a depth there
is some reasonable certainty, and not on a little streak
that may peter-out at anv moment.
* * » •
Overflow (N.S.W.) : “The machinery is work-
ing satisfactorily, the slime-separator is successful, and a
nice lot of amalgam has been taken from the plates.”
How nice this would read if we had not had something
very much like it three or four times before ! It would
be better for everything to be kept as dark as the lungs
of midnight and to have a surprise in the way of a big,
solid gold cake, than that this news should bring another
disappointment. At present it looks as if another dis-
appointment were in store. Overflow scrip has been
steadily falling, and in such cases the market never, or
hardly ever, lies. The co. has now got very near the end
of its working capital, and the time is at hand when
“ something ” will have to be done. All evidence goes
to show that the Overflow is a sterling property, and
there is more than one crowd standing by to “snavel”
the fruit when it drops from the tree.
* • * *
Great Extended Hustler’s, Bendigo, has once
more become a div. -payer after nearly six years— and only
a little one, 6d. a share, £B5O. Up to Dec., ’9O, the co.,
with the tribute co., formed to work the southern end of
the ground, paid in divs. i'645,600. Over 20 years ago its
cakes of 3000 and 4000 oz. a fortnight were the great
Saturday night attraction in the bank window, and the
gold-cake race between it and the Garden Gully United
was watched by the whole population of Yic. with that
keen interest now devoted to horse-racing. This div.
came from a reef at the 2810 ft. level, and, within the
last 10 days, a good-looking development has taken place
at the 1300 ft. level. Gold is often seen in breaking down
a splice of stone 6ft. thick making off from the eastern leg.
Already some old shareholders have lost that wearied
feeling which ecmes after years of steady call-paying, but
it is a little too soon to smile.
* • • *
New Moon, Bendigo : Stone is now carted to the
battery of some 70 stamps, near a quarter-mile from the
mine. The question of a ground, elevated or aerial tram-
way, has been disturbing the directors’ minds for months.
On the ground would be cheapest but least effective. The
elevated and the aerial w'ould be about the same in price.
The latter probably the most convenient, and would
stand most wear and tear. "
• * • *
The person charged with faking scrip in the
New Perseverance and Dandy’s Dream mines (Vic.), after
playing ducks and drakes with the shares of each, seems
to have cleared with the proceeds of his forgeries. He
had a playful habit of borrowing money on the security
of scrip after the hanks closed, and it is absolutely
wonderful how long it was before he was found out. The
extent of his fakements was only known after his depar-
ture. He was traced to Adelaide, and when it was known
that he had probably got off oh an ocean-going steamer,
a freely-expressed sense of chagrin prevailed amongst
directors and shareholders. They had already guaranteed
the exes of the fugitive’s extradition from any one of the
Australias, but did not feel like putting up the needful
to bring him back from abroad. Meanwhile, the New
Perseverance has closed down, and Landy’s Dream looks
like going to sleep. A man answering the fugitive’s
description has been leaving by a number of steamers at
the same time, and is still departing frequently, so things
are generally mixed.
* * * «
Quartz, in which “colors of gold have been
seen,” struck in the old Lazarus mine, Bendigo, at 3400 ft.
Four feet into the reef and not through it.
» • * •
The Eureka Co., the New Chum Railway’s
neighbor at Bendigo, found itself 18 months ago in poor
country at 2300 ft., while others were doing well several
hundred feet lower. In carrying out the determination
then come to to get down 3000 ft. a record has just been
made—766ft has been sunk and timbered at that great
depth in 17 months. The record is all the brighter be-
cause for a solid 200 ft. there was nothing but a succession
of the hardest sandstone bars, lying close upon one
another. The reef will be worked from 3035 ft.
» * * •
“ Melb.” : One coupon co. gives cash. To this
complexion must they all come.
• * * •
Croydon items: Morgan’s attempt to sell
Rogers’ No. 1 mine to his Bull friends seems to have
failed. Went ’Ome commissioned to sell for £60,000 :
came back with an offer of £lo,ooo—subsequently reduced
to £5OOO, with balance to come Out of mine. Even at this
figure Bull refused, to bite. Result, No. 1, at latest
advices, practically hung up and management changed.
No. 7 N.G. Gate cleaned up recently 18020 z., smelted
gold, the result of a crushing of 410 tons. Paid div. of Is.
and carried forward £5OO. Best stone in this mine in
sink, which is at present flooded. Croydon Goldfields
Limited reconstructed. New co. will embrace N. Croy-
don Consols, Croydon Goldfields Ltd. (old co.), and Lady
Isabella Ltd. Expected development work on an exten-
sive scale will follow. Waratah co., at Tabletop, has
suspended work ; no water and no funds. Golden Gate
10 West crushed recently 36 tons for 570 z. Reported
sale of Highland Mary Limited to Bull at Bristol, Eng.
Warden recently refused exemption to Mark Twain
P.O. Bank held this mine for two years without doing
any work ; forfeiture applied for, but'refused by Minister
on condition that bank began work. Bank then sold to
somebody, and somebody applied for exemption on
grounds that he was not the bank, and that the bank’s
default did not affect him. Warden thought otherwise.
Big revival in mining expected after Xmas and rain.
* * » •
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* * * »
Westralian company reconstructors in London
are simply rushing the incapable-manager excuse. The
breezy C. E. Hogg, formerly of Sydney, now chairman of
the Golden Arrow, pleaded for a few tens of thousands
more on the ground that they had suffered from what
“had been a perfect curse to the whole of West Australia
—management founded in ignorance and occasionally
moved by drink.” Anyhow,, after bucking a good deal,
word is cabled that the Arrow has made “ necessary finan-
cial arrangements.”
» * * *
Westralian Smelting Co. finds it has been making
the pace too warm, so discharges hands freely at its Fre-
mantle works, and, to the consternation of Geraldton,
temporarily quits the old Northampton lead-mines which
it had been re-opening and re-exploring.
* * * •
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up.to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
* * * *
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, a few miles south of
Coolgardie .-—Last month’s production—l3Bs tons, 18220 z.,
and 4170 z. from cyanide. Total, 22390 z., bringing the
weight of gold got from this mine up to 1 ton and 5150 z.
About 130 ft. of stopes left above the 300 ft. level, where
the reefs are than at the 200 ft., but the ground
much harder. The mine makes about 12,000 gals. of nearly
fresh water per day. The pyrites in the lower level are in-
creasing in hulk and value, and there are other confirma-
tory evidences of permanence in depth.
* • * •
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists arid assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
* * * •
The bright side of things at Mt. Lyell I The
second of the five new furnaces now running on ore has
started, which will, of course, increase the output of
blister copper. On present production the mine is pay-
ing £llO,OOO a year on a total capital of £900,000. Ex-
pected that early next year this will be doubled, and it is
proudly asked where in any part of Australasia can be
found a record like it. The new aerial tramway will help
to reduce the cost of fluxing material, and works are well
in hand to further lower the cost of handling the ore
after it is broken. With this object in view the directors
lately went into the matter of putting a long tunnel
through the saddle, but finding it would take at least
£25,000,-. the idea has been abandoned. Present copper
production a little over 100 tons a week, and this should
be about doubled when the second nest of furnaces is com-
plete. Elaborated measurements said to show a profit of a
million-and-a-quarter above No. 4 tunnel, and declared
that the life of the mine is being lengthened by not taking
the eyes out of the property. It would be easy to run up
the returns by putting additional labor in high-grade
places ; but that, ’tis modestly remarked, would destroy
the object for which so many enormous furnaces have
been erected—to treat ore in great quantities for many
years to come.
Another alleged side of the same picture, and
from a mining man who ought to know his business :
“Theparent mine is a big concern. It has the largest
smelting plant in Australia, but, for the life of me,
I don’t see what they want the second nest of
furnaces for, unless they anticipate getting ore
from surrounding mines. Keeping this big plant going
will certainly bring down their ore in value, for there are
huge quantities of very low-grade stuff that will have to
come away to keep it going. The bulk of the supply is
coming from the open-cut workings, and their life will
not be long with so big a plant. I notice a lot of stuff
from the lowest tunnel going over the dump, which does
not look well for value or permanency. The ore, too, is
not so simple in the deeper workings. At present prices,
I think Mt. Lyells are at their full value. Outside the
big mine, the best shows I have seen are N. Mt. Lyell and
Lyell Tharsis, and the ore-bodies in each are. big bunches
—a characteristic feature on the field. The first will be
able to send out quantities of splendid ore to start with,
and the stock will be a good gamble for some time. lam
told by people who should be in the know that the ore in
the Tharsis will average over 6 per cent, copper, but I
doubt it. They are going to send their ore to the big
mine, and are erecting an aerial-tramway to transport it.
There will not be very much in it at 6 per cent.
*■• * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feedert
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
■ • » •
The resurrection of old South Australian copper-
mines has begun earnestly. An English syndicate has
taken over the Yelta, which in past da.vs'was worked down
to 92 fathoms, and has now got good Moonta-district men
to carry preliminaries through. By the way, aren’t S.A.
copper-mines the only “ shows ” in Australia where they
still reckon by fathoms ? Writer never hears or reads the
term without somehow thinking of pasties and prayer-
meetin’s.
* * * *
Also, Adelaide speculators are giving a helping
shoulder to some copper shows in far-western N.S.W.—
one of them in untried country tow’ards Wilcannia. But
they won’t try company-flotations yet; that stage they
hope will come round about March next.
•,• • *
The latest best threepen’orth in Melbourne—
a long beer, good counter-lunch, box of matches, and a
£5-to-nothing ticket against naming I, 2, 3 in Melb. Cup,
with the usual amount of bar witticism thrown in. And
in this way is diverted many a thrummer that might
have been roped in by another beer-puller nearer the
office.
To CAPITALISTS, MINING INVESTORS, &c.
Clyde Smelting 1 and Chlorination Works,
CLYDE, near SYDNEY, New South Wales.
LAND. —20 acres 1 rood 20 perches, with portion front-
ing- Duck Creek Dam.
BUILDINGS. —V large Buildings of Brick, Timber and
Iron.
PLANT. —Two MacDougall Roasting Furnaces, 4 Chlo-
rinating- Barrels, Pumps, Ore Bins, Vats, Laboratory,
20-h.p. Portable Engine, 3 Frue Vanners, 5-head Battery,
Huntingdon Mill, Tables, Pumps, Ore Crushers, Feeders,
Elevators, 2 Wheeler Pans, Rolls Ball Mill, Suction Sepa-
rator, 2 Cornish Boilers, 3 Horizontal Engines (Bin., 12in.
and 12in. cylinders), Shafting, Belting, Pulleys, 50-ton
Water Jacket Furnace, 20-ton Copper Furnace, Nickel
Furnace, Blowers, Air Pipes, Receiver, Hoists, Weighing
Machines, Tools, Rails, &e. &c.
FRASER, UTHER & CO. will sell ny Auction, at their
Rooms, 8 Spring-st,, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 17th
NOVEMBER, at 11 o’clock,
(1) The Whole of the Above Land, Buildings, and Plant
will be offered in one lot.
In the event of no purchaser being found for the whole
in one lot, the under-noted will be offered—
(a) The Whole of the Buildings and Plant to be removed
from the site within, say, six weeks.
(b) The Land after removal of Buildings and Plant.
Complete Inventory of the Plant, or any other particu-
lars, may be had from the Auctioneers, or GIBSON,
BATTLE & CO., 85 Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents for the
Vendors.
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, ]
36/387.
litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald, Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb-
A. E. (jOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tbe R€ALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch. Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harris ou & Attwood,, Sole Proprietors
99
To Fruit Growers, Orchard sbs, and
Amateur Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
geresford’
CAUSTIC
SPEAYXNG
SOLUTION.
Guaranteed to and Eradicate all Parasites, Aphis,
and Scale in Fruit Trees and Roses.
The Inventors ot BERESFORD'S CAUSTIC SPRAYI.Vi
SOLUTION have, after years of practical experiment
produced this most effective solution for Spray in a Km i
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Amut m-
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds I t
having 1 clean Orchards and Bardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive'Pamphlets free from E. ATKIN, Eulali t
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victor a
Markets, and Ermington', Agent for New South Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A. DAWBARN and CO.,
as Pitt Street, Sydney.


Society
VERYOLD SPECIA[?]
"D.C.L."
[?]
As Munchausen Greingemont’s introducer
1° & W ™ E D ec ' ito r w as so large a potato
as Henmker Heaton, the former was not so much
f ’ £°, r placin - himself so grace-
finfHnT- th fK tOaS -m A S °’ reGrein gemont’s alleged
finding in the wilderness of a copy of the Down
and GtUMTree J ernel, the Sydney paper lara-elv
owned by H.H. aforesaid, The Bulletin hfs I
shrewd suspicion that, if it had been the ingenious
Switzers sponsor, the journal picked up upon the
camel-track would have had a red cover, P
* * * *
Gov. Gorrnanston, it is notified, has applied
for an extension of his term for 12 months, when
he will be entitled to retire on pension. The ex-
tensmn wili be probably given, but whether it is
the n matT aSma r la i m— l ¥ £ overns > has no say in
the matter And this is the fault of Tasmania in
common with the other Australian provinces ’in
the early days the Colonial Office laid it down
, a Go r rn woul( be Rented an extension of
term only onthe application of the local Parlia-
and it a " e “‘ S lBt the right
* « jj,
Sydney Daily Telegraph, which, being a
party paper, makes the monstrous Suffield case
Regarding the merits or demerits of the case against
EVIDENTLY A RARE KIND OF BEAST.
STOCKMAN : “Seen any jackaroos knocking about here?”
TJOHNNY-COME-LATEY: “Ah, no; we’ve shot wallabies, and kangaroos, and-aw-wallaroos,
but we haven’t seen any jackaroos yet.”
Suffield, it is not necessary now to have an opinion. The
man was tried by regular process of law ; a verdict was
recorded, and followed up by the ordinary penalty, which
has been duly paid. The whole matter is, therefore,
closed.
Rats ! As well argue that the man who went in
to get shaved, and while being shaved had his
throat cut by a mad barber, was shaved by regular
process of hairdresser. Judge Windeyer was the
mad-dog of the Australian Bench, and he bit out
Suffield’s larynx.
* * » *
N.S. W. Land Appeal Court, led by Presi-
dent Oliver, has brought consternation to a score
or so of land boards which have been holding in . a
vague sort of way that married selectors cannot
carry out the residence provisions without the
help of their wives. The Appeal Court sensibly
holds that there may be scores of reasons for a
woman living with her family off her husband’s
far-out selection- the health of herself or her
children, the desire to better educate the latter,
and so on. And if the husband chooses' to live
and work in solitude for them, and can prove that
he does, why shouldn’t he ?
* » * *
Rev. Oheok Hock Cheong, of Melbourne,
at loggerheads with the Church Missionary
Society, and he threatens to start a new society
“on his own.” If this means more Chow mis-
sionaries and more hobnobbing of Chows with
susceptible white girls, The Bulletin hopes that
Choke Shock Hong will go back to the old society
and die on good terms with the committee.
* * * *
General French will have a hot time when
the military estimates come on in N.S. Wales
Assembly, owing to his refusal to advise that the
Australian Horse be increased to 1000. Half the
members in the House are being worried by their
constituents for local corps.
• * * »
For a specimen of fatuity it would be hard
to beat the proceedings of the late learned “Lead
Commission ”of Brisbane. These gentlemen sent
all over Australia for their data; took four months
compiling it; drew up a most voluminous report—
of which the sum total was that there was un-
doubtedly lead-poisoning in other parts of Aus-
tralia—that they couldn’t tell why—that it was a
matter no one could possibly account for. Mean-
time, Brisbane continues to turn out cases of lead-
poisoning (mostly children) by the score.
* * * *
Remarkable occurrence, recorded by S.M.
Herald
“ He was a married man, living with his wife and
family.”
* * * •
The demise of the octogenarian widow of
an Anglican clergyman revives a yore-time mys-
tery. He came to Australia young, with a beauti-
ful wife, of whom he was passionately fond. She
died. His friends were astounded, not long after-
wards, by his marrying his housekeeper, a woman
ten years older than himself, remarkably plain, of
inferior station, while he was an intensely refined
gentleman from one of the English universities.
However she proved an admirable wife, but they
never had any family. y
* * • *
“ Malle Recently walking along medi-
tating on Melb. Cup, when I was seized by an
excited female who shook me out of my lethargy
umbrella, screamed, “stop
that bus ! I cooeed without result, whereupon
the woman rushed for a small boy with, “ stop
that bus ! I, Thet’s a Willyum-st. ’bus, missus,”
he gasped. Don 11 know that, you little fool ”
she yelled, as she stirred up an able-bodied citizen
who immediately started in pursuit and stopped
the desired bone-shaker. Then he came back with
an injured air, and said to me : “ Blow me if that
* i 0 * , • She dldn * want no bus ) she only
wanted to kiss a party what was inside ! ”
An Australian attorney who is an affidavit
commissioner for several countries, thought it
advisable to have the announcement of his
Indian status engraved in Hindustani, and
entrusted to a Hindu condiment-maker the in-
scription, which the sign-writer duly reproduced
on the lawyer’s brass-plate. Shortly
after, a rival solicitor in company
with a Hindu client noticed the
legend and asked for a
translation. That mean
“ he sell’um long-cut
chutnee,” ex-
plained the
dark gentle-
man with
a grin.
But it
wasn’t
until
nume-
rous con-
dimental
persons in
bright head-
ge a r and
much jabber
had interviewed
the supposed
chutnee - merchant
that the brass-plate
came down.
Draggled-looking wo-
man carrying the inevit-
able baby in a Melb.
suburban doc t o r’s
consultin g-room.
Doctor, at his wits’
end: “Really, mad-
am, you must give up
suckling that child.’
“ Oh, doctor, I haven’t got a baby at all—l bor-
rowed this one ’cos the people with babies always
shown in fust.”
* * • *
A Sydney suburban congregation was
awakened suddenly at the close of a recent morn-
ing service, to hear the parson “ beg to move that
this congregation solemnly protests against the
opening of public-houses on the Sabbath.” And
while still struggling with their yawns the rev.
chairman had declared his own resolution carried
unanimously, and was deep in hymn 495. It was
only in the porch that a lot of people growled out
the amendments they had been cheated of. Long
practice in juggling with 3d. makes your modern
ecclesiastic a sharper business man than a pawn-
broker with nine Scripture names and 84 years’
experience behind a swing door with a spy-hole
in it.
* • * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re'S. A. Philp’s instance
of the Chinese boy who gained Scots College
medal for most popular boy in school. Ah Chee
didn’t get the medal by vote of the boys ; it was
the judgment of the principal. This I have from
the boys themselves. —W. M. Fleming.
* * * *
Adelaide “Society” has not yet forgiven
Mayor Tucker for taking the side of the Govern-
ment in the Hospital dispute, and, though they
cannot beat him at the poll, they cheerfully joined
together in boycotting his recent ball. Even the
wife of the Lieut.-Governor did not attend, but
the Mayoress was privately informed that she
stayed away for a somewhat interesting reason.
Much correspondence has lately been
opened up re proof of age by intending applicants
under the Maoriland Old Age Pension scheme.
One ancient miner wrote to the parson of his
native English village for copy of baptismal regis-
ter (he was so old that he dated back beyond the
present birth - registration system).
He enclosed 2gd. in stamps for re-
ply. Parson wrote explaining
that the fee was ss. Id. Miner
wrote again enclosing ss. Id.
and another 2|d. in
stamps. Then came letter
from parson asking what
it was all about. An-
cient digger replied
giving some details of
Old Age Pension
plan. Fresh reply
from parson cast-
ing aspersions on
the godless idea,
and pointing
out that it was
flying in the
face of Provi-
dence. Miner
responded
that he did-
n’t want to
fly in the
face of anybody, but desired copy of cer-
tificate. Finally letter from parson en-
closing certificate, deploring the want of
reverence displayed by the correspondent and the
sinfulness of the whole business, and stating that
the letter necessarily went unstamped, the stamps
forwarded having been used up in previous corres-
pondence. Double postage to pay. Certificate
rejected at first by Claims Registration Depart-
ment as being so badly written as to be quite un-
decipherable, but finally admitted by head of de-
partment after a veteran pressman had gone over
it with him, and the pair had arrived at some
kind of agreement as to its meaning. Correspond-
ence closed with eminently disrespectful letter to
rev. person in England.
A GLASGOW CONSCIENCE.
MAC : “ Mon, Eve had a awfu' dream! The
Deevil offered me the contract for the coal
supply of Hell, and I was just givin’ him a
profitable quote—when ma conscience awoke
me. Losh, man, it was terrible, but ye come
fra Glascow yesel', an' ye onnerstan'.”
Not long; back an Australian legislator
(who has a son named after him) got mixed up in
a row at a Paphian establishment, and had a
summons served upon him in the presence of some
employes ; whereupon, with a fine show of indig-
nation, he handed it to his son, with the remark:
“This must be intended for you, sir!” “No,
father,” was the reply—“ I got mine half-an-hour
ago / ”
THE WAY OF A MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ My darling smiles no more, and leaves me ’plaining;
Her love’s a moon with curious waxing, waning;
I seek a charm, O Sage, a magic potion,
To bend her bosom to my dear devotion.”
“ Grieve not, my son, her anger fades ; and soon
Her love shall bless thee with a joyful June ;
Think not, because she pouts, thy race is run ;
The clouds will pass before the day is done.”
“ When first we differed, sire, I held my tongue,
And, like a tempest, round her accents rung.”
“ She took thy silence for a wordless war,
And felt forbearance but one sin the more.”
“ Another time I tried the calming kiss -
“ She took thy fond endearments all amiss.”
“ With kindliest converse then my lips would tire ”
“ 'Twas only pouring oil on female fire ! ”
In self-defence at last I pleaded long.”
“ But thou wert in the Right and she was wrong :
No wonder that the maiden bars the door—
Thy crime is grievous and thy reign is o’er ! ’’
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
A KIND HUSBAND
FOR THE BULLETIN
feiitlt wife so lately Wor\
Ran lo meet" me o'er the sand
\£7hen the islo r mLj dan o'er done ,
I leapt" upon the land j
Flung Ker arnrib around mij neck
fjprem blino , laughing",weeping feo
jjofci -escaped the cruel wreck 1
©h I Ihat" w as so kind o"f ljou !
Constance Clyde
r,
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOK
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
send FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A Word Witb YoO
THE PREMO.
Sole Manufacturer’s Agents :
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.
Abotit Photography.
This Fascinating and Fashionable Art is no longer
a toil. Science and Mechanical Skill have com-
bined to produce, of the utmost SIMPLICITY
and PERFECTION,
CAMERAS, from ss. to £5O.
The LATEST and BEST are Sold by
Harrington & Jo., [td., '“SL,,
66 King Street , Sydney.
NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of all Photographic
Materials MAILED FREE.
Queensland Branch —64 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. Melbourne Agents—CRAVEN & CO., 179 COLLINS ST.


Lord Kilmorey’s too-clever handling of
the Adelaide outer-harbor scheme recalls Row-
land Rees’ eloquent appeals on behalf of Miss
Alice Cornwell’s similar project a decade ago.
Poor Rowland, poor Alice !
• * * *
“ S.S.’’: Dear Bulletin. — Be Fire Brigades
(8., 15/10/’9B). Was once member of a suburban
corps. Local parson had a “ set ”on captain, and
petitioned to have him removed. Said we did not
have church parades often enough. Captain swore
to get even with sky-pilot, so notified him that
brigade would next Sunday attend evening
service. Accordingly we rolled up to the kirk ; got
front seats and things went all right till collectors
started out with plates. Then in rushed call-boy
and said to captain: “Fire near Brady’s place ;
looks like a big blaze!” We were outside in 10
seconds, followed by whole congregation. Collec-
tion that night—nil! “An all-right bonfire, wasn’t
it?” said the call-boy afterwards. “Took us all
the afternoon to build it 1 ”
» * » *
“Von Kotze ” : No Chow, no cabbage !
dogmatises “J. A.P.” Alri’, let’s go without cab-
bage, then. And as soon as the last Chinese
market-gardener has filed out, I'll take up the
business—and I won’t sell them at half-a-crown a
head, either 1 As for the goldfields—if they are
too poor for whites to work, let them be till, with
the ad vent of railways and civilisation, the ground
might pay. And if they don’t prove profitable
then, plant potatoes or run sheep on them. The
average Chow fossicker does not enrich the com-
munity, but takes his money home ; but what he
does leave behind makes it worth while to keep
him out, even if he spent every shilling he earns
in the country.
• * * «
For two years in succession Mrs. Way Lee,
the English wife of Adelaide’s principal Chinese,
has-been in the first set at the Mayor’s ball.
Which fact has led to “ructions.”
* * * *
“ Released ” to The Bulletin :
“ F.C.’s” recent complaint in these columns re stamp-
ing Vic. prisoners’ letters “ Penal Dept.” applies to
N.S. VV., where the postal regulations require communica-
tions sent by a Govt. Dept, to "bear the Department’s
name on the envelope. In the case of ordinary gaol
correspondence this endorsement, is printed, as with other
Departments, but with prisoners’ letters the envelope is
disfigured with a large rubber stamp impression reading
(say) “ Darlinghurst Gaol, Sydney,” generally right across
the address. The confinee’s relative not liking letters
thus branded to come to the house, mostly has them ad-
dressed to a P. 0., and here again the clerk hands them out
with a “ What price that! ” sort of look. If the addressee
likes he may, of course, leave stamps to cover the cost of
the prisoners’ letters, but considering they are so few they
might well be sent without proclaiming a relative or
friend’s bad luck.
* * * *
Judge Docker again. At Kempsey, N.S.
Wales Quarter Sessions, a man under sentence of
two years for administering a drug refused to give
evidence against the chemist alleged to have sup-
plied the article, and the case broke down. Where-
upon Judge Docker gave the recalcitrant witness a
year s additional imprisonment for contempt!
SHE KNEW BETTER.
HE (trying to make the Adaw-Eve snake-story more
effective): “And there they were turned out
amid the cold and snow because the ser-
pent”
S HE: “Pooh! snakes in winter !”
The French Court of Cassation has for-
mally “ rehabilitated the memories” of two men
who died in prison under life-sentences for arson,
wrongfully inflicted 47 years ago. If it is the
sentimental side of the French character that can’t
see something almost comic in this part of the
reparation, it is the clean cut logical side that
supplements it with 150,000 francs compensation
to the relatives of the two unfortunates. Apropos,
who will compensate the unhappy Taylor, of
Armidale, and his devoted wife for all their long
years of misery ?
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
PROF SCHLACHDALAGER (to feminine lioness) :
Ven I vas in Lapland I did keep four
romans (Shudder.)—Stay, it vas to row
mine boat!”
“ Yangan ” : Be drug-selling, I remember
a long-haired gentleman who was coining money
in the British Malay States by professing to cure
every known disease, but who, the moment he
treated a case on Dutch territory (Java), was
promptly run-in and charged with treating a dis-
ease without being registered, and with selling to
patient a drug which had not been examined by
the Govt, analyst. He was imprisoned, and had
his stock confiscated.
* * * *
“ Romahapa, ” to The Bulletin, on the
world’s toughest problem :
Consider this solution of question “ What to do with
the children?” Some years ago I stumbled across a
handsome, fairly - educated young woman with two
children; and, after a short acquaintance, she proposed
that we should live together till one or both grew tired
of the connection. Though a married man, I declined,
whereupon the lady, thinking it was the children I was
afraid of, promptly told me that I need not trouble about
them. The State made an allowance for each of them;
so that, instead of being a large expense, they were a
small income. Met her again recently with Jive children,
and w r as informed that the three new kids had each a dif-
ferent father, and she was now living with a fourth gentle-
man from whom she was going to separate next week.
The State, she told me, is paying her an allowance, as a
deserted wife, for the whole five. “ But does the State
approve of a deserted wife increasing her family ad lib ? ”
I asked. To explain how that little difficulty is got over,
she said “ would put me at your mercy, and human
mercy is an unreliable quality. . . . But, after all,
there is nothing to be ashamed of. There’ll be no real
happiness till people who, like myself, love variety, can
have a new mate every .year, if they choose, without
being regarded as degraded thereby.” ' “ What about the
halves? ’ I asked. “Baby-farms run by the State, I
suppose?” “Not at all; that is a barbaric idea. A
child's natural guardian is the mother, and the State
ought, to pay each woman a living W'age for the service
she does by providing new citizens for it. . . . Child-
bearing is a national service as dangerous as the military
one, and infinitely more important, and ought to be weil
paid for, as such. I consider liiy five healthy children are
a valuable acquisition to N.S.YV., and, therefore, I make
the nation pay me for the service I have done it. After
all, the nation gets it all back.” (I am still pondering !)
» * * *
A NICE CHANGE.
She was a bouncing bloomer maid;
He loved her well, the gay galoot,
And to her hastened unafraid —
And pressed her suit.
A novelty in claims. Going home, the
other night, a certain Cornstalk was confronted by
a formidable old female of great beam who in-
quired if he called himself a man.
He blushed and looked for a
chance to bolt. “Because,”
went on the lady, “23
years ago I helped to
bring you into the
world, and your
old mother has
never paid me
a sixpence to
this day.
And if you’re
a man you’ll
pay - up !”
He did it, too.
A true teeto-
tal story. A
woman was
thrown from her
horse near a town-
ship and rendered
unconscious. Two
other women pre-
sently arrived on
the scene and
tried to revive
her unsuccess-
fully, however.
Then came a man
who produced a
bottle of whisky,
and was proceeding
to pour some down the
unconscious w om a n’s
throat when one of the
females protested, saying :
“Don’t, don’t, she might
have temperance scruples !”
* * *
'* J.F.” : Writer knows two
N.S.W. towns (Liverpool and
Carcoar) where ladies for years
conducted a dispensing business suc-
cessfully. Had occasion once to apply,
acting for one of the ladies in question,
to a Sydney wholesale drug warehouse for
a catalogue of prices, and was refused by the
manager on the ground that no woman should
be a dispensing chemist.
• • • *
Generally supposed that in N.S.W. no
man who can’t pay can be imprisoned for debt,
but an impecunious divorce co-respondent may
“ do ” six months for costs and a year for damages,
and the gaoling of a tenant for removing furniture
while owing rent is practically imprisonment for
debt. The law, also, is only made a still more
egregious “ hass ” by the legal fiction that a man
is imprisoned, not for the debt, but for “contempt
of court ” in not paying up what he hasn’t got!
“ BULLETIN ” DEFINITIONS.
Man : The telescope whereby the Celestial Baby
is brought within the range of Feminine Vision.
Woman (not the new variety): The Indispen-
sable sans indispensables.
Music : The sublimation of amorous caterwaul-
ing.
Misogynist: One who picked his doll and then
cried because the sawdust ran out.
Lover : One whose heart is in the right place—
far away fronf his head.
Marriage : The taking of a better half to find
us better quarters.
P. Luftig.
* ' * * *
An incident of Westralian travel :
Reaching Kalgoorlie recently, with friends, by 11 p.lll.
train from Kanowna, found ourselves locked in carriage,
as also were four ladies in next compartment. After
much whooping, caught ear of railway official, who in-
formed us in a tired manner that he hadn’t got a key,
and that we would have to jump out of the window.
We said we might do that —but what about the ladies
next door ? “ Oh, damn it all,” said the official, in
deeply-injured voice, “ I suppose I’ll have to get a key ! ”
It was seven minutes before he returned and liberated
us !—C.R.
* * * ♦
In Vic. “ the Crown ” is being criminally
prosecuted through its agent, a certain detective,
for conspiring to hire abortionists to illegally use
instruments on a widow. And, just for the wild
novelty of the thing, and quite apart from the
merits of the case, this paper hopes the Crown
will be gaoled for 18 months. Last July the Vic.
authorities decided to “lay for “the local abor-
tionist, and accordingly a detective hired, at the
Crown’s expense, a house in Albert Park and there
installed a lady—paid by the Crown. Then ho
paid <£3o of the Crown’s good red cash—which
will badly damage Turner’s next surplus—to two
abortionists to perform an operation on the lady
hired by the Crown, it being represented that she
was “in trouble.” Just as they were operating
on the Crown’s hired lady they were overwhelmed
by the strong arm of the law, and are now in gaol
under sentence. Now it seems impossible to deny
the fact (which was sworn to at the time) that the
Crown has been hiring and inciting people to per-
form an illegal operation, and on the face of things
it looks as if the Crown was in a rather tight
place. If this paper was the Crown it would con-
ceal itself in Tasmania till matters blew over.
* * * •
The Melbourne churches are getting into
a way of giving only half collections on Hospital
Sunday.
THE ORIGIN OF BASHFULNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ardent youth, in ages old,
Hid behind the scrub ;
Saw his heart’s beloved approach,
Wooed her with a club.
Linda, in our gentler days,
Loves not over-much,
Blushes at her Bertie’s steps,
Shrinks from look or touch.
Thinks the feeling most divine
(Heart goes rub-a-dub),
Knows not that she only fears
That forgotten club.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
<3
S®
j«p
a
"fjAvE You
foROOXTEM
THEUi,?.!’
Qe you Safer from piousness ?
If you are in the country
write to
The N.S.YV. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Moore Park, Sydney.
Then you must choose your drink well.
A fiery alcoholic liquor would inflame
your liver, and make you bilious enough
to commit suicide. Tea, Coffee, etc., are
also bad for bilious subjects. Will you
take our advice and drink Sydney Lager
Bier ? It is a special brew for the
summer, and the pui'est lager bier going.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITE!.Y CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
HOIKS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ADD IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astralia.
Patterns and Measurement forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
Trade buyers of cycles, cycle materials,
cycle accessories, and tools for cycle building' are
now well catered for by Frank Grrimley, of Clar-
ence-street, Sydney, who has fitted up a portion
of his large coachbuilder’s and saddler’s warehouse
as a separate department to supply the wants of
cycle-dealers, from the smallest nut to a complete
bicycle.*
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mil-bane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
II Tr lUfr, ltlmm Isi 178 William-'st., Melbourne;
• "J- til -K- Well Cl, 11 Pitt-strcet, Sydney ;
68 Cun-ie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
A Splendid Gift to N.S. Wales.
In either form, whether as “donation ” or “be-
quest,” terms evidently regarded by Sydney’s
senior morning journal as synonymous, the grate-
ful thanks of Australia are due to Mr. David S.
Mitchell, of Darlinghurst Road, Sydney, for his
announced intention—whether made operative
sooner or later is of small consequence —to present
his noble library, of about 30,000 vols., to N.S.
Wales. The condition precedent, that the books
be “ properly housed,” is one we are glad to see
attached, not merely that it is in itself reasonable,
but that it places Government under the compul-
sion of recognising its responsibilities more fully
than it has ever yet done in the matter of finding
a proper domicile and an adequate endowment
for a reference library such as should re-
spond to the growing literary needs of the
chief city of the Southern Hemisphere. Mr.
Mitchell's collection of works bearing more or less
upon the history of Australia is believed to be
almost unique in its comprehensiveness. But the
bookish assets concealed from view by the unpre-
tentious-looking front of Mr. Mitchell's residence,
are by no means of the “one horse” variety.
They are rich in those treasures of English litera-
ture which would most naturally appeal to a
cultivated and discerning taste, and contain very
many printings and editions which no mere money
expenditure could procure. Those who carry
their recollections back to the loan collection of
works of art instituted at the opening of the first
completed new wing of Sydney Domain Gallery
will remember that some of the most beautiful
exhibits in the water color section were contributed
by Mr. Mitchell, chiefly the handiwork of
Oswald Brierly and Conrad Martens. These
two artists —and as aquarellists few better ever
handled a brush are more than any other
identified with the early art life of New South
Wales. The Bulletin will not be guilty of
the greedy impertinence of hoping that these
may be thrown in. Hut if, apart from this, it
were in any way possible to stipulate for a sort of
first mortgage upon them at the time—long dis-
tant may it be ! —when Mr. Mitchell s life-interest
comes to its natural termination, the negotiation
would be universally felt as a satisfying one.
Among the many curious things in Darlinghurst-
road are a number of most interesting sketches,
pen-and-ink as well as in every variety of color,
the work of Oswald Brierly while cruising in one
or other of H.M.’s ships Rattlesnake, Meander,
and Galatea in the waters of the. Pacific, and
on board the St. Jean D’Acre in the stirring
scenes of the Crimean War. Mr. “ Assistant-
Surgeon ” Huxley—subsequently the well-known
“ Professor ” in the higher walks of scientific re-
search—was (1845-50) one of Brierly’s shipmates on
board the Rattlesnake. The budding philosopher
wasatthattimeas expert with his pencil as 1 e subse-
quently became with the pen, and Mr. Mitchell s
archives include some spirited sketches from his
hand, taken during the cruise of the Rattlesnake
on the coast of Papua and among the islands of
the Louisiade Archipelago.
Be it called donation or bequest, N.S. Wales
has to be congratulated upon the acquisition—
come when it may—of Mr, Mitchell’s fine library,
Vic. country gaols are all shamefully over-
officered. Bendigo with an average of about 20
prisoners has a governor, chief, senior, and foe
warders; not three prisoners per official!
RACING ITEM.
“ Dropping on to a good thing.”
Let there be no mincing the matter. There
may have been a man as well as a bull in the
Suffield case, but that man was by no means
necessarily the accused Suffield. The Bulletin
asks the public to read the evidence as disclosed
in the pamphlet published by this office, and see
whether a plausible alternative theory does not
stick out half-a-mile. The Suffield pamphlet will
be mailed from Bulletin office to any address for
7d. stamps.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 1, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
The train that took the Hampdens and Laming-
tons to the Cup was heavily patronised by Society.
Onlookers waiting about to share the vice-regal
glamor were disappointed, as their united Exes
rushed on, with crumbs in their veils and mous-
taches, just as the train was starting. There was
only time to see that -.he gentle, jolly Brand
daughters were neatly clad in sailor-hats and coats
and skirts, and that the whole party had the ex-
hilarated air of a “good time coming” in some-
body else’s mansion. As for the rest of the train,
it was a revelation. All the prettiest women had
transmogrified themselves into griffins, in old
black shapeless hats and seedy dresses, and I
never saw a crueller illustration of the" French
adage that “the dressmaker makes the pretty
woman, God makes (and keeps) the plain one.”
Tailor frocks were evidently packed away for a
wet Cup or Derby, and the result was astound-
ingly inimical to fashionable beauty.
Sweep-tickets lure more dazzlingly than ever.
A bank-clerk’s wife horrified her husband (on
£2OO a year) with a frilled and sequined silk
frock, the other day. Asked how the she
was going to pay, she answered airily, “ Don’t be
silly: you know we’ve got sweep-tickets.” And
then there was that poor girl-suicide who threw
herself out of domestic service into Manly waters,
leaving behind a note to say that the sweep-ticket
was in a certain frock, and that she would like the
money to be given away to so-and-so.
Since Sydney went to Melbourne, everything
has turned respectable in this city, and everyone
now goes to bed at ten. The part of Potts Point
that didn’t go to the Cup stays at home Mostly,
and keeps its front blinds down, and hopes it may
be supposed to be airing wonderful toilettes on the
r lemington lawn. A few unostentatious people
have taken the opportunity to be married peace-
ably, among them Miss Dora Garnsey, daughter
of the late Christ Church clergyman, who was
wedded quietly during the week to Dr. Gaden, of
Queensland.
Editor Curnow, of S. M. Herald, lent his con-
servatory, at Etimore, for a very pretty purpose,
last Friday evening : his niece, Miss Ada Weiss,
was married then and there to Mr. Frank Smythe,
TT D.T. But, fancy connections of the
B.M.H. and_ D.T. allying themselves in that
fashion ! It is to be hoped that, when the Reid-
organ representative was asked whether he would
have this woman for his wedded wife, he did non
reply “No-Yes.”
A big and beautiful “milingtary” is having a
hot time of it in this city. First, people engaged
him to another important officer’s daughter, and
this rumor was so sure of itself that the libelled
one had to cease visiting that house. Then it en-
gaged him for a dead certainty to the daughter of
a still more important officer, and he had to give
up visiting that house. And now he stays at home
because lie’s too frightened to go out; and rumor
says he thinks of marrying the housemaid.
The Earl and Countess of Seafield are back
again with pockets as easy as ever to turn inside-
out- The old baronial great-aunt, or grandmother,
didn’t shed the light of her coin and countenance
on the two impecunious aristocratlets, and the
title is as empty as—well, as a fifty-thou.-per-
annum title Worldly people think that Seafield
ruined his chances with the great-aunt by taking
home a colonial wife. For even great-aunts, with
blue blood in their old red noses, are not above
choosing countesses, and his trump-card would
have been, “ Auntie, I have come to ask you to
find me an heiress.”
The public patronised the “Little Minister ” well
on Saturday, but the d.c. hadn’t a Saturday air
t means - One full dress, worn by the sister
of a beauty, stood out in isolated uncomfortable-
ness from a medley of jackets, blouses and com-
promises. This abnormal frumpishness may have
been accidental, but it seems to me that evening
dress is out of place at this play. The atmosphere
of elders and kirks and psalms and clergy makes
one feel that a ball-dre«s in church would be just
as suitable.
I understand that the “ Little Minister ” was put
on expressly to let Sydney see Lesly Thomson in
the name part. Saturday’s verdict was that Lesly
Thomson wasn’t Cecil Ward. Then there was a
. out. But, to my mind, as a lover and a minister
in one, little Lesly has a long pull over the flighty
Cecil, who was too polished and stylish ever to
have taken any other cloth than the very Highest
church’s. Lesly’s hot lovemaking has a genuine
boyish ring that goes straight to the heart of any
woman under eighty. A'so, he is obliged to strike
so many attitudes with hi s elders that the droop
doesn t get a chance to obtrude.
Pattie Browne’s Babbie is even brighter and
lighter than before. But those wicked half-tones
stil creep up into her throat when the heavy
pathetic is called for. Little Sister May im-
mensely improves on Beatrice Day’s French maid,
at any rate as far as looks go. Her pretty little
round face and figure grace the soubrette frock
and white cap more naturally than the long-necked
Beatrice’s slender physique. Noni Rickards fol-
lows in Athena Claudius’ bare footsteps as Micah
Dow, but labors under a dolly make-up and plays
like a girl. As for Nannie Webster, she is, as she
ever was, the brightest star in the whole perform-
ance.
What a treat to hear Dampier in “ Every Day
London ” read that one verse from the “ Ballad
of Reading Gaol! ” It was worth two Every-day
Londons to hear “Some do it with a sword ” so
finely spoken. The old “ Montgomery ” manner
came out strongly there, and I craved for the
whole poem. By the way, there is a remarkable
likeness between Dampier’s voice and that of
Charles Bright, whose Freethought lectures stirred
this city so sensationally some 15 years ago.
By Monday, Sydney was not quite decided how
it was going to take “ Under the Red Robe,” and
the thin circle foregathered in its middling clothes
Ihree willowy sisters setoff their flaxen fairness
with long white satin opera-cloaks, edged simply
with frills of Brussels net, and somebody else hair-
pinned live roses all over her head, in the mistaken
idea that they would come home as they went out.
Curious attitude of mind that shudders at arti-
ficial flowers and smiles serenely under a halo of
dead ones !
Mrs. Maesmore Morris at last justifies her repu-
tation as a beauty. Her golden hair, bunched out
under her quaint white satin cap, frames her face
far more becomingly than the sleek head-dressing
she usually favors. Her first frock has a white
skirt brocaded with pink azaleas, and a shell-pink
bodice, and the old-world puffs and tabs cover up
her corners with kindly care. Ada Ferrar’s frocks
want the touch of a smart finger to freshen up the
flatness that always characterises them. Mind
y°u> the y are good frocks, good material, well
made, correct, and all that, but—well, there’s no
other way to describe them—they fall flat. Even
the blue brocade of the last act, decorated with
mauve eardings is spoilt by a dowdy head-dress.
Un the whole she looks her best in a simple cloak
and hood. Miss Florence Terriss mingles many
bright colors in her landlady’s dress, and is rather
too pretty and piquant a landlady for those
troublous times.
Pity ’tis that the much-discussed Knight-Ferrar
cuiierence should make itself felt in a play like
Robe.” Julius’icy glances as he cries
My queen, my saint! ” would dull any human
being s interest in these remotely-arctic lovers.
When they embrace, each seems to try to get away
first. For once, the woman has the best of the
teud, and it struck me that the play is rather hard
on Julius. Ada gets in quite five minutes of the
most scathing tongue-lashing, and Julius has to
swallow it all in silence.
The men’s frocks are . mostly pitched in dull
tones that show the wear of a Melbourne season,
and I thought it was rather infra dig. for a great
man like Richelieu to wear a skimpy pinny of very
ordinary lace over his red robes. Julius Knight’s
make-up turns him into something quite unlike
the superior Marky. George Majeroni’s clean-cut
sketch of the dumb Cion will mingle well with
Cup dreams and other nightmares, and Cecil
Ward, as the tippling captain, wakes the only
laugh-echoes in this serious piece.
The Amateur Orchestral’s last concert of the
season was a falling-away from its usual high
places. Measles had laid its spotty hand on many
of the performers, and the concert that did come
off was not over-steady on its legs. Phil New-
bury, and Miss Edith King gowned gaily in blue
silk and jewelled bodice, were both in good voice
The orchestra offered a novelty in Hamish
M'Cunn’s eerie “Ship of the Fiend,” and the
audience showed its individuality by trying to
encore the “Funeral March,” played for the late
Empress of Austria. The neat little booklets this
society prepares for its concerts are particularly
fetching. It is so nice to be able to read in words
the story that the orchestra tells in music. I sat
beside a little old man who read his book along-
side of the music, whispering all the while “Now
the Devil’s got her!” (Dum, dum, dum). “She
steps into the garden ! ” (La-la-la-la). “ Her lover
now embraces her ! ” (Boom-boom-boom). Miss
Scarvell’s highly-artistic grey cloak covered o’er
with sequins was the only other noticeable feature
in the audience.
Two of this concert’s, vocalists shared a little
legal matter between them during the week. The
lady, Miss Edith O. King, scored. She sued Mr.
Is ewbury for concert-fees alleged to be owin (r ,
Phil s defence being the old knock-kneed delusion
that he thought she sang “as a friend. ”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“That wet, squally morning spoiled the Derby
dress-show. Nearly everyone wore her done-to-
death winter things, looking better therein (though
bad was the best) than the foolish few, who, unable
to resist putting on their new muslins and flimsies,
sniffed, shivered, and clutched at their fly-awav
hats all day.
“ The Govt. House party presumably started for
the course in the thick of bluster and blow, for
most of them looked as if—suddenly deciding to
brave the weather—they’d snatched up knock-
about hats and toil-worn wraps and flung them on
over home-staying gowns. Anyhow,, it’s a long
time since that old grey overcoat of Gov. Brassey’s
was new (he’s worn it ever since we’ve known him) •
' * face-gloves, too, have an Auld Lang Syne’ air
about them, and, for old sake’s sake, observers are
getting guite fond of the rough bullocky strap he
slings his glasses to.
“ Lady Brassey gets no younger, but on Satur-
day, as usual, was amiable of aspect, through sun-
shine and rain, in rather a nice gown of grey cloth,
its skirt all criss-cross Vandykes of black satin
ribbon, a sable cape with black satin bow and
paste buckle at the back of the high collar.
Her toque was own cousin to her last year’s race
°™- c .™ s hy roses and a look-out loop of poorish
pink ribbon.
They do say that visiting sister potentates are
ever so much snugger under the womanly wing of
the leading lady of a certain vice-regal regime
1 11 - 1 th o days °f a younger and nandsomer
chatelaine. The latter, doncherknow, used to stalk
into the gubernatorial pen, before each race, in
pre-occupied silence, as if her she-guests were so
many china nest-eggs, glue her eyes to her glasses
as if her life depended on the winner, and then
down from the hen-roost like a shot, to talk horse
with some male experts. Now it’s all different,
Lady What’s-her-name periodically visiting the
upholstered coop to see that her hospitality-chicks
pick up their barley-corns. As likely as not
she finds this one or t’other brooding in a lonely
corner with one reproachful eye on neglectful
hubby, or papa’s own lawful aide surrounded by
gay alien frocks on the lawn. She goes to the rescue
at once with the air of one whose own shoes pinch
occasionally; and if the visitor continues to pine
it isn’t her gentle hostess’s fault.
“Lady Hampden impresses people who saw her
for the first time as a rather fragile-looking blonde
lady of middle age, with extra-clear blue eyes,
aristocratic nose, and that tendency to elongation
of tooth ascribed by Max O’Rell and co. to British
matrons in general. The salient point in her
attire was a blue velvet mantle edged with grey
ostrich feather trimming. Pa Hampden seemed
the most easy-going, best-tempered Governor pre-
sent, _ helping on his girls with their cloaks, and
hunting for Lady H.’s wraps. Not that he offered
himself up as a domestic sacrifice. He’s a pet
with Melb. society stars through golf, and one
thing and another, and at the races had ten times
more in common with the smartest skirt-wearers
than any of his fellow pro-consuls. One of the
Brand girls had nearly as good a time as pa, in a
bnghtish blue tailor suit braided with white, a
somewhat weather-beaten sailor hat and a tinkling
neck-chain. Her sister’s coat and skirt were grey,
and Miss Westralian Smith’s brown costume with
white revers ran on much the same lines.
“Gov. Jerry Smith, a tall, thin, grey cross-
patch (to look at) with small pointed beard, white
gaiters, and coat nearly down to his heels, was ap-
parently inclined to mope. Maybe, he was put
out ’cause he couldn’t lock the vice-regal crib and
take a nap after lunch, deaf to the knocking of all
would-be inmates. I suppose you know that
though her Majesty’s Representative need not
hesitate to boss the show in the dwelling of
a mere vice-subject, go to bed before the
ball in his honor begins, and bar the guests
out of his side of the house, still he hasn’t
quite the same scope in the demesne of the fellow
rep. of Royalty. Lady Smith, that gentle little
smoother-over of rough places and extractor of
social stings, wore blue coat and skirt and did her
locks in tiny rear puffs. Nearly everyone else
wore her hair coiled round in the simplest way,
in two or three thick strands rather low at the
back.
“One of the most conspicuous figures on the
lawn was a girlish relative of the Chirnside clan,
in coat of hunter’s “pink,” white pique skirt
and sailor hat. Mrs. Rupert Clarke was
less effective than usual in green with pale
blue skirt-trimming, pointed lace collar and
yellow straw hat with cherries underneath and
geraniums on top. On the other hand, her sister,
that blooming, buxom damsel, Miss Hilda Cum-
mmg, looked her best, thanks to the cold day and
comparative dark dressing. There were white
revers to her green cloth Eton, a gold gimp belt
showed between the short jacket and skirt, and
pink roses relieved her green gauze toque. A
thoroughly ‘ good ’ green costume was Miss Mary
Clarke’s cloth skirt with a glimpse of orange silk
flounce lining the hem, bodice of embossed velvet
and flat toque of pink roses. Miss Daisy Madden,
her chubby cheeks dimpling with smiles, trotted
round all day with fiance Osborne, little, if any,
taller than herself. Mrs. Madden, who has sacri-
ficed much of her looks and well-preserved youth-
fulness at the shrine of vice-regal social work,
took charge of her mother, whose evergreen spirit,
m spite of its frail tenement, still stirs at a ‘ pretty
start ’ to the extent of inducing its owner to climb
on a seat to see the finish for herself. Mrs. Val-
lange, in grey cloth with white satin revers
and skirt quillings and white plumes in her grey
toque, paraded industriously with proud hubby,
ihe latter aired an impressive great-coat, and,
whenever possible, held a cigarette between his
voluble lips. An obstinate cigarettist, this brand-
new Benedict. When Madame and he acted at
that matinee, t’other day, it fell to him in the
play to light up. When the curtain went up fora
recall, there was the thing back between his teeth
already, and it stayed there while he went for-
ward for the complimentary garden-stuff. Wasn’t
that how a certain great dramatist first managed
to become unpopular ?
“Queer sack overcoats are fairly popular with
both sexes. A man and two female companions
wore these shapeless bags to their heels, hard,
high-crowned straw hats, leather straps and cases ;
he was clean-shaven, their hair was cut short. If
they were brother and sisters, I do pity their
parents. Fancy tha,t treble nightmare, with its
three bullet-heads, sitting opposite you at supper-
time !
The gayest hat present at Saturday’s races
was scarlet straw, with one of those high-moated
crowns, from the top of which sprouted a healthy
crop of vivid green oats. One wouldn’t have felt
a scrap surprised to see the birds of the air and the
cows of the field attracted by it. The prettiest thing
a _k " e ! ll J n o^ on was Cocos, the Derby-winner, with
the bright blue ribbon round his neck. The color
went beautifully with his satiny chestnut coat.
“ Melbourne is more interesting in the few days
preceding the Cup than at any other period of the
year. Fresh people in the streets, mostly well-
dressed, meet one at every turn. Pretty women
m beautiful new clothes, and big bronzed men
evidently strangers, stream out of the chief hotels.
And in these immediately pre-Cup days one sees
people whom one remembers to have seen at the
same time last year, and the year before, and the
year before that. One marks easily in this way
how time plays with the features of Beauty, and
streaks with grey the hair of the strong. There
seemed to be more interesting people this year
than for at least half-a-dozen years past. The
frou-frou of silk-lined skirts is incessant on the
Block, where the painty-faced, tired-eyed suburban
girls are shamed by the wind-freshened beauty of
the maidens from the country.
“Looking away back, women gloated unani-
mously over Julius Knight as Claude Melnotte in
princely plumage of emerald and canary-color.
On his farewell night, the departing Adonis must
have felt a little like the pampered Marcus
ouperbus of times agone. Mourners gave him a
laurel-wreath, and coaxed the coy creature forth
in his Napoleonic uniform to blunder through a
tew good-bye platitudes, with his head sunk
broodmgly on his chest, A la ‘The Little Cor-
poral. Ada Ferrar wore a fetching Empire gown
of white satin, but was over-hoarse and shrieky re
the substitution of the conjugal ‘hovel * for
hubby’s promised palace by the Lake of Como.
She - spectators rather envied the righteously-
angered heroine that bunch of short back curls
sprouting from the centre of the Empire chignon.
I hey provided such a splendid valve for little
tempers. Toss ! svvish! like a pony’s tail, when-
ever the owner felt put out.
“ Nowadays, a girl can flounce her head nearly
off without impressing offenders. An escape of
hair and pins down her own back is all the satis-
faction she gets. Pince-nez are recommended in
some quarters as expressive of virtuous wrath.
Ihe worst of it is when a woman gets to gig-
lamps, culprits, as a rule, care precious little
whether she’s pleased or not. Julius Knight
masquerading as the Prince, lets his Pauline pick
up her own dropped belongings. Such loutish-
ness should have given away the gardener’s boy on
the spot, but p’raps the poor fellow couldn’t help
it. A gallant in glove-fit satin small-clothes is, may-
be, not absolutely a free agent. Anyway, Gaston
Mervale, in garments of similar design, took
palpable time and trouble, whenever stage exigen-
cies required him to lower himself into a chair?
“Judge Madden and his Better Half, fallen
from the Seats of the Mighty, sat quietly in the
d.c. on the night of the passing of Julius. Later
™ th ® Plump couple strolled placidly home to
ihe Grand just as if orderlies, aides, national
anthems, and vice-regal pomp had never conspired
to swell their heads.
, ‘‘Wiseacres prophesy that we’ll live to see that
fashionable couple of stage-struck honeymooners
take to the boards m sober earnest. Not only are
riches deceitful, say these sages, but when one of a
pair of turtle-doves is desperately infatuated with
things theatrical, the other bird might do worse
than flutter over the same berry as its mate.
,‘‘ 1 p® sca "Vollugi, the successful ‘Bohemian Girl’
of that amateur operatic performance, is in private
life a buxom young lady with soft, attractive
manners, waving golden hair, and prominent light-
grey eyes. Evidently an Italian type (though not
the traditional one), for the same description
would apply equally well to that other promising
u’ when her father was alive in her
school-days he thought her voice less sweet than
that of his eldest daughter, who has grown up too
timid and highly-strung for a public career. In
those salad times, the sisters were once chosen to
sing the principal parts in a school cantata. Pere
Vollugi, m the audience, was so excited that his
unrest upset the young performers. When the
time came for Cesca’s solo, she wrestled master-
fully with all the trills, &c., but pitched her voice
throughout just a shade sharper than the piano-
forte accompaniment. To her father’s cultivated
ear the result was so harrowing that he overflowed
then and there in sotto-voce criticisms of con-
ductor, singing-teacher, accompanist and piano,
laying espemal stress on the vocal defects of Cesca’s
schoolfellows, to the rage of their parents seated
within hearing,
“Mrs. Palmer, in shot-blue brocade and white
tips in her hair, looked bright and festive at her
benefit-concert, to which the Naicest gathered in
force. Lady Brassey, thin, worn and much
greyer than heretofore, was nevertheless conspicu-
ous as the tallest and most graceful of the per-
sonages occupying the stuffed upholstery. Gov.
Brassey, with the red ribbon necklet of some
decoration or other clashing with his cerise com-
plexion, was feverishly wide-awake compared with
the drowsiness of bygone concert appearances.
1 oor old thing ! Heaven grant he had his sleep
out at ome during the ‘quiet time’ spent by him-
self and Lady B. in their house overlooking the
bolent. Harried patriarch ! the moment he landed
he sort of excused these hum-drum holiday pro-
ceedings (on the ground of domestic bereavement)
to interviewers who apparently had seemed hurt
because he returned. Excellency couldn’t plead
guilty to an expensive, blue-blooded old razzle-
dazzle. With his employes came one of the new
aides, a large, laughing lad with curls starting far
back on his forehead and complexion like an
Arcadian milkmaid’s.
“Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, daughter of Mrs. Palmer,
had come down from Brisbane to give a hand with
her mother’s benefit. Such an elegant, proud-
looking woman, her dark hair dressed with severe
simplicity, and few chiffons of fal-lals softening
her pink decollete blouse, worn with a cream
brocade skirt. She was a Melbourne belle in her
day and made what was considered, at the time, a
brilliant match. However, times changed, and for
years she has worked hard in Brisbane as a teacher
. -Ail things considered, this scion of
the Carandini clan looks wonderfully young for
the mother of a 12-year-old son.
‘Mrs. Palmer and Ida Osborne warbling ‘Take
care, beware, she is fooling thee ! ’ set old hands
dreaming of the days when Madame Carandini
a ?T> er daughter woke sweet echoes in the wilds
of Bananaland. To this day northern patriarchs
wax eloquent over the never-forgotten charm and
tunefulness of Miss Rosina C. —the belle of the
bunch now Mrs. Palmer. Another sister, Lady
Morland, is at ’Ome superintending the training
of her pretty, clever daughter Muriel.
ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Men of Taste
should trade with
Men of Taste.
Customers come again when
they try Callaghan Boots
once.
Our taste in selecting our stock of BOOTS
and SHOES is the result of half-a-century’s
experience; and our reputation has always
been the highest. We know how to please
our customers j we can fit any feet, and
combine an appearance with that fit, which
stamps the wearers of our boots or shoes
as
Men of Taste.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
“ Our Teeth.”
CatapljorcSiS
in Connection with
DENTISTRY.
BY this PROCESS, TEETH can be Prepared
and Filled absolutely WITHOUT PAIN,
even if the nerve be exposed, thus
PREVENTING- *'■«
EXTRACTION
of TEETH. All Particulars published in Book
Form, a copy of which will be posted, Free of
Cost, upon application to
CHARLCSI. HARRIS,
DEIATTIST
St. James’s Chambers, King St.
(Opposite the Queen’s Statue),
SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydnev.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Stated with much authority that the re-
cent triangular rumpus between certain high Q.
officials was promoted by a lady.
Some Sydney ancients still in harness :
Dr. Bowker, of Church Hill, 83; Dean Cowper,
88 ; Dr. Crooke, of Darlinghurst, 86.
Chief Justice Way intones a Bible Chris-
tian hymn morning and night in his own house-
hold, and insists on the attendance of all under
his roof.
Passed out, J. B. Robinson, bushman and
pioneer, discoverer of the Flora Bell, the one
Northern Territory silver show which promised
really well, but in the end as luckless as its
finder.
Speaker Abbott, who contracts not to leave
N.S.W. during his leave-of-absence from Parlia-
ment, will give his health the best possible show
by surrendering himself to his hobby—the culti-
vation of orchids.
In R. E. O’Connor, Q.C., as an acting-
judge, N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley will have
one of his pupils as a colleague. Attorney-
General Want and Pilcher, Q.C., also “read
law ” with the C.J.
Colin Archer, one of the Gracemere (Q.)
Archers, designed and built the famous Arctic
exploring vessel, the Fram. Mr. Archer, now
in England, once managed Gracemere station, but
grew tired of Australian life.”
“ 8.G.”: Recently saw a very distinguished
Australian cleric’s photo, displayed in photo-
grapher’s window in seven different attitudes, and
was informed that the holy man had been two
solid hours in front of the camera.
Herbert, Queensland’s first Premier, holds
the record as Under-Secretary of State for the
Colonies. He held that office from 1871 to 1892.
The average back to 1825 was 11 years, and since
1892 there have been two Under-Secretaries.
There are in Brisbane about three barris-
ters making upwards of ,£2OOO a year and about 40
earning less than their admission fees. The Q.N.
Bank cases caused a watering of mouths in ex-
pectancy, but after all the usual few are on the job.
A. B. Walker, superintendent of police
at Deniliquin (N.S.W.), has been created
J.P. As a plain trooper, Mr. Walker, on 25th
May, 1870, in a hand-to-hand encounter at Uralla
shot dead the notorious outlaw, “Thunderbolt”
Ward.
“ H. ” : About the snobbery to young Loch
at that Melb. school. An aristocratic kiddy, with
golden curls, went to Eton. The first boy he met
asked his name. “Lord Charles Egerton.”
“ Well, here’s a kick for the Lord, and another
for the Egerton.”
Count Robert Christian de Barry, German
noble, who, for some time past, has been trapping
rabbits in Cranbourne district (Vic.), received
a remittance, about six weeks ago, of .£2OO. It
killed him in five weeks—probably quicker than
his relatives reckoned upon.
The two brothers Langley, both C.E.
Archdeacons, one of Melbourne and the other of
Sydney, preached in Sydney on Sunday last.
Both filled lay positions till well on in life, and
entering the Church devoted themselves chiefly
to philanthropy—mainly theoretical.
James Atherton, a still-energetic Rock-
hampton station-holder, reached that Capri-
cornian settlement in 1858. The population of
Rockhampton on the day of his arrival consisted,
all told, of six men and one woman—the woman
dead that morning and being “ waked.”
Saul Samuel, the gentle old N.S.W. ex-
Agent-General, was very young once upon a time.
Over 50 years ago, at Homebush racecourse, he
publicly cowhided, for reasons long since forgot-
ten, a certain well-known Sydneyite who in his
latter years gained notoriety as an official assignee.
Bishop Chalmers, of Goulburn, who re-
turned lately from a preying visit to England,
accounts for the slenderness of his wallet by al-
leging that at the time of his visit there were fifty
other foreign bishops at the pockets of the British
public. Dr. Chalmers, however, raked in <£4ooo.
Archbishop Carr, when mentioning that
he had never seen a drunken man in Melbourne,
took care not to mention the time he was
“ stoushed ” in Launceston (Tas.) by a boozy
wharf-laborer on the grounds that (hie) “there
was enough spielers and gospel-thumpers in Tash-
mania now.”
Philip Oakley Fysn, the new Tas. Agent-
General, first went to the Isle of Sleep to establish
a branch of L. Stevenson and Sons’ softgoods
warehouse at Hobart. After some years, the
branch became his own premises, and he pro-
spered. But, later on, he lost a pot of money in
various ways.
“ Ne vile veils ’ (wish not what is vile) is
the motto of the noble Nevill lately visiting at
Govt. House, Sydney. The puns made on this
old piece of family Latin are blamed for the
bored look of the young man’s face. The Nevills
go away back to the Middle Ages, and shaped a
considerable portion of early English history.
Warwick, the king-maker, was in the line.
Some Australian birthdays for November :
Saul Samuel 78 on 2nd., C. H.' Grant (Tas.) 62 on
Bth., James Service 75 on 12th, W. M‘Millan 48
on 14th, A. Y. Hassell (WiA.) on 15th. Henry
Dobson (ex-Premier, Tas.) on 24th, ex-Agent-
General Tom Playford 61, and Chief-Secretary
O’Loghlin (both S.A.) 46 on 25th. W. S. Gilbert
will be 62 on 18th, and Mark Twain 63 on 30th.
Arthur Barton’s house at Wellington,
N.S.W. “ Mount Arthur -is probably the old-
est west of Bathurst. Quite 60 years of age, and
built entirely by convict-labor. The hinges of the
doors bear the broad arrow. Tradition has it that
one room was built, in a week, for shivooing pur-
poses on the occasion of a visit by the Governor—
which one is not clear. The house is ideally
situated.
When a team of Brisbane
footballers went up to play
Mount Morgan, Bishop Webber
travelled per same boat. The
leather-hunters, to ensure a mild
sensation, went ashore in their
war-paint, followed by Dr. Web-
ber in his fig. He was wildly
cheered by the assembled youth
as a sort of very full-back. But
he didn’t “drop to it ” until one
ribald Rockhamptonite tapped
him on the diaphragm andadvised
him to “Get a bit of that off, or
Billy Smith will bust ver, first
run. ”
The present writer was
one morning in Fitzroy Gardens
(Melb.) smoking his pipe when
Bishop Moorhouse came along
and sat down on the seat. Asked
for a match and lighted up. And
then, noting that this deponent’s
pipe didn’t draw well, he entered
upon a lecture on the art of fil-
ling a pipe. “First,” said he,
“ see that it is clear. A foul
pipe is like a foul mind, which
beholds all things darkly. Then
shred your tobacco carefully, rub
it up roughly, and press it gently,
very gently, into the bowl. Then
when you apply the light do so to
the centre of the tobacco. Let
it burn through the core, so to
say After which, when you
press down the edges, you get the
marrow of the smoke —and that
is the soul of it.” “ I wonder,”
said the writer. “ whether St.
Paul would have smoked had the
weed been known to him ? ” “To
be sure. ’Twas the one thing
needed to make him perfect,”
quoth the bishop. Then, with
an earnest air, he went ort —“ And, poor fellow,
it would have been a great solace to him, and an
innocent one.”
S. Y. Winter, of Smellbourne Herald,
has issued a booklet of his ideas on things in
general, as contemplated by him in his travels.
And it is easy to see that Sam is Victorian first,
and Australian next, the rest of the world no-
where. He turns up his nose at Venice. Says it
stinks. Thank Heaven, Sam’s native Yarra doesn’t
stink.
In the old Parliamentary fighting days
B. D. Morehead regularly slanged Rutledge, who
had then given up the profession of parson and
taken on that of M.L.A., with haying “ forsaken
his God for the flesh pots of politics.” Now the
same Rutledge Crown-prosecutes the same More-
head on a charge of improperly manipulating the
accounts of the Q.N. Bank.
IT WENT WITHOUT SAYING.
TEACHER (to new pupil): “ Why did you leave the. other school?”
P UPIL: “ Please, miss, because, miss, they didn’t teach us nothink but
grammar!”
The South Australian South-East, where
A. L. Gordon and Ogilvie both vegetated awhile,
has long had its “ Scotty the Wrinkler a little
less Scotty, of course, and a little less Wrinkler.
He was James Grassy (was, for he died a week or
so back), and he mixed “grazing” and tutoring,
and writing scraps for the press, and roaming;
also, he was born in Scotland, and he had “a
peculiar style.”
TO DECEIVE IS TO BE ARTFUL.
“ Shure, it’ll be just sich an iliyent shade as Mrs. Tomkins’
next door, whin I do be afther havin’ it com plate, an’
niver a wan at all would recognise Mary Ann’s blouse.”
A member of N.S.W. Parliament, who
had promised John Haynes vigorous support in
his anti-capital punishment crusade, and who,
indeed, had prepared a great speech for the
second reading, stayed away from the House on
the night of the discussion owing to his wife’s
superstition that the person who prevents a man
or woman being hanged will himself meet a vio-
lent death.
Tommy Walker, the eloquent, ephemeral
celebrity of Victoria and N.S.W., has pitched his
camp at Perth (W.A.). Advertises in the local
papers that he is prepared to instruct people in
the arts of oratory and elocution. Says that he
pays special attention to “ gesture.” Which can
be believed. Tommy paid special attention to
gesture, on one occasion, in a railway-carriage.
And he overdid it. But that is the way with
these eager and enthusiastic souls.
Among a re-
cent batch of Aus-
tralian J’s. P.
is a very uncer-
tificated insol -
vent.
Lawyer J. C.
II am p, one of
Adelaide’s smart-
est cross - exami-
ners, is consider-
bly over 6ft. iti
height, and comes
of a .very tall
family of pioneer
squatters. Broth-
er Arthur, now
care - taker on
‘ ‘bio w n -out” Lake
E ver a r d run,
stands 6ft. 7in. in
his socks. It was
their grandfather
who caused the
port of Elliston,
on the West
Coast, to be named
Waterloo Bay.
The blacks were
very bad in early
days. Arthur’s
father returned
one night to the
hut, and found the
“old-’un” miss-
ing. After fruit-
less search, goes to
camp-Oven for
cold mutton, and
finds gran’dad’s
head in it. Gath-
ers all whites for
miles around, and
they run all the
blacks they can
find towards
some precipitous
cliffs, whence
many jumped into
the sea, and those
who didn’t got
there just the same—hence Waterloo Bay.
Kingswell, late editor and part-proprietor
of Coolgardie Miner, says he has had 47 writs
issued against him since his arrival in W.A.,
and has won in 43 cases —or lost only 4. How ?
Simply by having plaintiff ordered to show
security for costs before bringing his case to trial.
Eighty per cent, of libel-plaintiffs are men of
straw and “ on the make.”
Haw trey, as Col. Damas, in the “Lady of
Lyons,” says—“ It’s astonishing how I like a man
after I have fought with him.” Norton and
Meagher may yet chum. Look how thick are
Gillies and Shaekel]. Yet they were the bitterest
foes 20 years ago. Shacked spent .£3OOO trying
to oust Gillies from Rodney.
Peter Lalor once referred to Purves, in
Vie. Assembly, as the “hon. and colonial mem-
ber.” To which Purves presently retorted by
alluding to Lalor as the “ hon and imported mem-
ber.” “Paid freight, however,” chuckled the old
man. “ And lost weight,” cried the other, with a
significant glance at Lalor’s empty sleeve.
“Vic.”: About Superintendent O’Cal-
laghan, talked of as successor to Chief Commis-
sioner of Police Chomley. I lately met the officer,
Mr. Ellis, now retired, who upset the plot for a
cadet college 20 years ago. He learned it from
an inebriated inspector who said, “ Ah, you are all
going to be chief constables. No chance of any of
you getting to be inspectors.” My informant
rushed to Sergeant Toohey, who rushed to Premier
Berry, and a democratic list of half-a-dozen in-
spectors soon came out.
Wimbah, the Westralian north-country
aborigine who is credited with first discovering
gold at Bulong, which the rushers straightway
branded 1.0. U., was lately found dead with a
spear-wound in his back. Wimbah hadn’t, after
the manner of mine-discoverers, flowered into a
patron of the turf, or art, or an owner of long, thin
dogs that run after a hare; he had just been re-
christened “ Tiger,’’and more or less earned tucker
and bacca for himself and a disputed gin by mind-
ing a butcher’s sheep and pigs!
Five of the brothers of King O'Malley,
M.P. (S.A.), were killed in the American Civil
War. (They must have been his elder brothers,
and King O’M. himself must be at the other end
of an enormous family.) Although Canadians by
birth, they all gravitated across the frontier at
early ages, and he himself ran away from home
when only 11. His escapade began with a tragedy,
for he and a companion climbed up to the top
of a loaded freight-car to get a free ride, and the
other boy was swept off while passing under a
bridge.
Sir Henry Barkly, recently dead, was for-
merly Governor of Victoria. Forty years ago he
lqoked ready for demise. Like Daniel Cooper,
who never seems certain whether his head is. fixed
all right on his shoulders, Barkly—long, lean, and
fragile—seemed a veritable ghost of a Governor.
And yet he lived to the age of 83 years, and then
died of heart disease! Which upsets the ordinary
notion of physical indications of strength and
vitality. ’Tis the fragile people who live longest,
and who— mirabile diet'd / —have enough heart left
at 83 to die of it.
Mr. D. S. Mitchell’s gift of his library to
the citizens of N.S.W. is the largest donation of
the kind so far in Australia. Thomas Walker, of
Concord, presented to Sydney University the
Stenhouse Library, which he bought for £7OO cash
but which was worth, a quarter of a century ago,
many times that sum. William Macleay the
second also presented a valuable library. It
chiefly comprised works on natural history, but its
intrinsic value was considerable, ana he added to
the gift a sum of £OOOO to establish a curatorship'
in connection with it.
Justice Cooper, of eccentric antecedents,
who has just completed a term of 15 years as
Puisne Judge, is retiring from Q. Supreme Court
Bench, with the customary six months’ leave—
before stepping into his little pension of £looo'
per annum. By Lilley’s death the Q. Govt, saved
£1250 a year—so it won't mind the little annuity
due to Cooper. The latter has lived mostly in the
North ; is comparatively young; and is famous as
having run up one of the prettiest little bills of
circuit expenses on record. What a blazing row it
did raise in Q. Assembly !
Mr. D. S. Mitchell, who has announced!
his intention of endowing the N.S.W. public with
his unique Australian library—it is no doubt quite
untrue that he ever thought of endowing it with
£BOO a year for up-keep —is a rich bachelor, a
graduate of Sydney Uuiversity. The formation
of his splendid book-collection has been the work
and the hobby of his life. Mr. Mitchell is the
most retiring of men, with an absolute horror of
publicity, and there are probably not a dozen
people who have ever seen his books.
One of the solemn convictions of James R.
Dickson, Queensland’s new Premier, is that his
Parliamentary speeches are in themselves a liberal
education. In the Gresley Lukin Courier days
this belief of the pious rent-collector reached the
sublimely impressive. Reports which excised such
ornate expressions as “our prairie estate ” and the
“pristine beauty of our rolling downs” were
promptly complained of. Dickson at that time
wrote out and rehearsed his speeches, and often
to-day he reproduces in current debates whole
pages of the eloquence of 30 years ago.
Alf. Bishop, the Melb. Argus sporting
man, telephoned to Mr. Sep. Miller the night
before Caulfield Cup and was answered by the
butler. “ Will you ask Mr. Miller,” said Bishop,
“ if he intends to start Realgar for the Hurdle to-
morrow.” The careful myrmidom took no chances
about disturbing the boss, and cautiously asked
who was speaking. “ Bishop,” answered the
scribe, and, fully satisfied, the butler made his
way to the drawing-room. “The Bishop of
Melb.,” he announced to the startled assemblage,
“ desires to know whether you intend to start
Realgar in the Hurdle to-morrow, sir.”
Chief Justice Griffith, snubbed out of the
Deputy-Governorship of Queensland, merits, in a.
sense, being bracketed with Martin and Higin-
botham. Higinbotbam’s bearing towards “ the
man Rogers ” caused the Victorian Chief Justice-
ship to be stripped of vice-regal glory, and
Martin’s wife’s feud with the lady-occupant of
Govt. House similarly denuded the N.S. Wales
C. J.-ship. Higinbotham didn’t care, but Martin
did, just as poor, “ honor’’-loving Griffith does.
The deprivation of Higinbotham and Martin
lasted while they lived ; at their death the
Deputy-Governorship reverted to the Chief
Justice. Griffith’s deprivation is only- tem-
porary, but from the abased whine with which he
saluted it one can imagine the bedridden agony
he would have manifested had he been slapped in
the face as Higinbotham and Martin were.
SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
Oiar
ms
13
CIGARETTES.
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BETESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is ?old by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocos, Limited, Sydney.
Tlie Famous Fre icli
Chocolate.
GHOCObIIT IiIEKIEI
Obtainable from all Orocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
IV. M. Cameron & Co.,
240 Georye-st., Sydney.


Aboriginalities.
“The Baron ” narrates a quaint experience :
Was managing a big' drugstore, and got a call from a
lev gentkmau, engaged in converting the heathen from
Ins blindness to the particular theological system con-
secrated to Wesley. Said missionary inquired if I knew
ot two clear colorless liquids which, when mixed, pro-
duced a turbid fluid? I did. And could I prepare a
lhi id solution which, being added to the turbid mixture,
«ould clear it up again ? I could. Then the gentleman
explained. He was holding evangelical classes for the
young heathen ; and lie wished, by means of said solu-
tions, to give ocular demonstration of the sad effects of
sin upon the human soul, and the power of “ the Blood”
to purity said soul, as revealed in Holy Writ, Though
astounded at this latest employment of chemical magic
as an aid to Christian education, I undertook (for a con-
sideration) to prepare the three solutions. One (of cor-
rosive sublimate) I decorated with the legend “Sin-
poison the second (pot, iodide) bore the title “Tub
Human Soul, while the third (a stronger solution of the
same salt) was inscribed “The Cleansing Blood.” The de-
monstration, I was informed, was highly successful, and
in less than a week the bottles were sent in to be refilled
Tip for soul-savers.
* * * *
YVhen that big-hearted Scot and capable
administrator, Chairman Alex. Brodie, of Thames
County Council (M.L.), was pushing the road
through from Crahamstown to Paeroa he was
much hindered by the obstructive tactics of an
ill-conditioned old chieftain named Tukukino
who had sworn by the hook of Maui that the
pakeha, should not go through his ancestral lands,
even it Brodie fascined it with his whiskers and
metalled it with golden sovereigns of Kuine YVika-
tona. vyhat if Nfkorima Poutoutara, and Te
Moananui, and Mokana, and Hoterene Taipari
had given their consent to the white land-stealers
to make the road—it was just what might be
expected of men who sent their sons to pakeha
schools, and whose degeneracy showed itself in
the wearing of boots and collars stiffened with
flour—and the old man would spit viciously, and
draw a line with his bare toe in the dust of the
horse-track, and state that something sudden
would happen to the first pakeha who crossed it
with bill hook and chain. Brodie bounced and
cajoled by turns,’but without avail, and at last he
tried new tactics. He sent up to take charge of
the works close to the disputed point a Scotch
foreman, who was also an expert dancer and per-
former on the bagpipes. This worthy erected a
dancing-stage, and began instructing his navvies
in the intricacies of the “ Ghillie Callum,” the
strathspey, and the “ Highland Fling.” The out-
landish music and the strange capers soon brought
the sullen tribesmen out of their shells, and in a
day or two Sandy had the whole of Tukukino’s
Impu—men, women, and piccaninies—“loupin”'
AFTER USING TWO BOTTLES
like bacchantes to the “ skirlin’ ” of bagpipes and
snapping their fingers and yelling out “ heuch ! ”
Before the novel amusement had begun to pali on
these simple children of nature, Sandy, one after-
noon, began demolishing the stage, and, with an
affectation of sorrovv, made a little valedictory
speech to the Maoris, saying that his chief had
ordered him to go to Te Aroha and there teach
the new haka to people who would let them make
the road. They entreated him to remain, but he
was obdurate, and then they volunteered to use a
strong incantation on Tukukino to induce him to
permit the road-making to proceed. “I dinna
ken what they did tae the auld curmudgeon,” said
Sandy when he was telling the story afterwards,
but that verra nieht a wee bit lassie cam ower
tae my tent wi’ her fenger tae her lup and telt me
to haeremai ’ wi’ her. I naiturally thocht it wus
an oidinar bit o love maltin’—but no, she wusna
on for that. She took me ower tae whar the chief
lived, an’l went an’ keeks through a hole in the
auld deevil’s whare, an’ there he wus, rheumatics
an’ a’, takin’ a lesson in the dance, whiles a thick-
lupped Maori wus a-whusslin’ like mad at the
auld Scots tune, ‘Some say the deil’s deid an’
buried in Kirkaldy.’ I wus able tae telegraph
tae Maister Brodie the morrow’s morn that the
opposeetion wus a’ gane.”
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : I flatter myself I’m the only
man living (except perhaps Rougemont) who ever
hooked a bun yip. Fishing in Lake George for a
reported gigantic cod, I got a bite I shall never
forget; and, with help of N.S.W. Govt. Astrono-
mer’s men (he was camped there at the time), suc-
ceeded in hauling to the surface a hairy monster
that made us “ leave ” as quickly as our legs could
take us. As far as I could judge from the very
hasty glance I got of the hairy gent, he tallied
with what has been described by several Bulletin
writers. Mr. Russell’s men, if they survived the
fright, can vouch for the truth of this. [Poor
bunyip ! Pretty low-down now—victim of the
common fish-liar !]
* » • *
“Old Jack”: Against “Steele Rudd’s”
allegation that jackasses don’t kill snakes, I sub-
mit my solemn affidavit that not once, but half-a-
dozen times, I have seen Jack kill snakes, and
very big ones. Jack won’t tackle a snake in
a tree, for the obvious reason that a snake that
can get a turn or two round a branch is hard
to shift. But on the ground snake has but small
show with Jack, who collars the back of the head,
and before he has time to object has him high in
the air. Then Jack drops him, on a hard place
for choice, and Jack’s mate takes a hand. For
that matter, I’ve seen a flock of minahs kill a
snake. Owned a game hen once that fought a sft.
snake. In this last case, the snake settled the
hen, and I the snake ; but it shows that feathered
creatures, on occasion, will face the reptile their
instinct teaches is so dangerous. Jackasses on
“ Steele Rudd’s ” selection must be degenerates,
with a bad “tired feeling.”
» • * *
Telegram from Whitehead's find (a new
rush) printed in a Westralian goldfields paper :
“ Two females have arrived here and commenced
business.” Short and to the point.
• • • •
“C.S.”: Be somebody’s denial of possi-
bility of cat-'possum miscegenation,"at Brisbane’s
annual show in 1888 or ’B9, amongst the cats was
one with a fine litter of kitten-’possum joeys. Also,
cats and rabbits have interbred. Apropos, why
not try cross of ostrich and emu ? It might hap-
pen that the offspring would be productive.
“C.J.H.”: Don’t think “P.
M‘D.” has seen many bower-birds.
When surveying on the Mechi, have
heard them, in a. tree over my tent,
imitating to perfection the hawk, black
magpie, butcher-bird, galah, cockatoo,
wag-tail, bronze-wing, blue dove, and
dog. Anything shiny at once attracts
b-b.’s attention. Saw one take a spoon
from the cook’s galley and carry it
about 100yds. Also have raked up a
half-crown from the heap of whitened
bones, “cbainies,” broken glass, pol-
ished pebbles, &e., in one of their play-
houses. The black satin-bird (a species
of b.b.) inhabiting the coast districts
does not mimic, but I have never seen
these on the Western plains.
* • * *
He treasure-seeking. Writer met
a non-com. in Egypt who told how,
after Tel-el-Kebir, he heard some tipsy
swaddies confined in the guard - tent
talking about two boxes of English
gold they had found in an Egyptian
officer’s tent, and buried on the spot to
await a better opportunity. The non-
com.—so he said went to the place
and prodded round with a bayonet until
he struck the loot, but finding the
boxes too heavy to lift solus, he got a
comrade, who afterwards died (they
always do !), to help, and they replanted
the spoil and took bearings of date-
palms in approved buccaneer style.
Writer (then pnly a fledgling and ver-
dant) afterwards introduced narrator
to a friend in England, who was induced
to advance, the cash to buy the man’s
discharge, in order to recover the coin.
The warrior, however, went promptly
on a howling spree and died howling, so
the proposed expedition never came off.
How ya dom ? ” said a drummer to
Tommy the Ferryman, who had recently leased
Broadwater ferry at a stiff price. “ Pritty busy ”
said .Tommy ; “1 put seven God-bless-yers acrosst
rather staggered the bagman.
1 didn t think there was so many clergymen on
the river. ’ “ Oh, God-bless-yers ain’t sin-pushers.
It s wot I calls the swaggies. They bang about
the ferry till I get sick a-seein’ them, and then I
puts them acrosst, an’ they nearly always sez, * I’ve
£ot no money, Tommy, but God bless yer.’ Bless-
m s is very nice, but you carn’t pay rent with them
even to a God-fearin’ Guv’mint.”
* * * *
“De S.” : An addition to your rabbit
facts. Have dug out portion of a warren, and
found bunny, cat, and iguana curled up together.
What would be the result there ? A bunyip ?
“F. W. 0.” : The
bunyip isn’t, as “ W.S.
T.” suggests, a bloated
codfish. It is a mul-
guwanke (a soft “ g,”
please). Lived when I
was a boy by Lake Al-
exandria (S.A.), a pe-
culiarity of which is a
recurrent sound like
muffled report of gun.
This sound is made by
the mulguwanke, which
an ancient black once
told me he had seen
sunning itself on the
bank. Described it as
about 6ft. long, with a
woman’s head and fish’s
body covered with hair
from head to tail.
There were certain bays
in the lake which no
blackfellow dared enter
because the muku-
wankes lived there.
• •
“A.A.A.”: Be nig-
ger-driving cookies. Re-
cently got a job from
a South Coast man—9s.
a week and keep. To
show him my willing-
ness, I got out first
morning at 4.40, bub
on my way to milking-
yard met my boss, who
shouted : “Hey! young
man. Where ’ave you
been hall the fore-
noon ? ” Ironically I re-
plied that I had got up
at 4, but, finding all the
cows asleep, had gone
back to bed again. But,
as he was too thick in
the head to “ see ” it, he
called me a liar and
trotted out the usual
cocky-cant about men
not really wanting work.
Didn’t stop to break-
fast I
.
J .A. : Why do bush folk cling so con-
servatively to the crude stick-and-rag-wick slush-
lamp with its poor, unsteady light, and its enor-
mous production of smoke, when a really good
lamp can be rigged up with the same materials
and scarcely more trouble ? Cut your jam-tin off
shallow, bend a piece of the spare metal to span it
just below the top like a bridge, having in the
centre a depression about three-quarters of an inch
wideband a quarter or three-eighths deep. In the
middle of this depression pierce a hole with the
jagged edge upvyards, and through this hole draw
a loose round wick, which may be made of soft
untwisted string or threads pulled from a rag, and
which should be about as thick as an ordinary
. ®".P enei * - . kti°k apm down the topof the wick
it it is not stiff enough to stand erect while burn-
ing, and keep the lamp filled with fat above the
level of the depressed centre of the bridge. This
will give a steady smokeless light, and will need no
more frequent or troublesome attention than the
sooty abomination generally resorted to,
THE IMMORTAL PAT.
POLICEMAN: “What are you
going to do with the parrot,
Pat?”
PAT: “O, I’ve heard that these
’ere birds live two hundred
years , and I’m going to see if this cove will!”
Long-Un :We had a bay mare in camp
once—a real beauty. Bush-fires raging both sides
of surveyed line through three : mile belt of dense
mallee. Fifteen-stone man riding mare along
line ; wind suddenly veers round, and blows fire
towards line, threatening to cut off horse and
rider. A race for life through dense smoke and
stifling heat; only another 30 chains to do when
mare stumbles over stump, but manages to
struggle on into low, green scrub, as fire sweeps
past behind and within sfcone’s-throw. In com-
parative safety, rider dismounts, and finds mare’s
hind-leg broken; drags animal a little distance,
buries saddle and bridle, burns circle round mare,
and off “on his own ” for dear life. Couldn’t
credit supposed fairy tale: rode out next day,
tracked, and eventually found, mare by her
whinnies at edge of burnt timber ; mane and tail
singed, otherwise looked uninjured. Examined
hind leg, and found bone protruding through
hock.. “No possible.” Ended her with a merciful
Martini; but how stiff the trigger was !
Miss EDYTH LATIMER, a young Australian actress.
Photo., Falk Studios .
“T.J.”: When will someone start to
make axes that will stand the M.L. timber? I
know of a party of six experienced axemen who
on a 200 acres bushfalling job broke 108 axes at
5/6 each. There is not a brand of axes on the
market at present that will stand M.L. wood.
* * * *
“Bal” : Can’t beat gamecocks for pluck.
We have one that has fought everything on the
farm, from the tame emu to the prize ram. His
last battle was with a 3ft. black snake. Snake
had evidently come after eggs and disturbed a sit-
ting fowl. Rooster heard the cackling, investi-
gated, and took-on the trouble. I saw about 10
min. of the fight. Snake would rear as if to
spring, when rooster would jump past it striking
with spur and beak. Snake got all the worst of it,
didn’t seem to be in it, not getting home once,
although considerably smashed about itself. The
biped had several times driven ’ s spur clean
through the reptile. Gamecock .11 alive and
boss of the yard.
* * * «
“T.P.” : Have often heard that pigs are
strychnine-proof, but the drug is stated in Cassell’s
“Family Physician” to be fatal, so far
as known, to every living creature.
Woodville’s “Medical Botany,” on the
other hand, says strychnine has been
given in large quantities to swine
without producing any effect. Have
seen it laid down elsewhere, however,
that a small insect lives in the nux-
vomica nut. Dr. Chisholm, in his “ Poi-
sons,’’says he has known a boar to be
killed in 10 minutes with one-third grain
injected in alcoholic solution.
• * •
“Tin Lip” : Had a glorious
night out recently. Being good moon-
light, made 10 of the station blacks drag
trails on horseback (aniseed-saturated
meat attached to a string) from 10 dif-
ferent parts of the run, each 10 miles
away, to a dead beast in the house-pad-
dock. Self and two of the men am-
bushed to windward of carcase. At
dusk dingoes started following trails
homo, and by daylight we had potted
14 of them, five selector’s dogs, and eight
goannas.
* * *
“ 0.Y.H.”: Re blacks’ counting
capacity ; I once knew a nigger who
used to indicate a vast number of ducks
on a lagoon by saying—“ Million ; t’ou-
san’; close-up hund’ed ! ” In their own
language, as far as I know, “ newel ”
(one), “mnlla-mulla” (two), “dowel-
dowel” (three), “gnarp4” (four),
“moonjeroo” (plenty), is the extent
of their counting.
There was recently seen in Flinders-
es tree t, Melbourne, a sailor accompanied by a
“ native companion” (brolga). The bird followed
like a dog, and, on being whistled, would come to
heel as well as any collie.
* • * •
K. W. Foster, M.P. (S.A.), ex-Wesleyan
preacher, was found on his knees, the other day,
in the Parliamentary Library, and a fellow legis-
lator exclaimed, “ Hello, old chap, are you pray-
ing for rain ? ” The reply was : “ No, I have
tried that for three years, but it was no good. I
suppose I am not a righteous man now.” Then
the colleague ventured on an explanation : “When
your petition got to heaven,” he affirmed, “the
Lord said to Gabriel, ‘ Look up R. W. Foster and
see how he stands on the books.’ In a little while
the reply came, * Oh, he’s all right—he’s a Wes-
r
SSRcestershibS
b OCERSim tueiihlTED
SoftCaQVa& Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
’ S
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE RItOTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.


leyan minister.’ The order for rain was accord-
ingly sent out, but before it could be executed an
officious archangel hurried along and reported—
-1 R. W. Foster’s not a Wesleyan minister now—
he’s a member of Parliament.’ Then the order
was cancelled.” This remark suggested a true
story of the drought in the North. There was a
good Catholic there who, like many other hard-
working farmers, was reduced to great straits.
His two meals one day consisted first of a dish of
flour and water followed by a dish of boiled wheat.
Naturally the indigestible mass got compacted
like concrete in the poor fellow, and he swal-
lowed a glass of machine oil in the endeavor
to move it. This violent experiment failed, and
Dr. Shanahan, of Quorn, was called in. He saw
that nothing could be done, and while he was
there the farmer, lying on a couch and looking
through the window, saw a rain-storm coming up.
As often happens in that part of the country,
however, some natural feature intervened to
divide the shower, and one-half of it went to the
right and the other to the left, refreshing the
lands of his neighbors on either side, but leaving
his own farm dry. Then the patient heart burst:
“ Oh, Lord,” he cried, “ I have prayed to You for
water for years, but I’ll do so no more. In future
I’ll bore for it. I have been a good Catholic all
my life, but here you miss my land and give the
rain to two damned Wesleyans 1 ” The old fellow
died next day. The accuracy of which story is
vouched for by the doctor and the politician afore-
mentioned.
* * * •
“ Steele Rudd ” : he “ W.H.T.’s ” par.,
3/9/’9B. Present scribe is writing reminiscences of
his parent, who helped to “ blaze the tracks ” of
the Darling Downs, Maranoa, and Leichhardt;
commencing just 50 years ago. He says :“ No
blacks on the Upper Dawson in 63-4.” Wrong!
From ’49 to the 70’s have seen mobs of ’em on
Taroom, Cabarlah, Coracoa, Cockatoo, Bungabau,
Paimtree, and Mount Hutton. And crimes were
committed by them as late as the 80’s on the
Dawson. For a while after the Fraser massacre,
the blacks were prohibited by Andrew Scott from
entering Hornet Bank run, but that the squatters
ever raised a fund and brought others over from
N.S.W. to “disperse” them is quite untrue.
There was no necessity for it, anyway. Police-
officers Dowling and Skelton, with about 30
troopers, were stationed there, ready at any time
to disperse the empire, if called upon. Also, have
an idea how that bunyip got into Eurambah
lagoon. To prevent the niggers bathing in it and
polluting the water, which was all the station
relied upon for drinking and household purposes,
they were told debbil-debbil was in it. And a
blackfellow isn’t anything if not superstitious.
“ L ” : jRe 'roo.—Anybody noticed
hat the two prominent teeth in the lower
Jaw act as a pair of shears, enabling the
marsupial to clip the grass to ground
level ? Also, does any other animal
possess this dental peculiarity?
*•* ‘ •
“ Paul ” : “ Steele Rudd ” simply
can’t have snakes in jackass nest, because
he never saw the nest itself, though he
might know its situation in a hollow
tree. Have known “goannas” to pil-
lage pe-wee’s nests for eggs, but snakes
are not fond of eggs and therefore have no
cause to go into a jack’s nest. S.R. should
keep “on his selection,” where he can
hold his humorous own with anybody.
Am anxiously on look-out for his book.
* * » *
“P.G-.” : W.A. holds the record—
too hot even for a blackfellow. Was
tramping to Gone Bung rush last sum-
mer, and at the intersection of several
tracks came across a W.A. nigger.
“Which way Gone Bung?” I asked.
The black lay on his back in the shade,
and waved his hand feebly. “ Too
pluray ’ot ’im yabber yabber,” he said.
And I had to choose a track myself.
* * • *
“C.J.H.”: Does any Bulletin
reader know of a Darling flood higher
than that of ’9O? Was shown near Fort
Bourke a big block of gum perched in a
gidyea-tree Bft. above ’9O flood-level.
Can’t imagine how it came there, if not
through a flood.
* m * «
“Pakmar”: Re rabbits not com-
ing out of a pipe if they can’t turn.
Have seen it printed that if they are
starving and happen against a wire net
fence they will die looking through it if
there be any feed the other side.
Now, ye bush-naturalists! Western Queens-
land is visited by swarms of peregrinating rats at
certain intervals of time. They seem to wend
mostly westward, and are nearly all males—only
four or five per cent, being females. Can anybody
enlighten writer as to the habits, habitat, origin
and destination of the species ? They appear to
drop through suddenly into nowhere.
• * » ♦
“ Timber-jack ” —a tight place: Rafting
timber down the Rangitikei River, M.L., we got
ashore one night and left one man to take the raft
further down. Getting caught in an eddy in a
bend, the raft tilted over and he got jammed by
the legs against the bank, a papa cliff 300 ft. high,
and there remained for hours with river rising
and the raft with it, but not the man. Carved his
name and the address of his parents in Norway
with his sheath knife in the cliff, and had given up
all hope when a floating log struck the raft end-on,
and set him free just as the water had reached his
shoulders.
* • * *
“J.P.”: In an old scrap-book I come
across the names of the officers of the Hauraki
(M.L.) Native Volunteers: Captain Wiremu
Hqterene Taipari, Lieut. Raika Whakarongatai,
and Ensign Matiu Poona, and the flood-gates of
memory are opened. The uniform was blue with
red facings, French peak caps. Captain Taipari’s
favorite command was “pika peoneta” (“fix
bayonets ”), but he usually forgot “ the word ” to
ensure the return of the bayonets into the sheaths,
and as his subordinates’ memories were no better,
he would leave the contingent standing posed at
“ the charge ” while he went to korero Major
Cooper, and refresh his memory in the necessary
direction. Taipari’s father, old Hoterene, though
very rich and very blue-blooded, would come to
the parade-ground without any boots and not
much trousers to speak of, and, as he was bumble-
footed, he cut a queer figure hopping about and
ostentatiously inspecting his gaily-caparisoned son
from various points of view. Captain Taipari
often seemed disconcerted at the behavior of his
parent, but I don’t chink his feelings were ever so
much hurt as they were on an occasion when
Governor Normanby inspected the corps and the
old man “ hirpled ” up to the H. Ex., and,
ing to the captain, quavered out: “Kapai!
tamaite Wireemu?” (“I ask you to admire my
son, William.”)
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
“ Aroha ”: Becke, it is true, disclaims the
possession of “ great literary art”: but at his best he has
a thousand times the effectiveness of most of the people
who criticise him. His power lies in his directness,
simplicity, and keen sense of the dramatic. His “ Reef
and Palm ” stories are the best South Sea tales ever
written—probably the best that ever will be written.
“Stevenson for style.” Quite true —but style isn’t
story .....Candoro : Bulletin Xmas number will not , we
assure you, have “ too much blood ”in it. There proba-
bly won’t be enough blood in it this time. This time it
will be nearly all love—and alleged humor. No murder,
all “skirt.” . E.B. : Though he enjoyed eight years
of ministerial office—he yet did nothing. Not one good
measure, one stand for right, one step towards progress,
is associated with his name. He promised much, per-
formed nothing E.G.K. : Below mediocrity Melb. :
But did B. write the Edinburgh article himself ?
C.M.V. : Declined A.D.: Plaintive kind of cat-noise....
Haidee : Pointless A.P. : Unsuitable A.W. : Hope-
less Enal: There ought to be a literary gaol where
such crimes could be sent to do six months hard
H.C.C. : “ Bessie ” not interest enough Athelstone :
If that damp, heavy poem got into the sun it would put
it out sure. As the sun’s an old and valuable contributor
we prefer to put the poem out sure 1.P.: Contents on
a dead level —like a cemetery’s. (This is a j0ke.).,..
Prospect : “Recollection” not up O.K. : Unfortunately
Master LOUIS POUSSARD,
Photo., Grouzelle Studio .
for“O.P.’s thesis about the connection between smell
and butchers' supposed robustness, meatmen (though
necessarily recruited from the strongest youths) have
between the ages of 25 and 65 a death-rate above the
average of working males, and are specially liable to
rheumatic fever, gout, diabetes, cancer and Bright’s
disease A.D.B. (Q.): Considering verse A.G.A. :
Can’t use A.D.B. : “Humpy,” “ Grace,” and “ G.R.8.”
declined J.A. : “Sin of G.” declined A.G.E. : (1)
Nothing known about exact locality of Deniehy’s birth in
Kent-st., Sydney; but it’s pretty certain that a house
standing there in 1828 is not there now. (2) For “ Old
Sydney” try Maclehose's “Picture of SydProut’s
“ Sydney Illustrated,” and similar works in Pub. Lib.
Cairns :On consideration, not good enough. You can
abuse us as you please in these columns, but you must
do it readably H.B. : Worthless Rufus ; Long,
dull, dashed Bed Rock : Unusable Student : Some
thoughtful value ; not enough interest ... Joe A. : Cheer-
less puerility ...Hard-up: “Marsupial Bill" is in
Bruntori Stephens’ book of verses ; 4s. posted
R.B.C. : Bit flat A.W.H. : Declined W.G.W. :
Sorry unusable W.A. : Strange as it may seem, it
takes as much practice to write verse as to handle an axe.
No. 7 : May get something from “ Sphinx” ; but do
leave the frills alone Ned : One may serve as sugges-
tion R.F. : Word J.A.K. was driving at, in his sugges-
tion of “ Australina ” as name for Federal capital, was
“ Australind.” (Australindisa W.A. village near Bunbury,
with a population of two and their families) Canowindra:
Mr. Storey, M.P., who says that the word “ Federation ”
has never been a bh-ssed one to him, unless considered
from the point of view of serving the interests of Sydney,
is an utterly hopeless provincialist. So shameless is his
localism that, while prepared to sacrifice Australia for
N.S. Wales and N.S. Wales for Sydney, he is ready to use
OUR NEW MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT.
“ What do you think of our new member, Pat?”
“Well, bedad, he’s iron bound with red tape,
that’s all!"
Sydney in the interests of his own constituency, Rand-
wick, by advocating that the Federal Houses of Parlia-
ment shall be located in the Centennial Park O.D. :
You want the Federal city called “ Unity ” or “ Concor-
dia.” Bah ! We want a city—not a copy-book sentiment
on the map An Ignorant Teuton : The race doesn’t lie
wholly with Rougemont, Tozer, and Munchausen. Give
Mandeville and good old Bishop Pontoppidan a show
C.C. : The tea-fiend’s hat hardly up to mark F.R. :“ A
Life for a Name ” clever and artificial and unreal. Re-
jected with moderate scorn W.v-perie : But, then, you
send no shred of evidence beyond an assertion and a
signature. A letter by Jones furiously abusing Smith
often proves to be Smith’s own letter with a view to libel
and damages and advt. Are you Smith? We've met
Smith so often Boz : So the gentleman said she had
nice legs. Did he, now? Larriba : Many thanks
Camper : The locks of all the bedrooms in cheap lodging-
houses are identical, for the convenience of the chamber-
maids Halit: Great Heavens ! why send us a prose
version of “ The Portrait ” ? Almost as well send along
the Lord’s Prayer in rhyme C. 0.8. : No, for in Chief
Justice Dowling’s day Botany Bay law allowed only 48
hours to pass between the capital sentence and the exe-
cution T.P. : Reason why there is so much trouble up
country (N.S.W.) over the travelling stock routes is that
because, while ostensibly under the control and manage-
ment of the Mines Department, the Lands Department
can, and does, let them J. M. O’R. : Thanks, but
hardly suitable Nulla : Bona ! W. Brenta : Will
look up E. : “ Kitty,” moderately well-written, but
tooundressy Jackeroo: “Speed-Promoter” too absurd
and not absurd enough H.M.C. : Nothing Alpha
R. : Less than nothing W.L.A.: Would need to be
better tha.i items sent A.L.S. : Obliged, but out of
our orbit H.R.M‘O. : “ Bonnivarde ” accepted
J.S.C. : Already had that kangaroo-yarn Pros. G. :
M‘lntyre in type . . J.E. : Empty . J.P. : Too vague
and general J.A.G. : Good enough, but not new.
W.A.H. : Shoo ! H. Mullett : That joke has happened
all over the habitable globe J. Jin.: You write about
the seduced man who was hunted out of society for being
the father of the child of the woman he was unmarried to
Who ever saw society even in Cow Flat—do anything of
the kind ? R.S. : Blinker’s drum rather long for merit.
... Colbinabin : The sun was so hot and the horse so
thin that they had to tie blankets round it to prevent the
hay in its stomach taking fire. Thanks Bergoo : The
banks retain unclaimed balances simply because there is
no law against it. The steal is not authorised by any
statute. Don’t remember par Go West : Bulletin
never told young man to “go West” to W.A M.M. :
That lady’s mascotte days are about over Pukaki :
Such mistakes as the statement that the Bank of Otago
was “ afterwards the National ” make us doubtful about
your accuracy all round Doric : Shadowy grievance.
Scatz : Sex problem has apparently no end or begin-
ning and no definite middle. It’s all like trying to tie a
rope round a fog Phoenix : (1) He can t claim any-
thing unless he had an agreement about wages. (2)
He can sell the lease or sub-let it. A copy of the sub-letting
agreementmust be sent to chairman of local land-board..
J.D.K.Z.: Well, what were they doing when tliar
horrified Presbyterian caught sight of them? J.F.D. :
“ The Australian native demands his rights,” you say,
“and the imported swab cringes for them.” Certainly !
The Australian native is the salt of the earth, and the one
noble, fearless, independent, blanky being thereon. We
will now have an imported threepenny beer D.C.G. :
Barrett never acknowledged that “ Sign of the Cross ”
was badly derived from “ Quo Vadis.” Did you expect
him to ? Araluen : Seven yarns ; four very old
chestnuts; one yarn dismissed on account of being
in suspicious company ; two no good E. McDon-
nell : Miller of Monaro is hardly worth the trouble.
A.M.B. : No, strangely enough, it isn’t G. Don-
aldson : Nicely written, but lacks plot and incident
and several other things . .Bosworth (Gympie) : Thanks...
J.B.P. : Noted with thanks G.G. (Q.): You talk about
the same old girl in the same old way. That old srirl
seems to go by clockwork Carini: Try it on a police-
man R.B.P. : Wouldn’t use it to stop a hole in a mud-
bank Berserker :“ He never rose again.” Nor it
B. : Yes, B.L P.R.A. : “ Gaudy carcase” —hm !
E. : Fair idea; not handled brightly . Atie : Not
good enough E.P. : Hopeless feminine imagination.
Sorosis: That was a flaw missed in the hurry
Wake: “Sleep” pretty dull Nourambi • Not much
interest ... Eulbertie : Possibly McG. : “G” over-long
and dull .... Philos : Declined D.B. : “Choice”flat
R. : Either too juvenile or too senile Nil : “ In-
quest ” item wants a dash of humor Myall: Have read
it all through, and swear there is a Hell L.M.: But you
have to fake quote Wanderoo : “ Love ” well written, but
unprintable. Other less good, and less printable
Nerra : No good B.E. : “ Mimi ” bit hard ; and we’ve
had the point already T.E.R. : Worthless . S.A.B. :
Sainted Brunker! you’ll ask us to print “ Paradise
Lost” next Umph: Wants neater finish ..Phyllis :
You’re not the “neat-handed” one, at all events
F. ; Exasperating pale scrawl A.E.M. : Parodies
are the saddest literature on earth Vigand : One or
two will do W. 5.8.: Solomon joke rather steep
M.C.: As an improvement on your idea, mark off a thin
strip of Western N.S.W. from the Queensland border to
Vic. Make it Federal territory and put the capital in the
centre. Then the Federal capital will be adjacent to
S. Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria—and Gehenna
Yarrum : Civil servant at £350 a year spent three hours
hunting in long grass for white Leghorn chicken that
had strayed from its mother. That’s nothing. Bulletin
once, long ago, saw a £l5OO a year Premier spend three
hours around Castlereagh-street, Sydney, looking for a
small Flossie who had strayed from her mother, and from
a good many other things besides Nugget: Declined
with loud swear .Felix Aldan Sunny maiden of 20
summers” is in waste-paper basket The Pipe: In-
coherent tale of fallen girl. Style seems to suggest
that girl could fall better with care and practice.
Sidney Carton : “Fallen Angel” well written, but
too long. So we let him fall. You can hear the thud in
the distance Geo. 11. D. (Auckland): 24 verses of bad
drivel with convulsions Tin Lip: Both ancient
C. : Fine old crusted lie ! T. Chip : To hand.
Dear Bulletin. — A recent allusion to
the possibility of the stay-at-home man being
the best traveller, reminds me of the somewhat
romantic discovery of the Solomon Islands.
First found by Mendana, the journal of the
voyage kept by Gallege was suppressed bv
the Spaniards from fear of Drake, then making
Eastern waters particularly unsafe for stray
capitalists, and the islands remained lost,
although glowing reports of their phenomenal
riches were spread all over the world. Meh-
dana himself failed on his second voyage to
find the group again, and disappeared mys-
teriously, with ship, wife and family, while
his lieutenant, Quiros, who had accom-
panied Mendana on the first trip, also missed
the group on that memorable voyage when
his subaltern Torres struck Australia. Al-
though Carteret, Bougainville, Surville and
others unwittingly, 200 years later, blundered
onto the islands, the Solomons remained lost
till one Buache, a French geographer, in 1784
or thereabouts, identified the group, redis-
covered them from his chimney corner, as it
were, and the illfated La Perouse expedition
was sent out to verify the savant’s allega-
tion. — Von K.
Captain John Mackenzie to The Bulletin :
Re certain statements recently made in Sydney D.T.
about masters’ and mates’ certificate-examinations in
Sydney, let me add that at all other British ports where
examinations are held all problems are received from the
Board of Trade, and that the Sydney examiner obstructs
candidates’ access to books and tables, which are allowed
by the Board of Trade regulations, and used by all can-
didates except in Sydney. Also, the deviation-card used
is altogether different from any deviation-cards in use
elsewhere ; and the candidate is not, as elsewhere,
allowed the use of the compass-card and table. The
nautical almanac again is dissected, and only a portion of
the book allowed, thus making it next to impossible to
arrive at a correct result. If the practice followed in all
other British ports were adopted here it would prevent
many from going to other ports as is the case at present.
“ OLIVER BAINBRIDGE”: Australia's very
latest.
Photo., Charleston Studios, Newcastle, N.S. W.
It has come ! Herewith is its portrait—
“ English, quite English, you know! ” at firstglanee.
But not so. The self-styled “Oliver Bainbridge”
hails from Toowoomba (Q.), and is the first Aus-
tralian to go into the world-walking business.
Oliver is to do GO,OOO miles in six years, supporting
himself meanwhile by his “ lectures and enter-
tainments,” and writing a book about his pere-
grinations as he goes. Oliver maintains that, as
he pays his way and hurts nobody, his little un-
dertaking is not deserving of the sneers levelled
at it by a portion of the Australian country press.
The N.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so mueh superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.*
The pleasant-looking girl whose face ap-
pears on page 14 is Miss Edyth Latimer, a young
Australian whom Wilson Barrett beguiled to Eng-
land to study for the stage. That rather heavy
gentleman has lately been playing “ Ben-my-
Chree ” at Southport (Lancashire, England), and
the local paper—a 12-page organ weighing nearly
Idb. —speaks of Miss Latimer as a young actress
of very great promise. It also alleges that she is
only 15 years of age, concerning which matter
The Bulletin offers no opinion. The local paper’s
remarks are somewhat discounted by the fact that
it speaks favorably of everybody else in the com-
pany ; still there is a trifle of special enthusiasm
in its statements about Miss Latimer which makes
them sound genuine. In any case the photo, of a
pretty girl is a thing than can be inserted on very
slight provocation so Miss Edyth is published as a
rising young Australian on spec.
Six Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons, English
Hall-marked, each hand-engraved, in best quality
Morocco Leather cases, velvet and satin lined,
25s 6d the Case,
m
255. 6d. the Case.
Wedding presents
Are what we specially study to do well.
We supply SOLID SILVER as low as Electro-
plate.
We are showing an immense stock Solid Silver.
Table Plate and Toilet Requisites in great variety.
All the little elegancies ladies love, at
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney)
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY),
SYDNEY.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
WHITE LABEL LAGER
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.


GOVERNMENT BY CONTRADICTION AGAIN. —THE CRACK OF THE BOSS’S WHIP.


-■LETTER OF WITHDRAWAL.
Th e professor, in '^e"
his .resignation, said that , m were
attended to rn.posecondU.onsw
illegal, and lie withdraw his resig-
He would consequently might
nation, and they, could act as tl >
sdeenX-tyjst
the resolution.
Having regard, however, l 5
the very -Brfiud.^
th^coun^University, and understanding
tionoftheU now recog-
that The erave mistake he has made, and
mses th ® g , f t 0 from such con-
sW,*f5 W ,*f th ™ future, the council does not
aUcmpt any. further action.
'mmim
' . .. .
jTes/fr?, ISuf/>oje We ipujt
if'.^ s/f
y <=s rf,s jc\s 2>ee*?. "
e\
VV/
< ° : V s
»<*
jKfyjjo. — TfeTcloucL /oo)^k^^
jfc rfefejH' ifcn "
.|V#* >
Va\j/e/n
W-V/J
~e 'ww*
, oc a V>o t3e A
cV \
Tit'll
oY
""tV O *
4,©|
ntr
%
1(c)
V<?i? Woq-se*'.
Or 2\bloXe Wof Kys
Public pJjce
gut" \t) sfrfe of djl -JcTjpfsfcaS® o
"jo loWVo-c&riio^
4 I became Jusi^^ice
:Ad?ie-ie-jej Jus-^ijce
*-A Srfef
liffiejpty
—l^o^e- T?o-Ue
I a^-wipaj, A^d-lj^-jViepd-
Rubied -Reds'!!”
MELBOURNIANA.


Pathetic letter received by an Australian
commissioner of police :
Dear Sir, I have lately been appointed inspector of
t 0 the a ! s ° ve council. Among my other duties
I have to cope with a terrible dog-nuisance. Will von
fe ,nf K° rm me Jf have any s P ec ‘al devise by which
sscfisasfriaa.ix'sai
the priTelor n same. Where BUCh Ca " be obtained - and
A Run on Eggs. We can hatch chickens with
incubators, but before you get your chick you must get
the egg. A good hen lays an egg a day. We saw in a
nf /^ UrS t] ?at a poultry-owner was the lucky
possessor of a hen which laid two eggs a day. The ex-
C o£J? h d ° Übfc ’ is „ tbat this Poultry-man knows
‘ , r „ < ?,f® cd them on. He has evidently paid a visit to
ui Melbourne or Sydney warehouses, bought one of our
ppi ree . n b T? T n r ®' cu^ ers * and ets two from one. M'LEAN
• & LTD - have still a few of these egg-
producing nulls for sale. Buy one before too late.*
“ Taipo ”: Apropos dirty lodging-
houses. Wonder if any of your readers have
heard of the insect-walk at the Hotel,
street, where you could get good beds for
da. and lodging for single gentlemen for ss.
per week . At that time, i.e., before trams ran
round to street, all the theatre-goers from
the northern suburbs used to pass the place, and it
was a recognised thing to jump over the entrance
to the lodging-establishment to avoid treading on
the bugs which came out over the footpath for a
b . reatb °!, ev ? nin g air - They would come out
about 7.30 looking utterly jaded, and return about
y p.m. thoroughly refreshed and invigorated to
bite the lodgers. Remember jumping over one
night and getting an ancient egg on the chest in-
tended as mark of esteem, no doubt, for a lodger’s
pal who was wheeling a barrow on the road,
turned to destroy him, but could not get at him
without walking on the vermin. Villain knew ho
was safe.
WHAT IS “D.C.L.”?
D.C.L.” is a brand applied to whisky, and is
a guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and
n( ? wholesome spirit. Ask for
D.C.L. (Black Bottle) Scotch. *
A W.A. resident, while unsober, was run
over by a lorry, and had his arm broken, besides
sustaining other injuries. Though the broken
bone protruded, he was not aware of the fact until
told of it by a person he met. Which recalls that,
about ten years ago, a N.S.W. man, while drunk,
was run over by a train and had his arm cut off.
He had gone to sleep on the railway line, and
the accident didn’t even wake him.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
m
m
SS-.
m
IftLBH
3
n£v I
rs
"&KE. EItW\TOR,
"PtTT Street
u. 1
REAr % German Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. W
The Australian Widows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
the USUaI formS 0f Assurance > is the ONLY OFFIOE IN AUSTRALIA
ll' APaid un te°„ r^ pr r ium in tl i e - event °.[ temporary incapacity to earn a livelihood.
*" A i aia-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity.
Board op Directors :
•j T _ Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENVVICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman:
iion. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.G.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
_ lt , „ . Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r te for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
MICK SIMMONS.
4.
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
All Sportiog Materials at Lowest CGt Prices.
TENNIS, boxing gloves, croquet, bowls, skittles
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-,
~ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9,
” £/ ?• Ayre3 ’ Men’s All-cane Handle
99 F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International)
i» Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
ii Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
i, Brass Tops, Steel-shod
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod ...
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
„ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ..
„ Men’s
„ Men's Skeleton, best goid cape
BA LLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
„ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal e3 r elets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICK El NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17 s6d
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 60s,
4/9, 5/6
4/-, 4/6
11s 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
9s 6d
12s 6d
18s Od
7s
Ds 6d,
5s
6s, 7s 9d,
5s 6d
, 7s 6d
12s 6d
12s 6d
4s 6d
6s 6d
9s 6d
10s 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
20s Od
60s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
„ Feltham’s ditto 6s
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s
„ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s
~ Dark and Sons’ All-oane Handle 8s
GAUNTLETS. —Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s
~ Surrey Shields 6s
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7 S
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse 2s Od
» .i Match, sM>oz., Is ; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and Sd
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s. 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth's Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Slumps Vs 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s od
A VISIT to OUR New and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
IHAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
3ll King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
V
.IMITED
c
<6,
o.
%. Ct O
V*.
%
West Australian
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS, 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders.
{-Heart Amethyst. Bird and Chain Brooch, 15s.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Gold Name Brooch, 9c., 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
15c., 15s ; 18c., 20s.
Any Name or Motto free.
A. Sounders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 15s.
Strong and Pretty. Silver, ss.
'/
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold Brooch, 25s
A. Saunders.
Sold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c., £2.
Diamonds, £2los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six different Patterns similar.
A Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Red, Blue and White Stones,
Bell and Chain, 12s 6d. Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 265.
16c. Gfold „ „ 455.
15c. Gold,
4 Diamonds,
8 Sapphires, or
Rubies, 255.
Send for illustrations.
Solid Gold Bands,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 25s,
30s, £2.
Any Name or Initials
Free-
18c. Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds,
£i ins and £5.
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s.
Send for Book.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds, £2, £2 los,
£3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 & £4
Send for Size Card,
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold Buckle
Rings.
A. SAUNDERS’”
Strong Reliable English levers.
Hand-finished, full-capped English LeverT, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest
and best tune-keepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 P lOs
xo, *7, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Kev nr
KeylMs, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Short-wind Keyless 7s fid ii« fid
6 i.’ 9n lss ’n? 6s f d : E * tra q« al 'ty. ’~os ; guaranteed. Gold’ £lO, £l2 10s’
Price-List DaeCt Agents for Rothe rhams and Waltham Levers. Send for
The 19th Century Watch.
... ®°' d Kfjiew Waltham, patent filled cases, £4 4s, 15 years’guarantee•
P atent ca f es ,> £5 5s 20 years’ guarantee, “ the same strength
as a £3O watch. Ladies, beautifully ornamented, same price ” 8
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches
9c. Solid Gold
Diamonds, 2 Red
or Blue Stones,
10s 6d.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2 ; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
Hand-made 1
Solid Gold,
35s ; extra
heavy, 30s,
a. Saunders.
iVedding- Rings and Keepers, 9c.
58 6d, 7s 6d, iOs/*ach ; 15c. Gold,
heavy, 25s ; 18a Gold, 20s : extra
355, 40s. Send for card.
SEND FOR OUR
Beautiful Illustrated Book
—OF—
Silverplate, Watches,
• . and Jewellery,
Solid Gold Chain, Single or; Double, .£2 10s,
10s ’ £s ' 15c - Solicl Gold, £5 10s, £6,
±B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Price Illustrated Book.
£3, £3 10s-
£6 10s, £7,
Send foi
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d
15c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,
15/-, 20/-
Bend for Illustrated Book.
Heart and Dumbed.
Plain, 10 6; Eng., 12/6
15c., 22/6
20 different patterns, same
price.
Gold Horseshoe Locket,
255. Silver, ss.
Silver and Gold, 7/6 & 10/-
WAT6RBURY . .
. . . WATCH €S
further reduced.
Quick-Wind, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 13s 6d, 20s.
Silver, 355. Gold, £2 15s.
We Are the Direct Agents.
Gold, Pure White Pearls, 10s 6d ; worth 20s.
I**'
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, Pure White.
Pearls, Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c. £2.
ez\.<>
w V c*’
A. Saunders.
2-Bar Horse Shoe Gold Brooch,
9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 22s 6d.
Saunders.
Gold Wish-Bone Heart and Arrow
Bedstone, 12s 6d. ’
A. Saunders.
Gold-Mounted Boar’s Tusk Chain and Bell, 15/C
• Without Bell, 12s 6r). Silver, 4s.
A. Sau.rtd.3rs (Begislrred).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13/6. 15c. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders.
2 Love Birds Pearl Gold Brooch.
Pearl Set and Chain, 15s 6d and 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Austi’alia. We will do our utmost to please you
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney


Bilious
Beings
LESS
Bile
Beans
c
EYERY
BEAN
A DOSE
THE
WORK 7 NGM AN’S
FRIEND.
Bile Beans Again.
WONDERFUL CURE EFFECTED IN
NEWCASTLE.
A CASE OF 13 YEARS’ STANDING.
Bile Beans are undoubtedly the greatest specific
of to-day, and the great worth of this remedy is
very capitally illustrated in the case of Mrs. Jane
Colman, of Beauford-street, Hamilton, Newcastle.
“ [)Vi- ■** years,’’ she said to a reporter, “ I was in
tr
a delicate state of
health, my earliest
symptoms being
violent retching and
pains in the head ;
these were shortly
followed by a com-
plete loss of appe-
tite and restless
nights. I had
several of the best
doctors in New-
castle in attendance
on me from time to
time, and tried all
kinds of patent medicines, but I could get no real
relief. It seemed, too, that what little I could
eat I could not digest. Dreadful pains would now
and again come in my back and kidneys, and es-
pecially under the shoulder blade. The pam in
shoulder seemed to stab me like a knife. To walk
merely about the house was hard work for me,
and I nearly always felt sick. My sight grew
dull, everything had a blurred look, and I really
felt * like a log of wood.’ The least exertion
prostrated me. I could not stand for ten minutes
without becoming fatigued, my feet getting
numb, as if pins and needles were being
stuck in them. Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness were brought under my notice, and just
as an experiment I took some. After a few doses
I found an improvement in my condition, so I
continued takingthemand Ihavesteadily improved
ever since,
and now I
must say I
never felt
better for
20 years.
My friends
are astoun-
ded at my
cure, and
all say I
look re-
markably
well. As
for my ap-
« *WT
r
petite, well, my daughters are sometimes as
tonished at what I can eat. Yes,” concluded
Mrs. Colman, “I firmly believe that it was Bile
Beans alone that cured me. I have taken nothing
in the meanwhile, and they have done me a
wonderful amount of good in every conceivable
way; in fact, I’m quite a new woman.”
People who have used the three B’s find tha
they are an undoubted specific for biliousness, sick
and nervous headache, indigestion, constipation,
piles, female weakness, pale-faced girls, irregu-
larities, bad breath, pimples, blotches, dizziness,
all liver and kidney troubles, dyspepsia, influenza,
colds, heart palpitation, pain in back and sides
fulness after eating, lack of physical tone, heart-
burn, and that tired feeling ; and as the cost
comes within the reach of all, who would miss
being made different ?
Biliousness.
CAUSE AND CURE.
Biliousness is an ailment caused by a surcharge
of bile becoming stagnant in the stomach. It is
generally accompanied by indigestion and consti-
pation, vomiting, and a yellow appearance of the
complexion. Dizziness and violent headaches are
usual symptoms. The bile is the natural purgative
of the body, and is secreted by the liver; if it fails
to flow in its usual channels, or to perform its
usual duties, the liver is responsible.
A more annoying complaint than Biliousness it
is hard to find. It prohibits the sufferer from
doing work of any kind, holding a conversation,
or even resting quietly; not only this, but the
nausea is most disagreeable, and the taste and
breath is exceedingly offensive. A remedy should
be applied at once that will act in an efficient
manner, and the remedy to take is Bile Beans for
Biliousness, which are compounded expressly for
ailments of this sort. They are so prepared that
they act directly on the liver, helping it to help
itself, and enabling it to secrete 'enough bile to
flush the bowels thoroughly, and thus clear off all
waste and offensive matter from the system.
£/\f!s
FOf^
ILIOUSNESS
This reme-
dy is well-
known, and
is conceded
the most ef-
fective pur-
gative med-
icine of the
age. It does
not afford
mere tem-
fiorary re-
ief, but an
absolute
and lasting
, cure. It sells
. on its mer-
-1 its alone.
An Artist Cured,
SEVEN YEARS SUFFERING.
Mr. Harry P. Stewart, pictorial artist and sign-
writer, of No. 68 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, tells
the following remarkable tale of some of his ex-
periences both in N.S. Wales and Victoria. He
says:—
“ Seven or eight years ago, while I was living in
Victoria, I commenced to suffer severely from
frequent bilious attacks. They came periodically
about every three or four weeks, and would often
keep me in bed for two or three days at a time,
much to my annoyance and the detriment of my
business. These attacks were always accompanied
by the usual symptoms and effects of deranged
liver. Violent headaches gave me no end of
trouble. I was unable to sleep, and my appetite
was very poor. I would get up in the morning
after getting little or no sleep during the night,
and be utterly unable to partake of my breakfast.
At lunch-time I might be able to take a little
food, but in the evening I never had any inclina-
tion for dinner. While in Melbourne I was under
two first-class physicians, and, while they did give
me some temporary relief, the biliousness returned
shortly after, and I found myself in a worse state
than ever. About this time I came to Sydney,
and instead of getting better, as I hoped, I con-
tinued to grow weaker and weaker every day.
The headaches became severe, especially in the
back part of my head, and my heart became
affected ; this latter, I believe, was through
an enlargement of the liver. My heart used
BILE BEAMS Care
BILIOUSNESS, PILES,
INPI6ESTION, CONSTIPATION,
NEAPACNE, PEBILITY,
FEMALE WEAKNESS,
to flutter m an alarming manner, and I
was greatly troubled with shortness ot breath.
I became run down and altogether dis-
pirited, life seemed a burden to me, and my
business suffered accordingly. Now, about Bile
Beans. About four months ago I, having noticed
Bile Beans pretty well advertised, thought I would
try a box just as an experiment. I went reli-
giously through the first box, and was quite sur-
prised to find what a lot of good they had done
me. I continued to take them, and they have
completely cured me. I don’t look much like a
bilious subject now, do I ? I’ve taken about seven
boxes all told, and there has been a decided im-
provement right along. My appetite is exceed-
ingly good, and I can sleep like a top —why, I
slept this morning until half-past eight. There is
no doubt that Bile Beans have completely cured
me, and I have no objection to your publishing
these facts as you see fit.”
Constipation.
Everyone suffers at some time or other from this
most distressing and rather dangerous ailment. It
is an irregular and weak action of the bowels, and
in extreme cases the bowels may not act for weeks.
In a case of this sort the complaint is very dan-
gerous, and a proper remedy should be applied
immediately. Women suffer more from it than
men, and the frequent headaches suffered by this
sex can nearly always trace their origin to consti-
pation. It is caused in most cases by carelessness
and neglect, but in some cases it is brought about
by a disordered condition of the liver. It is,
nevertheless, a fact that when regularity cf habit
is practised, constipation is seldom found. The
effects of constipation on the system are many and
varied, among the most common of which may be
mentioned piles, siek-headaches, debility, sour
stomach, humours and intermittent fevers. Regu-
larity is the main thing to be observed in cases of
constipation, and, in conjunction with a short
course of Bile Beans, will prove very effective.
The early morning, immediately after breakfast,
is the best time to make a trial, which, if unsuc-
cessful, should nevertheless be persevered in the
next day, and so on, until the case is cured.
“Bile Beans Completely Cured
Me.”
A PORT ADELAIDE MAN WHO
SUEFERED.
A SEVERE CASE OF BILIOUSNESS
AND INDIGESTION.
M. A. Roberts, proprietor of the well-known
hair-dressing saloon and hot and cold baths of St.
Vincent-street, Port Adelaide, affords a splendid
illustration of the success which may be attained
by the modern healing art. The case of Mr.
Roberts shows what can be done, and what has
been done, by Bile Beans for Biliousness, not only
to alleviate, but to totally cure such serious com-
plaints as biliousness, indigestion, chronic consti-
pation, and kindred derangements.
Mr. Roberts, on being questioned respecting
his late illness, willingly consented to give all the
information concerning his cure which lay in his
power. He says :—“ Some seven or eight years
ago I had my first attack of biliousness. 1 was
entered for a Sheffield Handicap at Broken Hill,
and my chance was considered a very good one.
On St. Patrick’s morning—the day of the race—
however, I was seized with sickness, and, as a
result, 1 was quite unable to compete, thus forfeit-
ing my entrance fees and chance of a prize. From
that time for the next year or two I had inter-
mittent attacks of biliousness until about four or
five years ago, when my appetite almost com-
pletely failed me. I removed from Adelaide,
where I had been working, to the Port ; but
change was no benefit. Doctors advised me to
take plenty of exercise before breakfast. This I
have always done, but it soon became clear to me
that that course alone would not cure me. I used
many advertised ‘ remedies,’and gave them fair
trials, in the hope that they would afford relief,
but they were of no avail whatever. During last
November I was forced to take a holiday, and for
a time I felt a little better for it, but not for long.
The sickness returned, and, though I managed to
keep in the shop, I felt utterly unfit for work.
One day a customer dropped in, when I was a
little worse than usual, and noticing my appear-
ance he enquired what was wrong. On being told,
he immediately recommended me to try Bile Beans
for Biliousness. I was ready to try anything, and
at once obtained a box. I can honestly say that
not one week had elapsed before I was able to
enjoy my meals —a thing, as I said before, which
had been impossible for years. I have not had an
attack of biliousness since I started with the
remedy, and I shall be only too pleased to tell
anyone who cares to know how 1 suffered, and
how I was cured by Bile Beans.
4
Piles-
Anyone who has ever suffered from Piles knows
well what a painful and troublesome ailment they
are. There are two kinds of Piles—the Blind and
the Bleeding Piles. The former is the most com-
mon, and also more painful. The complaint is
much more common among women than men, and
is often caused by constipation. Inflammation is
generally the first symptom, and costiveness
always accompanies the ailment. Piles are com-
posed of small particles of various sizes, forming
singly or in bunches, and extending upwards into
the bowels. They cause excruciating pain, and
cause the sufferer to be in a constant state of misery.
The Bleeding Piles are caused by a swelling of
the hemorrhoid veins which compose the tissue
wall of the bowels. While not so painful as
Blind Piles, they are more dangerous, as a great
loss of blood may result. A false delicacy exists
in mentioning this disease, which causes much
trouble. In all cases of Piles a remedy should be
applied at once, as otherwise violent inflamma-
tion may ensue, and serious results follow. Bile
Beans cause the bowels to act freely, thus soften-
ing the walls thereof and affording instant relief.
No remedy will act so quickly or effect a cure
with so little pain in cases of this kind as Bile
Beans.
Headache.
Headaches are too common to need much
description, and besides everyone has a different
one of his own. They may be divided, however,
into two classes—Sick Headaches and Nervous
Headaches. The first derives its name from the
nausea which accompanies it, and which is some-
times of a most violent character, excessive vomit-
ing being quite common among sufferers from this
malady. Nervous headaches are an extremely
common ailment, and are the same as sick head-
aches, with the exception that no vomiting is
caused. They are generally, however, of an in-
tense nature, and are usually a sign that the
whole system needs toning up.
The cause of headaches are many and varied.
Indigestion, constipation, biliousness, etc., all
bring with them more or less severe headaches.
The direct cause, however, is the gases which arise
from a foul stomach which penetrate the head, and
pressing upon the nerves of the brain cause them
to ache; this is most noticeable behind the eye-
balls.
The complete cure of headaches is almost im-
possible, as worry, overwork, and anxiety are sure
to bring with them some form of this ailment.
Chronic headaches can be cured, and as the diges-
tive organs are always more or less responsible, a
remedy which will put these organs in perfect
working order is sure to do away with headaches.
If you suffer from chronic headache a course of
Bile Beans will give you infinite relief and if per
sisted in will complete a cure.
The Blood.
We often hear a person of rank spoken of as
having “good blood in his veins.” This is obvi-
ously wrong, as the veins carry only that blood
that is in need of purification. Too often, how-
ever, bad or impure blood is to be found in all
parts of the body, arteries as well as veins.
When this is the case, the result is invariably
pimples, blotches, rashes, tetter, &c., which may
develop into more serious afflictions, such as
ulcers, abscesses, tumors, scrofula, and cancer.
In any case, any indication that the blood is in a
poor condition calls for immediate remedy. The
liver cleanses the blood, and if this organ is in
good working order the blood will seldom be im-
pure. Bile Beans are compounded to act on the
liver, and through it on the blood. They will be
found most efficient in all cases, from that of the
most common pimple to the severest of blood
ailments.
——
The Most Valuable Discovery
of the Age.
Millions of people use Bile Beans annually.
Now, there must be some good reason for this,
and one has not far to look for that secret. Un-
equalled excellence is the reason. Great strides
have been made during the last century in all
branches of science. Bile Beans for Biliousness
are the direct result of deep and lengthy research
on the part of an American medical man. Their
chief ingredient is a vegetable substance which,
when properly compounded, has identically the
same effect on the digestive organism as the bile
of mother Nature. With this specific within easy
reach of all, the old methods of starving and
purging and the use of pepsin and bismuth, sink
into utter insignificance. Being a purely vege-
table preparation, the action can in no way be
harmful to the system. Here they differ materi-
ally from the great bulk of laxative remedies sold
to-day. The remedy acts on the bowels in a
gentle, natural way, and the patient is not
weakened in any manner by the process. The
enormous success of this preparation the
world over is the best possible proof of its
worth. Millions use Bile Beans annually, and
the reason for this is to be found in the absolute
genuineness of a specific so aptly termed “A
Medicine for the People at a Popular Price.”
Bile Beans are not a cure-all, but they are an un-
doubted specific for Biliousness, Influenza, Sick
and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls,
Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches,
Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dys-
pepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side,
Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone,
Heartburn, and that Tired Feelirg. They are
manufactured in one of the best - fitted and
equipped laboratories in the world, at Detroit,
Michigan (U.S.A.), and they have been used
throughout that country by the best physioians
for years. For sale at all chemists. Australian
Depot, 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Rocke, Tompsitt & Go., Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne; S.A. agents, F. H. Faulding & Co.,
King William-street, Adelaide; W.A. agents, F.
H. Faulding & Go., Perth ; Queensland agents, S.
Hoffnung & Go., Brisbane.
Yours for the Asking-
A beautiful two-shilling piece of music, entitled
the “ Bile Beans March,” together with a cook-
book and pamphlet of popular superstitions, will
be sent free on receipt of your name and address
and a penny stamp to pay postage. The only
condition is that you mention this paper when
writing. The march is an excellent piece of
music that has been very popular in America.
Both books are also well worth having. Remem-
ber, however’, that you must mention the name
and date of this paper when writing. Address to
the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company, 39 Pitt-
street, Sydney.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The Salisbury Cabinet, in less than three
years, has led Britain to the verge of wars with
America, Germany, Russia, and France.
It is a boast of the Britisher that his lan-
guage is expressive, yet in the big Mining Bill
now before Q. Assembly the Parliamentary drafts-
man confessed that he was unable to give a legal
definition of the word “shaft.”
Minister Young, to whom Premier Reid
sticks so tightly, was the first offered office when
Reid accepted the Governor’s invitation to form a
Ministry. Young was then given a choice of
three portfolios. What is the secret of the Young
manct ?
For at least 12' hours it was a toss-up
whether Sam Griffith resumed his uncomfortable
seat on the Bench or rallied up the old Liberal
party. Fortunately for Dickson, Griffith became
querulous, and all was over. Nathless, the Q.
Premier’s chair is gaping for a capable man.
The last speech delivered in Yic. Leg.
•'Council by the insolvent Charles Sargeant was in
opposition to the “ one man, one vote ” Bill.
Sargeant, M.L.C. haughtily spoke of “the shift-
ing population,” and stated that “shifters” were
unfit to be trusted with voting power equal to that
possessed by solid, immovable persons like him-
self.
At the time of the historic contest for King
Division, Sydney, it was given out by the L.V.
Association authorities that freedom of action
was allowed to Bung as to which candidate—
Reid or Barton—he should support. As Bevill,
the portly secretary of the Association, has just
been made a J.P., there is not now much room for
doubt that the quiet tip of his organisation was
“ vote for Reid.”
Owing to England’s delay in appointing a
successor, after the death of N.S.W. Gov. Duff,
Premier Reid hinted that he would appoint one
himself, and justified the threat by dinning into
Parliament the enormous offence it was to keep a
high office of State vacant for a lengthened term.
What about the Agent-Generalship ? A Governor
is not nearly so pressing a want as is, in present
circumstances, an A.-G.
Division-list in Westralian Assembly on
Burt’s Bill to permit black-labor slavery on the
northern squattages, &c. For: John Forrest,
Piesse, Lefroy, Throssell, Venn, Burt, A. Forrest,
Harper, Phillips, Locke and Hubber. Against :
Leake, Wilson, Vosper, Oldham, Kenny, Moran,
Highham, Solomon, Illingworth, Holmes, James,
Conolly, Monger and Kingsmill. A list that
should come in handy presently.
The extension of the railway from Redfern
to Circular Quay, Sydney, was as burning a
question 25 years ago as it is to-day, and so far as
apparent progress was concerned it really seemed
further ahead then than it is now. In ’74 the
Leg. Assembly agreed to the extension and passed
a resolution directing estimates of expense to be
made out. But before anything practical was
achieved the Opposition and Ministers scrummed
over the ownership of the Treasury benches, and
in the noise and excitement the railway was for
gotten.
TRAITS OF THE NATIONALITY.
KIND SHEPHERD : “Nice little Chinese boy, eh,
John?”
JOHN : “ Him no Chinese; him go Sunday-school,
learny cursey swear, mash lilley girl. Him
real Austlalian.
Parramatta (N.S.W.) elector to Ministerial
candidate Dowell O’Reilly : “ I wore a pathway
from my house to yours coming to you to try and
get work. Fifteen of us came up every day for eight
weeks.” And yet hundreds of people aspire to be
members of Parliament!
difficulty experienced by Arthur
Griffith, M.L.A., in getting an M.L.'C. to take
C +f rg u m N -S- W - Council of his Bill to abolish
attachment of wages—already passed in the
JLower House—evidences the necessity of making
the Ministry father in the Upper House a Bill
passed by the Assembly, or else of empowering, as
in some countries, the member of the Lower to
appear in and advocate his Bill in the Upper
House.
Brisbane Courier pleads plaintively that
Premier Dickson be given “ a fair trial.” Well,
Bananaland has been giving men of Dickson’s
calibre a fair trial for the last nine or ten years,
and a nice mess they’ve got that boodler-ridden
country into. Isn’t it about time somebody else
got a fair atrial? If some of the past Courier
idols got “a fair trial” before a square jury
there d presently be an increased demand for
skilly and oakum.
Sydney Telegraph now begins to teem
with letters beginning something like this: “It
being now understood that the Federal capital will
be in N.S.W., I desire to recommend Hornsby as
a promising site,” &c. A large part of the N.S.W.
population—the Telegraph-cso part—evidently
believes that N.S.W. Parliament is drawing up
the Federal Constitution all by itself, and that as
it has said that the capital should be in N.S.W.
the matter is settled.
Editor Curnow’s return to the helm of
S..M. Herald has been looked forward to with
some degree of apprehension by a big section
of the Federalists, and they were aggrieved at
Granny’s meek criticism on the triumph of the
Bartonians at Parramatta. But really the Parra-
SAME TIRED FEELING.
“ One of the laziest men I know. His doctor advised him to marry, and he's looking for a
widow with a grown-up family!”
matta election meant nothing in particular. No
Parramatta election ever does or did. All the
same, how Sydney D.T. would have yelled had
Dowell O’Reilly won !
Rose, M.L.A. (N.S. W.) wants to raise a
question in the Assembly about Premier Reid’s
long-promised State Bank of issue. That State
Bank was one of the democratic reforms which
Reid promised at the beginning of his Premier-
ship, along with Upper House reform, the re-
sumption of large estates for closer settlement,
the Local Government scheme, and many other
things. And where are all these beautiful things
now ? Mostly roosting on the lost grave of Moses,
or thereabouts.
Dear Bulletin. —Be Sydney city railway
extension. Darling Harbour should be filled in to
Pyrmont Bridge, and the ground used as a central
station. Having water-frontage, trains could be
ferried to and from the North Shore. Govt, owns
all the land on one side, and as most of the land
on the other is merely held “ on the jump,” there
should be a good thing sticking out here. I don’t
own a foot of ground, and I reckon this suggestion
has two qualities to recommend it—novelty and
disinterestedness. —O. D. R.
Although N.S.W. Govt, annually spends
close on £200,000 for defence, the alleged military
system is treated most flippantly by nearly every-
one in Parliament. When the Anglo-French
trouble was furiously raging, an Oppositionist
taunted the Ministry with its utter disregard of
General French’s recommendations, and said he
believed that neither Premier Reid nor War-
Minister Brunker could give a straight-out answer
on any question of defence. “Oh yes, we can ! ”
said No-Yes, “ I can assure the hon. member that
the Mounted Rifles’ horses were duly clipped some
weeks ago.”
Premier Kingston’s great political ambition
is to re-establish a Liberal majority in S. A. Leg.
Council, which now has a Tory preponderance of
three members. Liberal measures are being regu-
larly sent up only to be slaughtered, and the
Early Closing, Household Suffrage, and Land
Values Assessment Bills are expected to go the
same way. A big effort is to be made next year,
when one or two hardshell Tories have to face the
people, and ex-Agent-General Playford (although
“ Honest Tom ” aspires to the Assembly) will pro-
bably contest one of the Council Divisions in
the Liberal interest.
The Maoriland Old Age Pensions Bill has
passed its second reading in the Leg. Council.
Being a money Bill it can’t be amended by the
Council but must be wholly accepted or Rejected,
so the second reading majority makes its accept-
ance practically certain. Probably next year will
see the system start, while the Job’s comforters of
Australia, especially Victoria’s 48 Rich Landlords,
point out for the 64th time that Maoriland is at
last definitely ruined by socialistic legislation.
Then nothing will go wrong, after all, and the
Job’s comforters, in about another year, will, as
usual, deny that they spoke.
Still persistently asserted by members that
Premier Reid will go ’Ome as Agent-General,
especially since he admitted in answer to Crick
that he was learning “Ze French.’ 1 It is also
feared that N.S.W. Assembly will soon need a
new Speaker, as all agree that Abbott’s health
can’t stand much more of it.
Anyone can object to your name standing
on Q. electoral roll, and, if you want to keep it
there you must attend the Revision Court your-
self and prove your existence, your residence or
your sanity. Judge Real once said from the
Supreme Court Bench : “The present electoral
Act was passed to disfranchise the people.”
Blunt —and true.
Brisbane Courier brazenly defends the
diplomatic selection of M.L.C. Gray as Minis-
ter (without portfolio), on the ground that R.C.’s
“ have a perfect right to due representation in the
Cabinet.” Rats! A Ministry containing repre-
sentatives of all the religious sects in Mongrelia
would spell pandemonium. The Cabinet, like the
State-school, has nothing to do with religion.
Admit the principle of due representation of
religious factions into politics, and Parliament
would cease being a third-rate debating society
and become the mere screaming ground of squalid,
bellicose, dishevelled mountebanks. Personal
worth, broadness of views, aptitude and intelli-
gence qualify a man for political distinction ; mere
religion qualifies him for—ask a policeman.
Frederick Sargood, leader of Vic. House
of Rich Landlords, the other day suddenly
dropped his “ dual vote.” Sargood has advocated
the dual vote for years ; he says he is against
giving anybody more than two votes, but he
thinks ratepayers and people with property should
have two. The Plural Voting Abolition Bill gave
Sargood a chance to put his great idea in shape ;
and then he suddenly discovered that under it
about 230,000 electors would have two votes each,
and only about 30,000 one vote each, and it was
almost the same as giving everybody one vote
or 18 votes. So Sargood dropped his idea. The
pumpkin-headed old man had been howling for his
dual vote for years, and this was actually the first
time he had discovered how his great inspiration
would work out.
Chief Justice Griffith, of Queensland, made
a strange and undignified exhibition of himself
over the appointment of ex-Premier Nelson as
Deputy-Governor in Lamington’s absence. In
Queensland it has always been the custom for the
tired old gentleman who acts as President of the
Leg. Council to be temporary Excellency when
the real article is away seeing a man about a dog.
Bullocky Palmer and old Joshua Peter Bell acted
in that capacity frequently; the Chief Justice
never. Apparently, however, the blundering
Lamington asked Griffith to be his deputy, and
only changed his mind or realised his mistake at
the last moment, when his Ministry recommended
Nelson according to the usual Queensland prece-
dent. Then Griffith boiled over publicly in court
about his grievance, adjourned the Q.N. Bank
case, and said something or other about discharg-
ing the jury and firing the accused directors into
the street (presumably without a stain on their
characters). Next day he boiled in a milder key
and went on with the case, but for a few hours
Brisbane thought that everybody was going to be
acquitted on the spot because of Griffith’s battered
feelings.
“ Locust ” : N.S.W. Parliament, which
has always held the belt as the champion rowdy
legislature of the Australias, has been completely
eclipsed by the recent all-night orgy of withering
personalities in M.L. Parliament. Though this
has to be admitted, I submit some extenuating
circumstances which might restore N.S.W. Parlia-
ment to pride of place. Item 1: There were no
fights in Maoriland record debate. In N.S.W.
there were, in the old days, not only single fights,
but general battles, in which a couple of members
engaging in single combat gave occasion for fight-
ing groups to radiate from their centres in con-
centric circles, until the whole place palpitated
with large, sweaty, breathless, struggling men.
Item 2 : The N.S.W. legislators have always held
pride of place as champion interjeetors of Austra-
lia. A speech in N.S.W. Assembly is never a solo.
It is generally a duet, sometimes a trio, often a
quartette, and on odd occasions a chorus. The
N.S.W. crowd are not bad speakers, but they are
the worst listeners ever let loose in a debating
assembly. I still claim that although the M.L.
House may have, on a fluky occasion, put N.S.W.
in the shade, yet N.S.W.’s staying and interject-
ing powers, to say nothing of the line-of-battle
engagements in the past, still proclaim her in the
words of Same Old George, the “ Mother Colony
of the Australias.”
THE RULING PASSION
THE DYING PAWNBROKER: “Sorry, mein friendt
can’t advance you more’n five shillingsh on
it! ”
The hottest contest of next S.A. general
election will be at Encounter Bay, now repre-
sented by King O’Malley and a Labor-member.
Mayor Tucker is going there expressly to oppose
O’Malley, and a brother of Opposition leader
Downer is also in the field. O’Malley has the
support of the W.C.T.U. and the “moral” ele-
ment, while Tucker is handicapped by the help of
Bung. O’Malley and Tucker are looked upon as
the handsomest men in Adelaide, and as the
women’s vote predominates at Encounter Bay a
good opportunity will be given for deciding
whether it was King’s beauty or his politics which
won him success before. He is a fluent, florid
platformist, whereas Tucker halts in his always
conventional and commonplace talk. Each man
cordially hates the other, and each is willing to
spend freely to secure the defeat of his antagonist.
Frank Madden, the standing joke of Yic.
Assembly, exploded with an appalling bang over
the Government’s proposal to repurchase large
estates and cut them up for closer settlement.
Madden not'only raved that the idea was “ sap-
ping the foundations of society,” but solemnly
warned the House that this was only a preliminary
to land-nationalisation, and that every nation which
had been flattened out like a squashed fly on the
page of history l>ad gone under through nationalis-
ing the land. He even assured the Assembly that
it was land-nationalisation which had wrecked the
lost nation whose palaces moulder in Yucatan.
Seeing that nobody knows even the name or date
or history of that nation, and that its record is an
absolute blank, F. Madden appears to invent his
own evidence in a sometvhat, wild fashion. If he
got into the witness-box and was just half as reck-
less in his statements about a lost umbrella, this
paper doesn’t like to say what might happen.
Now that N.S. Wales Government has
got through its proposed amendments in the
Federal Constitution, private members are start-
ing to hack at it on their own responsibility. The
first proposal came from Labor-leader M‘Gowan :
(1) That any proposed alteration of the Constitution,
approved by both Houses and a national referendum,
should be submitted to the Governor-General for the
Queen’s assent. (2) That, where a proposed alteration
has been affirmed in tw'o succeeding sessions by an abso-
lute majority in one House, but rejected by the other,
such proposed alteration should be submitted to the
national referendum. (3) That, respecting proposed alter-
ations transferring to the Commonwealth any of the
powers retained by the several States at the date of their
acceptance of the Constitution, such alteration should
not take effect in any State unless approved by a majority
of electors in such State voting.
In other words : (1) every proposed amendment is
to be decided by the majority; (2) if the amend-
ment enlarges the powers of the Federal Govern-
ment, the majority has nothing to do with the ease.
Is no Home Exempt?
ATTACK ON A NEW ZEALAND LADY.
How IT OCCURRED.
Her description op the circumstances and
THE OVERWHELMING TESTIMONY.
Mrs. Janies Drummond's statement of this
ferocious attack is so extraordinary that some
readers may think it incredible, or that she was
deceived by appearances, but her lamentable con-
dition was admitted by attending doctors, and her
sufferings witnessed by scores of friends and
neighbors, consequently we feel convinced of the
accuracy of her claim, which should be placed
before the public. In fact, what she suffered and
endured—her narrow escape from death—is the
talk of the little town, Lower Moutere, N.Z.,
where she resides. Her written statement, made
the 21st March, ’9B, is: “I was taken violently ill
with intense pain in the stomach, extending to the
bowels and across ray back, causing fits of hys-
terics, screaming and jumping, so that I had, at
times, to be held. The doctor told me that it was
* ulceration ’or an abscess. I got no better and
tried another doctor; then the hospital. One
doctor said I had torpidity of the liver. I finally
got so weak and lifeless I was quite regardless of
anything that happened around me. .My husband
told me to try a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I
did so. The first effect frightened me terribly.
The awful matter and bile that came off my
stomach—green, and yellow, and black, with a
nasty taste and smell. I was so frightened that I
was about to give up the Safe Cure, but my hus-
band advised me to continue. After I had taken
four bottles of the Safe Cure with the Safe Pills I
began to improve. I took in all ten bottles of the
Safe Cure and four phials of Safe Pills, and have
been in better health than I had previously en-
joyed for a long time, until six weeks ago I got an
attack of influenza, and it settled in my liver and
kidneys. I was in great pain for four days, when
I procured another bottle of Safe Cure, and phial
of Safe Pills, which removed the pain and restored
me to health again. I am well known in our dis-
trict, as I have lived here 35 years, and go out
nursing among my neighbors, and gladly add my
testimony to that of others for Warner’s Safe Cure
for ladies.”
HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea ;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TEA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend.
You seek for means of quiei content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
JAMES XMGX.IS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE;
Agents for “White Heather’’ Whisky,
Grunuma and Fodah Porridge Meals.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY *> CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Room-:, 324 Georg 3 Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FC-'T PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
USP” Sales Held at the A uction liooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.


The Tas. Federalist is among The Bul-
letin’s valued exchanges. It is well edited, and
uncommonly readable.
Do you ever have a headache 1 Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
, street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
“The ‘Monson. case’ is not dead but
sleepeth,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “and Scotland Yard finds itself in the
same ditch that the most moderate detective is
familiar with—they cannot get on unless someone
‘splits.’ Riley, Norgate, Bunbury and Birkin, a
quartette of victims wrenched from the jaws of
this murderous gang before it was too late, cannot
be bribed or terrorised into speaking. Of course
any time in the next four years will do now that
Monson has been safely ‘ pigeonholed,’ and time
may loosen the tongue of a confederate. Mean-
while, the robbed, ruined and disgraced victims go
to gaol or out of sight—to ‘ the colonies ! ’ —still
mesmerised into a bluestone silence. Astounding
to relate, the financier of the murder co. goes un-
scathed and pursues his business. He has been
pilloried and sweepingly denounced by name in
print, but, bar adding a notorious pedestrian-
pugilist to his entourage, he takes no steps to de-
fend his name.”
The proposed Irish Club in London is to
be strictly non-political and noh-sectarian. Praise-
worthy idea, but—Hamlet ivithout Hamlet !
The time-limit of three days in the forth-
coming test-matches between England and Aus-
tralia puts the odds in favor of the Englishmen,
and, all things considered, this step is not the
most courteous that could be taken towards
visitors. Bismarck said of Englishmen that they
had covetousness more than ability, and the Eng-
lishman must recognise this himself when he puts
the limit on the test-matches. Australian players
are unused to the forcing game ; the Englishman
is used to it from the day he begins county cricket.
“ Give us our conditions,” says John Bull to his
guests ; “ let us have things our own way, and we
will play you.” This style of thing makes Aus-
tralians long for Lyons, Massie, or Bonnor at their
best—the big men who changed the face of a game
if they occupied the creases for half-an-hour.
However, Australia on Australian soil last year
gave England a very sound beating, and, after all,
as there will be plenty of new blood in the next
Australian Eleven, John Bull may get hammered
on his own soil with his own weapons. Let the
Australian team take a stock of Sydney Lager
Bier with it, and then the grit and “go” neces-
sary for brilliancy, and sustained brilliancy, will
be assured.*
UNADULTERATED JOY.
In how many thousand cases are the pleasures of
Cup week embittered by the effects of inferior
whisky ! Fools drink any brand that is offered to
them. They celebrate their wins or drown their
losses in bad liquor. The whisky of the wise is
“ D.C.L.” It is drunk by connoisseurs who have
grown old and baldheaded in the search for truth.
Ask for “ D.C.L.,” young man and acquire cul-
ture in your cups.
Victor Daley writes : “I have been
glancing through an advance copy of Ogilvie’s
volume, ‘Fair Girls and Gray Horses.’ In my
opinion it will be the most charming book of Aus-
tralian verse that has yet appeared. For Ogilvie
can not only write ringing rhymes that make the
blood spin through the veins ; he can also sing
dainty and delicate songs which remind me at
times of the cavalier songs written between a
battle and a banquet. There is much of the
cavalier and, as becomes his name, not a little of
the moss-trooper in Ogilvie. He writes with a
galloping heart. But, above all, there is the
passionate bloom of youth in his verses. He looks
out upon the world around him and finds it fair
and young, and makes it so for his readers by the
magic of his rhyme. Sadness is not his metier.
If 1 were asked to name the source of his literary
inspiration I would say—the old Scotch ballads.
He is essentially lyrical in his manner. His songs
need no musical setting. They provide their own
music.”
Messrs. E. Rich and Co., Ltd., of O’Con-
nell-street, Sydney, have placed a new water—
Puriri—on the Australian market; new, that is, to
many Australians. Puriri has been long known
to the medical men of New Zealand as well as to
the general population. It is a mineral water of
wonderful curative properties, and Messrs. E.
Rich and Co. possess the testimonials of scores of
eminent doctors and of hundreds of ladies and
gentlemen recommending Puriri most highly. It
cures gout, indigestion, dyspepsia, rheumatism.
There are testimonials even to show that it has
cured paralysis. As a table-water it stands alone,
and people way back in N.S.W. should write to
E. Rich and Co. at the above address for particu-
lars. Puriri costs little, although it deserves its
name of “ Nature’s mineral champagne.”*
Christmas and New Year
CARDS.
1898
W E
1899
o^r aV pi?fr^ m T U T C o h rn Pleasure in Publishing
NEW YFAR pfppfT ° f CHRISTMAS and
JNFW YEAR CARDS for 1898 and ’9.
todn thS^n 0 Customers, who are obliged
to do their Shopping by Post, we would re-
spectfully intimate that all our Cards have
been selected with great care, and with the
desire to suit all tastes.
vears° S >? H =f f'"' Cu j toniers who have for many
vhrv wpnl w V ° red , US Wlth their orflers kn »w
verj well that we do not insert “ puff ” adver-
tisements ; we always call “ a spade a spade ”
and when we say that the CARDS nowadver-
evlr had th 6 °J 101cest > Besfc > and Cheapest we
e\ er had the pleasure of showing, it is suffi-
our* statement." 06 ° Ur ° f the Verity of
We would emphasize the fact that all our
Cards are this year’s production ; not a single
old card amongst the lot. single
We have also got a Varied Selection of
. •CALENDARS.
for 1899, from 2d. each.
The “EXCELLENT" Packet of 18 Cards.
Price, 3(1 i by post, sd.
The IMPERIAL” Packet of 25 asstd. Single
a ud folding Cards, 6d ;by post, 9d
The FOREMOST ” Box of 50 Single and Fold-
mu U !? T Car ‘ ,s ’ V-1 by post, 1/5.
Tle ~ LEPORELLO” Box of Six assorted
roicung Cards and Envelopes (pretty little
Th^‘TßirTM^l deSipiS) ’ 6d ; h - V P° st - 8d -
Ihe TRIUMPH Box of 10 asstd. Folding
Cards and Envelopes (floral designs), 6d ;
by post, 9d.
THE COUNTRY” Box of 10 assorted
r olding Cards and Envelopes (pretty little
mu floral designs), 6d ; by post, 9d.
Ihe MAJESTIC ” Box of 10 assorted Folding
Cards and Envelopes (very pretty scenes
mu V, 1 bkmk-and-white), 6d ; by post, 9d.
The ELDORADO ” Box of 10 Folding Cards
and Envelopes (pretty scenes and floral
designs), 1/-; by post, 1/3.
The “SIXTEEN” Box of 16 Cards and Enve-
lopes, all folding and assorted sizes and
designs, 1/-; by post, 1/3.
The “ EXCELSIOR” Packet of 25 Cards. These
are splendid value. The Cards are well-
assorted, and suitable for Children and
mu Adldts - 13; by post, 1/7.
The “ IDEAL ” Cabinet of 25 Cards (Single and
f olding), lovely designs and well-assorted,
1/3 ; by post, 1/7.
The IMPERIAL ” Box of 20 specially-selected
Cards, 1/3 ; by post, 1/7.
The “ NONPAREIL” Box of 12 Artistic Cards
(all folding), with envelopes, 1/3 ; post, 1/7.
The ROYAL CABINET” of 20 very Choice
and Artistic Cards, with envelopes, 2,6;
bv post, 3/1. This Cabinet would be cheap
at ss.
The ‘‘LAND OF FLOWERS” Box of Six
Charming Cards, with envelopes, 9d ; by
post, lid. J
The “FORGET-ME-NOT” Box of 10 High-
class Cards, with envelopes, 9d ; post, lid.
AUTOGRAPH Cards, well-assorted and en-
tirely New Designs; eight in a box, with
envelopes, 7Jd ;by post, lOd. Ten in a
box, with envelopes, 1/-; by post, 1/3.
LOOSE CARDS in endless variety, from 6d to
12/- per dozen, Post Free.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211,
PITT ST. (ONLY), SYDNEY.
TIME-TABLE JOB POSTING
TO EUROPE, &c.
Letters Posted in
Sydney.
Oct. 25th.
Nov. Ist.
Nov. Bth.
Nov. 15th.
Nov. 22nd.
Nov. 29th.
Dec. 6th.
Arrive in Lon-
don.
Nov. 29th.
Dec. 4th.
Dec. 13th.
Dec. 16th.
Dec. 27th.
Jan. Ist, ’99.
Jan. 10th „
Drop Us a Line Early, Please.
Hordern Brothers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211,
PITT STREET (ONLY),
SYDNEY.
fiREMODERMA,” the Great Freckle CURE.
Removes Freckles, Pimples, &e. Cures Eczema,
and all Skin Diseases ; Beautifies the Complexion ; and is
the Creme des Cremes for the Skin. Price Is., all chemists.
Post free all parts, Is 3d, from A. KING, Chemist, No. 2
Gurner-street, Paddington, Sydney. Wholesale Agents,
Elliott Brothers.
‘ BULLETIN * PAMPHLETS.
No. ll.— The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages, 7d.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE ! IT IS INVALUABLE!
THE 3VTo. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR —
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
prietor of Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, writes:
“ I have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
■which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, andl canstrongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled."
tnj-L
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
or to a 64 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
• (v
KNOWN IN MUSIC AT
Violins,
Accordeons,
Autoharps,
Cornets,
Banjos,
Flutes,
Guitars,
Mandolins,
Mouth Organs
Polyphons,
Strings & Fittings
for every Instrument.
Buy
LA *Q£LY
f BJM
the
HOHld
s b: St
and can supply
the most Reliable
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSI
& Musical Instruments
of every description
at the
LOWEST
POSSIBLE PRICES.
- J
Catalogues
Post Free.
W. H. PALING & CO.,
LIMITED,
Sydney, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
EVERY CYCLIST
Should make a point of examining the Tyres when
purchasing a machine to see if they bear our Regis-
tered Trade Mark. This precaution is advisable, as
a few unscrupulous agents pass off on their un-
suspecting customers poor imitations of
smy.d'oiNnQ
as the genuine article, with the result that instead
of obtaining a pair of the finest Tyres made
they have only a poor substitute.
BEWARE
OF IMITATIONS.
First in 1888.
Foremost Ever Since.
TRADE
MARK
THE DDULOP PSEUBIRTIB TKRE OO.UII.
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
And at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
D.S.UI. Wont de piete
D. & I, Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
074. CASTLEREAGH ST., Ny
■ * SYDNEY i “
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pa wnbro king Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER. MTONTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS,
AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
A\*i\ssuxme
'u
head OFFIC|
! ntersection Hunter, Bligh AND
Castlereagh Streets. w
• SYOR£Y •
Established - 1379.
Offi CE in Austria* •
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceeds2oooooVer/in*.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Notice is hereby given that the management of
the Company has been transferred to Mr. E. N.
Parker, who will in luture conduct all business
in connection therewith at the above address.
C. DANVERS, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Richard Jones, Esq. ; T. A.
Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. J. Humphery, M.L.C. ; E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TaEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest : 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company—
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
ST. PAULI
TRADE mUVM MARK
GIRL \\ BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ TrOstccs, Cx€C<itorS,
AND
Ageocy Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ...£6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £3,069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esn., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
Genekal Manager ; Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjiee: 1 liinliopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhal! Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Havmarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
c/,le; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
Fidelity Guarantees. liimp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Fabquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,'
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
The |ank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
Cable Address—Riemseil. Telephone No. 095.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE "i
GEELONG
PORTLAND j
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Friday, Nov. 4, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Friday, Nov. 11, 5 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 15, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong-, Tues., Nov. 16, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE 1 ]
MARYBOROUGH VI
ROCKHAMPTON j '
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 5, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 8, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat’day, Nov. 12, 12 Noon.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 5, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 12,12 Noon.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST critic ENT 1 A ICES TO ALL I*o l CIS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tlie steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ;ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
.* v
AND
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
-piESPATCH the following- FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
kfkin Widea4e6.
s9leu) sbi6eoi)ery
‘ if £igmo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Woolloston-house, Castlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Malyon,—
I have used your ointment Ligmolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“ Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it.-Yours.truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Call Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and I ain perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, TIIOS. LE GAY HOLTIIOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Maly on,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists, ss. and 7s. 6d. per hox.
agents"-^
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE V
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY ]
S.S. Bulimba, Friday, November 11.
'S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, November 15.
ALBANY, A
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Bulimba, Friday,
November 11.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Tuesday, November 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
November 5.
Best d) Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YIJILL and CO., 1 /i'D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at« the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
ney
Steamer.
Commander
laide,
Noon
2 p.m
Oceana .
Victoria .
India
Australia
Arcadia
. 6603 E. Stewart .. 'Nov.
6527 E. Crewe , Nov.
8000 W. Worcester Dec.
6901 I. Reeves Dec.
6603 A. C. Loggia Dec.
5 Nov.
19: Nov.
3>l)ec.
17 Dec.
31 Man.
8 Nov.
22 Nov.
0 Dec.
20 Dec.
3 Jan.
22
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : I.ONDON, Return Tickets, t 65 to £llO
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker § (Jo’s [iie
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST ALST If ALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons', under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Inrlia, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everv assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney'.
E. BLANC,
.. Principal Agent.
ffl‘|liiraith,fn‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Eor Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotaiions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd,
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and everv Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,'ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, Nortii and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOLIMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. INI- Ooy. Ltd
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
P tisscii //er A rroriunortiition, Attendance and
C'uisine anvicalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 1() Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
F T> '"' E and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
~ „ Patent ~ 10/6
~ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf l°/6
~ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Bail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
. . SEND POE . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . op . .
Ladies 9 , Gentlemen 9 s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BO (JUKI! ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat .
H Sold (Hatch for Sadies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches (Open Face or
Hunter). Jewelled Movements, and are Reliable Time-
keepers. List Price, .£5 10s. Send your answer at once,
with a stamped addressed envelope, to know if you have
won the PRIZE. If so, and you purchase one of our
Real Gold Ladies’ Chains to wear with the PRIZE
WATGH, they will be sent securely packed, free by
registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
lO5 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
, Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTorth Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
f they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
itest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
■‘ZKk
cV;
yy
SYDNEY
Coffee Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
11l modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
V)ear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney.
A GREAT RECOVERY.
Anaemia, Atony, Dyspepsia.
A VERY DANGEROUS CONDITION
And AN ABSOLUTE RESUSCITATION.
The Case of
MISS IRENE PAYNE,
(From the “Nepean Times”)
(by our special.)
Our reporter called on Miss Irene Payne,
of Penrith, N.S.W. That young lady
opened the door herself, and on hearing of
the reason of his visit smilingly welcomed
him into the house, and needed no pressing
to relate the story of her sufferings and her
prompt recovery. She now appears to be in
the possession of redundant health, and of a
bright and vivacious temperament. On the
pressman saying so, she said, “ Yet once
My Constitution Seemed
Shattered.
A long continued illness had quite broken
me down.”
How did this occur, Miss Payne ?”
“ I began to suffer from what is scientifi-
cally known as anaemia. My blood got
extremely poor. My appetite and strength
waned away till I gradually lost all my
healthy colour and became of a pale, leaden
complexion, with large dark rings under my
eyes. My food no longer nourished my
system, and I became weak and languid.
y ery soon my digestive organs began to give
me trouble, and soon after eating, pain and
a sense of fullness in the chest was a regular
condition with me. As the days went by
I was Less and Less
able to properly digest and assimilate my
food. Often enough I suffered from wind,
which slowly formed within, till the pain
caused by its pressure was almost beyond
belief. I always felt too dull and languid
to perform the light household duties which
fell to my share. I always felt too weary
and tired to move. When I stood up, in
a very few minutes I should feel too weary
to remain on my feet, and was only too glad
to
Throw Myself Down
on a couch, as exhausted as if I had been
doing half-a-day’s hard walking. At night
my rest was always broken and unrefresh-
ing.”
“ Surely this was the worst stage ?”
“Oh dear, no! This was only the begin-
ning. Sick headaches now made their
appearance, and these were always followed
by a violent bilious attack. At such times I
eouldn’t approach the table; the mere smell
of cooking would bring on retching. My
eyes ached with an intense pain, and my
eyelids swelled and were badly discoloured.
My head
Felt as Heavy as Lead.
I couldn’t bear to speak or be spoken to,
and 1 shou d have to lie down in seclusion
till the worst of the attack had somewhat
moderated. I never had much time after
one of these attacks before another came on,
and every succeeding one became more
serious. You don’t know how
I Used to Dread
these attacks.”
“They must have been weakening?”
“ They were, indeed. I grew thinner and
thinner every month, and my constitution
became more and more enervated.
Some Very Dangerous
Symptoms
set in. Sometimes I vomited blood nearly
all day. It’s hardly necessary for me to
tell you how weakening this was, or to
What a Perilous Condition
I was then reduced. You could see by my
drawn and pallid face that my vitality was
very low. My lips, which should have been
red, were as pale and leaden coloured as my
cheeks, and if you looked at my gums you
would have found them white also.”
“Surely you tried some remedy?”
“ Yes; I was always taking medioine
from the very first. I took bottle after
bottle of different things. They were all
the same. They none of them did me any
good.”
“Ha\ e no doctors attended you ?”
“ Yes, but unfortunately their medicine
also failed to cure, although they had every
chance, as I always followed out minutely
the dire tions of my medical attendants.
I was In Despair
what to do. My stomach was in 3uch a
state that it was with the utmost difficulty
that I could retain the lightest and most
easily-digested foods.”
“ But I understand Clements Tonic came
to the rescue ?”
“ Yes ; I had frequently heard of it dur-
ing the later stages of my illness, and it was
recommended to me by a friend; but I was
very loth to take any mere medicine, as my
stomach was in such a tender and weak
state that I was
Fearful of Irritating It.
Ultimately, after having read a book of
cases cured by Clements Tonic, I sent for a
bottle.”
“ Did that remedy suit you ?”
“Most effectively. Unlike some of the
other medicines, which used to make me
feel sick, this Clements Tonic at once had an
invigorating effect. The first instance of
its beneficia* qualities was noticeable in the
fact that it put a stop to
The Vomiting of Blood,
And what a blessing it was to be able to eat
something without being almost certain to
vomit. By using Clements Tonic regularly
and carefully i was able to again take
strength e ning foods and was al so able to digest
them with great advantage to my health
generally. The bilious attacks in two or
three weeks were nearly done with, only a
slight turn coming on now and again, and as
I continued to progress
Steadily towards Health
they troubled me no more. My headaches
were banished, and sweet sleep once more
refreshed me at night time. You could
almost see Clements Tonic filling my veins
with the much-needed red blood. My
cheeks began to fill out and displayed a tinge
of red. My lips and gums became of a
healthy colour, and, once having got rid of
my painful internal troubles, I gaine'd
strength and spirits daily, and I soon
regained the
Full Health and Strength
which I now enjoy.”
“ I ask your permission to put this in the
Nepean Times ?”
“Of course you can,”replied Miss Payne.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Irkne Paynb, of Penrith, in the Colony
of New South Wales, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of eight folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to eight, and that it
contains and is a tiue and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and extra judicial
Oaths and Affidavits.
I
Declared at Penrith this eighth day of August,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, before
me,
Hal
W. FULTON, J.P.
CLEMENTS TONSC is entirely impartial. It will act in precisely the same ways
for a prig ora policeman and have the same beneficial effect on pauper, politician, peer,
patrician, prince or potentate. It is a distinct leveller of mankind; it makes no distinction.
Let the highest or the lowest suffer from any complaint where its use is indicated,
nd it will result in the same success, no matter what the social status of the patient.
. o-penny-halfpenny nostrums only appeal to the ignorant credulity of the plebeians.
BR.A.3XTDT’S PATENT
NAND ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES
ICE IN TEN (10)
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Price: 50s. Delivered at any Port or Railway Station in
Australia, ss. extra.
BRANDT BROS
Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-st., Sydney
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
jA_SIS Jqj*
WHITE HEATHER
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining: Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melto ourne.
r.x *
E
I
i
HEADACHE
CURED!
A Headache Cure should he
instantaneous, safe, certain,
and effective, however often
it is used, and free from dan-
ger of evil after-effects. The
public should know that some
so-called headache cures are
dangerous, and ought not to
be used except under medical
advice. A headache cure, fi ee
from every objection, is ob-
tainable, and known as
BISHOP’S
Citrate of Caffeine
It immediately cures the
worst headache, and dispels
all feelings of exhaustion and
weariness. Supplied by all
Chemists at
x/iJ4 and a/-, or
of ALFRED
BISHOP, Ltd.,
Mfg. Chemists,
Mile End New
Town, London.
THE
LAIN
TELLS
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” Gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Gaslight Company by payment
of £l Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If pas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The StranQ.
™ E TalkiQg MacbiOQ Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. 6d. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
1 BKUER Ilium FREE-
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
3/
m
J~)r. Clarkson’s
lie-Invigor ator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hour's ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting EfEects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle', 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2,8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11 ; Pam
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eacrasjr will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know*
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking,
on the disease of Drunk,
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
QTXJRLIgP
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ;
per Post Is. 3d.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
T ?[ JLL £ nr l» oe3 *9 press, the tremendous
for f T ,VeS . The Gr ? fter ( who was h 's owner's choice
M^ih ls k year s Cup and ran second) has won the 1898
Thi, i-SMSt JSSSkSfSS .a, xs
~sh‘ l s “ , ~' vn “ z s “ 5 K
Bobadil lost the V.R.C. Derby by half a head
and the jockey is blamed for sundry alleged acts of un-
hont wh»n R d KK- the co i t V He should have gone to the
h«« h h Bobbie was fighting for his head :he should
Tni h i ?/' ln a hurry to get to the front when round-
ing the last turn ; he made a mistake in holding Cocos
too cheap, &c &c. For the rider of a favorite who gets
beaten by half a head there are no excuses. The multi-
viewed the finish through a glamour of foolish belief
in the favorite, and the popular judgment was probably
wrong. Anyway, the writer, now that Bobadil is beaten,
has no need to make excuses for previous Bulletin para-
graphs concerning the much-buttered “ horse of the
”*je favorite was not worshipped in this paper,
ot his Caulfield Guineas victory writer said that there
was nothing “ Bobbie-dazzling ” about it, for indeed
Cocos seemed to trouble the winner in the last
oO yards of the mile race. Furthermore, writer
suggested on Oct. 22 that Cocos had a fair 3 to 1 chance
of beating the “dead-bird,” and went on to insinuate
last week that Cocos might prove to be the better stayer
ot the pair. Which was just about the matter at the tail
end of the Derby race.
Quarter of a mile from home Bobadil was
heading the field with apparent ease, and if the Derby
winning-post were there instead of 440 yards further on,
the sporting press would have speculated as to how many
lengths Bobbie might have won by if he had been “fully
extended.” As a matter of fact, the little fellow was
travelling his fastest whilst going easily, and inasmuch
as he couldn t run away from Cocos at the fateful moment,
he is comparatively a non - stayer. It is certainly
6 to 1 on him beating any other three-year-old at a
mile, yet he has only an even-money chance of doing the
same thing when the course is half-a-mile longer. In
short, he isn’t a great horse, neither does he look it. The
circumstance of his receding in the market suggests that
somebody saw good reason to doubt Bobbie's stamina. He
struggled gamely enough, but he had no spirit left in him
"henput to the final test of supremacy. So much for all
the horse-reporters' talk about Bobadil’s marvellous
form, which was mostly talked in the interests of lkey
Mo. J
Old Battalion won the Melb. Stakes, for the
second year in succession, with The Grafter close beside
hnn, and Amberite easing off two lengths behind. Top-
weights for the Cup ought to beat such as Clarion, Wait-
a-Bit, and Eosebery on even terms, else where does the
art of handicapping come in ?
W. R. Wilson couldn’t complain that his jockey
threw away any chances in the Maribyrnong Plate. Scorn,
who was always among the leading three, came right out
at the distance and won by three lengths. The St. Alhans’
youngster has presumably improved a lot within the past
three weeks, or maybe some of the others have gone off.
Two-ypar-old “ form " has lost no time in getting mixed.
That last race of the day, which punters look to
for a “ recovery ” (Lord help 'em !), is a sweet thing for
the books,” as a rule. 23 runners for the Coburg Stakes
last Saturday. An ugly beast, named Rowdy, was first
favorite at 4 to 1, and any industrious lkey could get
round on his volume by laying against ten or eleven
horses. The other twelve were going for him. It is only
fair to say that several of them were not going much, but
they all helped to swell the field and increase the likeli-
hood of a flukey result. If some of these minor handicaps
were run ten times over a different horse would get home
each time. And still the hopeful punters are satisfied to
take short prices about alleged good things.
* * * •
Sporting gossip alleges that ex-bookmaker Arn-
field, who was partner with Sam Allen in the Partheno-
paius scandal last year, won £20,000 by backing Hymettus
for Caulfield Cup. Such yarns are mostly designed to
encourage backers to rush in and win a fortune. Tins
Bulletin would like to wager that no one man drew half
of £20,000 over the Hymettus victory.
• • • *
Where is the disqualified Parthenopseus ?
Friends of the late unlamented owners will say “In
India,’ but some experienced sports are marvelling over
the striking resemblance to the vanished horse of a
differently-named animal which in a couple of months
has sprung out of nothingness into celebrity. Nobody
had ever heard of this favorite before, nor of his pedigree,
and consequently evil-minded persons are saying things.
Betting returns in the two Melb. morning jour-
nals are worth consideration. The Age and Argus bar-
rack/or and agin’ the tote, respectively, and perhaps this
will explain why the Argus gives the starting price of the
recent Moonee Valley Cup-winner (Locksmith) as 20 to 1,
whereas the Age quotes 12’s. Also, the Argus omits to
mention the price of Homespun (who was backed, and
finished third in the race), whereas the Age puts Home-
spun among the 10-to-l chances. The Bulletin would
like to know if the 20 to 1 against Locksmith, recorded in
the Argus, was obtainable by any s.p. punters, on the
course, or in town. Long odds on paper are not neces-
sarily s.p. odds in town, for lkey Mo is apt to fix a 10-to-l
hunt in the case of small fields. Meantime, accepting the
Age figures as correct, we can see how lkey Mo fared
over the race wherein the first favorite fell. The Bulle-
tin will make a £lOO book on it, reserving Lochaber, the
unbacked one of the crowd, as a possible “skinner."
£lOO to 50 against Alemene.
1151 » 33 „ Sioux.
125 „ 25 „ Olaf.
132 ~ 161 ii Tapioca.
135 „ 131 » Wayfarer.
135 „ 131 „ Orla.
135 ~ 131 ii Homespun.
138 ~ 111 ii Locksmith.
1751
There’s £1751 in the bag to meet a maximum payment of
£l5O. Profit, 17 per cent, on the receipts, with remote
chance of a “ skinner ” thrown in.
* * * *
This Cup-time the bookmaker has reverted to
his old game,'scotched-in ’92, of opening- a pseudo-tobac-
conist’s shop in the busiest part of Bourke-street, and
calmly and peacefully laying the odds in the back parlor
—to reliable customers. There is no bluff, no blind—he
opens the shop in his own name and pleasantly pursues
the even (money) tenor of his way. Ikey’s old game of
betting in tobacco-shop parlors has never been really
killed. The police are Ikey’s natural allies—not his
enemies.
• • • •
Wren’s Colling wood (Melb.) tote—where the
biggest tote biz. in all Australia is run, and where £5OO
on a race is quite a common occurrence—was raided by
four ’tecs on the Friday afternoon before Derby-day.
Several of the “patrons,” through cocksureness and
taking things too easily when the police were spied by
the look-out man, had a narrow escape of capture, but
when the invaders finally chopped their way through the
fortifications all .that was left for them to seize was a
a ew *'hsts,” and half-a-dozen ferocious dogs.
The d s “ occupied ” the place, and then—leaving a con-
stable in charge, presumably to feed the dogs out of the
two-shilling-piece—departed under the pleasant impres-
sion that tote-betting in Melb. was squashed for the time
being. Meantime, Wren, Esq., was busy fixing-up new
lists from his book-blocks, and on Saturday morning, in a
side-street off Johnston-street (where the raid occurred),
had his 10-per-cent tote in full swing.
The tragic death of young Flanagan, at Caul-
field, recalls the action of a certain metallieian when a
jockey came to him, after a win, to collect his little bit.
The bookie glanced at the lad out of the corner of his
eye, then, t earing back the flap of his coat, he revealed
the oolors beneath and cried, 1“ Vy, yer ain’t finished
racin' yet. Come aroun’ on settlin’-day, like anyvon else.
Yer might be killed in der next race. I ain’t takin’no
chances.’’ But the boy wasn’t killed, and the book paid
up on settling-day, though he explained that he regarded
his creditor’s survival as an unfeeling act.
• • • •
Dr. Bevan, who is often a valuable citizen and
parson, was the first public man in Melbourne (if not the
only one) to declare that the coroneriaj “ enquiry ” into
the cause of jockey Flanagan’s death was a disgraceful
affair.
• • • •
Until the V.R.C., A.J.C., and other governing
turf bodies refuse to license any boys who are unable to
show their indentures, endorsed by a registered trainer,
so long shall we have the disgraceful exhibitions of horse-
manship now seen on all our leading racecourses; to say
nothing of such dire disasters as the recent Caulfield
holocaust.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.—For the last two years I have
found Tatt.’s way of doing business unsatisfactory, and
many Melbourne people complain of similar experiences.
rTic year I have forwarded money for investment in
Caulfield and Melb. Cup sweeps, with explicit instructions
and stamped addressed envelopes, as per rules laid down
on Tatt.’s circular. Each year I have been put to the
trouble of writing, after a lapse of more than a week, to
ask whether my coin had come to hand. Then I got .my
tickets by return post. And so with the result-lists.
Last year 1 had to write for them after the Cups, enclos-
ing stamped envelopes a second time. To-day (the Tues-
day after Caulfield Cup) I am sending a second stamped
envelope for the result. I heai that no result-lists reached
Melb. before the morning of the race, although the
holders of “starter” tickets were notified of their luck,
and had greedy owners on their tracks some days pre-
viously. When was the C.C. sweep drawn ? Strikes me
that Tatt. wants new blood in his clerical staff.—Mel-
bourne.
* • * •
Quite a number of people complain to The
Bulletin that their overflow and too-late applications for
tickets in Tattersall’s No. 1 special Melb. Cup sweep
(drawn on Cup morning), instead of being put into No. 2
special Cup-morning sweep, were dropped into other
channels, such as the ss. ordinary ; also, some allege that,
in response to applications for special-sweep tickets, they
were sent scrip in ordinary sweeps. It is granted, how-
ever, that in some cases this last grievance may be the
result of mistake. The Bulletin has no means of check-
ing the accuracy of these complaints, to which it gives
publicity for the benefit of Tatt.—who by now, of course,
plainly sees that in deciding to comply with the loudly-
expressed desire of so many Bulletin readers for sweeps
drawn on the day of the race, he has satisfied a public
want without in any way injuring his business as a whole.
• • » *
Georgia, a fair performer out here, won the
English Cambridgeshire Stakes easily, whilst Newhaven
finished out of the hunt. Which shows the kind of con-
dition the erstwhile Australian idol must have been in.
On Ihe running of other Australian horses in England, if
Aurum “ strikes form,” what sort of an eye-opener will
he be 1
* • • »
Tim victories of Georgic and Merman will pro-
bably instil into the minds of the ’Ome handicappers a
greater respect for ’Stralian horses. Only recently Reso-
lute was given 7st. 41b. in the Duke of'York Stakes (1
mile) at Kempton Park, just about a stone and a half less
than he would have got in a Doncaster or Epsom.
* « • »
‘ The difficulty of picking ’em,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ was never better
exemplified than in the Prince Edward £2OOO Handicap
(of course, you have read my previous mail and under-
stand I am referring to the Australian ‘ Wait-a-whiles ’ on
tins shore). ‘The Lily’s’ Gazetteer with Woods and
7st. 131 b. up inclusive looked a good enough 3 to 1 chance.
Ihe Jersey stable should have been more ‘ subtle,’ as is ex-
pected of the warmest hencoop in England. Nevertheless,
notwithstanding, &c., the discovery that Georgic was
well at the last moment shifted the commission off New-
haven, who, despite being * cold-shouldered,’ and roughed,
ran well. Bto 1 was a nice ‘starting-price’ to pad home
on, and ‘Mr. H. C. White’ is to be congratulated on his
6-year-old. This looks like the last season for the ‘ Horse-
tralian, for the turf-nibs are complaining naggingly of
the handicappers’ contempt for ‘ visitors.’”
* * • •
The get of ex-Australian sires bring big figures
at Oine. The first of the Trenton yearlings, a colt, sold
in England brought 1150 guineas; a Carbine geldino-
650gs. and a Carnage filly 360 gs.
* * * *
The second place of Heiress in Maribyrnong
Plate brings into prominence for about the first time in a
big race that good sire Sunrise (owned by “ Mat ” Devlin
near Wagga). Although Sunrise has never, perhaps, been
mated with a really first-class mare he has sired some of
the smartest of country horses, some of them fair per-
formers in minor city races.
.* • • •
Victoria and S.A. start the interprovincial
cricket-matches in Adelaide on Nov. 12. S.A.’s strong
batting and Victoria’s weak bowling should produce a
win for the home team—if Giffen isn’t captain. Although
in good batting form, “ champion ” George is bein'"- mer-
cilessly clouted in club matches. Two of S.A.’s second-
raters Reedman and Fred. Jarvis —have been scoring
heavily, and with Clem. Hill, Joe Darling, Lyons, and
Giffen as a backbone, the wheatlanders are a strong side
this year. So far, Jones has taken 10 wickets for 110
runs.
• * • *
. Joe Darling, who has been very unwell, has
failed twice in Adelaide club matches, and Giffen and
Lyons have done practically nothing. Jones is bowlin«- at
a terrific pace in local club matches, with much success to
himself and dislocation to opposing batsmen.
* * * *
"The M.C.C. played twelve first-class matches,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “lost half
w ° na " d dt T w a quarter. J. T. Hearne took 53 wickets
at 10 90 each, and, with a batting average of 20 60, was
alongside Trott, whose 15 ‘sticks’ cost 13-93 per stick
Roche got double his compatriot’s number of wickets at
15|65 a-piece,. and totalled 3.8 runs for four ‘ outs.’ The
club, with its 65 professional bowlers, new practising-
only ground with a long terrace of netting stalls, and a
score or so of boy fielders-at 18s. or more each per week
—ought to turn out batsmen that no bowling would ever
trouble. Yet it doesn’t, as Spoff., Boyle, C.T.8.T., down
to Hughie, Jonah, and M'Kibbin can verify. But AU-Eng-
•'"w* « raking up a hot time for VVardill’s nurselings
With Joe Trott, perhaps, an invalid, Sid. Gregory
chest-troubled, Iredale and Giffen out of print, it seems
on this side to depend on ‘ Howell they get along,’ and the
odds are Murdoch’s bat-collection to a practice-ball that
Jonah will not be ‘ passed ’ next year.”
♦ ft
‘‘Umpire” (W.A.): The batsman was “not
out. Had the ball touched one of the fieldsmen before
striking the wicket he would have been out
A syndicate has secured the right to run bicycle
races by electric-light on Sydney Cricket Ground, and the
plant has been sent for. A stipulation is that the fields
are to be limited in number, but, even then, some
“proper Caulfields” may be anticipated, as the shadows
thrown by the light are very puzzling.
* * • •
Cyclist Frank White, who has just finished his
Fremant.le-to-Rockhampton -and-back ride (9000 miles),
" hich he claims is a world’s record for distance, tells how,
on his outward journey, he knocked up in the desert
with only about ha]£-a-pint of water in his bag, and, for
all he knew, many miles from a habitation. He lay down
a * " e . thought to die, but seeing a crow hovering around
shot it with his revolver. He was surprised to hear a shot
in answer to his, and on rousing himself up and pushing
forward, found he had lain within a mile of a homestead.
Good yarn. The man who, while in such desperate
straits, can pistol a crow, really deserves to live.
* » • •
Plugger Bill Martin has been astonishing the
Yanks. As champion of Australia he started unthought
of in the Professional Mile Championship, and was only
beaten by inches by their undisputed champion, E. Bald,
in a shade over 2 minutes, vvell-known cracks such as
Taylore, Gardiner, Cooper and others finishing behind
* * • *
Cyclist Body has done very poorly since his
arrival in England, and his nowhere in the Cuca Cup
has been follow'ed by a defeat at the pedals of one
Howard unknoum at this end. Body talks of coming
back to Australia unless he strikes form quickly. The
torpedo-boat, which was the main object of his English
trip, is nowhere mentioned. Body’s boat was a sub-
marine affair which was going to revolutionise warfare.
• * * •
Of English cyclists who have visited Australia,
Harris, here a year or two ago, was killed on the track
soon after his return Home ; Platt-Betts, recently here
record-smashing*, tfot badty mangled lately while trying:
for fresh records ; and now Reynolds, the Irishman, out
here with Jack Green, has been badly injured on Wood
Green track while doing* a fast lap in company with
Green, Barden, and others.
* * • •
The silly practice prevalent in Australia of
allowing- all-comers to compete for championships of a
local character has been followed in England so far. One
of the distances in the cycle championships this .year was
earned off by a Dutchman named Meyers, who cannot
speak a word of English. And so is witnessed the ridi-
culous spectacle of Meyers being* sent to Vienna in a
U mon Jack sweater to battle for the honor of old England
at the expense of English cyclists.
• «
The Commodore of Prince Alfred Yacht Club
waa so wrathful at his pet racer not winning the event he
" a , d « la «e 80 Sllre of at th e rival club's regatta, on the
Sth, that he made a free offering of the boat, the other
day, to a sympathising friend. Sam. Hordern has a
« « i way doing things :as witness the selling-
off of ms racing-horses by reason of an adverse press-
criticism. *
* * » *
To show the popularity of swimming, there
were no fewer than eight different club-fixtures decided
inSydneyand suburbs on a recent Saturday, in which over
160 competitors took part.
• • . •
The great sprint of 200yds. between the past
and present champion sprinters, Hutchens and Downer
was recently decided at ’Ome. The old ’u», who had a
start of 7yds., kept the lead until 20yds. from the win-
ning post, when Downer caught him, and, after a
tremendous finish, beat him home by 4-a-yard in the
rattling time of 20 l-10sec.
* • • .
Ed BDLLmN.-ifepar. in B. 22/10/’9B, saying
that I aspire ’to fight Tweedie for featherweight chani-
pionship, please understand that I am the F.W.C.
already, having beaten Billy Holden for it. And as for
not being able to hit Tweedie, I have beaten Foster and
Mansfield in U and 4 rounds respectively, and they got
away with Tweedie quite easily ; so, on form, it doesn’t
look too rosy for him.—T. W. Hope.
* * * »
Sydney journalists are wrathful over the “Press
Match at the recent N.S.W. rifle-meeting. One recog-
nised pressman, although he shot and secured second
place, was barred from the competition, and the prizes
fell to a uniformed rifleman and another young man who
is presumed to supplement a commercial income by para-
graphing suburban small-and-earlies and municipal poli-
tics for a morning journal. The Bulletin sees no reason
for running a special competition for newspaper-men
any more than a match for hod-carriers or wharf-laborers :
but so long as a. “ Press Match ” is on the programme the
journalists might be allowed to participate in it.
* * • •
The latest information about the famous Cuca
Gup is that the first four men rode “ Swifts.’’ Jack Green
was the winner.
* * f
• R e Massey-Harris people produce winners
in all their lines is evidenced by the fact that during the
t™ 8 . 1 ? years their reapers and binders have competed in
94 held trulls in Australia, winning 117 prizes, or more
Recombined winnings of any two of their competi-
tors. The first field trial of the season was held at Mait-
land, S.A., recently, and, as usual, Massey-Harris secured
first place, defeating all competitors. -
* * * •
Lesna, the Swiss champion, who visited these
shores eighteen months back, is leaving France for
another Australian racing tour by the Poiyriesien. It
was Lesna and his Dunlop-shod pacing teams that first
introduced proper multicycle pacing in these provinces,
and with their assistance succeeded in establishing fresh
Australian track records up to 100 miles. Lesna will be
surprised upon his return to see the marked improvement
made in this branch of the sport, and if it is his intention
to run paced matches here he will have his hands
full to lower the colors of Messrs. Walne, Parsons and
Beauchamp. < -
* * * *
The “ Naumann ” bicycle, which is in the hands
of that capable firm, Bennett and Barkell, put up a record
number of sales last month. The “ Naumann ’ caught
on from the day of the first shipment, and as that is a long
time afro, and as the “Naumann's” good reputation has
now spread far and wide, many more records should be
in front of this safe, strong-, speedy wheel. *
* * * *
AtQuirindi, N.S.W., two alleged trotters, Sun-
rise and Skey, trotted two miles for the local champion-
ship and £4O. Sunrise won in 6inin. 26|sec. Strange
nothing better than a 3.13 J horse can be found in a
district where Boccaccio was so long located, and which
turned out Lady Arnott, Freetrader, Satan, and other
good ones.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —Permit me to
thank, through your columns, all who have given
me the sympathy and confidence which have
mainly enabled me to bear my imprisonment; and
all who have subscribed so generously on my
behalf. Prom West and South Australia, from
Maoriland, Victoria, and Queensland ; from the
South Sea Islands ; from Klondyke and from
England their sympathy has reached me. I can-
not say how much I am grateful for friends so
faithful and so true.— Thomas Suffield.
“ Humanity ” to The Bulletin :
As one acquainted with certain circumstances attending
the conviction for murder of the Chinaman, Wong Ming,
now under sentence of death in Dubbo gaol, I beg to
enter my indignant protest against any such sentence
being effected on the character of the evidence against
the accused. That Wong Ming killed his opponent is
certain ; that he did so under gross provocation and
without premeditation (as he declares)is only contradicted
by the evidence of a thoroughly unreliable witness. I
regret to see that a report founded upon idle rumors and
inconsistent with fact was published in the local press,
tending to prejudice Wong Ming and to harden the public
mind against him. I trust that the Executive may,
in their wise and merciful discretion, respite this un-
fortunate wretch.
Mr. Frank Senior, who lias been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S. W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
A notable effect of Protection has cropped
up in The Bulletin lately. Robt. Hurst, who
runs one of the largest and best-equipped boot-
factories in Melbourne, is bidding, by advt., for
orders from N.S.W. and Australia generally.
The importation of foreign boots into Victoria is
practically a trade of the past, and now a local
manufacturer invites Premier Reid, or any other
I reetrade party, to procure a pair of Australian
native boots for his Australian native feet iind
tread the path of political righteousness.*
The Bulletin prints in this issue a por-
trait of the boy Poussard (son of the lately-
deceased violinist) whose adventurous trip to
Melbourne with his affectionate nurse formed the
subject of a recent paragraph. Young Poussard
is a pleasant, bright-faced, nervous lad, who
already shows signs of having inherited his
father s musical taste and talent.
Messrs. Harrington and Co., of King-
street, Sydney, are known throughout Australasia
as a firm whose name is synonymous with progress
m photographic art. The firm is up-to-date ;it is
always in the front in placing what is newest and
best upon the Australasian market, and it has
made photography a popular art and pastime.
Ihe firm’s stock is immense; and selected with
the judgment which results from long practical ex-
perience and from full information.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS-White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B, MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufactuiers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A puPe dWMie Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
it
DED BIRP” Cycles
. . Have Haoy Injitators.
. nco ™ E REASON why “ RED BIRD ” Cycles are imitated is
every point 7 recognised by other Cycle-builders as the BEST in
Cycle-improvements were first introduced on
r,u than on all other makes of Cycles combined
of thJ"IT * ?° ,n * ” 0t ,m L itated in “RED BIRDS ”is the quality
ot the material put into them. H J
handle-bars M ° dels are tvvo years ahead of all others, from tyres to
If we haven’t a good Agent in your town, let us know.
The G°old Bicycle Co. [imited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W
234 BUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.
VICTORIA ST.,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
■Factories-BRANTFORD, Canada.
Ayents in Town and Country.
USE Sumligrlrt in Your Homes.
New sunlight ” Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOET LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners
Complete, 6s. 6d.


WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
Would you sell it for £IS : O ! O
OP £18:0:0? Of course you
would not! But there are lots of
people who are doing- so; they are
riding t he £15:0:0 and £18:0:0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7:0:0 or £lO :0: 0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey - Harris
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depots or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High - bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street. Melbourne
Branches : Dunedin—Sydney— Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—lvortham.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
N.S..W Branch:
385 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. . A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
‘ Perfect,' 4 Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
Frank grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Here To-clay!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
W® are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
r We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
BST Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
X 1 ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay- at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
" Kll*s’ Kin<>-street Coffee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
x-ferm©
Not Poisonous! Will not Stain !
EXTERMO
All INSECTS, WHITE
ANTS, COCKROACHES,
BED-BUGS, MOTHS, and
tlieir EGGS instantly.
BEING IN A LIQUID FORM,
EXTERMO will penetrate any infested place
which cannot be reached in any other way.
All Grocers. Price, Is. Bottle, with Squirt.
Direct from the Depot, Wynyard Building, Car-
rington-street, SYDNEY, by enclosing Is. 3d.,
which includes postage.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices., Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
>T. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
\ GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
xl. stories), Is. 3d.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Prioce of Wales’ Birthday.
Wednesday, 9th November, 1898.
Holiday excursion tickets will
be issued from all stations to all stations
(except for distances 13 miles and under between
stations in the Metropolitan Suburban and New-
castle Suburban sections) commencing with the
day trains leaving terminal stations on Friday,
4th November, and thereafter by all trains until
Wednesday, 9th November, available for return
until Tuesday, 15th November, 1898.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS at 2d. per
mjle first-class return (minimum Is.) and Id. per
mile second-class return (minimum 9d.) will be
issued at Sydney and Metropolitan Suburban sta-
tions to stations outside the Metropolitan Subur-
ban area and at stations outside the Metropolitan
Suburban area to Sydney only by the undermen-
tioned trains, AVAILABLE FOR RETURN
BY ANY TRAIN (EXCEPT THE MEL-
BOURNE EXPRESS AND NORTHERN AND
WESTERN MAIL TRAINS) UP TO AND
INCLUDING TUESDAY, 15th NOVEMBER,
viz. :
SOUTH COAST LINE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER: 5.30 p.m.
Sydney to Nowra.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER: 7.30p.m.
Sydney to Stanwell Park, Wollongong, and all
stations thence to Nowra; 7.38 a.m. Sydney to
Wollongong; 4.35 a.m. Nowra to Sydney.
SOUTHERN LINE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER : 5.15 p.m. at
Sydney (only) to stations Picton to Goulburn,
inclusive.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER: 8.0 a.m.
Sydney to Goulburn ; 5.0 a.m. Goulburn to Syd-
ney.
WESTERN LINE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER: 4.50 and 5.25
p.m. Sydney to Mt. Victoria; 9.20 p.m. Orange
to Sydney.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER: 8.10 a.m.
Sydney to Mt. Victoria; 8.20 a.m. Sydney to
Eskbank.
NORTHERN LINE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER: 7.35 p.m.
Sydney to Newcastle and West Maitland (7.40
p.m. from Milson’s Point).
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER : 8.5 a.m.
Sydney to Newcastle (7.50 a.m. from Milson’s
Point); 5.0 a.m. West Maitland to Sydney, and
6.0 a.m. Newcastle to Sydney.
HAWKESBURY RIVER EXCURSIONS :
Cheap Excursion Tickets to Hawkesbury at ss.
6d. first-class, and 3s. 6d. second-class (return),
including journey by rail and trip on the s.s.
General Gordon, will be issued at Sydney and
Suburban Stations on Wednesday, 9th November,
by the train leaving Sydney at 9.10 a.m. (Milson’s
Point at 8.55 a.m.), available for return by train
leaving Hawkesbury at 4.20 p.m. same day.
In addition to the ordinary service, special
trains will leave Sydney as under: —
SOUTH COAST LINE.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER: 7.30 a.m.
Government Railways.
and 7.30 p.m. to Nowra; 7.38 a.m. to Wollon-
gong ; 9.30 a.m. to Kiama.
SOUTHERN LTNE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER : 5.15 p.m. to
Goulburn.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER: 8.0 a.m.
to Goulburn.
WESTERN LINE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER : 4.50 p.m. to
Mt. Victoria.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER : 8.10 a.m.
and 11.25 p.m. to Mt. Victoria; 8.20 a.m. to
Eskbank.
NORTHERN LINE.
TUESDAY, Bth NOVEMBER: 7.35 p.m. to
Newcastle and West Maitland.
WEDNESDAY, 9th NOVEMBER: 8.5 a.m.
to Newcastle; 9.10 a.m. to Hawkesbury; and
Gosford, 11.30 p.m. to Hornsby Junction.
On the MILSON’S POINT LINE the ordinary
Saturday service of trains will be run on 9t"li
NOVEMBER, with the exception that the
1.20 p.m. train, Milson’s Point to Chatswood, and
1.50 p.m. train, Chatswood to Milson’s Point,
WILL NOT RUN.
Special trains will run at frequent intervals to
Rockdale (Lady Robinson’s Beach), Kogarah
(Sandringham), Como, Sutherland, and National
Park.
On 9th NOVEMBER an additional Train will
leave Goulburn at 4.10 p.m. for Sydney, calling at
all stations to Capipbelltown, and due Sydney at
9.15 p.m.
WORKMEN’S TRAINS.
Several of the Workmen’s Trains will be CAN
CELLED on Prince of Wales’ Birthday ; for par-
ticulars see handbills and posters.
CLOSING OF THE GOODS SHEDS AND
CENTRAL BOOKING OFEICE, George-
street, Sydney.
On 9th NOVEMBER the Goods Sheds at Red-
fern and Alexandria will be Closed, but the Goods
Shed at Darling Harbor will be open until 10 a.m.
for the delivery of perishables. The Goods Sheds
at other stations will be Closed, except for the
receipt and delivery of perishable traffic.
The Central Booking Office will be open until
12.30 p.m. for the sale of tickets and delivery of
perishable parcels only.
Further particulars from all Station-masters.
By Order of the Commissioners,
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden oitg’
BICYCLES
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
- Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
<z>
IS
your
WIF€
PRETTY
nearly tired out after a ride on her cycle ?
What else can you expect if you let her
ride a machine weighing pounds more than
your own ? Get her a
Featherweight
which has many good qualities beside actual lightness,
full particulars.
Sole Agents for
Send or call for an AET CATALOGUE, which will give you
“SWIFT” Cycles with Dunlop Tyres.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 George Street , Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Charters Towers, Kockhampton, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin
Launceston, Hobart, Bendigo, Hamilton, Warrnambool, etc., etc.


Ayer’s Hair Vigor
WSiOT
5. 6 . \
turn
What does
it do?
It causes the oil glands
in the skin to become more
active, making the hair
soft and glossy, precisely
as nature intended.
It cleanses the scalp
from dandruff and thus re-
moves one of the great
causes of baldness.
It makes a better cir-
culation in the scalp and
stops the hair from coming out.
It prevents and
It cures baldness,
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will surely make hair
grow on bald heads, provided only there is
any life remaining in the hair bulbs.
It restores color to gray or white hair. It
does not do this in a moment, as will a hair
dye; but in a short time the gray color of
age gradually disappears and the darker color
of youth takes its place.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer 8o Co., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
D.S .MAI R
Ory
n in
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; ,S tafia, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
K&Tural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20'n. long, s/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, V 6 peroz.
e are the cheape&tin Aua*
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attention given to Country Order*.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NlfiW SOUTH WALES BARBERS SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hair working.* I** 1 **
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/-each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A SI ST ANTS Engaged for the Country.
A writer in London Science Siftings :
I think it desirable to ventilate through your columns,
if you will allow me, the “ indecent ” prudery manifested
in some quarters, as to the exhibition of statues of the
human frame. Particularly must I complain of the
mutilation of ancient idols—the so-called ithyphallic.
idols, and other such evidences of bygone creeds —by
official personages who suppose that a nude statue,
like a nude human being, is indecent. The Govern-
ment of New Zealand is a notorious offenderin
this respect, and has destroyed many objects of ethno-
graphical interest, merely in deference to such mistaken
delicacy as I complain of. Thus it is that the Auckland
Museum has been Bovvdlerised—so to speak.
What does Auckland say to this ?
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Lbzabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. Ihe firm has a reputation for straight deal-
mg extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a suthoient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Literature Prof. Mitchell, of Adelaide
University, recently threw a bomb among the
teachers of that province. When S.A. schools are
mentioned the local man mostly says something
about the late J. A. Hartley and his “ wonderful
organisation.” But the learned Mitchell, who
isn t reckoned at all a snob, told a mixed audience,
brought together by the Teachers’ Association,
that on paper the province had the worst-educated
teachers in the world. And then, instead of say-
ing that this wonderful organisation atoned for it
alI < simply said that the reason why the Scotch
and German systems were the best in the world
was that the Scotch and German teachers were
the best educated in the world.
About a year ago a man named Satherley
was mysteriously murdered at Blenheim (M.L.).
One Beattie had come into the little town with
£37 and waved the money in the air a good deal
too promiscuously. It disappeared. The only
clue to its disappearance was that Satherley was
drinking and waving money promiscuously, and
as he was not known to have any of his own it
was strongly suspected that he was drinking
I Beattie s lost cash. Later on Satherlev’s remains
[ were found in the river in a badly-smashed state
and the money was gone. It has remained gone
ever since, barring two notes which were appar-
ently dropped on the river-bank. The mystery
rested there till the other day, when one Petersen
gave himself up and asked that he and his mate
should be comfortably hanged for the murder.
His account of the butchery was most circum-
stantial, and the only reason why the police can’t
hang Peterson, as they would greatly like to do is
that he was in gaol at the date of the crime, and
his mate was also locked up just then. There is
no alibi like being in gaol, or in a lunatic asylum
or dead. And now the police would like to know
why Petersen confessed, but Petersen himself
doesn’t seem to know. The world is dotted all
oyer with men who confess to crimes which they
didn’t commit, apparently for the mere joy of
seeing their names in the local paper. Almost
everybody has the germ of advertisement preying
on him somewhere, and if he hasn’t money enough
to build a church or be a Hooley, almost the only
thing he can do is to charge himself with the I
murder of somebody. It is the same disease in
both cases.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAREHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
“ V.A.L.” re the value of conventional
art-training:—
Dear Bulletin.—Apropos Victor Daley’s N.S.W. Art
Society notice, and the comment, “ The curious thing
in connection with this picture and a few others is that
they are the work of comparative amateurs, and are
indescribably more artistic than the ambitious canvases
of the professional persons.” As a professional, I may
say that I have heard from many artists this statement:
The academic drilling has robbed my work of all the
feeling and the quality which used to belong to it before
I went through the schools.” Artist Streeton applied a
similar remark to his art, and his tone of regret suffi-
ciently indicated to me that he was fully alive to the
dangers of the schools. It would appear that some men
should studiously avoid the academy ; while by others its
education is undoubtedly needed. A master mind would
probably retain much of its “untrimmed original thought
and feeling,” but I believe the vast majority of students
or amateurs lose when brought into close contact with
the accepted dogmas of Art.
J. R. Findlay, late proprietor of Edinburgh
Scotsman, who, it is cabled, died the other day, was
a man much after David Syme’s stamp. Perhaps
the most exciting incident in his career was the
enforced resignation of one of his ablest editors—
Robert Wallace, now M.P. for East Edinburgh.
Wallace was a great, but erratic, leader-writer, a
man of deep learning, a sparkling wit, an intellect-
ual giant who gave promise of the greatest of great
achievements—but he had one fatal weakness.
That failing prompted him to make a thunderous
interjection from the House of Commons press
gallery during an important debate. He was
removed by the attendants. Findlay thought the
incident humiliating and called for his editor’s
resignation. The last scene in the editorial room
of the Scotsman between the rich and powerful
proprietor and the discarded editor must have
come back to Findlay on his deathbed.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUiD
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents fur New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i' THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE lIS THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2 /- each.
Proprietors : GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ,OC:K & CO., KENT and EITERPOOE STREETS, SVBNEV.
f>OOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d. ’
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s po’st.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price its
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
SIB ROBERT BEAR,
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
~ Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dore. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
IF ? s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRAJiTT OF A-FFOINTMEOrT
t O “ THE QXTEEKT.”
Ask for
Whisky ai?d
‘Scbweppc
SCHWEPPES
SOPA WATER, &c-
( 3dd3Mtps,
p Ob ApOejg
JOj >|S\*
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
(Lalte
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
le ar S’STIDINnES'Xr.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
:
in
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
L ™™“ na COPPEK OKES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
ROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON .AGREEMENT of ASSAYS ’
O- H*—» Rafo, e.«„ ,ppl y to E. A. Wbinbkkg, Manager, The Siting Co m pa„ y o, A„,«ia, L.d„ DAPTO, N.S.W.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION


N £rr ßaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfalifye Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Elood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir,—l think,it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie,
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, 'stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Xalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of vour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station,
JOHN KEAY.
Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through inremperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pi'lls have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I vvas under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivafihoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they w'ere claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing:
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. X was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HIiRR RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Paiisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING ••
Patrons of Herr Raw-
Herbs anywhere.
if err Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• - WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
A If aline- Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all vour Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSeiI,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OP THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERE, RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.. posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Slood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Ihdiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets —An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for ( ouirhs, Colds, t onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFAX.INE VITALITY PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE. SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 Creorg-e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z., WELLINGTON ... 91 Lambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY*
Sole Lessees, Messrs, Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THE DRAMATIC EVENT OF THE YEAR !
Every Evening, at 8; Wednesday Matinees, at 2.
The Romantic Play,
UNDER TNE RED ROBE.
JULIUS KNIGHT as GIL DE BERAULT.
ADA FERRAR as RENEE.
Plan, Nioholson’s. IS W~ PRICES—Ss., 3s„ 25., and Is.
T»ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY,
“* Sole Direction M. B. Cortis.
EVERY EVENING! and Matinee Saturday.
DANTE, The G-reat Juggling Genius.
Now filling this sumptuous Theatre to its
utmost capacity every night.
The Great DANTE BOOM. The Talk of the Town.
The Greatest Novelty in Sydney.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ALHAMBRA, SYDNEY.
The Coolest Theatre in Sydney.
Sole Lessees ... Percy St. Johh and W. J. Wilson.
EVERY EVENING! at 7.55.
ALHAMBRA MINSTREL and BURLESQUE COMPANY
First Part ! Olio 1 ! CINDERELLEN Burlesque.
GRAND NATIONAL PATRIOTIC TABLEAU.
Immense Success of Mr. JOHN COLEMAN.
The Lingard Sisters. The Keenans. Emmie Smith.
And our COLOSSAL TREBLE COMPANY.
Popular Prices—2s, Is, and Sixpence. Plan at Elvy’s.
Doors open, 7.15. Overture, 7.55. p.m. No early doors.
i|l HEAT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY. '
Saturday, sth November.
MAddIC MOORC
Supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS and Specially
Selected Company.
• - - FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY - - -
-A- Prodigal Father.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pIRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
v Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager ... Mr. George Buller
FRIDAY, Nov. 4, LAST NIGHT of
Every Day London.
SATURDAY, Nov. sth, First Production in Australia of
the great Drury Lane drama,
Duchess of Coolgardie
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle
Is; Gallery, Sixpence. ’
T l 7,° t L 1 THEATr E, SYDNEY.
b?" Lessee ancl Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
• ZR'PnP Y , (SATURDAY) MATINEE.
GREAT and GENUINE SUCCESS Achieved
xywnuu auiicvtl
Miss FLORRie W€ST
by
„ (THE DAZZLER).
Miss CORA CASELLI, D. H. CASTON, The BOVIS
BROTHERS, SISTERS TERRY, FOREMAN and
FAN^i^J HE ., ELKCTRIC ORGAN, FARING and
DEVOE, and our Grand Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s, George-street, from 10—5.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w So,e Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
Miss Peggy Pryde Mr- tt H- Wood
•A-J-A.3SZ. A.T A
Mr ‘ iw !E wTT B r E «F CHAMP - Miss NELLIE WILSON.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING
mr PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
■ OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
' Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o’clock.
I/- TN€ “POPS
9 9
I/-
... •• -. A magnetic programme .. .
Miss Harrie Lipman, Mr. Gooud, Miss Maud Dalryrople,
Mr. Rodda Perry (male alto), Mr. Tralford Foster; Mons
Wiegand, Madama Spada, Mr. Philip Newbury, and the
Marvellous BIOGRAPHE.
flan at Paling’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
T&RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
The Enormously Popular Comic Opera,
LA POUPEE.”
Interpreted by the Full Strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
SPORTING LIF€.
Instant and Cyclonic Success of this newest narrative of
Sport and Sensation, illumined by Scenic Splendour.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr, and Mrs. MOLT and
their Brilliant Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
ALEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee ... Erskine Scott.
Every Evening! .•. Every Eveningl
The Thrilling and Sensational Drama,
“A : MINER'S : SECRET.”
By MARK MELFORD.
Under the Stage Management of Mr. John Wallacb.
POPULAR PRICES ! —2s., One Shilling, and 1300 Seats
at SIXPENCE.
jyjELBOURNE TOWN HALL.
Lessee ... The Popular Concert Proprietary Registered.
SATURDAY “POPS.”
!SP“ GIGANTIC PROGRAMME NEXT SATURDAY.
Special Engagement of the “ Georgia Magnet.”
BIG ARRAY OF POPULAR ARTISTS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. J. .FRANK, Manager,
31 Queen Street.
■OIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
Tbc BroCigb Con?edy Coy.
First Production in Australia of
“THE LIARS.”
An original comedy, in 4 acts, by Henry Arthur Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address— QQ KING STREET SYDNEY
New Rustic Bar, Ivy and Gold Pearl Seb
BIRD BROOCH, 13s 6d.
St
GOLD 3-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
9c., 15s. ; 15c., 22s 6d.
Gold HEART and CHAIN BROOCH, 9s 6d.
G
o
X.
XJ
P
I
N
ft
C
H
A
I
N
P
E
N
D
A
N
T
S
G
O
X,
D
P
I
N
&
C
H
A
I
N
P
E
N
D
A
N
T
S
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6/6
~ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6
M Heart, 7,6 „ „ 6/6
„ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6,10/-
CURB CHAIN RING.
9c., 15s, 20s.
15e., 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
180. HALF-HOOP.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smallerstones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with S
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 60s,
60s.
18c. MARQUISE.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Rnby or
Sapphire, Emerald,
or Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
PLAIN BAND RING
9c., 10/-, 12/6,15/-, 20/-
15c., 20/-, 22/6, 27/6
18c., 21/-, 25/-, 30/.
With any Name or
Motto, la extra.
Lucky 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
8/6 & 10/- each.
REAL AMETHYST HEART PENDANTS, 2s 6d EACH.
REAL AMETHYST BUTTON HOOKS, 2s 6d EACH.
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT, 6s ea.
With Pin and
Chain, 8/6.
Please send for our Illus -
trated Slips of Novelties .
All Goods Post Free.
NEW GOLD HORSE
AND STIRRUP
PENDANT. 13» M.
'P9 SSI
Hoooaa nivho aNV Tiaa ctiod
I!»!
hi lira u
GOLD 2-BARBROOCH, Set with Red and
Blue Stones,. 12s.
REAL RUBY or SAPPHIRE BROOCH,
150., 18s 6d; 9c: 13s 6d.
sSf
8
n
ENGLISH HALL - MARKED
ALBERTS.
9c. Gold Single,
15c. „
Silver ~
9c. Gold Double,
15c
Silver „
50s, 60s, 70s.
955, 110 s, 130 s.
7s 6d, 10s, 13s 6d.
60s, 755, 85s.
110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
10s. 12s 6d, 15s.
mnniiMZ®
Kwm
H
Raiding and self-closing
BRACELETS—SOLID GOLD,
Full Sire, 60s, 665, 60s, 70s.
Children's, 27s 6d, 80s,
SIX DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
"onsiEa
Spoopcr’s
iRQYALNAVY DfiESSIHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
! OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
%tiiHunmiiiiiiimuniimiuim!i!
ROYAL NAVAL
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning-and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
GASGARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
OAVADEQQPQ Full directions.
OHvHnLOOL 0 All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse's Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
Established Over 52 Tears.
TTTk 7? Q A T T? • all articles of
JO UJII &JLJblii • good quality.
(GALVANISED Barbed Wire, 10s 6d cwt. ; Roofing Felt,
covers 200 ft., 9s roll; American Axes, 4Jib. to 61b.,
35s doz. ; Axle Grease, 2s 6d doz. packages ; Hay Knives,
3s ea. ; damaged Black Fencing Wire, 6s 6d cwt. ; damaged
Galvd. Fencing Wire, 8s cwt. ; Black Barbed Fencing
Wire, 8s cwt. ; slightly damaged Galvanised Plain Iron,
14s per cwt. ; Flemming’s Boiler Composition, 20s cask;
Dynamite, taking a few cases, Is per lb. ; good Fuse, from
5d per coil ; Flax Engine-packing, 6d lb. by coil; f, J, § rd.
India-rubber Packing, 6d lb. ; Muzzle-loader, Single-barrel
Guns, 15s ea. ; Double-barrel Breech-loaders, 30s ea.'; iron
Hay Collectors, 30s ea. ; Chaff Knives, Is ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, Is 3d ea. ; wooden Hay Rakes ; Bullock Bows,
Id per lb. ; Axle-arms, 2,3 J, 3J, Id per lb.; Crosscut Saws,
Is ft. ; Pit Saws, Is 3d ft. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id lb. ;
Leather Girths and Hobbles, 9d ; Globe Horse- Nails,
slightly touched, 2d lb. ; Blue, Black, Green, Lead-color,
White Paint in 281 b. kegs, 15s cwt. ; other paint, from 10s
cwt. ; over 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long, and
one of the largest stocks of Ironmongery in Australia. _
CHEAPEST PRICES.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. .
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Extra Large Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown,
Navy, Grey, &0., 3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free,
securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and add 3d.
extra in stamps. Thousands have profited by us ; join
them, write now.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapeij Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
46 DOWEIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalprety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Wincheombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young- and Co.
Tlae
Bank of Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835).
PAID UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND (£500,000 Invested in Consols at 95, the Remainder being Used in the
Business °
RESERVE LIABILITY of PROPRIETORS Under the CHARTER !
£1,600,000
800,000
1,600,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the DIRECTORS with the ACCOUNTS for the HALF-YEAR to 11th APRIL, 1898.
PRESENTED to the PROPRIETORS at the HALF-YEARLY GENERAL MEETING held on THURSDAY 29th
SEPTEMBER, 1898.
_ „ A t REPORT.
~ Directors snbmrt to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 11th April last, with the Profit Account for the
h!i 'JnTH™,Ki d | a w £[ ter P / OVl «7¥ fo /u re , ba , te on bills currenfc - for British and Colonial rates and taxes, and for all
bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £48,546 13s. Id. The addition of £18,275 14s 2d
Sn Prionsi half-year, gives a disposable balance of £66,822 7s. 3d., of which the dividend de-
ainn^nrnffhr^t £4 f 8 ’ 00 f 0 ' balance remaining a sum of £lO,OOO has been appropriated as provision on
account of the cost of extension of the London Office premises, now being carried out, leaving £8822 7s. 3d to be
carried forward to next account. s
i, C Report a material improvement has occurred in the weather in the colonies. The much needed
haR then commenced to fall, became general over nearly the whole of Australia, and the records show it
to have been the best season, m this respect, of several years past.
l»W h s e a u.« iC n» o » f X o^ Whio Vt e K l shortly after the dat e of the last Report, had, at the closing of the
latest sales, nearly recovered the fall, and the prospects for the next sales are considered good. The volume of this
to prevent the loss^Uambs! U0 ** “ eXOesa „ of * ha * i °* * he pas * Beason > the rain in some districts having come
availtwe o for W ex e port r ° P h ° practically assured > and it is estimated that there will be a considerable surplus
throughout the colonies show signs of some improvement, a better demand exists for proper-
ties, and as the effect of the rainfall becomes more evident, the improvement should be continued and maintained,
nevnhlp at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum, or £1 45., per share for the half-year. It will be
paj able, free of income-tax, in London and in the colonies on the 30th inst.
4 Threadneedle-sfcreet, London, 16lh September, 1898. THOMAS SUTHERLAND, Ctairmon.
Undivided Prttt. nth oXfliW 00 ™ I '. r ™" ““ O °“ CT - 18W - 18 »
Less : Dividend, April, 1898
.. £58,275 14 2
... 40,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to 11th April, 1898, after deducting rebate on bills current at
Balance date (£72/0 14s. 10d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful
debts LEgg -- > £159,356 5 ft
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the Colonial Staff, including the Superin-
tendent’s Department and 144 branches and agencies .. .. £71,725 19 10
General Expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, &c. 19,593 12 9
London—
Salaries .. .. , kqzi j ta
General Expenses „ „ ” *’ ” 2*174 2 11
£18,275 14 2
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial ..
London _.
£101,089 0 4
£7,462 9 5
2,258 2 7
9,720 12 0
110,809 12 4
111. Provision on account of cost of extension of London Office premises ...
Leaving available for dividend
BALANCE SHEET, 11th APIRL. 1898.
48,546 13 1
66,822 7 3
.. 10,000 0 0
.. £56,822 7 3
Dr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation 487£64 0
Deposits . .. .. ..12,601,089 18 8
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,304,484 0 0
_ .. , 16,393,437 18 8
Capital .. ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 800,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2| per
cent, consols at 95,
the remainder
being used in the
business of the
bank.)
Profit account; undivided
balance 66,82* 7 *
2,456,822 7 8
£17,850,260 5 11
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
ASSETS.
8. U.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances .. 3,182,451 16 0
Loans at call and at short notice .. 1,280,000 0 0
British and Colonial Governments Securi-
ties .. .. .. 591,784 5 6
5,054,236 1 6
Bills receivable, advances on securities
and other assets .. .. .. 12,332,994 8 2
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand,
and London ... 463,029 16 3
£17,850,260 5 11
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We hav.e examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have v
... . , ~ , , v..~ , c ,uiir4 the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we begr to report that, in our opinion, the forepoin? is a full and fair balance
sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
London, 9th September, 1898. WELTON. JONES and 00., Auditors.


A. H. MOORE & 00.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY.
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/-ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- ~
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Tennis
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... S/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OE SUSANNAH
EISHER BOBY, Deceased.
If C. W. E. BOBY, born at Lyttelton, N.Z.,
in 1852, will apply at the office of the undersigned
he will hear of something very much to his
advantage.
W. H. QUICK, Solicitor,
Wellington, New Zealand.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY. -HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices : 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
□F* rice 3s 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
■>
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Sydney
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
JANO op ORGAN PLAYING
1 LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
I PRATT S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
1 A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With it any one can become an expert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the NEAREST APPROACH to a ready made knowledge
of MUSIC YET devised by the human mind.
1 QATIffQ fWp To introduce to every home PRATT’S CHART
.„ u O° 11 Published at 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
- Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt's Chart
n Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
" odo American Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
HaQdolgQ! Maodolip!
Vivacitd, Scherzo Spagnolo, Passione, and many
other favorite compositions, by Marchisio, Venanzi,
and other eminent composers for this Popular
Instrument.
W. Paxtoo & Co-,
203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE;
And 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
TTAVING devoted special attention to the Second-hand
J L Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books Prescribed for the Junior, Senior Matriculation
First, Second and Third year course examinations for
1899 and 1900. Special attention is drawn to students
and teachers that they can be purchased - from me at
nearly One-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Randson’s History 3/6 for 2/6;
Geikie’s Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/-; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3,6 for 2/- ; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for 3 - ; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3/6 for
2/-; Todd Hunter’s Algebra, 2/6 for 1/6; Hall and Knight’s
Algebra, 4 6 for 3/-; Hall and Stevens’ Euclid, 4/6 for 3/-;
Todd Hunter’s Euclid, 3/6 for 2/-; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/-; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/- ; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for 3/-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4 6 for 3/-; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Balfour Stewart’s
Physics, 4/6 for 3 - ; Otto’s German Grammar, 5'- for 3/-;
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7/6 for 5/6; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra
P TAT STTTWNPP Second-hand Book Arcade,
l.b. *v . IJIVLLN in -L-Ilb, 105 Castlereagh-st. , Sydney.
Telephone, 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CAHDB, 3s.——
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Ib.
■Continental Supply Agency,
i Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
asrSend Four Penny-
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
There were nine prisoners for trial at the
recent Palmerston (Northern Territory) assizes.
Seven of them consisted of Wong Sue One, Lee
On, Yuen Con, Okomoto, and three aboriginals.
Apropos of nothing at all, by the way, will any
Pat Man explain why the N. Territory doesn’t
prosper? The Stout Person alleges over and over
again that what the tropical North wants is cheap
colored labor, and then it will boom “ something
wonderful.” Well, the Territory is the one place
that has practically free nigger, free Chinaman,
and free spotted labor generally. And it is dead
beyond all the records of the deadest part of white
Australia. The white men have .largely cleared
out and the Asiatic is left in practical possession.
And he dreams over the opium pipe and lets
things slide. The one railway doesn’t pay working
ex.’s—it hardly pays engine grease. The revenue
only about half covers the expenditure. The
mines are very little worked. The pastoral and
agricultural land is mostly neglected. And the
boom—a better boom could be dug up any day in
a cemetery.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The two clauses in the W.A. Constitution
on which the goldfields separationists rest their
case are these :
61. Nothing in this Act contained shall prevent Her
Majesty from dividing the colony of Western Australia as
she may from time to time think fit, by separating there-
from any portion thereof, and either erecting (he same or
any part thereof into a separate colony or colonies under
such form of Government as she may think fit, or from
re uniting to the colony of Western Australia any part of
any colony so created.
63. Whenever any portion of the colony is about to be
separated therefrom the Lords Commissioners of Her
Majesty’s Treasury may, if requested by the Governor-in-
Councii, on report and accoums furnished by him, declare
what portion of the public debt of the colony has been
expended within the territory about to be separated, and
the interest and sinking-fund, if any, upon the portion of
the public debt mentioned in any such declaration shall
be a reserved charge payable to the Governor of Western
Australia by the Government of the separated territory,
and due provision for such reserved charge shall be made
in any Act regulating the constitution of the separated
territory.
According to this Act, the British Government
can divide W.A. without asking the sanction of
the Parliament either in Perth or London. The
st p.uationists therefore propose, unless they get
equal Parliamentary representation and their
Esperance railway, to cry like the cheerless crow
on the front stqp of the Bull Government until it
exercises its power and gives them separation.
Then there will be grand times in W.A., for the
goldfields will take away with them most of the
revenue, and the Sandgroper end of the province
will retain most of the debt—that debt which it
borrowed so gloriously on the credit of Kalgoorlie,
and spent with both hands at Bunbury and Fre-
mantle. W.A. lives and has its boom through
Kalgoorlie and the other goldfields, yet it isn’t
even decently civil to the goose which lays its
golden eggs.
Handsome NieVel Puzzle Matchbox.
; Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
f
fi
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id. ;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will SEND,
Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT Parcel, con-
taining all the below-mentioned articles (100) for Postal
Note 55., or Three for 14s. Money returned if not satis-
fied : One pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look
and wear like oil paintings ; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber ; 0 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion —a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
SEND for this GOLD-MINE Early (Carriage Paid), ss. ;
or Three for 14s. In return for the WONDERFUL VALUE
we give you, we certainly expect you to show your friends
the whole lot, and give our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDJAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold b.y all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra!
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
The latest Insect pouider.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS.
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting:
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON ’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “ White Bose ” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
J. <se E. Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
“I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
fS
'l/te lies alt.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Gaorge-st,, Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then 1
J ack : With St. Jacobs Oil. it
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
- EVERYWHERE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
TO ALL
M
E
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writ-s a prominent man after
using the Homceopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain maybe had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
CITT3
DEAF
0033
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
lliow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN; STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, i. 5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 C. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6', 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian T*weed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
ourSPECIAL BELTforLADIESis
REALLYa MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does'not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), jriving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Svdnev,
lourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor
G ENTLEM EN is S IMPLYa WONDER
The Lowest Prices
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recoin
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
H)inerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, lias been reduced to the
public from 2s. Od; to Is. fld. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonisecl Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. (id. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co ,
Manufacturing Chemists & Food Specialist".
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 Margaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO
DRROBERTS’:
YEARS USE
t&fr/v' DISEASEf
D-ROBERTS
AND WOUAJOS
or £ VER Y
DESCRIP t/o^T
PILLS
DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SOPDEPS OF THE
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEMISTS //// & 2/<?EACH
BE/\CH & BARNICOTT L°. BR|DPORJ.
APSfiKL
MELBOURNE.
WatcHes-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday-
_ Vveddiinlg z CHrjsteivliislc Presents
H.NeWMAH-1755177-PII7ARFtH St.
OPPOSITE C:P.O.
MELBOURNE


A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
| T*E T*M * F* R e*E*Y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“ The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
jOl. Solid Silver Watch.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
jW* A * S 1| T* E | T*M * |
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ of Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions .'—That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney. ,
SECOND-HAND
AND
•KTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
J:1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
GT3
2*7
1
mm
FOREIGN STAMPS.
£'■E'A S of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
|J5* Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Rouwama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d'; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d; 150, 5s ; postage, 2d. Remit
P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price Lists,
Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.'
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
\ CrampsX \ Croup, \\ cuts, \
\\ K " r “ !" \
\ Colds, y ache, \ \ Bruises^
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"PainKiUev
(PERRY X>AVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
ON€ HONeST MAN.
I'kEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering- from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
-
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM ft SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney..
RONISCH
RONISCH
UOMSCII
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
i, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
PIANOS
Five different Mo<
SOLE
AGENTS
NICHOLSON & CO..
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all Wrnf?’
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam tarts. Delicious to all hinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Uiieaualled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
impSy followed ® proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article and anrecom,
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a ti ml.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKUOUsb & CO.. LbEDS, ICV
Sole Agents for New Smith Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each.
Dr. I ASKANT,
E.E.0.5.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1., L.M.RC.P.E.,
m
/ 2^U>
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Diver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Man}' sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo Man or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Pumnlaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
orio-in, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
T iver Complaint Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
oirme Therefore if vou are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
nr nark circled Eves : Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ■ Bad Taste Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfillness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
frnm the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
o Throt Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely KTo Charge
fer Pnnsiiltation • but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
p°aint"including Special Ckmßiiaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Con nlaints Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, D.seases of Women, Constipa-
tion Hip Disease Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enc ose that amount
in vfiiir first letter thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If vou are ill be vou young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
tabbant who’will mve vou? case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
hit diagnosis in plain Understandable language.
COMAIUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney 5 or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G-.F.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar nvr one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of thecolony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which' is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUPPER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eaual to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
How’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
How’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three tunes a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRV
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilius’— —
-—Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS' REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. —It is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
How’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled Iw none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will b e as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
How’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and cpmfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
How’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’? WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney.


Her Versatility.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ That the moral to be gathered as regards the
weaker sex
Is, to put it very mildly : women are indeed com-
plex !
And the chap that takes to flirting writes him
down a foolish chum,”
Was the verdict of the jury—then we had another
rum.
But it strikes me I have got this mournful story
upside-down ;
So to start with the beginning : They were mak-
ing into town,
When I joined them, near the crossing, at unani-
mous request :
Mick, and George, and Dan the Boozer, hailing
from the woolly West,
Where, at various employments (and removed
from bottle-necks),
They had made much filthy lucre in the shape of
biggish cheques.
There was nothing out of common in the turn-out,
man or steed,
But the purpose of their travel was remarkable
indeed ;
And they took me (as a soft-’un my success was
quite immense)
Instantly and unreservedly into their confidence.
“Listen, mate,” quoth Mick, and whispered with
an air of mystery :
“ I am off to town to marry ” (here he poked my
ribs), “ you see !
So you better join the party. Oh, I promise you
some fun,
For that girl of mine is chirpy, is a real bright
merry one.
We’ll get up a rare old bender, for the wife-that-
is-to-be
Doesn’t mind a bit of chaffing when you’re out
upon the spree.
That there township isn’t Sydney, but there’s
whips of grog at least! ”
And I promised on my honor to attend the nuptial
feast.
We had stopped at Ten-Mile Gully for our dinner
and a smoke,
And in glad anticipation I was saddling up my
moke,
When I heard a sound of sighing, and I saw with
some dismay
George was gazing at my hatband in an absent
sort of way.
“Mate,” he muttered, edging near and treading
on my softest corn,
“ Did that fellow ” —and he pointed vaguely with
a thumb of scorn
To the place where Mick was seated—“did that
very vulgar cove
Tell you all about his sweetheart ?—Well, I am
myself in love !
lam off to town to marry ; but the lady I shall
wed
Is a cut above the others. And in truth, old man,
I dread
To be seen with such companions.” And he
turned towards his mates
With a look that would have withered a collector
of the rates.
Then he gave a long description of the lady ; and
the flow
Of his eloquence was perfect—and his girl was
nearly so.
She was dreamily suggestive of an angel min is
wings,
Was poetic, sentimental, also many other things.
And he finished by inviting me to watch him take
the yoke,
Seeing how I Was a decent and superior sort of
bloke.
Mick was low, and Dan the Boozer was a common
drunken beast.—
And I promised on my honor to attend the nuptial
feast.
Wrapt in pleasant meditation, I was jogging
into town,
When I noticed Dan the Boozer, sporting a most
solemn frown,
Signalling to me to join him ; and I guessed it
was about
Still another joyous secret. ’Pon my word, I
wasn’t out!
But it startled me no longer, for I have a simple
mind,
And was getting quite accustomed to disclosures
of the kind.
So I listened with attention to a statement of the
case,
How the girl that Dan would marry had con-
verted him to grace,
And had pointed out the awful danger of too
many beers,
Had persuaded him, God bless her (here he
melted into tears),
To affix in deep remorse a very shaky signature
To the document that bound him over to a water-
cure.
“She is good,” he said, “and pious, and that
saintly soul of hers
Would be shocked beyond endurance by a jest, a
gibe, a curse.
To-morrow you must come and see us married by
the priest.”
And I promised, on my honor, to attend the nup-
tial feast.
Well, to bring a painful story to an end : We all
got down
At the pub that seemed the raison d’etre of that
one-horse town ;
And before I had the hobbles on my horses (it was
hard,
But the paddock that they showed me was a one-
time killing-yard)
Rumors of a great disaster that had happened to
my mates
Were afloat; and, as I hurried to collect details
and dates,
There approached a deputation of two loafers and
the boots,
Who explained the cases of those matrimonial
recruits ;
And they begged of me to ponder, ere endanger-
ing my life,
As they understood that I was also looking for a
wife.
They announced that George was lying broken-
hearted in his bunk,
While poor Mick and Dan the Boozer were already
getting drunk.
And the sweethearts of the trio (all my brain was
in a whirl)
Proved in each distinctive instance to be the self-
same girl /
They informed me she was knowing and impossible
to snub,
And her lawful occupation that of slavey at the
pub. ;
All the township called her Carrots, but her name
was Mary Ann —
And she was engaged to marry Jones , the local
publican /
VON KOTZE.
Land of the Crocodile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Taroom district an Irish stockman had
something badly amiss with his innards, and the
squatter asked another Hibernian to ride 20 miles
for the German doctor. “ Dam the fut oi’ll go ! ”
said Mick. “ What could a German docthor
know about the inside of an Irishman? You just
give Pat plenty o’ whisky—that’ll cure him 1 ”
And it did.
* m • *
When war-correspondent Archibald Forbes’
brother was shepherd at Hooper’s Hawkwood
station on the Burnett he covered the walls of his
slab hut with a varied collection of his own rhymes.
One of them—an epicedium on a favorite cat
named “ Nelly Gray,’’poisoned with a bait:
One day this caterwauling sinner
Had eaten poisoned bait for dinner,
And died of colic in the belly,
So all good Christians pray for Nelly.
On the pine front door was written, “Enter
friendly, eat moderately, avoid curiosity and de-
part honestly.” Which latter makes one think
that perhaps, after all, he didn’t deserve his early
death.
« * * *
Jimmy Tyson was one day in B. D. More-
head’s office, and someone mentioned a lady noted
for her fine physique. “ By jove, Tyson, just the
woman to suit you ! ” said John Stevenson. “The
woman to suit me,” said the cattle king, “ must
be square and flat on the loins, thin in the
flank and deep in the brisket! ” Occupation of
Love, or Apotheosis of Utilitarianism ?
* * » *
Peter, the blackfellow, went to the station-
manager’s wife and told her he was going to kill
himself, as he was tired of life, because his gin
was about to beoome a mother, and he had no
clothes for her or the baby, and no rations in the
camp. Mrs. Manager put together a lot of her
old baby-clothes, two of her dresses, and a parcel
of tea, sugar, and flour. Peter was properly
grateful, but, as he walked away, the lady hailed
him: “ How long, Peter, before your missis have
the baby?” “Oh, good wile yet. Me only got
married las’ week ! ”
• * * *
Myall romance. A notorious Dawson
River black, who recently finished a long term in
Brisbane gaol, was removed to Eraser Island, and,
as his gin was anxious to join him there, she was
sent on by coach and train at Govt, expense.
The meeting with her husband on Fraser IsNnd
beach was quite equal in sentimental fervor to any-
thing I have ever seen among whites. That night,
they stood with their arms round each other, and
watched the corrobboree for three hours. When
a black with a bad record goes to Fraser Island
he receives a nevy name, and his past history is
never mentioned to the other blaoks.
* * • •
He was a Hielanman frae Lochaber, a
grizzled old pioneer who had gone out and taken
up a big tract of country on the Barcoo, his son
Jock taking up much adjoining territory. Soon
after another squatter in search of country stayed
at Mac’s camp. He asked Mac if there was any
adjacent area available. Mac said he would teil
him in the morning. After breakfast, he took him
to the top of a sand-ridge overlooking beautiful
downs bounded only by the sky line, and, waving
his hand towards the horizon, observed : “ All the
country ye can see belangs ta me, and all that ye
canna see belangs ta my son Jock ; but if there’s
onything ootside o’ that, ye ken, ye can tak it! ”
* * • *
At a Brisbane hotel table a recently-
arrived Scotsman was assuming the airs of an
epicure and sniffing disdainfully at the viands ;
but when he finally said “ Waiter, this beef is
much too fat for me ; I hate fat beef ! ” a stern
old Caledonian spoke suddenly from the other
side of the table—“Eh, mon, I kenned yer family
weel in the auld country when they never taistit
beef o’ ony kin’ but ance a year, except it was a
‘ braxie ’or an auld coo chokit wi’ a neep ! ” A
“ braxie ” is a sheep dead of diseased liver, and a
“ neep ” is a turnip.
• * * *
Gov. Macgregor, of Papua, is a strong
temperance advocate. Says he never could have
done his New Guinea work if he had been a
drinker. He is also chiefly vegetarian in his diet,
and, of course, as becomes auld Scotia’s son, takes
his parritch regularly. He amuses many of his
distinguished visitors by eating his porridge with
hop-beer (my father’s favorite breakfast). The
Governor’s disapproval of liquor is not shared by
some of his officers, who have to visit Brisbane
regularly to recruit after a few months spent in
trying to kill New Guinea microbes with what
Artemus Ward called “diluted battle-axe.” The
“ wazzer-mazzer ” fever is not unknown in New
Guinea.
* • * *
At Premier Byrnes’s funeral was an old
Northern bushman, who started from Bowen with
Byrnes’s father for Cape River diggings in ’67.
Byrnes senior intended to start dairying, but he
died of fever between Natal Downs and the Cape.
“ There was no funeral that morning,” said the
old digger. “No hearse, no service—not even a
coffin. Just wrapped in his blankets and buried
in the softest spot we could find.” Byrnes’s
brothers in the North are men of robust physique
and big hearts. Edward, an ex-packer, keeps a
hotel at Cairns. John has a station 20 miles from
Thornborough, and was first man to bring the
blacks in to Thornborough and induce John,
Macrossan to grant Government rations, which
have been continued ever since. The blacks gave
no trouble in that district afterwards.
MAROOGALINE.
The Salvation Booths are, anyhow, making
a few rather badly-wanted additions to Christian
names. The War Cry publishes weekly a group-
portrait of an officer’s family (and how they do
increase!), and in most cases there’s a Booth
among them, and a Bramwell, and occasionally a
Tucker and a Ballington. But Ballington is just
now off, and is represented by a B.
Sturdy Young Australia!
i«i
m
**
SF
m
...
■
-jgtgra* I
I
*
■
*
;
: ::
m
-m
hB
I#
■
IS
This strong, handsome boy
is one of thousands of happy
children who have been
brought up on
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
We give you his Parents’ Testimonial
To Mr. Arnott.
Dear Sir, —This is the picture of our son (Reginald),
taken when he was two years and ten months old. He has
been taking your biscuits since he was three months old.
Before I gave him your Milk Arrowroot Biscuits he was
very restless ; we could not get any rest with him. After
taking the biscuits I had not much trouble with him. He
would have three meals a day of the biscuits, and now that
he is 31 years old he still wants the biscuits, and we sell a
great quantity of them. —Yours, etc.,
WILLIAM and CLARA M‘KELLAR”
298 Palmer-street, Darlinghurst. -i
DIRECTIONS :
For Infants, grate the biscuits to powder; mix and stir with boiling water. If milt
agrees, add it. But the biscuits are made with milk. Give by feeding-bottle or spoon.
Older children may eat them when and how they like.
ARNOTT’S Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
The Genuine Pure Biscuit is ARNOTT’S.
NEVER give your Child an IMITATION.
Remember:


The Great Gray Water.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now two have met, now two have met,
Who may not meet again—
Two grains of sand, two blades of grass,
Two threads within the skein—
Beside the Great Gray Water.
Two hands to touch, two hearts to touch ;
And, here foregathered, we
Will not forget, may not forget,
Where last foregathered three—
Beyond the Great Gray Water.
Two glasses filled, two pipes to fill—•
“To all our fortunes, brother ! ”
And as they clink—like so —we drink
Fair passage to the other,
Across the Great Gray Water.
For three have sailed, and one has sailed,
His sins, like ours, still on him.
God: sleep his soul! five oceans roll
Their long weight all upon him,
Oh, God ! Thy Great Gray Water !
But I am still, and you are still,
And here our chance has flung us ;
True comrades we, but there were three,
And one is not among us
Beside the Great Gray Water.
A breathing space, a biding place,
Soft lights and beakers beaded,
Then out again and on again,
Unminded and unheeded,
Across the Great Gray Water.
Now two have met where three have met
With curses or with laughter—■
And so our Day shall pass away,
And so our Night come after,
But ah ! the Great Gray Water !
Sydney, 1898.
E. J. BRADY.
“ The dead crew of the ‘ Ancient Mariner ’
is to be found in many a church. I can take you
to one with dead deacons, a dead man holding the
plate, a dead man preaching, and dead people for
an audience. The sermon is as fresh as a fish pre-
served in ice.”— Spurgeon.
Murray Smith, the boss Tory of Yic.
Assembly, in defence of dummying :
When, in the Duffy Land Act, Mr. Ireland left out the
word “ assigns ” —whether he did it intentionally or acci-
dentally, and I believe he did it by accident —the omis-
sion gave these men opportunities of acquiring land, of
which they availed themselves. And were they to blame
if they availed themselves of these flaws in the law ?
Of course they were not. In fact, if the law for-
got to make parricide illegal could any one blame
a citizen for promptly butchering the old man to
save his keep ? Of course not. But Murray
Smith's utterance opens up for public discussion a
subject that is usually only referred to with bated
breath in Victoria. Did Ireland omit the word
“assigns” (which omission led to the dummying
of thousands and thousands of acres of the finest
land in Victoria) out of the Duffy Land Act in-
tentionally ? If so, what was his price, who paid
it, and why was he not impeaehed ? Time is pas-
sing rapidly, and those few survivors who have
the key of this interesting piece of secret history
should speak now. Ireland is dead, but Victoria
would like to know what sized brick should be
thrown at his memory.
On Our Selection.—We Embark
in the Bear Industry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the bailiff came and took away the cows
and horses, and completely knocked the bottom
out of Dad’s land scheme, Dad didn’t sit in the
ashes and sulk. He wasn’t that kind of person.
He did at times say he was tired of it all, and
often he wished it far enough, too ! But, then,
that was all mere talk on Dad’s part. He loved
the selection. To every inch—every stick of it—
he was devoted. ’Twas his creed. He felt certain
there was money in it—that out of it would come
his independence. Therefore, he didn’t roll up
and, with mother by the hand and little Bill on
his back, stalk into town to hang round and abuse
the Bush. He walked up and down the yard
thinking and thinking. Dad was a man with a
head.
He consulted mother and Dave, and together
they thought more.
“The thing is,” Dad said, “to get another
horse to finish the bit of ploughing. We’ve got
one ; Anderson will lend the grey mare, I know.”
He walked round the room a few times.
“ When that’s done, I think I see my way
clear ; but that’s the trouble.”
He looked at Dave. Dave seemed as though he
had a solution. But Joe spoke. ■
“ Kuk-kuk-couldn’t y’ b-reak in some kang’roos,
Dad ? There’s pul-lenty in th’ pup-paddick ? ”
“ Couldn’t you shut up and hold your tongue
and clear out of this, you brat?” Dad roared. And
Joe hung his head and shut up.
“Well, y’ know”—Dave drawled—“ there’s
that colt wot Maloney offered us before to quieten.
Could get ’im. ’E’s a big lump of a ’orse if y’
could do anythin’ with ’im. They gave ’im best
themselves.”
Dad’s eyes shone.
“That’s th’ horse,” he cried. “Get him. To-
morrow first thing go for him. I’ll make some-
thing of him.”
“ Don’t know ” —Davechuckled—“ he’s a .”
“ Tut, tut; you fetch him.”
“ Oh, I’ll fetch ’iin.” And Dave, on the strength
of having made a valuable suggestion, dragged
Joe off the sofa and stretched himself upon it.
Dad went on thinking awhile.
“How much,” heat last asked, “did Johnson
get for those skins ? ”
“Which?” Dave answered. “Bears or kan-
garoos ? ”
“ Bears.”
“ Five bob, wasn’t it ? Six for some.”
“What, a-piece?”
“ Yairs.”
“ Why, God bless my soul, what have we been
thinking about ? Five shillings ? Are you sure?”
“Yairs, rather.”
“ What, bear-skins worth that and the paddock
here and the lanes and the country over-run with
them —full of the damn things— hundreds of them
—and we, all this time—all these years—working
and slaving and scraping and—and ” (he almost
shouted), “ damn me, what asses we have been, to
be sure,” (Dave stared at him.) “ Bear-skins five
shillings each, and ”
“That’s all right enough,” Dave interrupted,
“ but”
“Of course it’s all right enough now,” Dad
yelled, “ now when we see it.”
“ But look ’’—and Dave sat up and assumed an
an arbitrary attitude. He was growing suspicious
of Dad’s ideas. “To begin with, how many bears
do you reckon on getting in a day ? ”
“In a day”—reflectingly—“twenty at the
least. ”
“ Twenty. Well, say we only got half that,
how much d’y’make ? ”
“ Make ?” (Considering.) “ Two pounds ten
a day . . . fifteen or twenty pounds a week . . .
yes, twenty pounds, reckoning at that even. And
do you mean to tell me that we wouldn’t get more
than ten, bears a day? Why, we’d get more than
that in the lane—get more up one tree.”
Dave grinned.
“Can’t you see? Damn it, boy, are you so
dense ? ”
Dave saw. He became enthusiastic. He won-
dered why it had never struck us before. Then
Dad smiled, and we sat to supper and talked
about bears.
“ We’ll not bother with that horse now,” said
Dad ; “ the ploughing can go ; I’m done with it.
We’ve had enough poking and pudding about.
We’ll start this business straight away.” And the
following morning, headed by the dog and Dad,
armed with a tomahawk, we started up the
paddock.
How free we felt! To think we were finished
for ever with the raking and carting of hay—
finished tramping up and down beside Dad, with
the plough-reins in our hands, flies in our eyes and
burr in our feet—finished being the target for
Dad’s blasphemy when the plough or the horses or
the harness went wrong—was delightful! And
the adventure and excitement which this new in-
dustry promised operated strongly upon us. We
rioted and careered like hunted brumbies through
the trees, till warned by Dad to “keep.our eyes
about ” ; then we settled down, and Joe found the
first bear. It was on an ironbark tree, around the
base of which we soon were clamoring.
“ Up y’ go ! ” Dad said, cheerfully helping Dave
and the tomahawk into the first fork.
Dave ascended and crawled cautiously along the
limb the bear was on and began to chop. We
armed ourselves with heavy sticks and waited.
The dog sat on his tail and stared and whined at
the bear. The limb cracked, and Dave ceased
chopping and shouted “Look out!’’ We
shouldered arms. The dog was in a hurry. He
sprang in the air and landed on his back. But
Dave had to make another nick or two. Then
with a, loud crack the limb parted and came
sweeping down. The dog jumped to meet it. He
met it, and was laid out on the grass. The bear
scrambled to its feet and made off towards Bill.
Bill squealed and fell backwards over a log. Dad
rushed in and kicked the bear up like a football.
It landed near Joe. Joe swung his stick round
and struck Dad. Dad expostulated, and the bear
ran up another tree—about the tallest old gum in
the paddock. Dad snapped his fingers angrily
and cried : “ Where the devil was the do// ? ”
“Oh, where the devil wuz the dory!” Dave
growled, sliding down the tree —“ where th’ devil
wuz you ? Where wuz the lot o’ y’? ”
“Ah, well!” Dad said—“there’s plenty more
we can get. Come along.” And off we went.
The dog pulled himself together and limped after
us.
Bears were plentiful enough, but we wandered
far before we found another on a tree that Dave
could climb, and when we did, somehow or other
the limb broke when he put his weight on it, and
down he came, bear and all. Of course we weren’t
ready, and that bear, like the other, got up
another tree. But Dave didn’t. He lay till Dad
ran about two miles down a gully to a dam and
filled his hat with muddy water and came tearing
back with it empty—till Anderson and mother
came and helped to carry him home.
* * * *
We didn’t go out any more after' bears. Dave,
when he was able, went and got Maloney’s
colt and put him in the plough. And, after he
had kicked Dad and smashed all the swingle-trees
about the place, and got right out of his harness a
couple of times and sulked for two days, he went
well enough beside Anderson’s old grey mare.
* * * * *
And that season, when everyone else’s wheat
was red with rust —when Anderson and Maloney
cut theirs for hay—when Johnson put a firestick
in his—ours was good to see. It ripened ; and the
rain kept off, and we reaped 200 bags.
STEELE RUDD.
This year’s president of English Trades
Union Congress, James O’Grady, is a docker’s
son, himself 32 years old and .a cabinetmaker.
One of his rulings was “Shut up, Stevens ! ” But
he did better than that would lead one to expect.
“ G. 8." : My memory must be drunk,
or I have lived a past of delusion. Other
day we had Rabbi Davis telling us that Woolloo-
mooloo, 35 years ago, was bush. Now in the re-
sume of Reginald Black’s career we are told that,
as a boy, Mr. Black knew Woolloomooloo as
mostly bush. That would be when Mr. B. went
to school, say, 1850-2. Well, Woolloomooloo
wasn’t mostly bush then, but mostly house. I
remember the bank in which Mr. R. B. was born.
The George-street guard-house—not the barracks
—was opposite. But it doesn’t matter. Old men
will be talking. All the same, it is a satisfaction
to know that they must be much older than I
if they can remember Woolloomooloo as mostly
bush. ■
“Old Jack ” on the late P. A. C. O’Farrell :
P. A. 0. O’Farrell, solicitor and priest-detractor, died
the other day in Melbourne Hospital. His familiar aspect
in Bourke-street was that of a large, burly, clean-shaven,
mildewed priest or comedian, inevitably in rusty black,
like that worn by Rogers in “ The Game of Sweethearts,”
if anybody’s memory can go so far back. Stated age, 73.
But he was older. Indeed when, on the occasion of a
periodical arrest for threatening somebody with sudden
death, he was asked his age, he answered promptly,
“ 140.” Anyway, he was a queer card, with a singular,
obsolete, mediaeval kind of humor —not unallied to that
appreciation of the ludicrous which inspired Border
raiders of old to hang a man for the fun of the thing. He
had a mortal hatred against priests, and was yet a devout
Roman Catholic —one of the pillars inside St. Patrick’s
Cathedral was once inscribed with a brass plate in his
honor, as a subscriber. Wrote a pamphlet in which he
described the R.C. clergy as “ potato-faced,” and told
some graphic stories of the amatory eccentricities of
certain of their number. Once shot at Bishop Goold, but
missed him—a circumstance he attributed to the inter-
vention of Satan. Served two years for that folly, and
emerged from Pentridge uncured of his weakness for
pistol-practice. Writer knew him when he enjoyed the
monopoly of Melbourne law-business, and when he em-
ployed 20 clerks, whom he used to bully in great style.
But he paid them well and so squared things. He burst
up suddenly. O’Farrell got to be ostentatiously fond of
the frivolities of life, and R.C. clients edged otf. One
day he drove his buggy over a man in the street
and killed him. This annoyed him. Pie folded
up his tent and hied to California. It was there
that he became handy with the pistol. Had a row at St.
Louis, and floored a Yank with a champagne bottle.
Afterwards worked for Hall M’AUister, boss attorney in
’Frisco. One day he remembered that his father had left
a slab of money to the R.C. church in Victoria. So he
came back, and started to worry Bishop Goold. And that
settled him. Lived thereafter on affidavits, being a Com-
missioner for taking same. Got in one good shot, how-
ever. A reporter on a daily paper referred to him as
“ the assassin O’Farrell,” for which the old man made the
proprietor sit up, and thereupon opened a brief banking-
account. That was the one purple patch of his later
years. Poor, cranky old chap ! He was brave, and stood
up manfully against the contempt and coldness of those
around him—many of whom owed him gratitude. He
fed largely upon long-sleevers, though never the worse,
mentally, for the diet. But without doubt he thus earned
Bright’s disease, from which he died. Had he enjoyed a
reasonable show he might have lived to his alleged age of
140, for he was of grand physique—a picturesque and
handsome old man.
Do You Want a Pleasant Evening at Home,
or to give an exhibition? The
<SRBPNOPHON€,
a most marvellous instrument ; reproduces the music
of great military bands, famous opera singers, and
celebrated comedians in laughter-provoking monologues
produced upon the stages of the great cities of the world.
Simple to operate. Will not get out of order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*52
&
X
c/?
68
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
\,y HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
' ’ LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere I go I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says : —“By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
&
Yt
%
52
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge rny surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.”—R. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20 9 97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extrafor postage. Sold byall Chemists.
E. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
raj
Sk
B
51
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
COLLINS STREET WEST,
MELBOURNE.
(Situate Close to Stations , Steamers, and Centre of City).
This magnificent Hotel is replete with every modern convenience. It offers
a greater variety ol accommodation than any hotel in the world.
O.A.T:E33RLX:iXrGk
PUBLIC DINING HALL (on Ground Floor). —MEALS SERVED a la Carte , from Is.
FAMILY DINING HALL (on First FIoor).—TABLE D’HOTE, BREAKFAST, LUNCH
or DINNER, '2s. 6d. (open to non-residents).
CAFE (on Ground Floor).—OPEN ALL HOURS, DAY AND NIGHT.
ACCOMMODATION.
ROOMS ONLY can be BOOKED at from 2s. to ss. per day for Single, and 4s. to 10s. for
Double—according to floor. MEALS as required.
BOARDERS (inclusive of Three Meals per Day, Attendance, Hot or Cold Baths, Storage of
Luggage, *fcc.) —From 255. to <£3 3s. per Week, according to accommodation selected.
Electric Light in every Hoorn.


distinguished testimony.
His Honour, William F. Courtney, Mayor of Lowell, writes under date October
31st, 1896, of the benefit he derived from Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
iv\\^
r
W
m
I
m
m
k
W
'/z
y,
fa
m.
A
K
“I have great faith in the healing virtues of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, be-
cause it has helped me. The medicine cured me of indigestion, which had
troubled me seriously for several years.
Since I began taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla my appetite has improved,
I have slept better, and in fact my health in general has been greatly
benefited.”
We take pleasure in reproducing above the portrait and testimony of
Mayor Courtney, whose services in the cause of good municipal govern-
ment have been recognized in his recent election to the mayoralty of his
native city for the third year in succession. His experience is the same
as that of thousands of other people, ,of all sorts and conditions, who
have found freedom from sickness, and restored health and strength in
the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worth-
less imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
See that the name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is on the wrapper, and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., UVS. A.
Iw
J,
,c
m
YU,
wm
m
llK^§
mil
feiii
l
I!
1
==-x
'mwA
fa
t <
M
m
H
& ,
5v ■ -m
A
feS
Z'
rz
>** /' '
"T^.e-zT
*"V
HAD JUST LEFT THE HOSPITAL.
WJrif 5 . Prime : “ How came you to be in such a terrible condition?”
Tramp: Tli’ piece o’ angel food yer gave me las’ Christmas, mum!”
■' THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS >« FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress .
80 Reasons for Taking
BEECHAHTS PILLS.
Because your nerves they stimul 8
Each function, too, they regul 8
Every microbe they annihil 8
Clear off ye gathering ills.
Health and pure blood they soon ereB
And failing powers reeuper 8
Move all the pains that irrifc 8
Sure trust their use instils.
Perfectly safe they oper 8
In strength the weak they reinst 8
Lightly each course they lubric 8
Life’s efforts they invigor 8
Such wonder working pills.
80
The Snffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER GO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
P Cures While Sleeping.
8 ißisilnass
TE STIMOKTIA.L.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, See.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled ns a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION. S complaints
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Fills


Establishes
IHl'g
fir I *®*
HIQM-CLABS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS GO, LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto , Canada .
Australasian Headq’rt’rs.lGS-lco Williamst. Melb.
New Seuth Wales Address 3
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everytrhcr^.
Illustrated Catalogue livew application.
Hie Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
JUANGFAGrURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydnsy;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, null greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they m nj be unable
to procure the payer, and nainihg
any reliable person who would pio-
bably undertake Us sale.
WortbiDgtoo PCmjpiog Eogio* Conjpaoy.
XAustralasian Branch.) Gj-j MfipgQTl (Australasian Branch.)
32 Cloi*ence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK**
Sydney, X.S. W
Agencies :
REGULAR PAT'IERN.
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Afice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOBTHINCrTOH Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stoclt.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
"W- O- ELDRIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STRUCT, SYDNKY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COC O A
BREAK"? ACT SUTTER.
What is Health?
Jffheumatiam, Sciatica,
1 ' _ _ Latnhago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
I\ IUK 145 Victoria Parade,
KITZKOY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
rsr- A BLESSING in every family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AN L> OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not Been
recognised hv thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TltY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxforb-st., London, t**'" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-strest, London, they ar«
spurious.
OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
\
: Applied.
Mwt/bouwv
OLEAC”
(coneentd.), 4/6, post 4/10 < (
DEPOTS;
Sydkkt—M. H. Hobwits, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris & Kemp, 6 Randle St.
Fred. J E, Phit.t.tps, 817 Ollins St,
Market
HOTEL
TI! !•: LAST OF SIX
LUNCHEON, 12.30; IHNNEI!, 0.30.
Superior Accommodation. Jtforlerate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
If"
■5
PiAnoAro A .f* ie Coulltr y Milk Trade ; the Factory System
rioneers OI Q f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery S\ stern of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Pest Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEI’OTS (REFRESHMENT)—92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AKTEKN )ON TEAS for. Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD.,
ISS
*
$
$
£
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
Ropp Straight Furnace.
Huntingdon Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills.
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, &c.
J i- .t '.',
——
Baking
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co. ,
* Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Mel ’
bourne. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 IX B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usuil price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension ri •, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the late-t improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
TE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY. 137 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Niokle, Perry’s,; .3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/11 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10,, - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Out-ide
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Racing Sets, 82/6.
IW SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 26 per cent,
cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to date, £7, £B,
£9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY ]
74
Clarence st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tb.e G-eo. F. Blake Manfg. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
•W- F. & John Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
B. F. Stnrtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FOiiGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & 00.,
New Zealand —J. BURNS & CO.,
” . - -- - '• ■ ••
Fremantle.
Auckland.
