

CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 19.—N0. 982.
[Saturday, December 10, 1898.
MALTED
Whats tie use o'talk-
ing .'SWlFTcycbs
were made before
%u wer“- thotighUf-
ftp
trass
MU
Y
Sole Agents
The Austral
Cycle Agency LTD.
Dejoots V Agencies in
all the principal towns
Of AUSTRALASIA.


THE BED PAGE.
The Bulletin Library.
Of course, the books which have been mainly
made out of contributions to The Bulletin—
Lawson’s, Paterson’s, Dyson’s, Daley’s, Boake’s,
and others —will always be included in a pr®perly-
constituted Bulletin Library. But for the
benefit of later writers, equally to be valued, The
Bulletin is publishing in a special series a Bul-
letin Library to be definitely so known, which
will include collections of all the best prose and
verse which have appeared in its columns during
the past 18 years. The first volume of this senes,
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses by Will H. Ogilvie, has met with
gratifying success, and a second edition is already
in preparation.
The second and third volumes will be The Ways
op Many Waters, verses by E. J. Brady, who
almost alone of Australian writers hah been in-
spired by sailor-men and wharf-men, their lives
and toils and heroic deeds; and A Bush Tan-
quebay and Other Stories, by Albert Dorring-
TON. Though neither so humorous nor so pathetic
as some which have appeared in the columns of
The Bulletin, these stories take rank on the
whole a 3 the most brilliant series yet written in
Australia; and their collective publication will be
a notable literary event.
Following volumes include a booklet of verses
by Rodbrio Quinn, who has claims to be con-
sidered the rarest poet of Australia, and who has
the advantage over Daley and Ogilvie that he is
all our own, having been born at Sydney on 28th
Nov., 1869 ; and the collected verses of Arthur
Adams, the best writer of verse whom Maoriland
has yet produced. “ Steele Rudd ” (A. H.
Davis) supplies the Queensland element in
the series. He is one of the very few
men whose humorous Australian sketches will be
satisfied with nothing less than outright laughter;
and many illustrations by Alf. Vincent will help
to make his book the jolliest ever issued^here.
The Bulletin is also publishing on behalf of
W. T. Goodge his first book of verses—“ Hits,
Skits, and Jingles.” Mr. Goodge is probably
the readiest topical verse-writer in Australia, and
one of the wittiest, and a large audience awaits
him. And there are other books in project which
will be announced later. Is it not a good pro-
gramme of good reading ?
But one cannot always have desirable situations at call.
I have had to imagine mine in the present instance. And
as it is easier, and much more pleasant, to imagine the
Girl Accompaniment than the Horse Accompaniment, let
us begin with the Girls. The first thing one notices in
turning over the pages of his book is that Mr. Ogilvie is a
poet of generous affections. Like all true artists, he wor-
ships at the shrines of many goddesses. He has scarcely
finished weeping musically over the grave of Leila, when
he turns blithely to gold-haired Freda, who, in her turn,
and whether she likes it or not, has to give place to the
Gippsland Girl with the auburn curls. Then , on page 21
we find the lines :—
The scent of the rose blows over—
Dead roses of all regret;
And you were my only lover,
So give me your hand, Lynette 1
His only lover 1 And she is the fourth we have met
already. It takes a poet to make assertions of this sort
without blushing.
• * * *
Let there be no mistake about the matter. Ogilvie has
—in a strictly poetic sense, of course—a perfect right to
have as many girls as he feels himself able to sing about.
This being granted, he seems to be in a fair way to become
the possessor of a fine poetic harem before he is much
older. And why not? The Poet must always be a Lover.
No other brand of poet is genuine. It has been well said
that all the world loves a lover. In return, the Lover
loves all the world because it has the privilege of contain-
ing Her—under many forms, of course. The Universe
itself is to him a Temple -in the midst of which shines,
serene and goddess-like, her adorable figure. And so he
progresses from the particular to the general until the
love in his heart overflows and embraces all Nature. Then
he begins to write verses. They may be good or bad
verses, but he is a poet all the same. He may not be able
to paint in luminous words the visions that come to him,
as Helen came to Faustus, clad in the beauty of a thou-
sand stars. This will be a misfortune, but he will still
remain a poet in posse. If, on the other hand, it happens
that he can paint in even approximately adequate words
the Fair Ideals which are the companions of the Soul in
its earthly pilgrimage, we shall hail him as a Seer and
Singer, and either clothe him in fine raiment and give
him strong wine to drink, or send him forth in patched
apparel to fight for husks with swine. His reception will
depend a good deal upon the humour we may be in when
he makes his appearance. The great mass of us are in
articulate. “ With a most voiceless thought, sheathing
it as a sword.” This is why we look upon a man who
has the gift of expression as something in the nature of
a rare bird—perhaps a nightingale, possibly a raven.
Ogilvie is, at any rate, no raven. Listen
The saddle-slaves of Love are we
Who mount by sun and moon,
No matter what the season be
So long as it be soon !
The golden and the gray light
Have seen the girth-straps drawn
For Love that rules the daylight,
The dark and dusk and dawn.
Be skies alight or leaden
Long miles bring no regret,
And if the white spurs redden
• Our horses soon forget;
So toss the bars, my beauty I
And cream.t.he reins with foam :
’Tis ten moon-miles to duty
And ten more dawn-miles home.
What a joyous galloping in rhyme we have here ! One
feels in reading these swinging lines that the Horses know
the errands of their riders. There is much of this gay-
cavalier verse in Ogilvie’s volume. It is delightful read-
ing, but leaves itself open to suspicion. Love mounted
upon Pegasus is a too suggestive symbol. The Lover who
rides to woo finds it, both in legend and current history,
only too easy to love and ride away—into the Emgkeit.
But, after all,. that also is Poetry. The verses quoted
above contain one very grieyous fault—Beauty rhymes
with Duty. The language is to blame, but so, too, is the
writer. Any poet should know that Beauty and Duty are
seldom good company for each other.
* * * *
As a writer of Love poetry Ogilyie is, in my humble
opinion, too melodiously vague. His girls have gold, or
red-gold, hair, and blue or gray eyes and snow-whit®
bosoms. That is all he tells us about then). The most
unobservant, vacant-eyed of Lovers could scarcely say
less. But for a Lover who is also a Poet to give us such
meagre inventories of the charms of his heroines is simply
unpardonable. Had they no moles or dimples worth
describing? And what about the delicate shadows
under their chins, and the silken infantile under-
hair growing at the napes of their necks—snd all
that sort of thing? Mr. Ogilvie must have made observa-
tions with regard to these matters. Perhaps he looked
upon them as trifles not worthy the dignity of verse. If
so, I trust that he will never again be guilty of such an
egregious mistake. By the way, there is on page 17 of
the volume a charming little lyric entitled “Whisper
Low.’’ It ends (or should end) with the lines :
Kiss me, my wife !
Kiss me, my wife, and whisper low.
Poets hardly ever—except now and then out of a shame-
faced sense of duty---write verses to their wives. I think
I have heard that Mr. Ogilvie is not married.
Bayley’s Reward.
A YENEL ,’S in Victoria, where the
winds of Summer die,
And the slender, sleepy gum-trees
lean up to a breathless sky ;
At Avenel in Victoria there’s a plot four-
square and barred,
With a mound and a grim white headstone
—and this is Bayley’s Reward.
Good gamester:he! for he played with Death
and staked his life on the chance ;
The table was Death’s, and the dice were
Death’s, and the game was Death’s in
advance;
Out and away in the wilderness he wrestled
and fought—and vvoii,
To go out on flukes when the lights blazed
up, with the new life just begun.
Many a man Australia has, many a man as
brave,
Many a man who firmly trod the path to the
• Western grave,
Many a man with heart as high to follow a
leader’s call—
He was: the first, the pioneer, and he blazed
the track for all.
The hot noons, the slow noons, he sought
and struggled and strove ;
The long nights, the wan nights, when the
chill stars mocked above ;
The drink that leaves still thirsting, the hard
and hoarded fare, —
All /liese he knew, and worse he knew ; but
he never knew despair.
He was the first to snatch from the West her
glorious golden prize ;
He followed his Luck with a manly heart,
and wooed in a manly guise ;
He grasped his Luck by the girdle close, and
looked in her shining eyes,
And he won his Luck, and lost his Luck —
and low in the dust he lies.
* * .* *
There is a valley, a valley of valleys, aswoon
in the sweetest South :
Never a night of storm comes there, and
never a day of drouth ;
The hills that hem it are high, so high, and
the bland, scarce-breathing air
Brings Pain surcease from the breast of
Peace—but Australia is not there.
There is a river, a river of rivers, that brides
with the velvet East,
And its mouth is a ripple of whitest sands,
where the blue waves cream and yeast;
Its banks are tossing with fern and bloom,
and its drooping trees are fair,
And it beads like wine when the sun’s ashine
—but Australia is not there.
There is a mountain, a mountain of moun-
tains, that towers in the radiant North,
And ’twixt its peaks by the lightning scarred
the clouds come eddying forth ;
And its shoulders are stately with cedars,
but its noble brow is bare ;
It stands like a god in a land untrod—yet
Australia is not there.
She sits in the West—Australia !—brooding
in proud disdain,
And her gaze goes out to the burning sky,
far over the burning plain ;
Never her word the silence breaks, never
she laughs or sighs,
And her mouth is set in a cruel smile ; but
a man would die for her eyes.
She sits in the West, in the desert West, till
her web of fate be spun ;
Her feet are swathed in the sand-wreaths,
her head flung free to the sun ;
Ever she beckons and threatens, threatens
and beckons the bold,
And of whitened bone she has built her
throne, above a reef of gold.
* • * *
Some die in the East in a quiet bed, with
friends and children round ;
The bells are rung, and the chant is sung,
and the grave is hallowed ground ;
And some by the dried-up rock-holes die, in
the agony of the West,
And the wind moans all their requiem—but
Australia loves them best.
To think that a man can dare so much ! to
think what men endure !
Wherever the light of her eyes is shed
they follow and follow her lure ;
The plough stands still, the shears are
dropped, and the good horse left alone,
And love and wife count cheap as life, when
Australia calls her own.
They follow and follow on every track, and
over the trackless waste.
And one falls here, and another there, yet
the followers no less haste ;
Where the salt-pans gleam with bleaching
bones, where the samphire turns blood-
' red
They fall, and never to distant homes comes
news of the nameless dead.
But she moulds them to her measure, her
desperate desolate sons ;
She gives them hearts to fight and defy, hard
hands to carry her guns
With a courage stern as her fastnesses, in
the day—come soon or late—
When an enemy proud beats long and loud
at the bars of her golden gate.
She gives success in the seeking, her treasure
is hope that flies,
Her losing is greatest gaining, her struggle is
goal and prize ;
And far in the lonely desert she holds in
eternal guard
The pride to live, and the strength to die—
and these are Australia’s Reward.
Victor Daley has discovered some interesting
birth-marks on the fair girls who live in Will
Ogilvie’s book of verses, “Fair Girls and Gray
Horses
There is a time to laugh and a time to .weep and a
time to read poetry. This latter fact should be kept
carefully in mind by all conscientious critics. They, no
more than ordinary mortals, are able to suddenly detac
themselves from their environments and pass unbiassed
sentence upon books that may come before them for
review. It is almost certain that Gifford was suffering
from a bilious attack when he made his ruthless on-
slaught upon Keats. Critics are not doing the fair
thing by writers when they offer them up as sacrifices to
the Demon of Dyspepsia. A new book should, as far as
possible, be read in its own atmosphere and with the
accompaniments it suggests. Ogilvie’s recently pub-
lished “ Fair Girls and Gray Horses” is a volume of this
sort. Its Horse section should be read at early morning,
and in some lofty and spacious place from which the eye
could roam over slopes and plains bounded only by the
Blue Distance. The Girl part should be read when you
(so to speak) are sitting at the feet of the Woman you
love, while her white hand dallies with your hair, and
your thoughts wander dreamily away to the Others.
T3T APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORIENT.
Hobson’s John Ruskin, 10s 6d, post 11s ; Beddard’s
Structure of Birds, 255, post 27s ; Steevens’ With Kit-
chener to Khartoum, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Titian, by Phillips,
10s 6d, post 11s ; Morris’s American Navy, 7s 6d, post 8s ;
Jane’s The Torpedo, 10s 6d, post 11s 6d ; Kipling’s De-
partmental Ditties, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s; Grafton
Memoirs, by Anson, 18s, post 19s ; Emin Pasha, by
Schweitzer, 325, post 34s ; Meade’s Cleverest Woman in
England, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Walford’s Intruders, 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Black’s Wild Eelin, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Jacob’s Sea Urchins, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Barlow’s From the East Unto the West, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
The Public are invited to inspect our large and varied
assortment of CHRISTMAS CARDS, Booklets, Calendars,
Annuals, Children’s Picture Books, Fine Art Volumes,
arid novelties of every description, suitable for presenta-
tion during the coming season.
Christmas and New Year Cards.
ARTISTIC DESIGNS in LANDSCAPES, MARINE VIEWS,
FLORAL, FIGURES, ETC.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO’S STANDARD
PACKETS :
University Packet, 50 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 4d. The
Special Packet, 100 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 7d. The Aus-
tralia Packet, 36 Cards, 9d ; Post Free Is. Antipodean,
25 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 4d. Atalanta, 12 Choice Cards,
3d ; Post Free sd. The Federal Packet, 24 Cards, 6d;
Post Free 9d. The Waratah Packet, 18 Special Cards,
2s ; Post Free 2s 3d. The Holly Pa-cket, 18 Special Choice
Cards, Is Gd ; Post Free Is 9d. The Sydneian Packet, 12
Choice Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 3d. The Wattle Packet,
12 Extra Choice Cards, ss. The Actinotus Packet, 25
Selected Cards, 2s 6d ; Post Free 2s 9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO’S AUSTRALIAN
EMU SERIES.
Is Each ; Post Free Is Id.
Fort Denison, Sydney Heads, The Emu Hunt, Katoomba
Falls, The Buckjumper, Bushman’s Friend, Aboriginals’
Camp, An Artesian Spray, The Kangaroo Hunt, Round-
ing up a Stray, The Bushman’s Camp, Home of the
Kangaroo, The Lyre Bird’s- Retreat, Australian Bush
Favorites, Sydney Heads by Moonlight.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
BY POST, 6d. EXTRA.
VI _ r r _ I *
a " “i
■
Which applies, of course, to
Cigars ‘and Pipes. No woman
likes thp smell of stale tobacco
in the house, and cigars and
pipes leave behind a fragrance
not desirable. No smoking is
permissible
-
They are dainty, mild and frag-
rant, and leave no trace behind.
You can smoke a Cigarette at
the dinner - table. Therefore,
be wise—


RS
a a
0
p-
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN
of Breaded Diseases which
destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“Stop—be sad !” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmarrried man,
“Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Symptoms
Blood PoiSoi}.
This is a most loatnsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your thi’oat and tongue
arc affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the ease. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WOKK.
60 Engravings.
16 Colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
N?nfo(is Debility, Loss of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, .bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become arnbitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. The cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY, Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don’t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure yon
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life—ambitious—successful. Don’t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
httle consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
, lake time by the forelock—nip your affliction
m its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life,
cnn diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently,
the latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting.
eJ
ui
detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
®ay be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
equipment and low charges.
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
p at | to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
bU RED, we are ready to help) you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacrediy
confidential.
hine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO
u
1
8
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 135.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebJy-quaHfied, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
* 1( ’ , rece jy e d his education in the English and So,ottish'universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
quickest !uhl '^ rese * investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
a period of m .im, m eans of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
embraced in h; a y years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
“ ,ore “ isery and
Young" Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
trom any.of the following symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bdwels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
tho nill™, , ness , • 6 breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
to sop ip Mr n , n^- s . ee P’ Palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
about e/iliirm 11 • 0r doudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
hafkimr »„,?"( ''npufe blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
auieklv inrl pff f ? ufc * l6 b a ' r . &e., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
4 y• nd effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
SeS - n , lay be quickly and permanently
without loss of time and money.
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
Jj", g necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
r .Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Bo Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside lit a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
AIM
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbous will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of bis Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribe s Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
o*, it preferred, “ The Proprietor ” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. OONSULTIVG HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy 1C Nll It 1C 1Y
FltlClC, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young and
Old Men ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain same easily
and permanently Prof,
Read's LIFE SYRUP cures the most obsthiate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, Ac. A Written
Guarantee given in all cases '1 he Life Syrup stim-
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdrain of vital fluid, which so weak
ens and destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how al.
nervous disorders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St,,Meroourne,
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
This successful ami highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Kicord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
;n a rental ka >ly snort time, otten a tew days only,
removes all discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity ul the blood, sciuvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
narsapariila, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewholesystem through the blood,and thoroughly
"iimiuates every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for net Vuiis exhaustion, watte of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
ear.ly error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses suiprising power in
restorinsr strength and visrour to the debilitated.
THERAPION the! principal
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. in ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ THEitAfloN ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon,
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thbrapion— FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSfTT k C«,
VARICO
CELE,
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free! for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The piauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE NO PAY
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
eases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Sent! for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS free.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NOTE -
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NS W.
or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
EXHAUSTION
Mumfords Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Fillet.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine.. No poisonous drugs; no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. -£1
per COURSE ; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
Atrophy
i IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Bodv
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to nSsizeand
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the ve'y first hour of its use. Strength
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
, book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address! DR. HINTON-WILLIS GO.,
Cdr. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
hW
Dr. BUTT'S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
Forb he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Liglit and. Life.’'
Tms valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Addres*—S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNUS.


Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL.— AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
When Full, will be Drawn on the Advertised Day of the
Next Principal Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me,
Name
£
Address
shares in the above.
x
Summer 0.
December 26
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
-Shares in the above.
Name.
£ *
Address.
CARRINGTON S. December 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot ms
shares in the above.
Name,
Address.
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the above.
Name .
Address ' ' .
£ : .
NOTE.
■The SPECIAL, when full, will be drawn
• .1 il :'l~ ■ - r l ! ...... .
on the advertised day of the next Principal Race.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


THE WHISKY OF THE WISE
Is the title bestowed on D.C.L. Scotch (black
bottle) by many hotelkeepers. They remark that
the more brainy customers, veterans who think
twice before ordering, say—“ Mine is D.C.L.”
“And so, doctor, poor old Mr. Jones has
went.” “Ye-es.” “He was very bad,” con-
tinued the improvised nurse, “we had to lift him
up about twenty times afore he died—when fhe
pains took him like. I lifted him up first about
three o’clock this morning, and he'd a-died then
straight away I’m sure only everybody was kick-
ing up such a row—there’s no aceommod:.!;■•:) in
these pokey country places. So he hun oi: hill
eight, and just went off when all was quiet. He
was always a quiet man, was Jones.” “ Yc-es,”
said the doctor.
ALSTON’S
PATENT STEEL WINDMILL
Windmills made in all Sizes, from 6ft. to 30ft., for Pumping or Power Pu poses,
■ ;
Wm
V)
■i MCJOF.Y
u-sam Hi
/<!" 11l
® i <
;sa»lii
A L STON’S WIN DM ILL F A CTO RY
Uig|i*|||||: : !ijN |INI|IIWPpN|:;;!|PN WATER TROUGHS.
■ r J'TTE- EXPERI-
J ENCE of 20
years in the con-
struction and
erection of Wind-
mills —the appli-
cation of modern
science and mod-
ern machinery in
their construc-
tion has made
the ALSTON
Windmill the pre-
mier. The fact
that other makers
have accepted
my mill as a stan-
dard and are
copying same as
near as they dare
speak volumes in
its favor. If you
have water to lift
it will be to your
advantage to give
me a call or write
me your require-
ments, when the
benefit of my long
experience shall
be placed at your
service.
WINDMILLS
inn
CIAL LINE. The Largest MANUFACTURER in the Australian Colonies. Thousands in use. If you have
BIDE SHOW* Water to Lift, Write your Requirements. SEND FOR DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE.
JAMES ALSTON, qomo’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
Qai/id graham $ C®-,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Vestings
AT REFORM
" “ PRICES
Fancy
LADIES’
RE PRICES ! TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Established Over 53 Years.
FOB SALE : all articles op
GOOD QUALITY.
rjALVANISED Barbed Wire, 10s 6d cwt. ; Roofing Felt,
covers 200 ft., 9s roll ; American Axes, 4Jib. to 61b.,
35s doz. ; Axle Grease, 2s 6d doz. packages; Hay Knives,
3s ea. ; damaged Black Fencing Wire, 6s 6d cwt. ; damaged
Galvd. Fencing Wire, 8s cwt. ; Black Barbed Fencing
Wire, 8s cwt. ; slightly damaged Galvanised Plain Iron,
14s per cwt.; Flemming’s Boiler Composition, 20s cask;
Dynamite, taking a few cases, Is per lb. ; good Fuse, from
5d per coil; Flax Engine-packing, 6d lb. by coil; f, J, § rd.
India-rubber Packing, 6d lb. ; Muzzle-loader, Single-barrel
Guns, 15s ea. ; Double-barrel Breech-loaders, 30s ea. ; iron
Hay Collectors, 30s ea. ; Chaff Knives, Is ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, Is 3d ea. ; wooden Hay Rakes ; Bullock Bows,
Id per lb. ; Axle-arms, 2, BJ, 3J, Id per lb. ; Crosscut Saws,
Is ft. ; Pit Saws, Is 3d ft. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id lb. ;
Leather Girths and Hobbles, 9d; Globe Horse Nails,
slightly touched, 2d lb. ; Blue, Black, Green, Lead-color,
White Paint in 281 b. kegs, 15s cwt. ; other paint, from 10s
cwt. ; over 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long, and
one of the largest stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
CHEAPEST PRICES.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Price, Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
Pure &, Good
Avoid Dishonesty in
"WELL! IF I CANNOT FIND AN HONEST MAN
I HAVE FOUND A COOD HONEST L1QU0R.”.,,,
■ ; . ' '
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
AUSTRALIAN "PUBLICATIONS!
The Man from Snowy River*
By A. B. PATERSON, ss.
(Copies in leather bindings may also be obtained.)
At Dawn and Dusk: Poems*
By VICTOR J. DALEY, ss.
When the World Was Wide*
By HENRY LAWSON, ss.
(Copies in leather bindings may also be obtained.)
Rhymes from the Mines*
By EDWARD DYSON, ss.
Where the Dead Men Lie*
By BARCROET HENRY BOAKE,
illustrated, ss.
The Growth of the Empire*
By ARTHUR W. JOSE, Maps, etc., 7s. 6d.
The Spirit of the Bush Fire:
FAIRY TALES, '
By-J. M. WHITFELD, Illustrated, 3s. Gd.
Teens,
A STORY OF AUSTRALIAN SCHOOLGIRLS,
By LOUISE MACK, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.
Girls Together,
A SEQUEL TO “ TEENS,”
By LOUISE MACK, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.
While the Billy Boils,
By HENRY LAWSON,
Illustrated, 3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
The Mutineer,
By LOUIS BECKE and WALTER
JEEFERY, 3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
The Geology of Sydney and the
Blue Mountains,
By Rev. J. MILNE CURRAN, Illustrated, 6s.
A Flower-Hunter in Queensland
and Hew Zealand,
By Mrs. E. ROWAN, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
;• OR r »M V
ANGUS & ROBERTSON; PUBLISHERS, SYDNEY.
Any BooLseller wilb mail tlie books direct. Postage Rates oil application.
Gent’s Kid-Leg Calf Goloshed
Gent’s „ Patent „
Gent’s GlacerLeg and Golosh, patent caps ...
Gent’s All Russia Tan Calf
Gent’s All Ooze Tan Calf
10s 6d
10s 6d
10s 6d
10s 6d
10s 6d
By Bail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia .
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
ROBERT HURST’S
Half - Guinea Boots
AR£: FAMOUS.
Send, for Illustrated Catalogue
: ,T. ■■ : :: ; ' ..L;.: : - ■ i j;
OF OUR
.. LARGE VARIETY ...
—OF— '
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s,
and Child ren’s Boots.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s parade, north pitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS; ALSO
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
GEELONG and BALLARAT. ~
* \
y
■s)


Compagnie Des Messageries Maritimes
a 0 M M. Frencli Mail Steamers. MM.
RAPID SERVICE to LONDON, via Colombo, Marseilles and Paris.
Australia to London in Thirty Days. An Opportunity Offered of Visiting Paris.
mma *jTCAIVICn?i
AU STR ALIEN, 6507 tons; POLYNESIEN, 6506 tons; ARM AND BEHIC, 6537 tons; VILLE DE LA CIOTAT, 6531 tons.
ONE OF THE ABOVE EAST AND SPLENDID STEAMSHIPS LEAVES SYDNEY EVEBY FOUR WEEKS.
Accommodation unsurpassed.
Large and lofty cabins, with
berths of exceptional width.
Electric light throughout. Su-
perior cuisine. Service a special fea-
ture, carried out on the plan of the
best Continental Hotels. Table Wines,
Sherries, Marsala, English Ales or
Stout and Cognac are supplied free at
meals to First-class Passengers ; Beer
or Claret to Second-class ; and Claret
to Third-class. Extra Wines, Liquors,
and Spirits can be purchased on board
the steamers at moderate prices. Eng-
lish Stewards and Stewardesses are
carried. For the convenience of First-
class Passengers, Breakfast is served on
board, a la carte, at any time between
the hours of 9 and 11 a.m.
Passengers’ Luggage is conveyed free
from Marseilles to London by sea. Pas-
sengers, too, have an advantage that
should be noted :—Their heavy bag-
gage is available at sea at any time, on
any day. On arrival at Marseilles,
through passengers for London are met
on board by English interpreters, who
accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY
RETURN TICKETS,
FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Ade-
laide, issued by this Company or by
the Railway Offices, are interchange-
able for Return by Rail or Sea.
Rates of PASSAGE MONEY,
£25 to £7O,
Including Table Wines.
RETURN TICKETS,
AVAILABLE
FOR
TWELVE MONTHS,
...AT...
REDUCED RATES.
fe
I.
; * /
U i
,
& ' "* ~*r° " \ y '
-1 - ■ 1 .
dl J J
THE Australian Public—who are
generally under the impression
that their native tongue is not
understood on board these
magnificent steamers—will doubtless
be gratified to learn that English
Stewards are carried on all steamers,
and that all officers are acquainted
with the English language. Many
people look at the Overland Journey
from Marseilles to London with a senti-
ment of dread. They fancy that the
trip by train is tedious, that their
native tongue on foreign soil may not
be spoken or understood. All this is a
great mistake. The overland journey
from Marseilles to London, far from
being long and tedious, may be accom-
plished in 20 hours, as compared with
the 6 days’ sea trip by Gibraltar and
the Bay of Biscay. Again, the pas-
senger who has no special reason for
hurrying through the Continent may
leisurely travel over France during 14
days, for which time his ticket is avail-
able. He is thus afforded an oppor-
tunity of visiting Paris, about which
city any praise would be almost out of
place. It may also be advisable to add
that in all Hotels of any standing
throughout the Continent, and es-
pecially in Paris, English is spoken as
well as French by all waiters.
ORDINARY
RETURN TICKETS,
FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Ade-
laide, issued by this Company or by
the Railway Offices, are interchange-
able for return by Rail or Sea.
PASSENGERS BOOKED
AT
THROUGH RATES
FROM
QUEENSLAND, . . .
NEW ZEALAND,
. . and TASMANIA.
TWO BOATS leave SYDNEY
for NOUMEA
EVERY EOUR WEEKS.
ANY FURTHER, INFORMATION AS REGARDS THIS ROUTE will be
GIVEN ON APPLICATION to the OEEIOES OP THE COMPANY—
QUEENS CORNER, PITT ST, SYDNEY.
E. t=it. /v Tvrc-i, Principal iVgent.
The GRAMOPHONE
What is the Gram-o-phone ?
It is the Talking-machine that talks talk.
Do Not all Talking-Machines
“Talk Talk”?
Not with the same natural expression, clearness of articula-
tion, and volume of sound. Others imitate talk; the Gram-o-
phone reproduces it —with the difference in results usual between
a counterfeit and the real article.
What does the Gram-o-phone do
besides “Talk Talk”?
It reproduces all kinds of music, vocal and instrumental,
and any other sound or combination of sounds of which the
necessary record has been taken.
It recites, declaims, preaches, tells funny stories, sings quar-
tettes, choruses, tenor, baritone, soprano and contralto solos, plays
the piano, banjo, clarionet, cornet, harp, saxophone, trombone,
bugle, drum, and fife, or any other instrument in a band-one at
a time or altogether.
It is an orchestra, concert-troupe, solo-artist, music-hall
performance, grand opera, and camp-meeting—besides being a
professor of elocution and a teacher of modern languages.
How Does It Do It?
By means of a needle or stylus, which, tracing the sound-
waves as they have been etched upon a rubber disc, vibrates a
diaphragm precisely as the diaphragm was vibrated when the
sounds were originally recorded —thus giving back the same
results.
Must be a Complicated Instrument!
On the contrary, the simplicity and small number of its
parts, the ease with which they are adjusted, and the fact that
it can be operated as well by a child of ordinary intelligence as
by the most experienced adult, are some of the most astonishing
features of a most marvellous machine.
How is it Operated?
A spring motor, that winds up like a clock or music-box,
revolves a turn-table which is mounted on a pivot. .On the turn-
table are placed, one after another, the various rubber discs
bearing the record-grooves. A reproducing sound-box is pro-
vided with a diaphragm connected with a spring arm fixed to
one side of the diaphragm-cell and carrying a point like that of
a daruing-needle. This point rests in the groove, which it follows
as the turn-table is revolved, causing the arm to produce vibra-
tions in the diaphragm corresponding exactly to those that had
previously been made in the recording-instrument; and thus the
original sounds are reproduced. No electricity, no battery is
required; no power outside the machine itself.
What about the Rubber Disc?
it is the part upon which the record of the sound-wave is
preserved, arid is separate from the machine, and you have as
many selections as you have discs. The records are etched upon
them in spiral circles, sufficiently deep to be safe from all ordi-
nary handling. In fact, you can give them to the baby to play
with, or use them for pitching quoits, without fear of injury.
Any difficulty about hearing the
Gram-o-phone ?
None whatever. It has been found, by actual test, to have
volume of sound sufficient to fill every nook and corner of the
Metropolitan Opera House, the largest auditorium in New York.
It is heard distinctly from a quarter to half a mile.
To what uses can the Gram-o-phone
be put?
For entertainment in the home, hotel, steamboat, yacht, or
place of business there is nothing to compare with it in novelty,
variety, or fascinating interest. It more than takes the place
of a piano, banjo, mandolin, or cornet, for you hear not only one,
but all these instruments, and many more, as they are played,
not by amateurs, but by the most celebrated artists. No matter
how remote your habitation, it brings within the family circle
the actual voices of orators, singers, funny men, and storytellers,
who perhaps at that very moment are delighting metropolitan
audiences with the same eloquence, melody, humor, and dialect
that is coming from the Gram-o-phone in the quiet of a country
home a thousand miles away.
Any limit to the selections ?
Practically none whatever, either in number, quality, variety,
or freshness. Por instance, no sooner does an artist become a
popular favorite than he or she is invited to sing or play for a
record. Thousands of reproductions being possible from one
such performance, it can be made an object for the artist to
accept.
Any limit to the number of
Reproductions ?
Absolutely none; and while in all other methods there is an
unavoidable loss of clearness with every duplication, just as in
photographing from a photograph the lines grow less and less
distinct with each remove from the original, by this radically
different process the one-thousandth reproduction is as good,
precisely, as the first.
Has the Gram-o-phone been Improved
since first Invented?
To such an extent that those who have not heard the im-
proved Gram-o-phone have not heard the Gram-o-phone at all.
Bo far as results are concerned, it is practically anew instrument.
What are its points of Superiority over
all other Talking-Machines
in Market?
BRIEFLY THESE:
1. Simplicity of construction ; it has fewer parts ; they are
better protected. It is, therefore, less likely to get out of order.
2. Greater capacity: Notes, cords, and cadences that other
sound-reproducing processes utterly fail to catch are brought
forth with astonishing accuracy and completeness.
3. Better results : It has double the volume of sound, three
times the carrying power, a far more distinct and natural utter-
ance, and an immeasurably better quality of tone.
4. The records are indestructible.
lull particulars as to Prices, Records, Weight of Machine Packed, Means of Forwarding, Lists of Records Obtainable,
and any other information, will be supplied on application to
Musical Instrument Warehouse,
227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.


THE
URGEsi
Makers
®H?ftS5 N r r
FLAG
Established
184 T.
6SVIO-HOIH
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding:
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Bead Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs.lGS-KO V.'ii!iam-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address :
3E Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue I'rea. “a application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
1310 H
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
s
m
<S>HE
HBOT
I®
..•it
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BLOCK, w
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortfyiogtoi) P6ri}pii}g EpgiQc
(Australasian Branch.) SimpSOll BrOtlierS.
Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, JST.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ , , ADELALDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
What is Health?
Rheumatism, Sciatica,
- Larnhaf/o, <J -c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA it J{ Fit, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free>
Six penny stamps.
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L S t . Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
ECZEMA
\
Jars (concentd.), 4/0, post 4/10
depots:
OLEAC
Self Applied.
Ryiwey— >r. H. Hohwitz, 31 ritt St.
Adeludk- Harris & Kemp, 8 RundleSt.
Melbourne—Fred. J E. Phillips, SI7 Collins St
BfCracken’s City Brewery, Limited,
MELBOURNE
PALE ALE—“ EMU ” BBAAD.
Australian Bitter Ale Finest Table Beers
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
'1
*
$
s
&
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace.
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills.
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, &c.
Batho’s
Baking
Powder.
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & C 0.,,
“ Meltoourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth'
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK :—l4 D.B. Breech-loading’ Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
I
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts'must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO
B.S.A.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PA NY, m ELIZABETH street
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes Call Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perrv’s
8/3 gross. SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, ±B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months,
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 26 PER CENT CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA,
Hi Pi Gregory &
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SHUTTLE.
KORTING’S INJECTOR
Unrivalled.
have for sale
Korting’s Boiler Feed injectors
Mason s Steam and "Water Reducing
Valves °
Pickering Steam Fngine Governors
‘ Midget” Steam Traps
“Ludlow” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Valves
Richards and other Steam Indicators
Revolution Counters, .Tenkin’s Valves
Every description of Engine and Boiler Fittings, Mountings end Supplies


The Difficulty of Being Rich.
WHERE TO PUT YOUR WEALTH.
IS PERFECT SECURITY OBTAINABLE?
'Deposit
/.' BUT :
"■'AT THC
mm
SAFti^
'/^tPAUN^f
•Sf
3580e.0RGe.5T
Annual
Rentals
from
One y Two
Guinea^.
■BP* at.* OnfllMV IrV
If there is one thing which worries the rich man
it is the possession of his riches. Not so much,
mind you, the fact of possession, but the difficulty
of keeping possession. The great struggle of life
with the majority who have nothing is to get
something, and with the minority who have some-
thing to keep it. -Which ' s the most worried?
After all, perhaps the small
mairtroubles the least, for he
is used to his position, and
the man who has the most is
the least contented because
he is afraid of losing every-
thing. Not the smallest
amongst his troubles is the
danger he runs from fire,
and, in a less degree, from
burglars. Of course it would
be bathos to sympathise
with the man who is unin-
sured, and so -loses' every-
thing. But there are some
things which cannot be
covered by insurance, and
these are the most liable to
destruction from fire, or to
be purloined by burglars.
The mind can conjure up all
sorts of valuables which in-
surance would not cover, or
insurance money repay for
their loss, such as deeds or
documents upon which a
man’s whole fortune inay
depend ; jewellery, such as
family heirlooms ; manu-
scripts, the chefs d'oeuvres of
one’s lifetime ; not to speak
of scrip, bullion, &c.
This little piece of philo-
sophy, or preamble, or
whatever it may be, is
induced by the fact that I have recently
been through the vaults of the Sydney Safe
Deposit, and I challenge anyone to undergo
the experience without philosophising. But,
philosophy aside, I really think the Deposit
answers the question as to whether perfect security
is obtainable. You come away with a feeling that
it’s just about as near finality as human ingenuity
can make it, barring a volcanic eruption or a fresh
Noaebian deluge, which would probably put one
out of tbe way of worrying about it at all. There
is no manner of doubt that it’s just about impreg-
nable, and that two or three men with a maxim-
gun could bold the fort against an army of Rus-
sians, if they would only use the ordinary civilised
means of warfare, and not indulge in explosives.
The place is really well worth visiting. It is a
safe within a safe, for the building itself is one
huge strong-room, of solid masonry, with, steel
shutters four inches in thickness, and- weighing I
forget how many tons. Then there are steel doors
with treble locks, double-banked by steel grilles.
Everything seems to be either steel or concrete.
* * *
But all this massiveness is not a circumstance to
the safe itself. This is a huge structure of chilled
steel, weighing, I believe, sonie 200 tons, and
covering an area of soniething like 30ft. square by
ioft. high. Tt is divided into four compartments,
three of which
contain small
safes, to the
number of about
3000, ranged in
tiers, which are
let out to the
general public
for a small an-
nual considera-
tion. The fourth
compartment is,
with another
immense strong
room, devoted
to those people
who bring their
own boxes, safes
or packages of
valuables, and
do not use the
safes. But the
latter are, of
course, the sta-
ple product, if
I may use the
term, of the
establishment.
They constitute
the holy of
holies, and are
accessible only
to the renter,
who has the sole
key in existence,
and theycannot
be opened by
anyone else un-
less it be his
authorised de-
puty. The pos-
session of the
key is, however,
but a portion of
the requisite
formula for get-
ting to a safe,
as the wrong
person would
have to forge a
renter’s name,
to be in posses-
sion of his pass-
word, and to pass the eagle optics of the
attendants. In fact, so hard is the way of the
would-be • safe' opener that no one has yet essayed
it.
* • » *
The features of the establishment, however, are
the doors of the safe. These are perfect dreams of
strength in steel, and are pointed to by the staff as
affording examples of impregnability so far as
burglars are concerned. They claim that a whole
gang of burglars might be let loose in the vaults,
with tbe full night before them, and all their tools
at disposal, and yet they would be unable to effect
an entrance. The doors are of chilled steel—
chilled steel, by the way, will break up the best
drill or chisel —and they are locked by three differ-
ent keys. But besides these locks there is what is
called a chronometer time-lock to each door.
This is a most intricate affair. It consists of two
separate clocks, which operate simultaneously but
independently upon'the 13 bolts of each door.
The clocks are “set” to act during the time the
Deposit is closed—on ordinary days from 6 p.m.
till 9 a.m. —and as soon as IS o’clock strikes a lever
rises into position which holds the bolts rigidly
fixed till 9 o’clock the next morning. Between
those hours the keys are of no avail, either to the
staff or outsiders. Yes, altogether the safe is a
. very wonderful
piece of work,
and quite suffi-
cient to choke
off any enter-
prising person
from entering
th e burgling
profession.
* *
In the course
of a chat with
the new man-
ager, Mr. W,
Epps—who, by
the way, is
well-known as
the former Sc c-
retarv of the
National Asso-
c i a t i o n I
gathered that
all kinds of
people use the
Safe Deposit.
The big men
who operate on the Stock Exchange, and
hold large parcels of scrip, and the capi-
talists, with deeds of property, mortgages,
etc., have safes alongside the owner of a small
cottage with his title deeds and insurance policies.
Then there are all sorts of professional men, who
find greater security and contentment by having
their diplomas, papers, etc., here in preference to
a small safe at home; and dozens of others, such
.as jewellers, accountants, stock and share brokers,
and private individuals. What influences most of
these people is the fact that a safe-in a private
house is a positive inducement for the burglar to
operate. He says that where there’s a safe there
are valuables, and he goes to work accordingly.
Besides this, what most people fear most is the
fire-fiend, and he might rage against the Deposit
in vain. Then, again, the annual rental
charged forms but a very small percentage upon
the cost of an ordinary safe, while the security
is infinitely greater. By the way, I found that
The Bulletin proprietors themselves are tne
renters of a safe, and they can probably endorse
all I say as to the merits of the institution. My
only regret is that I have nothing myself to
deposit. The inclination is there, but, alas ! the
valuables are not. However, I enjoyed my visit,
and I can recommend all sight-seers to make the
Deposit a point of call.
INQUISITOB.
The Hunting of the Loot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Yids struck roadway through the Red
Sea tide,
And the promised land was gracious and was
green ;
When Jason scoured the seas mysterious, wide,
For the fleece of Colchis and the woolyolk sheen ;
When Pharaoh took the Hebrews for a walk
(Which resulted for the Chosen in a win);
When the High Priest sent the parish out to stalk
Some old he-goat as a butt for all their sin ;
They acted just as ordinary business men—
Moses, Jason, David, Levite—branch and root;—
They built a god on business lines, and then
Engaged .him as the Warden of the Loot.
Oh, the loot! the loot! the loot!
They’ve chased it, branch and root—
Chased an earthly credit balance and eternal life
to boot ;
For the loot—the god-powered loot!
To the ends of the earth we scoot
For the loot—the holy, omnipresent loot 1
We pursued it from the Barrier to the Peak
(Per foot, per coach, per camel, and per team),
And the Pluckup, and old Purnamoota Creek,
Saw us chasing—ever chasing—of the Gleam !
The Nine-Mile, and the May Bell, and the Nob,
The Argent, and the Moorkaie, and the Globe,
From where Block Fourteen’s engines growl and
throb
To the Grey Range and the outcrop of Mt. Robe,;
We touched it where Mt. Zeehan lifts his crest,
Through the churning gates of Hell and up the
King,
To the sulphurous hill of Lyell, and the West,
And Corinna, and the gullies of the Ring,
Over button-grass to Bischoff and the Whyte
Down mountains with the stony tracks aslide,
On a grade of one in two at noon of night,
But always keeping by the Chance s side.
For opal, or for copper, or for gold,
Per train, per coach, per camel and per boot,
Going onwards till we die or take a hold
On the corner of the bag that holds the loot.
To the Norseman and Coolgardie and the Cross,
To Gnarlbine and its great and gracious soak—
Where one man wins and thousands make a loss—
We have chased the Gleam, and chased it till we
broke.
To the Feather and Kurnalpi and the “ U,”
Where the camel-stench is dominant and free ;
And all’s a lie, and but the drought is true,
-And you sicken for a long look at the sea.
Where the gimlet roars and where the samphires
sigh,
You crave the far-off girl you must not doubt,
As the wild-eyed steers are lusting till they die
For the milk-bush in the dry pangs of the drought.
But, though the tracks may cross a bitter plain,
Though condenser-fires—lake-wind fanned—say
to you,
“ Go East and never leave your love again,”
You, man-like, leave the love and seek the New !
You exchange the warmth for ice—the joy for
pain—
To dig for jewels or for Evil’s root,
Daring all but for the chances of the gain,
The shadowy romances of the Loot.
Past Bowling Green and Cleveland to the Bay
Where Cairns takes off its toupee to Ah Sin,
Past the Falls and thro’ Mareeba on the way
Thro’ the scrub to where the stampers belt the
tin,
Where the Great Divide lets loose its powdered
rain,
Where the poison-peach and lupin warm the eye,
Where the bower-birds play we chase the chance
again
As we’ll chase the Chance of Millions till we die.
Through the speargrass—thro’ the zamias in the
night—
Through the swollen Walsh—deep-rushing—in the
dawn
To the satined verdure of the malachite —
To the carbonates, green-growing, like a lawn,
Where Bill Rogers, as the Master of the Horse,
Sayeth “Go,” and the one ordered comes instead !
Where the copper-grass grown ridges show the
course
Past Wade’s poncianas—up the Feather-bed,
Where the ant-nests mark the land from day to
day ;
Where Bustard Pass leads inwards to the Tower—
From Cathedral Rock and Calcifer away
We seek it as the wild bee seeks the flower.
From Mt. Garnet’s bornite to the billabongs,
Where the chrome and ivory lily shuts and swoons
Through vales sonorous with the range’s songs
To the metal-barren Valley of Lagoons,
To Arboyne and the Redcap and the West
We gallop to the chase—we amble slow
To the Harper and the Ti Tree and the rest
Still westwards through the lime of Chillagoe.
With the rushing for the spoil goes hand-in-hand
The adventure-love-of all, which maketh all!
New thirsts, new hungers, novel hills, new sand,
A new way to ascend, a new to fall;
Oh, the drunken gallop thro’ the moon-swept gale !
The wind —a live electric balsam scent!
The rnoon-o’erflowing night ! the lime range pale !
Earth —Danae-naked to the Firmament!
Oh, chase for spoil, thou gi vest me the New,
The telling of the tale which Adam told :
For many hear the yarn, but there are few
Who are not deafened by the crash of gold
I know the drunken gallop thro’ the linie,
I’ve seen the silent moon-rays ebb and flow ;
The lily take her beauty from the rime
The track from I O U to Chillagoe.
Seen the mystery of the frangipanni bud, .
Seen the strangeness with the instinct that is tru ,
And the scrub-hibiscus burning like nay blood, . j(
And the Newness saying, “ I was made for you ,
And the lime-cliffs cry, “For you I'm crysta -
line; ” - • 1 . •
And the screw-palms say, “ For you 1 wear tni
'shape;” ~ .
And the lode remarks, “ I thought you d want a
mine, . ~
And so I’ve grown an outcrop like a cape.
And all of these—they homage pay, and lauds ;
The moon, the cliff, the hawk his wings halt-
furled,
The painted finches, and the flowering tfauds
Say, “We are new ! ” “ You know ns ! lake
your world.”
By this chasing of the spoil the Earth has gained
By this sordid hunting half the world was made,
From when the first wild horse was broke and
trained, , . , . . ,
And the savage carrack’s ribs were bent and Jaia,
From Colomb’s sightingof the Gulf Stream weeds.
From Tasman’s ship—the Zeehan s launch and
float—
The hunting for the plunder ever leads
Into, new-worlds by the loco, and the boat !
Be it Hawkins —be it Grenville —be it Drake
Sacking galleons in the sight of English doWnS
Be it Ross’s Creek become a lurid lake
A-trying out the whales of Bobby Towns.
Be it following the'Hannan’s cruel track
With a “.Ha ! ” to keep our hearts up, and a
“Ho!” .. ,
Be it harking south and north and east and back
And upwards to the line of Chillagoe ;
The voice of all'the wild calls out for men,
There be many offer, there be chosen few ;
But the toll is made—the unknown forced—and
then
The desert sings its canticle anew,
The cry of empty acres, and the cry
Of “ Loot ” are blended straightway into one,
And the sordid chase will force us till we die
To make barren uplands laugh full at the sun.
For ever must we go while aught is new,
Per team, per coach, per camel, or per boot;
The prize we prize is known but to the few,
But we’re paid by more than all the living loot 1
Gh ! the loot! the loot ! the loot 1
Per coach, per team, per boot,
Whether love of Newness pays us or the gold
that’s evil’s root.
All the Old is dead-sea fruit, -
So we hunt the latest bruit
Paid by something New as much as by the loot.
Girofla, N.Q.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Three Years Ago
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I MARRIED her in the dark little church with the
wind and rain beating against its dim windows ;
and the touch of her warm, quivering hand is
with me. still. I thought it took no more than
twenty minutes to make a man a husband. It
took me three years. In fact, I think our marriage
was never quite completed till the day when she
was robed a second time in bridal white, and so
left me for a little—for a little., A
Bu f I loved her very, very much- She was not
beautiful, nor clever save in one thing, nor very
attractive in any man’s eyes but mine. My sisters
said she was too big for me—that it was ridiculous
seeing us together. I laughed them into minding
their own business, but I never thought of telling
her that other people-differed’from them. Men
never do.
She made believe to think nothing of it, and
took to picture-painting, her maiden pastime. I
have heard she had more than a touch of genius.
Men and women came —admired—and she was
feverish for their praises, with side glances at me
and little flushes of ph asure. And I wondered to
see it all. She did not use to be vain.
How I remember that journey home—our last!
The slow, jolting Maoriland train, the frequent
stoppages at wayside stations with the flax-bushes
nodding close to the platform, and the lament of
the iambs, so thin, so broken ; the scent of the
blue gums was more like sound. Once she
stepped outside as we waited, and walked up the
platform slowly, her tall figure drawn up in
unconscious stateliness. She had been quiet and
pale during the journey,—we were returning from
a visit to my sisters—and I was sorry for her, and
had tried to make her forget.
And I felt proud of her when I heard a murmur
from the adjoining carriage: “Who is she?
How splendidly she walks.” And I saw them
follow her with their eyes, as she stood near the
flax bushes looking out across the glassy sea.
Three years ago, and all is over now ; even the
sense of loss is nearly stilled; but there is one pain
that is w-ith me yet—short, stabbing, bringing a
sob with it and a silence, and it is this : If I had
only told her how they were all admiring her at
the railway-station that summer afternoon three
years ago !
M.L.
CONSTANCE CLYDE
THIS AND THE
NEXT.
GINGER: “ I tell yer’e is a bookmaker I"
SNEAKER : “Gar on, ’ e don't belong to ‘ Tatts.’ "
GINGER: “ Why, 'e lays doubles — this and the
NEXT/”


Seen in the vicinity of a Westralian field :
Outside a dilapidated tent a young miner sitting
on a log yawning copiously, and a black gin care-
fully combing and parting his hair. Another
miner on same log with a second gin diligently
manicuring his big feet. The digger is a naturally
luxurious beast.
ZZ Some specialities of a few Tasmanian
Governors: Davey, old-tom; Sorell, convict
“homes”; Arthur, nigger-potting; Franklin,
exploring; Denison, stiff collars; -Gore-Brown,
quail-shooting; Young, farming; Du Cane, white
belltoppers; Weld, show - dinner . speeches ;
Strahan, women; Hamilton, onion sandwiches;
Gormanston, fishing.
•r
WASHINGTON H SOUL ft C?
ISO & 268
feJVSTjy
ding Chemists
l/MS/DWEy 1
rY’r/S
Brushes
e £3. Mods
..<Si.-Qua-lUy U
Sobers baking RowDii
■foiLEf;-
PERFUMERY
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
' f" ■-» !
tc
Tb€ RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
ETa-rrison & Attwood. Sole JProprietora.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
-@?fiSS7S
Th E LARGE
Makers
sfi
HIGH CLASS
Established
* 1847
Harvesting
Hay-Making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY LTD.
Head Office - • TORONTO CANADA.
Factories at Toronto, Brantford and Woodstock:
Australasian Headquarters: 163-169 William St., Melbourne.
New South Wales Address:
35 BROADWAY, GEORGE ST. WEST, SYDNEY.
Handsome Illustrated Catalogue sent Free to any address, on application.
a.
ORIENT " s
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
\
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 4os.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
G.P.O. )
SYDNEY
Dirty Dick’s Ducking.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When at the close of a hot day Tom Daley re-
turned to his station home on the river, he
was not a little annoyed to find his pretty and in-
experienced young wife with an abrasion on her
nose and beefsteak on one of her eyes.
“You’ve been wood-chopping again, I suppose?”
he queried.
“Yes, Tom ; I was chopping some wood for the
stove and a stick flew up. ”
“Oh, I know how it happened. It happens
the same way to every woman who tries to use an
axe. But why didn’t you get a “traveller” to
cut the wood for you ? Heaven knows there are
plenty of them passing this way every day who
would be only too glad to earn a shilling.”
“Really, Tom, only one traveller passed to-day;
such a dejected old fellow—and he told me
he was too ill to chop wood. He had walked
twenty-five miles to-day, and only had a crust of
bread for dinner. No wonder the poor man
felt ill.”
“ Did he ask for work ? ”
“No ; only for food and some old clothes.”
“And you gave him what he asked for, of
course ? ”
“Oh, yes; I gave him a cold shoulder of mutton,
a loaf of bread and some tea and sugar.”
“Didn’t you give him some of my old clothes ?”
“ Oh, yes ; I was nearly forgetting. I gave him
that old Beaufort coat of yours—it was getting a
bit shabby, you know, and those doeskin pants
that were getting tight for you. Oh ! and I gave
him those boots that hurt you in the instep—that’s
all I gave him.”
“ What about a hat? You should have given
him a hat ? ” said Tom, with finely veiled sarcasm.
"Oh, I did! I gave him that cabbage-tree of
vours. You say you have had it for six years, and
Pin sure yon must be quite sick and tired of wearing
it. Poor old fellow, you should have seen how his
face lit up when I gave him the clothes. He says
that he is tired of life and would like to die. lie
s 'ems quite resigned to meet death, poor old fel-
low. just fancy, Tom, he wanted a postage-
stamp so that lie could write a tare well letter to
his only daughter, who lives in Sydney. Isn't it a
sad story ? ”
“ Yes, very. Did you give him a stamp ? ”
“ No; but I gave him sixpence to buy one.”
“ Has the poor old fellow been gone long ? ”
“Oh, no ; he left here about an hour before you
came home. He said he would camp in the
travellers’ hut. He says he is fond of milk, and I
told him to come up in the morning and I would
give him what I could spare. You will be sure to
see him in the morning, and I know you’ll give
him anything he wants, poor fellow.”
“I think I’ll go and see him this evening, and
perhaps give him what he taunts, too,” he added
significantly. “ It’s that malingering old scoun-
di'el, Dirty Dick, I’ll bet a pound,” said Tom to
himself, as he strode down to the travellers’hut,
“and, by Jove, if it is ”
In the hut Tom found the old gentleman turning
out the pockets of the clothes that had been given
him.
“ Good day,” said Tom.
“Good day, sir.”
“Where are you making for ? ”
“ Ah, I’m making for my long home: but it’s a
vveary journey.,”
“Looking for work ? ”
“ Oh, no, sir ; I can’t work.”
“Then, what the devil are you travelling for?”
“In the ’opes of meetin’ death, sir. 1 would
like to die when Gord is pleased to take me.
Death, sir, would be a ’appy release from suffer-
in’.”
“Poor fellow,” said Tom, with well-assumed
pity, “would you really like to die? ”
“Ah, yes, sir ; indeed, I would.
“ Then, come with me. I’ll be a friend to you.”
“Eh, what?”
V Come with me,” said Tom, “and I will make
you happy.”
Tom led the hypocritical old rascal to a part of
the river where the bank was low and steep.
Here there was a depth of about four feet of
water in a little bay, and, being backwater, there
was very little current.
As they drew near the river the old man began
to be uneasy.
“Where are you taking me to, sir?” he asked.
“ To the river/’ said Tom laconically.
“What for?”
“To drown you, of course,” said Tom.
“My Gord ! you don’t mean it ? ”
“Indeed, Ido. You said you wanted to .die,
and that death would be a happy release. I’m
always ready to do a good turn for a man, even
though he is a lazy, drunken, dirty old malingerer
like you ; so I’m quite prepared' and willing to
kill you, and a drowning death will make you
ever so much more presentable up aloft.”
‘ ‘ Oh, my Gord ! ” shrieked the old fellow. “You
surely don’t mean it; why, you’ll be ’ung for
murder!”
“Never mind that,” said Tom. “I’m taking
all risks.”
“Oh, Gord Almighty help me; spare me from
this mad loonertick!” yelled the old man, as he
struggled in desperation with Tom. “Help!
Murder.! Oh ! ” Next moment he disappeared
under water with a mighty splash. Presently he
rose to the surface, but Tom reaching down caught
him by the coat collar and ducked him again.
When next he appeared Tom held him up, and said:
“You’re not so eager to die after all ? ”
“No, no; let me out. I never meant— —
oh, let me live, let me live and I will clear
out and you will never see me no more. ”
“Very well; it’s a bargain,” said Tom, as he
pulled the old fellow out and stood him on his feet.
“Now, go and change yourself, and don’t bother
about calling for milk in the morning. Start
early, do you hear ? ”
“Yes, yes, I’ll start before you are, up ! ”
“And you bet he did, too,” says Tom, when he
tells the story.
F. B.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners iwill find it
to tneir advantage to send their opa-l direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian erems.*
r\j \r^r\ j
G-O TO HET.X.-
KiOLANI) for Pretty. Stumps, but
If you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. HagcOy
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Alining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing:, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLT.NER,
30-36 Druitfc-st., Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE GUA S fI ,X™
Bone Ash, Zinc Shaving's, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William. Street,
Mklbournk ;
llPitt-st., Sue
Brirb. :
Iney ; 68 Currie-st.
Lambton Quay,
, Add. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Wellington, N.Z.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
H_ J 178 William-st., Melbourne;
V. Markwald, ll Pitt-street, Sydney;
63 Currie-st., Adelaide ; 27 Easiest., Brisbane ; Lambton
. Quay, Wellington - , N.Z.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Matt alassG and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- J>er llnlf-dozeu, free by jiost throughout
, Austrutiu.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS. Brisbane Q’land.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Li..TO A N'T AND
Kkkf.ctivk.
Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
snid anHdins
DEFINITELY CURE lIYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BO JUS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, ami ALL 111.
PURITIES of the BLOOD.' Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. Tlie Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
f>s El«in-st., .MELBOURNE.
SoftCaQVaS Shirts
Madk to Mkaslkk.
Post free :iO - per -dozen throusrh-
out the colonies. Or smnple shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, o/tt.
Very Slronjr, Sofi, Porous ami Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station ami Hush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. /* //t /•; /f /f<> /// K/(S,
Gentlemen's Kinporittm, BUISBA.NK. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki anti Assam Silk.
m
\ X
>r
mi
WllOO^oj
nOA 3AV
b
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales lleld at the Auction llooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
WaMer Bradley & Co., 321 George-^t,
SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
m
m
CIGARETTES.
HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea ;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TBA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather” Blend.
JAMES INGLIS Sc CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE;
Agents for 11 White Heather ” Whisky,
Oranuma and Fodah Porridge Meals,


Hi
S
aft
artg».
Soak your Clothes
WITH
A FINE POWDER. QUARTER-POUND PACKETS.
And the Dirt will slip out with about half
the usual labour.
pp- One tablespoonful of HUDSON’S Soap put into the
Washing-up Bowl makes China, Knives, Forks, and
Spoons, scrupulously Clean and Sweet. Absolute
cleanliness in Pots, Saucepans, and all Cooking
Utensils, secured by the daily use of HUDSONS.
Makes Grease Fly ! Leaves No Taint or Smell!
HUDSON’S SOAP IS MARVELLOUS FOR SOAKING AND WASHING CLOTHES.
|)eui and popular
PUBLISHED BY
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary Ltd.
The following Pieces represent some of the most
successful Songs of to-day. Every one is New,
extremely Popular, and Up-to-date : .
1. —CAN IT BE LOVE, written and composed
by Charles Kenningham, and sung by him
nightly with great success in “La Poupee.”
2. —THE LINK DIVINE (Violin Obligato), by
M. Piccolo mini, composer of “Whisper and
I shall Hear, ”‘ ‘ Ora Pro Nobis, ” &c. A mag-
nificent song, even superior to the latter, which
have long been favorites.
3. —SONS OF THE SEA, sung by Bert Gil-
bert. A powerful and universally Patriotic
Song. Decidedly the song of the year.
" Sons of the Sea, all British born,
Sailing every ocean, laughing foes to scorn ;
They may build the ships, niy lads, and think they
know the game,
But they can’t build boys of the bull-dog breed, who
made old England’s name."
4. LOVE ME JUST A LITTLE, SUE, DO 1
DO! DO ! Sung by Miss Ada Reeve. A
charming, dainty ballad, with a haunting re-
frain. Miss Ada Reeve’s greatest success.
6.—HOME LOVE, by Lawrence Richardson.
A very effective Contralto Song. One of Miss
Ada Crossley’s favorites.
6.-ON THE BANKS OF THE WABASH,
by Paul Dresser. A particularly taking
and pathetic homely song ; the reigning craze
of British and American halls. Sure to be
the rage of the year throughout Australia.
7. —JUST TELL THEM THAT YOU SAW
ME, by Paul Dresser. A very popular Dra-
matic Song.
8. -THE SWEETEST STORY EVER TOLD,
by R. M. Stults. A charming ballad, and a
universal favorite.
9.-WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN, by Henry
Walton (Baritone). One of the greatest suc-
cesses in Australia.
10.—WHILE THE DANCE GOES ON, by Chas.
K. Harris, composer of the now famous song,
“ After the Ball.” A splendid dramatic song,
received everywhere with great applause.
IDusic.
PIANOS,
Organs, Instruments,
REDUCED PRICES!
EASY TERMS!
THE NEWEST MODELS, DIRECT FROM ALL
LEADING MAKERS.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY, YOUR CHOICE
LIES BETWEEN THE
iechstein, [ipp, fhurmer.
BECHSTEIN PIANOS. V
The artistic development and consequent advance in popularity of the
BECHSTEIN PIANO is the most striking feature of the musie trade of the
present day. Mr. Bechstein’s close study and untiring energy have resulted in
such improvement to his Pianos that, as far as practical experience can show
the BECHSTEIN PIANO represents the greatest degree of perfection yet
attained in Pianoforte-making. It is the m ist modern and most beautiful in-
strument at the command of the great mu deal public of the civilised world
Choice specimens of the BECHSTEIN PIANO can be examined and purchased
on Easy Terms at ALLAN & CO.’S. Fricks, from 75 Guineas upwards
Victorian Agents—ALLAN & CO. PROPRIETARY LTD.
LIPP PIANOS.
Messrs. LIPP & SOHNE are one of the leading makers of the day. Their
Pianos are amongst the most popular of all the German Pianos, and have a world-
wide reputation for Powerful and Musical Tone, Perfect Mechanism, and Mag-
nificent Construction. In tone, action, quality of workmanship and material •
they stand pre-eminent. Prices, from «£65 upwards. Victorian Agents—
ALLAN & CO. PROPRIETARY LTD.
THURM€R PIANOS. -»■
The THURMER PIANO stands alone among all Instruments of Moderate
Price, by reason of its wonderful tone, beautiful appearance, and its well-known"
Durable Qualities. Prices, from 40 to 50 Oruineas.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUESwith full Descriptions, on application.
Any Piano can be Bought by Monthly Instalments.
WE HAVE EVERYTHING the" times demand, anything Musical yon-want,
selected from the MARKETS OF- THE WORLD, and in every case the BEST
VALUE that can be obtained for the money.
ALLAN & CO.
The Block, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Allan’s Annual for 1899.
Melbourne musical Magazine
JSTo. 3
NOW READY. PRICE ... V-
• BY POST, Is. 2d. •
Contains the Most Attractive Collection of
POPULAR SONGS ever put in a Music
Book. These are all New: —
THE SIMPLE LITTLE MAIDEN OF TO-
DAY (as sung by Ada Reeve).
A MINER’S DREAM OF HOME.
NOW WE SHAN’T BE LONG.
BARNEY O’HEA.
COCKLES AND MUSSELS.
THE. SPECIAL “SCOTCH’’-MAN (as sung
by Johnny Coleman).
CLEVER Mil. GREEN (Dan Leno’s Latest
Hit).
DOROTHY DEAN.
THE PARDON CAME TOO LATE.
Allan & Co.’s Latest Novelty.
THE BEST OF ALL
TALKING MACHINES.
The Recognised Standard of Merit,
, THE NEW MODEL.
GENUINE EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
r.ro V A^w T . IT r,OE . S- ' _Th<? New Model EDISON PHONO-
OBAI H is a talking and singing machine, and a musical
instrument all in one. It is the best of all, because it is
i ne great inventor’s own product, and because it is louder,
clearer and better in tone, and reproduces everything
simply and perfectly. A child can use it. It will sing for
you,' play for you, repeat to you the music of famous
bands and orchestras, the sweet voices of famous singers,
and the precious voices of family and friends.
buy the best.
All other machines are simply modifications of
the Genuine EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
Prices, from .£lO 10s.,
Including Six Records, horn, ear tubes, speaking
tubes, recorder, producer, and accessories. The
name THOMAS A. EDISON” is on every
Genuine Phonograph.
NEW RECORDS.—Orchestral and Brass Band,
Vocal Music of all kinds, Speeches ; Banjo and
other Instrumental Solos. Price, ss. each, or 50s.
per dozen-. .llie Edison Records are the best,
because they are the - highest quality, and be-
cause they are made on Edison Blanks."'
You can make your own Records.
BLANK CYLINDERS.—Edison Blanks art
perfection as to-lasting qualities. They are abso-
c!S e r i )fn f> nt > an d recognised as
STANDARD the world over. Price, 2s. fid.
each 0r,255. per-dozen. ... ------


A CAREI IJL ANALYSIS, has been made by the Government Analyst of the
from SAMPLES Purchased in the City, as well as from Samples received direct from the Cellars, 382 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY (opposite Messrs. David Jones and Co, next G.P.0.), down John Sands’ Lane, and they were found
to be very well matured and absolutely pure.
Ihe Coolalta Vineyards have been established over 30 years, and it is therefore an easy matter to place well-matured
Wines before the public.
THEY ARE THE LIGHTEST WINES IN AUSTRALIA .
THESE WINES
HAVK
Taken Medals
AT
Bordeaux, 1878 ;
Calcutta, 1883 ;
Amsterdam, 1883 ;
London, 1886 ;
AND AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Adelaide.
w*m.
fm
mmm
Three First
Frizes
OUT Off
Three Entries
AGAINST
All Australia..
AT
BRISBANE
in 1897.
J. A. Wilkinson’s COQl.fll.Tfl Vineyards.
The ORIGINAL GOVERNMENT CERTIFICATE of the Analysis of the Coolalta Wines may be seen at the office.
Manufactures Royales de Corsets P.D.
FRENCH P.D. CORSETS
'm
. These Beautiful Corsets are Absolutely . .
WITHOUT RIVAL
in the Trade throughout the World.
Ladies are respectfully requested to beware of imitations; all
Genuine P.D. Corsets are branded inside on band with the
Manufacturer’s Trade Mark.
ALL LEADING DRAPERS.
TJs.
X V
Manufactures Royales de Corsets P.D.
FRENCH P.D. CORSETS
pK
I
m
m
mm
i
s
m
M
. These Beautiful Corsets are Absolutely . .
WITHOUT RIVAL
in the Trade throughout the World.
Ladies are respectfully requested to beware of imitations; all
Genuine P.D. Corsets are branded inside on band with the
Manufacturer’s Trade Mark.
ALL LEADING DEALERS.
as


NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS.
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR HOLIDAYS
to tlio
Snowy Mountains, Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury River,
Fitzroy and Belmore Falls District,
THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, THE LAKES,
North Coast Line, The Illawarra District, National Park, etc., etc.
- Special '
EXCURSION
Tickets.
WILL BE ISSUED
During the . .
Holiday Season
-BY-
SPECIFIED TRAINS,
at 2d. per mile First-Class
(minimum 55.) and Id. per
mile Second-Class (minimum
2s. 6d.), from Sydney and
Suburban Stations to
GOULBURN,
COOMA, ORANGE,
MUDGEE,
WEST MAITLAND,
NOWRA,
and intermediate stations ;
also to Sydney from Orange,
Mudgee, Goulburn, Nowra,
Singleton, and intermediate
stations.
M
I
•r
*
.
NEPEAN RIVER.
. Cheap -
Intercolonial
FARES
FROM
Sydney to Brisbane • •
• • Sydney to Adelaide
Sydney to Melbourne
HOLIDAY
EXCURSION
TICKETS
will be issued during the
Holiday Season from all Sta-
tions to all Stations (Suburban
systems excepted), available
for Return until January 31*
1899.
AMONG the many attractions
of the Christmas and New
Year Holidays, not the least are
the numerous facilities afforded by
the railways for visiting the leading
pleasure resorts of the colony, en-
abling the dweller in the crowded,
dusty city or wide-spreading, arid
plains of the interior to escape to
the cool, refreshing atmosphere of
the mountain range in the one
case, or the delicious breezes of the
sea-side in the other, where, for-
getting the toil and worry of busi-
ness life, he obtains the change of
scene so necessary to the recupera-
tion of his physical and mental
Eowers. The arrangements made
y the Railway Commissioners are
of a comprehensive and convenient
nature, including the issue of
Special and Holiday Excursion
Tickets to encourage city residents
and dwellers in the country to visit
any point they may select. Full
particulars of the various places of
interest will be found in an illu-
strated Railway Guide, just pub-
lished, price One Shilling, which
also contains an excellent map of
the New South Wales railways.
Starting from Sydney, the
Southern tourist district, between
Mittagong and Goulburn, is rich
inpicturesqueresorts. Here are the
celebrated Fitzroy, Belmore, and
other Falls, the. scenic glories of
Mittagong, Bundanoon, and vari-
ous favorite halting-places, with
Erander landscapes m the country
eyond. The cross-country trip
from Moss Yale to the Illawarra
line offers a splendid journey.
Enjoyable trips may be made to
Wombeyan Caves, or to Lake
Bathurst and Lake George, the
latter being a notable resort of
sportsmen. From Cooma may be
reached the Yarrangobilly Caves,
perhaps the most wonderful, as
■
*>'• *4;;
g.
X
fgSP ■
w:Hi |
I
.r.
'. y ' ' /:
it 4 i
I
rPd
-: • '
r^i
% ■■
mWimi
W4Tk'- * '
.
MW
KATOOMBA FALLS
N the Western line are the
Blue Mountains, a realm of
shady glens and all the charms
with which Nature enchants the
lovers of the beautiful. Katoom-
ba, Blackheath, and Wentworth
Balls, the Valley of the Grose, andi
the thousand and one natural mar-
vels, have been brought by the
railway within the reach, not ohly
of the holiday-maker, but also of
the city man, by means of conveni-
ent trains on Friday evenings,
Saturdays and Mondays. Again,
there are the Jenolan Caves, the
great subterranean wonder-world,
which are easily reached _ from
Katoomba, Mount Victoria, or
Tarana.
North of the Metropolis is the
Hawkesbury, perhaps the most
1 autiful river in Australia, with
its extensive reaches, unsurpassed
scenery, ever-changing views of
lofty hill and luxuriant valley, and
numerous fishing - grounds, the
most frequented of the latter being
Cowan Creek, the head-waters of
which are in the heart of Kurring-
gai Chase. Beyond the Hawkes-
bury is the extensive lake region
of which Brisbane Water, the Tug-
gerah Lakes, and Lake Macquarie
are the principal features. Here
the lovers of boating and fishing
may enjoy themselves to their
hearts’ content, while in the sur-
rounding country there is an end-
less wealth of ferns and bush
flowers.
On the other side of the Metropo-
lis, down the South Coast, is the
magnificent National Park ; and a
few miles beyond the famous Illa-
warra district, the Garden of New
South Wales, themanifold beauties
of which have irresistibly im-
ressed those who have visited it.
they are the most extensive, of any in Yustralia ; also the Snowy IVTountains, where, on the summit
of Mount Kosciusko, the visitor may enjoy the cooling Alpine breezes during the wannest season of
the year, returning (if so desired) by way of Tumut and Gundagai to the main Southern line at
Cootamundra.
Here, too, are the BuUi and Macquarie Passes, Lake Illawarra, Clifton, Wollongong, and other
sea-side resorts; Kiama, with its great natural phenomenon, the “Blow Hole”; Nowra, the
metropolis of the luxuriant Shoalhaven district; Kangaroo Valley; the Cambewarra r.:.d other-
lofty mountain ranges, and other delightfully picturesque localities.
A RAILWAY GUIDE, just published, price One Shilling, containing full descriptions of
Tourist Resorts, Railway information, &c., and copiously illustrated ; together with small hand-
bills giving particulars of times of Departure and Return Additional Trains, Fares, &c., may be
obtained at Railway Stations, and at Central Booking Office, George-st., Sydney.
By Order of the COMMISSIONERS,
11. IL‘LACHLAN, Secretary.


Sole Australasian
Representatives for
James Simpson & Co., Limited,
Crrosvenor Road, London.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumping Engine C0.,-
London and New York.
Telegraphic Address: “WORTHINGTON,” SYDNEY.
A 1 and ABO Codes used.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
Telephone No. 1336.
SYDNEY
Victoria:
South Australia :...
Queensland:
Western Australia :
Tasmania:
New Zealand:
A.GERTCIES ;
Welch, Perrin and Co., Moray-street, South Melbourne.
Australasian Implement Co., North Terrace, Adelaide.
McLennan and Co., Alice-street, Brisbane.
Harris, Scarfe and Co., Fremantle.
T. Bateman and Son, St. Jolins-street, Launceston.
E. Porter and Co., Queen-street, Auckland ; J. Anderson,
Canterbury Foundry, Christchurch.
Duplex and Triplex, Horizontal and Vertical,
with Iron or Gun-metal Water Ends.
SIMPLE, COMPOUND and TRIPLE EXPANSION.
EBP" 1
ss
IHg&i
Special Pumps for Cyanide pumping’.
OVER
100,000
Duplex Pumps Sold.
OVER 2,500
DUPLEX PUMPS
Keady for Immediate Delivery.
Worthington Pumps
EOB, EVERT SERVICE.
AS
g
n»n m
'j^'lllllllllllUllllllD, 'mi!
jvnjnßMMnmi
m
1
ill
1
ff
i~3
Catalogues and Prices on application.


Rates i2/6day£lM!Ds
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
H.Edwin Moore,
MANAGER
Woman’s Glory is the Beauty of her Complexion.
WOMEN WHO DESIRE BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXIONS
. . SHOULD DRINK . .
PURIRI
The wonderful Curative Mineral Water of New Zealand.
Testimonials may be had from K RICH & CO. LTD '., O'Connell-street,
Sydney, Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.
HELIDON SPA WATEB
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.
There’s
H HUPPS CHRISTMAS
IN
SYDNEY LAGER BIER.
The Christmas Brew will maßt
you enjoy your Christmas dinner
and won’t give you a headache. t
VISITORS
TO SYDNEY
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
. Tatter sail’s.
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and Gr.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
Morning Dew
m
Si
%'i
m
i M
ir'k;
m
'ms
V
\j£&i
wm
£
2S?
v.v7/
«
H
i
w//.
mmm
MwMdm;.
/
\Smm
ii
i
WJW.V-
iiiiir ' 1
iLv *“ : <i|jjj •~7 —-■ -
Pattisons’ Whisky, like a British Ironclad, is at home in all “ Waters


CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Ofi-e, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 982.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1898“
Price 6d.
Ye Country Editor
For The Bulletin
‘ The duties of a country editor are onerous
indeed.”—Brisbane Paper.
I am a country editor ;
In weekly prose I rage and roar,
In weekly verse I sigh and soar,
And weekly articles I dress in various guises,
grave and gay ;
I tell the tale of local needs,
Of local guzzles, hops and feeds,
Of fearsome fights and darksome'deeds,
And oft-times do I gently chide the free and festive
M.L.A.
Tis mine when Muggins drains a bog
Or weans a calf or slays a hog,
Or stands the editorial grog,
To cry, The country's safe again—a Muggins to
the rescue—ho ! ”
’Tis mine when Juggins' twins are born
To loudly toot the local horn
And wake the echoes of the morn
By crying loud : “ Ye scoffing crowd—behold the
might of Juggins Joe I "
’Tis mine to tell how Buggins’ bier
Was borne, bedewed with many a tear,
Away from all who held him dear
, To where the marble tombstones rise, and where
the cypress branches wave ;
And how by chance it there befel
That certain mourners liquored well,
And started then (for grief will tell)
With frantic din (ah, me—the sin !) a furious dog.
fight o’er the grave.
I chronicle the monster spud ;
I tell of horrid deeds of blood.
Of men who fall with sickening thud,
Of burglars bad who nightly pad and purses pick
and raise your hair ;
And when the gruesome day is done,
And sinks the sanguinary sun,
I sheathe my knife and plant my gun,
And hide with haste my pot of pas to, and seek my
dark and distant lair.
THE COUNTRY EDITOR.
P. LUFTIG.


The Bulltin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A astral ians. ”
Printed and Published by Wit/ltam Macxeop, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bui t,ktin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Georoe Street North, Sydney,
New South Wares.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... " "
Quarterly 0 b b
NOTICE.
By semiinn direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required-
winch you mail pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, of stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tun Bulletin posted regularly to you every
ivcelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to he addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The riyht to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not extending two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendinn MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in HI adz and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous 01-
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest, and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
(b Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Suiter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South, Africa.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Maori!and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. Gd. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a. soecial Thyme-
paper edition o/ Tiik Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, IS9B.
When Dad Comes Back
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When dad comes back there’s goin’ to be
An awful lot o’ tilings :
He’ll fell that ole, dead stringy tree
An’ mend the waggon-springs.
When dad comes back along the hill
There’ll be another track,
An’ ma won’t take from Ben an’ Bill
The back-talk that she does ; an’ Lil
Won’t dare to walk with Pickersgill
When dad comes back.
When dad comes back he’ll fix the roof,
An’ ma will get a spell;
He’ll have a look at Snowy’s hoof.
An’ sink a rippin’ well.
When dad comes back we’ll do the grand,
An’ buy another hack ;
We’ll pay thf grocer out of hand,
An’ lift the mortgage off the land,
And Jim will get his jacket tanned
When dad comes back.
Dad’s up the country workin’, where
He’s often been before,
An’ mother tells us, year an’year,
What matters are in store.
When dad comes back we’ll get new togs,
Of grub we’ll have a stack,
He’ll burn off all them heavy logs
An’ poison Jock M’Cartney’s dogs—
We’re goin’ in fer growin’ hogs
When dad comes back.
Wheu dad comes back he’ll surely swop
The waggon for a plough,
An’ grow a reg’lar thumpin’ crop,
An’ raise a better cow.
When dad comes ma won’t always be
A-slavin’ like a black —
She’ll get a nice new dress, an’ he
Will take her down to see the sea;
We’ll often have hot scones for tea
When dad comes back.
But somehow 't never happens so,
An’ dad don’t larrup Bill,
The cows don’t come, them crops don’t grow—
We’ve got the mortgage still !
When dad comes back the roof an’ floor
Don't lose a single crack.
Ma wears the same old dress she wore,
They growl like fiends at Gordon’s store,.
An’ things is as they was before,
When dad comes back.
Yic.
EDWARD DYSON.
For the Benefit of the District.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Uncus Jim was terribly excited. I found him
pacing the verandah, beating an open letter against
his palm. Dropping the axe and palings, I ap-
proached him with questions.
“ I’ve just heerd from your Uncle Bill,” he said,
hastily. “He ain’t well. He’s cornin’up here for
a change of air.”
Uncle Jim had the point of his beard between
his teeth, so I judged that he was thinking hard.
Uncle Bill is rich. His Darling Downs station
was valued last year at <£15,000. When he dies
Uncle Jim will get the lot. But Uncle Jim doesn’t
want him to die—at least, he says he doesn’t.
Two days later the coach put Unde Bill down
at the paddock-gate. Seven or eight chaps from
the Flat helped him with his portmanteau, while
his bull-terrier snapped at them viciously from
between his heels. (Our Crib dealt with him later
on.)
Uncle Bill shook hands with us all, and said, in
a loud voice, that he’d remember everybody when
he died. Uncle Jim said: “Tut, tut; what rot,
Bill! You’ll live to see us all under.” Then he
sent the kids to the store for vegetables—Uncle
Bill has a weakness for fresh peas and radishes.
Uncle Jim is 8-stone ; Bill goes 17 and a trifle,
and when he laughs people run out “for fear the
house would fall on ’em ! ”
Aunt began fixing up the spare room. Uncle
Jim took me aside. “ Run down ter Brannigan’s
’n’ git a small cask of beer —git th’ ‘ Blazer Brand. ’ ”
“ But that’s regular poison ! ” I said hurriedly.
“Surely you won’t offer it to Uncle Bill ? ”
He caught my arm fiercely and pushed me
through the gate. “Don’t be a blasted idiot.
What’s poison to one cove is beer to another.
We’ve got to be hospitable. Bill’s rich, ’n’ he ain’t
well; he might die if yer cut off his beer. Run,
lad, run ! ”
Brannigan’s ‘ ‘ Blazer ” beer has a reputation on
the Castlereagh. Last August a miner bought a
bottle of it in the forenoon. He died at sundown !
The coroner said that death was due to an over-
dose of dynamite, but Brannigan asserted that
deceased had swallowed his blasting-apparatus
before the liquor had a show. Brannigan left the
court without a stain on his beer.
There was a big crowd at the “ Swag and Pan-
nikin ” when I arrived. Everybody was talking
about Uncle Bill, and what a lot of good his
money would do if it came into the district. Bran-
nigan handed me a small keg over the counter,
telling me not to bump or shake or meddle with it
in any way whatever. I told him it was for Uncle
Bill. He said, “Just so, me bhoy—just so.” I
took it gingerly across the creek, and rested for a
while on the bridge. The bung of the keg was
covered with dirt: I drew it gently, and had to
retreat before the 13 smells that oozed from the
hole; then, thinking that all the strength was
evaporating, I dashed blindly at it with the bung,
and sealed it up.
Uncle Jim took it from me tenderly, and slapped
the hoops affectionately with both hands. Uncle
Bill looked at it and smiled.
“ It’s the real Mackay,” said Uncle Jim,
quickly. ‘ ‘ More like old whisky than beer —ineller
as a banana. Thear ain’t a bite or a scratch in a
hogshead of it.”
Then he placed the keg on the table, and made
private signals to me. I was thinking of the dead
miner.
“Won’t yer help me drink it, Jim, lad?”
Uncle Bill sat opposite the keg with his large
• hands spread around the second hoop.
Uncle Jim hopped back nervously.
“I—l ain’t touched liquor fer years, Bill; I’m
too delicate. Drink it yerself, lad—drink it yer-
self. Thear’s health an’ strength in every half-
pint of it! ”
Uncle Bill’s laugh sounded like a ntigli, neigh,
neigh!
I followed Uncle Jim outside; fie took me
behind the shed, and put his mouth to my ear.
“I want yer ter bear me out that he drank that
beer of his own free will. People might say I
wanted his money. Damn his money—d’ye hear ?
—damn his money ! ”
We waited outside like two Borgias. Uncle
Bill’s shadow was silhouetted on the chintz cur-
tain ; we dared not look at him through the half-
open door. I could hear Uncle Jim’s heart rapping
at his ribs.
Uncle Bill was communing with death. A
sudden gust of wind stirred the leafy roof of the
bush into a myriad whisperings.
“He ain’t bin a good brother to me.” Uncle
Jim sat on an upturned bucket, and covered his
face. ‘ ‘ But I can forgive him; I ain’t a chap
that bears malice. Me ’n’ Bill used ter play
together when we were kids in Monaro. I was a
cobber ’n’ a brother to him. Lord Gawd, I forgive
him all his neglect. You hear me, Sam, lad ? I
ain’t a chap ter bear malice! ”
A deadly silence filled the room ; the shadow-
hump on the blinds seemed strangely contorted.
We stood with heads uncovered in the doorway.
Uncle Jim’s hand closed on my wrist.
“ Don’t forgit, Sam, how I begged of him not
ter touch drink. You heard me refuse when he
went on his knees for it. Don’t forgit, lad, if
thear’s any questions asked ter-morrer. ” Uncle
Jim braced himself suddenly and entered the
room.
Uncle Bill was sitting bolt upright in the big
armchair ; his small eyes were slightly upturned, a
tired smile still lingered over his massive features.
“He drank all the beer afore he died,” whis-
pered Uncle Jim. “Game ter the last ! ”
Uncle Bill shook himself with a start. “What’s
that, lad—what’s that ? Ha ! ” His eyes rested
on the keg. “ That’s real nice beer, Jim—real
nice beer! ”
* * • *
That night I was awakened by the sound of a
saw biting into the sap of a tree. Got up softly
and peeped stealthily under the window-curtain.
A lean shape was swaying sideways and forward
at the foot of the giant gum that slanted over the
homestead.
S'h-s’h-sr-r-r-p went the saw. The shape did
not move or look round as I slipped from the
house, but worked on with furious energy as if its
life depended on the falling of the tree.
A pack of dingoes filled the hollows with fear-
some howls ; the wet grass kissed my bare feet as
I dodged into the deep scrub shadow. The shape
writhed and drove the saw vigorously across the
bole of the gum—its huge limbs spread over the
room where Uncle Bill was calrqly slumbering.
Then I remembered suddenly that Uncle Jim had
sent aunt and the kids over to Moloney’s on the
pretext that they interfered with Bill’s peace of
mind.
Sr-r-r-rp ! Crash ! Thud ! I darted back with
a yell as the timber leviathan thundered down
across the roof of the homestead. The shape with
the saw fled towards Brannigan’s Hole.
Silence again ; except that somewhere a vagrant
curlew dreed its weird above the darkness of the
bush.
Bit by bit I edged towards the bashed home-
stead. The tree had divided it into battered
sections; half-a-dozen fowls squawked wildly
amongst the debris; the unhoused pig was keep-
ing up his end in a corner where Crib had fixed
him.
Day broke. Uncle Jim came panting from the
“ Hole,” with a crowd of shearers and cattle-men
at his heels. Everybody inquired after Uncle
Bill. Brannigan was vastly excited; he rushed
under the fallen beams, and called out, “Bill,
Bill—are ye there, lad ? ”
I said that Uncle Bill had just gone to the creek
to have a wash.
* * » *
Next morning we set to work rebuilding. Uncle
Jim never spoke during the whole day, but at sup-
per he said he’d write and get the local member to
have more police quartered in the district. It
wasn’t safe, he said, to lie under your own roof
while hordes of larrikin shearers roamed the
country, “cuttingdown trees over people’s heads!”
Uncle Bill stood amongst the ruins, smoking
peacefully. He didn’t say anything !
It rained during the week, but we had the roof
on in no time, and Uncle Jim said we wanted
rain badly.
The creek rose and whitened under the willows.
At night we used to hear the sheep baa-ing where
the flats had turned to a swamp—bogging them in
close-packed hundreds. The crows around Branni-
gan’s Hole were thicker than the clouds.
One morning I found Uncle Jim measuring a
straight line from the creek to the house. He said
that the land about the homestead was lower than
the Castlereagh. It would, therefore, be a simple
matter to let in a good flow when the next dry
spell came along.
“ But ’twould be no good tryin’ to dig a channel
when th’ earth’s like iron,” he added. “Now’s
th’ time : yer can lift th’ stuff with a shovel! ”
Uncle Bill came up with his streaming umbrella,
splashing like an ox through the yellow pools.
“Goin’ infer irrigation, eh, Jim? Go easy, lad !
that crik looks nasty ; she’s got more’n a bellyful
already. Easy with yer channel ’n’ let her in a bit
at a time. ”
Uncle Jim said he had studied irrigation at
Mildura, years ago: nobody in Brannigan’s could
give him points about water-levels.
“Just you leave me alone, Bill, an’l’ll fetch her
up ’bout a dipperful at a time. We’ll never be
short of feed agin. Leave me alone; talkin’ o’ny
worries me. ”
From daybreak to dusk Uncle Jim sweated and
hogged with his shovel under the big soft embank-
ment, where the treacherous yellow drops oozed
over his spade. His neck and arms streamed with
perspiration ; his thin black hair clung in blinding
wisps about his hollow temples. He cursed me
whenever I approached, and pelted the kids with
rocks if they showed a head on either side of the
creek. Mountains of clay shut him out from the
road ; his bright shovel flashed showers of yellow
mud into the hollow. Teamsters stopped and
wondered at the sudden volcanic eruption. No-
body said anything, but every man with a stake in
Brannigan’s Hole fixed his eye on Uncle Bill.
Maloney said that the district would benefit to an
inconceivable extent if anything did happen to
him. He couldn’t leave his wealth to a more de-
serving man than his brother, Jim Sloan.
Suddenly I became a wanderer; the homestead
oppressed me with a sense of insecurity. It had
rained for three weeks, and the swollen creek had
uprooted the clump of ironbark that separated it
from the road. I slept in a dry cave under the lee
of Doughboy’s Spur; my windy lair commanded a
good view of Uncle Jim’s irrigation operations.
I crept from the hollow and listened ; the scream
of an unloosed river died away over the Flat. The
rain had ceased; a wisp of moon edged over the
distant ranges, and through the ghostly haze I saw
the grey flood waters leaping from point to point.
The homestead had vanished. A group of men
lined the rain-scarred hillock beyond the bridge.
I rushed down and joined them. Uncle Jim was
in the centre indicating with his spade a wooden
house that plunged and dipped in the fork of two
currents. ( . ,
“ Bill’s inside,” whispered Moloney. lle
dhrowned widin foive minutes. Well, a man can
die but wahst.”
Everybody shook hands.
“I bear him no malice.” Uncle Jim dropped
his spade and folded his arms. “ Bill ain’t bin all
that a brother should be. Thear isn't a man here
that won’t bear me out.”
“ Hear, hear ! ” The crowd fought to get a grip
of his hand. Brannigan pointed across the river.
“Look ut her, byes; she’s rowlin’ loike Raf-
ferty’s dhray ! The snags beyant wud bend an
ironclad. Oi’m sorry that your brother is insoide,
Sloane; he was a good man, wanst! ”
A current gripped the house under the veran-
dah, flinging it on to the sloping embankment,
and immediately thereafter a spinning log caught
it amidships and left it high and dry.
The crowd raced along the bend, excited: a
shearer, with a lantern, hurled himself through
the locked door, and found Uncle Bill —asleep,
with his face to the wall !
' A profound melancholy settled upon the com-
pany. Nobody spoke; everybody looked at Uncle
Jim —his head down ; the spade at his feet —the
spade that had turned the Castlerea.gh from its
course. And still nobody spoke, till Moloney laid
his hand kindly on the stricken man’s shoulder.
“ Oi’m sorry for ye, Jim,” he said, softly. “Ye
did yer best! ”
N.S.W.
D.
Hints to Ambitious Boss
Cookies
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[These hints are not intended for all boss cockies. Most
of them are plain, homely, hospitable men who work hard
and show the maximum of kindness and minimum of
style. But you are one of the push who want to be con-
sidered “ squattahs.” This is to assist you.]
First, I presume that Reid has made you a J.P.
Of course, when he was up at your Show, he took
you aside, and told you that you were just the sort
of man the country wanted. He always does—it
is George’s little way. If there’s a blind gully
anywhere near your house, call it “ Glen Some-
thing.” Glen is Scotch, and, therefore, squatto-
cratic. If you can’t do this, call it “Something
Park. ” That is English, you know.
Mark out a tennis-court, and let the family prac-
tise every day. You’ll have to hire help to do
their work, of course. If you want to go one better
than your aspiring neighbors, start golf.
If you can possibly borrow the money, build a
new house. In any case, be sure and root up the
old wire-fences, and put a white railing round the
“home paddock.”
Give up cooeying, or blowing a horn, or shout-
ing to the kids to “ hurry up if they want any
blooming tucker ” —at meal times. Buy a gong.
Get a tutor, or a governess—one handy at the
wood-heap or about the house. Better get a
governess. They can’t clear out so quickly.
Plenty of girls will work on half wages, if they
are called Miss So-and-So. You score both ways.
Practice saying “Hum-hum!” Any pannikin
overseer on a real station will be able to teach you.
Get the men to call the kids “master” and
“miss ” —if you can ! Put up all the wool-hawks,
sewing-machine dingoes, and tea terrors, and give
them a stiff nip when they come. Make up for
this by cutting the swaggies down to the bare
“pint o’ dust.” Tell them, in a dignified way,
that “ We squatters are finding that we’ll have to
give up this sort of thing! ” If one of them should
swear at you, refer to it as an instance of the
“base ingratitude of the working classes.”
Give a special prize to the Show. Half-a-guinea
will do, and you get your name printed in ten
different places. Also run a horse or two.
Booze up the local newspaper man and he will
refer to you as the “Squire of So-and-so.”
Knock off calling the swagsmen “ tramps.” If
Jock M‘Nab (who has a million sheep) can refer
to them as “travellers” why cannot you, you little
vermin ?
Encourage the girls to talk about “ Society ”
doings in Sydney. They can get such out of the
weekly papers. There’s no Society in Sydney, to
speak of—only richer snobs than you —but that’s a
mere detail.
In your local town refer to yourself as a “ pas-
toral! st ; ” in Sydney you can speak of your
“station.” In either, you will pass muster as
long as you “ shout ” for the right people.
Follow these directions faithfully till the Mort-
gage Co. closes on you. Then you’ll be more like
a squatter than ever.
N.S.W.
CEGIL POOLR
In the Sere.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was so lonely, and I thought,
As I lay on my bed :
Which of the women I have loved
Of old should I have wed.
And, lamp in hand, my Memory went
Within my vaulted heart,
And turned the key in many a door,
To stand with sudden start
And say, “ And but for this’t were she ”
(And draw the door and shut),
“ And but for this’t were she, or she;
And but—and but—and but ! ”
The sob of rain is in the night—
The moaning, homeless wind :
Which of the women I have loved,
O Heart undisciplined ?
Q.
FRANCIS KENNA


KITTYS BROOM
For The Bulletin
Wl] Kn^Y] 3} 1 f j j J
J I To dTny. 1 1 j
lAd
Tfje dusT^W/^y
']©l%iiiQj : slcrtdcTl such
M co/«\e\y sec.
k SK- ( gT?nsj>&7JjflF” bßoOf\ YYiTfj' Toochj
G 2 love To ptay
~ /=\Nd d usT-t- f\ w^y.
__ I >fe& concc^n
"• No lonqcr l<X>/“\
-
K iTTy" Tfjc f\aor\. ■
I'd rrtNcl cf]£eß,[ul nfly ftf ,^^'^4;
Idicl /ieav’tv scncl wiTf) Fjcr, / f
"rtjt ' TJ-~
B[?]NKER
In the Mind of a Child,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A FLUTTER of short drosses and long logs, an un-
willing shuffling of boys’ reluctant feet, the calm
and dignified carriage of our mother leading up
tho rear of her long army of martyrs—they flash
on tho memory so brightly that I can see the holes
in Eddio’s socks, smell the odor of gunpowder
from Alfred’s last attack of Red Indianism,
through all these years.
Ono, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine—up tho aisle we go towards that dreaded
front pew, where we sit, Sunday after Sunday,
through the two longest hours of life.
Or almost tho longest.
There is one hour that falls between seven and
eight on Wednesday night, and has no beginning,
no end.
For Sunday is a day fixed immortally in all
calendars as a church-going day ; but Wednesday
is a thing thrown in. Our youthful minds have
early guessed that Wednesday has nothing irre-
vocable about it. Only one family comes in its
entirety to chapel for tho week-night services.
Our pew alone, in all tho whitewashed building,
holds such a long succession of fair heads and dark
heads, with the stamp of early youth on them.
To-night as on every Wednesday, all the ail-
ments under the sun have been ours since tea —
toothache, earache, headache, backache, sore foot,
strange inability to walk sudden cramp —but all
in vain. If the minister’s family does not go, who
shall ?
Dp the aisle we wander into the family-pew,
each one, as he enters, thrusting out a foot to
kick the one fat cushion his way. When Alfred
has secured it, as he always does —the pirates and
R< d Indians have taught him the tricks of war—
and has planted his feet upon it in exaggerated com-
fort, keeping one foot a little strained to kick the
brothers, should they invade, our only sensation
is over, and we sink down into apathetic attitudes,
and refuse to catch the glance our mother shoots
us from her seat at the end of the pew.
But suddenly the apathy vanishes. To-night
there is going to be excitement. A most unusual
c ngregation is crowding in ; and here come the
circuit stewards, bringing long deal forms from
the Sunday school behind the church. They
stagger along with them, and place them down
the aisles, to seat a possible overflow of the con-
gregation. Wealthy William Wright, who, with
all his aristocratic looks, has the fattest, reddest
wife, and sells the skinniest, toughest mutton cf
any butoher in the district; crabby little Jones,
the shoemaker, who objects to us because we are
over-cddicated, for a parson’s family ; mean old
Harris, the bachelor chemist, and organist, whom
wc hate because he always calls on our father for
the numbers of the hymns just at dinner-time and
eats our share of the pudding—they go back-
wards and forwards with their burdens, and the
people soon fill the aisles as well as the pews.
To other children there might be an element of
the theatrical in this, but we don’t know the
theatres. We can only say to ourselves—it is as
good as the circus Life is suddenly worth living
on a Wednesday night, and now we remember
that to-night there is to be a special revival ser-
vice. We heard it all discussed at home weeks
ago, and last Sunday announcements were made
morning and evening that a revivalist from the
Sydney Mission fields was coming to arouse our
little sleeping country township.
Dp into the pulpit comes a new figure, a
Btiangely different figure from the comely one we
are accustomed to see there, Sunday after Sun-
day. .A. small black man —black-haired, black-
eyed, black-bearded, clad in a long black coat,
v ith a long black back and short black legs, and a
big black Bible under his arm —mounts, with a
slow and dignified
step, the pulpit
stairs, and, reach-
ing the reading-
desk, disappears
among the red
plush cushions in
a longer silent
prayer than any
we wot of.
At last his head
lifts up again, and
the evening ser-
vice begins.
Wesingahymn,
he prays, ho reads
a chapter, prays
again, and then
How old am I ?
Eight, perhaps.
Eight; and
brought face to
face with a situa-
tion that might
stagger eighty !
“Those who
lovo tho Lord
Jesus Christ and
have been washed
in tho blood of
tho Lamb, and
found grace, stand
up while wo sing
tho hymn; tho
rest remain sit-
ting ! ”
A silonco falls
upon tho congre-
gation ; to mo it
scorns a pitiful,
despairing silence.
In tho midst of it
up rises our
mother, an d
stands straight
and courageous,
head back, eyes
drooped, at the end of the pew. Fifteen years at
tho end of tho front pow havo taught her her
lesson bravely ; she must be first when there is no
one else to be first ; second, third, last, when
there are others to como before her.
The throe youngest boys and our little sister,
who are really only babies, are in a great haste to
stand up beside their mother, and from all around
tho sound of a rustling, timid movement tells us
that the congregation is coming slowly to its feet.
Here and there, all over the church, mon and
women are rising to proclaim themselves Saved
and secure.
But in our pow, what a tragedy I No one ex-
pects any conscience from four babies who scarcely
know what a hymn is, but what is to be done
with three boys and a girl who have written in
their startled faces a full consciousness of the
situation ?
“Those who love the Lord Jesus Christ, and
have been washed in the blood of the Lamb, and
found grace, and been saved - stand up while wo
sing this hymn; the rest remain sitting,” he says
again, and leaves no loophole through which three
boys and a girl might escape.
I look at Alfred piteously. He pretends ho is
unconcerned, and is only waiting to pull his sock
up.
I look at Eddie. He kicks Willie, and they oc-
cupy the minute in returning each other’s kicks.
They so callous, and I so agitated that I bite
the top out of my new cotton thumb, and, when
it is moist enough, swallow it without coughing,
without knowing !
If I stand up—if I sit down—do I love the Lord
Jesus Christ? I do, I do. And am washed in
tho blood of tho Lamb ? I—l think so. And
have found grace ? No answer. And been saved ?
Despair again 1
The mother is our certain, sheltering rock in
time of storm, and my eyes go miserably towards
her back. How calm and sure she i 3 ! Suddenly
a dreadful thought flashes through me. Is she
really and truly saved ? It is the dreadful mental
struggle I am enduring that allows such wicked-
ness to como to birth; but I have it down and
slain the next second, and know my own badness
more positively than ever.
Barely a minute has passed since the command
that threw us into such consternation, and in that
time the congregation has kept on rising and rising
until most of the seats are empty.
What if we four are the only ones left sitting 1
And now, slowly, stealthily, Eddie rises to his
feet, and stands bolt upright, in imitation of our
mother’s pose.
And Alfred leaves his sock to fate, and his
cushion to the enemy, and joins the standing
figures in our pew. William and I remain.
And Willie, not thinking me worthy to be
picked, and seeing no reason why he should
remain among the unrighteous, steps up to the
vantage ground of the fat cushion, and looks
round at the congregation from his superior
height.
They are all up but me. I alone, out of all the
nine, remain sitting.
Are they all saved hut me ?
Alfred was not saved at six o’clock this evening ;
Eddie was not saved at breakfast time ; M illie
was not saved ten minutes before church time.
At six o’clock this evening Alfred was follow-
ing me all over the house to shoot arrows at me
from a new bow. About breakfast-time this
morning I heard Eddie telling the boy next door,
through the fence, that he was going to play
hookey from school that day, and persuading him
to come and swim all day in a waterhole in Cow-
dery’s paddock. Ten mi- utes before church-time
to-night Willie hacked the heel off his boot with
the carving-knife, and the whipping waits at
home for him still.
Yet there they stand in their home-made sailor-
suits, and I dare not say to myself that they are
no more saved than I. It may have happened just
before the little black man spoke, or just after.
The little black man has left the pulpit, is
coming down the steps, is in the aisle. He enters
a pew where an old man sits alone. He bends
down over the other ; he is bidding him go down
on his knees. He is on his knees himself praying
hard. He whispers in the old man’s ear, he
takes his hand, and prays again. When at last he
leaves him the old man sobs into his handkerchief,
and at the same moment a little girl, sitting in a
stupor in the minister’s pew, awakes to her peril,
and comes to her feet in wild haste.
When my turn came he would have knelt with
me, have held my hand, have murmured into my
ear, have left me saved and sobbing.
But I push into a place between my brothers,
and so— save myself /
LOUISE MAOK
The Man Who Saw a Moa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It had rainod steadily for throe days, and all
hands woro gathered round tho cook-house Are—
tho only docently-dry place in camp. Doad sick
wo woro of loafing and playing ouehro for matches.
Talk turned upon a roeont discovery of moa-bonos
down south, and, of course, old Dick took tho
load. There wasn’t a mortal thing on earth that
he didn’t know something about. He’d been
sailor, minor, soldior, bushrnan, and the Lord
knows what else, and, though ho was past 00, ho
could liandlo a hook or a flail with tho best of us.
“ Yes, mates, it can’t luivo been very long since
tho last moa turned up its toes. In fact, I could
spin a yarn ’bout that very same bird, only I don’t
care to be thought a liar by any man.”
“ Let her go, Gallagher ! lot her go ! " was tho
chorus all round.
“ We’d believo you, Dick,” added a Taranaki
man, “if you told us you had shorn Esau, tho
hairy man, and sold his flocco to St. Peter for a
door-mat. ”
“ Game out here,’’ went on Dick without more
ado, “ in the oarly days, when tho West Coast was
just beginning to boom. Solf and mate cleared
out from tho barque wo wore on at Lyttelton, and
made ’cross country to the Coast. We had a
pretty rough time at first, and wont back past all
the other diggers, after a bit, and camped in tho
bottom of a big gorge. Hero we made very fair
money, even for those days, although we were
pretty lonosome all by oursolves. First night or
two wo got devilish well scared. Just about dark
there would come a wild, wailin’ sort o’ noise,
something like a steam-siren in a fog. But, as
nothin’ happened, we soon got used to that ; in
fact, we used it as a kind o’ tea-bell.
• * • *
“ However, one day we was workin’ on a bit
of terrace at the bottom of the gorge, when a
boulder, the size of a man’s head, came out of the
bush above us as if it had been fired from a
cannon ; then came two or three more, and then a
six-foot log, and we reckoned it wasn’t healthy
where little things like that were flyin’ round, so
we knocked off and went up to see what the
trouble was. We climbed up to a little terrace
bout 50 yards above us, and there was tho chap
that had done it!—a thunderin’ big bird, ’bout
twice the size of an ostrich. He was scratching
for dear life, just like a rooster, an’ every now an’
again he would pick up a worm or a grub. * Poor
beggar ! ’ says Jack; ‘if he has to load-up with
that sort o’ tack he’ll be a devil of a time gettin’
his full cargo on board.’
“ We looked at him and he looked at us, and just
went on scratching again ; so we concluded to let
well alone.
“ After that we often used to meet the beggar
s'alking about the river-bed or in the bush; in
fact, he seemed to like to see us. S’pose he felt a
bit lonely with none of his mates about. What
was he like ? Well, not unlike one of them wood-
hens you see running about, only about 1000 times
as big. He had little bits of wings, an’ a funny #
little tail that he stuck up in a comical way, every
step he took. Run !—by the hokoy, he could run !
Saw him chasing a Maori-rat one day, and the rat
hadn’t a show. Our friend just put down his head
and went through the scrub and supple-jacks like
greased lightnin’.
• • • •
“ At last one night the beggar paid us a visit in
camp, just as we were sitting down to tea. B’pose
the grubs and worms had been a bit scarce that
day, for he seemed pretty sharp-set. Jack threw
him half a roast pigeon ; ho swallowed it like a
pea, and then the fun began. He walked right up
to the tent-door and began to tackle the rest of
the grub. .Jack up and hit him with a pick-
handle, but the bloomin’ dicky-bird just planted
his foot in Jack’s chesf, and Jack sat down
mighty quick. Then I chimed in with a toma-
hawk, but ho just let me have one-two in such
short order that I thought I might as well
have a spell, too. Ho was a good door, and no
mistake ! Scoffed our pigeons whole, choked over
tho dampor swallowed a knife, an’ then ho put
his beak in tho hot tea. Pulls it back pretty sud-
den, you bet, but when Jack givos a chuckle and
raises his head a bit where ho is lyin’, tho
old devil just steps over to him and dances
all tho grinnin’ out of him in two jiffs. Back ho
goes, then, and starts to turn out the wholo
bloomin’caboose. Finding tho tent a bit awkward
for a bird of his size, ho just kicks it to blazes an’
JUSTIFIED CYNICISM.
BOIGER OGG : “ Ere, Juay, fer 'Savin’s take come
erway from 'ere. I never wuz struck on
married life I ”
starts scratchin’ like a steam-engine. My word 1
the way those things did fly! Ho found my
watch and swallowed it, leavin’ the chain hangin’
out of his beak. Then he got on to some tinned
stuff, an’ down went the two-pound tins like pills.
But drink was his ruin—like many another’s 1
“ We had some rum in the bottom of a long tin-
can, and when ho shoved his beak into this I sup-
poso he found it pretty good; at all events ho
wasn’t in a hurry to take it out again. When he
did try to get out, the handle of the tin stuck
round his neck, and there he was blindfolded.
Things began to fly worse than ever then ; he
went dancing round into tho fire and up again’
the trees till he found it wouldn’t come off that
way, so ho quietened down —put the tin on the
ground, and started working it off gradually.
This was our chance ! I ups with the tomahawk
and takes tho can fairly off for him ; of course it
wasn’t my fault that his head came with it !
• • * •
“ Well, boys, we lived on that bird for nearly a
month ; ho was something like turkey, with a
dash of shag. Yes ; we got the tinned-meat and
the watch out all right; likewise about 60 quid
worth of rough gold that the beggar had stowed
away. Why didn’t wo take the carcase into
town? Because we wore new-chums, my lad, an
didn’t know but moas was as common as cocka
doodles."
WRKA.
MISTIMED SYMPATHY.
BENEVOLENT FEMALE : “ You inhuman monster! Slop beating that horse, can’t you see it is [?].
ill to [?]alk ? ”
INHUMAN MONSTER (who is driving his dying horse to its grave to save cartage) : “ This hors
ain’t ill, mum ; he’s dead, and me and im is goin ’ to the funeral. Get a pole
and jine the procession.”


A PAGE OF VERSES WRITTEN FOR “THE BULLETIN.”
The Bush, My Lover.
The camp-fire gleams resistance
To every twinkling star ;
The horsebells in the distance
Are jangling faint and far ;
Through gum-boughs lorn and lonely
The passing breezes sigh :
In all the world are only
My star-crowned Love and I.
The still night wraps Macquarie;
The white moon, drifting slow,
Takes back her silver glory
From watching waves below ;
To dalliance I give over,
Though half the world may chide,
And clasp my one true Lover
Here on Macquarie side.
The loves of Earth grow olden,
Or kneel at some new shrine ;
Her locks are always golden—
This brave Bush-Love of mine ;
And for her star-lit beauty,
And for her dawns dew-pearled,
Her name in love and duty
I guard against the world.
They curse her desert places ! ,
How can they understand
Who know not what her face is
And never held her hand ?
Who may have heard the meeting
Of boughs the wind has stirred,
Yet missed the whispered greeting
Our listening hearts have heard.
For some have travelled over
The long miles at her side,
Yet claimed her not as Lover
Nor thought of her as Bride;
And some have followed after
Through sun and mist for years,
Nor held the sunshine laughter,
Nor guessed the raindrops tears.
If we some white arms’ folding,
Some warm red mouth should miss—
Her hand is ours for holding,
Her lips are ours to kiss;
And closer than a lover
She shares our lightest breath,
And droops her great wings over
To shield us to the death.
And if her droughts are bitter,
Her dancing mirage vain—
Are all things gold that glitter?
What pleasure but hath pain ?
And since among Love’s blisses
Love’s penalties must live,
Shall we not take her kisses
And, taking them, forgive?
The winds of Dawn are roving,
The river-oaks astir . . .
What heart were lorn of loving
That had no Love but her ?
Till last red stars are lighted
And last winds wander West,
Her troth and mine are plighted—
The lover I love best !
N.S.W.
WILL H OGILVIE
The Storm and the Bush.
There are only two things in the world —
The storm in the air and the stretch of green
leaves;
The flesh of the forest that quivers and heaves
As the blast on its bosom is hurled.
Above is the whip of the wind
That scourges the cowering forest beneath :
The storm spits the hiss of the hail from its teeth,
And leaves the world writhing behind !
Like a beast that is bound in a cage
When the keeper’s lash lights and the keeper’s
goad stings,
Each tree his great limbs to his torturer flings
In a groaning and impotent rage.
As the leaves to a fiercer gust lean
The wind throws their undersides upward to sight,
And the foam of the forest sea flashes to white,
Out over full fathoms of green !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS
Verses.
I am shut out of mine own heart
because my Love is far from me
nor in the wonder have I part
that fills its hidden empery ;
the wildwood of adventurous thought
and lands of dawn my dream had won,
the riches out of Faerie brought
are buried with our bridal sun ;
and I am in a narrow place
and all its little streets are cold
because the absence of her face
hath reft the sullen air of gold.
My home is in a broader day
—sometimes I catch it glistening
thro’ the dull gate, a flower’d play
and odour of undying spring;
the long days that I lived alone,
sweet madness of the springs I miss’d
are shed beyond and thro’ them blown
clear laughter and my lips are kiss’d
—and here from mine own joy apart
I wait the turning of the key :
I am shut out of mine own heart
because my Love is far from me.
N.S.W.
CHRIS: BRENNAN.
From the Night.
The sun went out blood-red against the sky ;
The stars are blooming in the fields on high ;
And in the glare and glitter of the streets
The crowded carriages are rolling by.
It is the night of all the year to-night,
So full of subtle, sensuous delight,
Of sinuous movement and seductive charm,
Mesmeric music and enchanted light.
And I, that used of old to win and wear
The crown of laurels woven in my hair—
To-night where many pathways turn and meet,
I, once triumphant—l shall not be there.
I am a woman, and as here I lie
They bring me flowers that last a day, and die ; -
They bring me hopes, they bring me idle prayers,
They bring me tears, and 10, mine eyes are dry !
I havfe no need of them, or what they bring,
These hopes to which their craven spirits cling :
I had no need of them when I was strong,
And Death is, after all, a little thing—
A little thing at heart, if one be brave
To hear the grave-clods falling on the grave;
Of earth was made these lips and breasts of
mine,
And earth is greedy for the earth it gave.
I am a woman that with wanton wing
lias garnered honey in the jocund Spring,
And men have sold their souls to kiss these eyes
So large and luminous with suffering.
They made me what I am, not what I would ;
They slew my maiden heart while yet I stood
Enthrilled with wonderment and ecstacy
Upon the awful brink of womanhood.
I was a creature to be bought and sold,
A beauty bartered in the mart for gold ;
To be the spoil of age and infamy
They slew my woman’s nature manifold.
And for the fury that upon me burst,
And for the hate and vengeance that I nursed,
And for the eye and tooth retaliative,
May they that made and marred me be accursed !
And yet, and yet, there is no wind that blows
But bears the secret of a woman’s woes ;
The silent suffering—the anguish keen
The hidden tragedies that no one knows—
Of victims sacrificed to feed the fire
Of flickering passion or depraved desire,
In whom the sacrosanct of womanhood,
The shrine of love, is trampled in the mire ;
i
Who live a martyrdom of soul, and then
Wake up like tigers pinioned in a den,
Anon to be let loose in all their wrath
To prey red-lipped upon their captors—men.
The power a woman has for good or harm
I knew, the strength of each suggestive charm,
The soft white shoulders and the heaving breast,
The rustling limbs, the bare and rounded arm.
No one had need to tell me I was fair
Of form or feature, lip, or eye, or hair ;
No one had need to tell me I was strong
To draw men to my shrine and keep them there.
If one had wealth or power, if one had fame,
If one had wife or children, honour, name,
If one stood out beyond the common throng
And I so willed it, in the end he came.
I made of this my slave, of that my tool:
With every wile that gives a woman rule
I lured them, laughing, to the toils I spun—
I learned the lesson in a bitter school.
I drew them, scorning in my heart the things
That claim God’s greatness in their vapourings, .
I saw them flutter at their passions’ call,
Like feeble chickens, to a woman’s wings.
But ever as I wearied of the play,
I longed for one above the common clay—
One strong enough to scorn me and to shun,
One bold enough to hold me arid to sway.
I felt the impulse to the great and good,
Imperfectly and vaguely understood—
The yearning for the strength and pride of love,
The unassuaged desire of motherhood.
There was the woman underneath my shame
That all my wild revolt could never tame —
The worm within my heart that never slept—
The longing for the love that never came.
I have no sorrow for the ill I wrought:
I was but tangled in the web, and caught;
And if I rent the toils a little—well,
What does it matter —does it matter aught?
What does it matter—it was destined so—
It was ordained to be, from long ago :
I was to be the thing I was, and am;
I am to be the thing I shall not know.
It was ordained that I should not discard
The thousand chances that my life has marred,
That I should walk the path that hither led—
I, doomed and evil-blighted, evil-starred.
God ! if my bosom for an hour were free
From this accursed thing that strangles me,
From this accursed thing that bars my breath
Through days and nights of writhing agony.
I lie all night with straining eyes, and wait
The face of Death, the warder at the grate;
I hear the tolling of a prison bell,
I hear the clanging of an iron gate.
I hear a sentry back and forward swing:
Upon the granite floors his footfalls ring;
And in the angle through the prison bars
A sound—o God !—a sound of hammering.
Q.
FRANCTS KBNNA
Verses for Love.
LOVE-BOUND.
What stayed his hand till all was gone?
There lay the golden hero-prize ;
With darkened lustre old stars shone ;
The nations yearned for a new star’s rise.
He saw the moment’s jewelled worth
And gauged the breadth of Time’s acclaim ;
Heard voices echoing round the earth :
“ He died for us ! ” —and knew the name.
What stayed his hand ?—the deed, the way,
The martyr-way went winding white
To where in gleaming beauty lay
The deed’s reward, a peak of light.
Death levels men and brings to dust;
Deeds level Death and live to lead :
The blade’s red stain remains through rust
To urge some kindred hero-deed.
What stayed his hand ?—his mind, his heart,
His mansion-heart housed darings high ;
His soul was made to shine apart,
As some white planet lights the sky.
’Twere sweet the greenest world should sing
A name all time to a golden sun,
While stars sailed by on slanted wing,
And mused on him —the shining one !
Ah, lost long since ! And lost for this :
A coral mouth, some silken strands,
A snare love-woven, a woman’s kiss,
A fold of gold about his hands.
LOVE’S GRAVE.
Often Poesy hath said,
Here and there dear Love lies dead ;
But never yet a poet tarried
To tell the world where Love lies buried.
Masters, you have gravely seen
All things brown that once were green,
Therefore you that wept and married
Should know best where Love lies buried.
Then the Masters sighed and said,
While the lip is cherry red
And Youth touches, tints all faces
With his gallant lights and graces,
And the eye is all unwet
You shall never answer get,
Though you quested long and tarried,
Asking where dear Love lies buried.
Truly, truly, we have seen
All things brown that once were green,
And our eyes salt-white with weeping
Know the grave where Love lies sleeping.
.For we saw where Age and Death
Laid him at his latest breath—
In a furrow Grief had graven
While Time greyed gold tress and raven.
In the thin and hollow cheek
(Roses red you may not seek)
In the stricken spirit bending
Under Pain-of-Life unending;
In the sad and pensive eye
(A dim lake where drowned visions lie)
And in sunless souls unmarried,
Love—and more than Love—lies buried.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Retrospective.
If there were any of the sons of men
Could win from Fate to hold their youth again,
Would any travel more
The paths they trod before ?
Would any vex those hyacinthine days
For love of woman, or the many’s praise ?
The vain delights that trend
To the abhorred end—
Age—that discovers there is nothing, worth.
God, when He flung this unessential earth,
Spun it with bias given
To sunder it from heaven.
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
Marri'd
It’s singin’ in an’ out
An’ roun’ about the place,
’N’ here an’ there, ’n’ up an’ down
’N’ feelin’ full o’ grace.
It’s rollin’ up your sleeves,
An’ whitenin’ up the hearth,
An’ scrubbin’ out the floor,
An’ sweepin’ down the path.
An’ bakin’ cakes an’ tarts
An’ shinin’ up the knives,
An’ feelin’ that sor/ie;days
Is worth a thousand lives.
It’s watchin’ out the door,
An’ watchin’ by the gate,
An’ watchin’ down the road
Because it’s gettin’ late.
An’ feelin’ anxious like
For fear there’s somethin’ wrong,
An’ wond’rin’ if he’s kep’,
An’ why he takes so long.
It’s cornin’ back, inside,
An’ sittin’ down a spell,
To sorter make-believe
You’re thinkin’ things is well.
An’ gettin’ up again,
An’ wand’rin’ in an’ out
An’ feelin’ wistful like,
Not thinkin’ what about..
An’ flushin’ all at once
An’ smilin’ just so sweet,
An’ bein’ real proud
The house is lookin’ neat.
An’ feelin’ awful glad
Like them that watched Silo’m —
An’ all o’ this because
My man is cornin’ home.
Paraguay.
M. J. C.
Desire.
Soul of the leaping flame,
Heart of the scarlet fire,
Spirit that hath for name
Only the name—Desire !
Subtle art thou and strong ;
Glowing in sunlit skies ;
Sparkling in wine and song ;
Shining in woman’s eyes ;
Gleaming on shores of Sleep-
Moon of the wild dream-clan—
Burning within the deep
Passionate heart of Man.
Spirit we can but name,
Essence of Forms that seem,
Odour of violet flame,
Weaver of Thought and Dream,
Laugh of the World’s great Heart,
Who shall thy rune recite?
Child of the gods thou art,
Offspring of Day and Night.
Lord of the Rainbow Realm,
Many a shape hast thou—
Glory with laurelled helm ;
Love with the myrtled brow ;
Sanctity, robed in white ;
Liberty, proud and calm,
Ringed with auroral light,
Bearing the sword and palm.
Maidens with dreamful eyes,
Eyes of a dreaming dove,
See thee in noble guise
Coming, and call thee—Love 1
Youth with his blood aflame,
Running in crystal red,
Sees, on the Mount of Fame,
Thee with thy hands outspread.
Leader of Hope Forlorn,
When he beholds thinh eyes
Shining in splendid scorn,
Storming the rampart dies.
Many have, by good hap,
Seen thee in arms arrayed,
Wearing a Phrygian cap,
High on a barricade ;
Aye, and by dome and arch
Leading, with eyes ablaze,
Onward the Patriots’ March,
Singing the Marseillaise.
Lo, where with trembling lyre
Held in his long white hands,
Thrilled by thy glance of fire,
Rapt the Musician stands ;
Feeling thee all around
Glow in the quiv’ring air—
Luminous Soul of Sound 1
Music of all things fair !
Poet, and Sage, and Seer,
Smile when the world grows wan,
Knowing thine advent near,
Over the Hills of Dawn.
Anchorite, pale and worn,
Sees thee, and earth disowns —
Lifted on prayer, and borne
Up to the Shining Thrones.
Yea, as a seraph-star
Chanting in ecstasy,
Singing in fire afar,
So he beholdeth thee.
And, as in darksome mines,
Far down a corridor,
Starlike a small lamp shines,
Raying along the floor—
So, ere his race be ran,
Parted his last faint breath,
Thou, for the dying man,
Lightest the ways of Death ;
And, while his kindred mourn
Over his shell of clay,
Shinest beyond the bourne,
Dawn of his first new day.
Thus through the lives to be
We shall fare, each alone,
Evermore lured by thee
Unto an End unknown.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
My Little Son.
You keep Earth young for me with your caress
Your smile, divine with cheer
From dwelling God’s side of our wistfulness,
Makes Heaven’s own climate here.
A flower becomes a boon but half extolled,
Haloed with wonder fine ;
The rose is flesh and blood and loving-soule ,
Plucked with your cheek to mine.
Your faith to an eternity beguiles
Day, that is yet too fleet;
A wheeling world stands still for me and smi es
While you pass by, my sweet !
Your love—or is it mine ?—makes radiant plain
Life’s riddle and its rue ; .
Hard knots my hands have striven with m vam
Now your soft lips undo.
My little Sun that shines through dark hours long!
When Day melts into Night,
Or dusks at noon with some o erwhelming wrong.
You ’re still my Morning bright!
N.S.W.
M. A. ROBERTSON.


SHIFTING CAMP.


Songs of the Smarties.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His reverence, past middle-age, was only
just out from Beyant and not used to Australian
familiarity. He was being' piloted through the
district by Michael Murphy, Esq., who had tried
vainly to get up a conversation. “ No,” “ Yes ”
and “ Indeed ” followed one another with mono-
tonous recurrence. At last the priest got im-
patient. “ Can’t ye see, my good man, that your
incessant talking annoys me ? Kindly keep your
place ! ” “Oh ! kape me place, is it ? Ye see the
road there. Well, follow yer ugly nose and it’ll
take yer to Royan’s place. Kape me place, is it I ”
A MATTER OF KNACK.
Jock MTherson was a person who was boastfulin
conversin’,
But respectable and ponderous and dignified
withal !
Con M‘Cartv was a party who was something of a
smarty,
And beside the big M'Pherson looked particu-
larly small;
But Cornelius M'Carty, he was artful, after all!
When Cornelius M'Carty thought M Pherson was
his dart, he
Made a wager he would carry him a mile along
the track ;
Which, considering M'Pherson was a- very weighty
'person,
Was a risky undertaking for M'Carty’s little
back.
But Cornelius protested it depended on the
knack !
“Take yer coat off!” called M'Carty, and
M'Pherson gave a start, he
Hadn’t bargained for proceedings the reverse of
dignified !
But he felt he had the best of the arrangement.
“ Take yer vest off ! ”
Said M'Carty ; and M'Pherson very graciously
complied.
It was in the private parlor, and the crowd was
all outside.
“ Take yer boots off ! ” said M'Carty, in a cheer-
ful tone and hearty,
But M'Pherson he objected that the crowd
would see his toes.
Said M'Carty : “ See, M'Pherson, there ain’t any
sense in cursin’,
Take yer boots off, I don’t reckon to be handi-
capped with those !
I am not the sort of Juggins you apparently
suppose !”
This M'Pherson’s wrath arouses. “But,” said
he, “ I’ll keep me trousers ! ”
“ Not a trouser ! ” said M'Carty, “ or to me the
wager goes.
Che conditions you’re reversin’ ; I will carry you,
M'Pherson,
But the wager doesn’t say a blessed word
about yer clothes ! ”
That was how the small M'Carty had
M'Pherson by the nose !
SCOT M‘GILL M GREGOR.
Now Scot M'Gill, of Hungerville,
Was of the clan M'Gregor.
His hungry soul with rage would thrill
To see a traveller cross the hill,
For fear he’d have a bag to fill.
He was a stingy beggar.
That’s right!
A son of a gun from Hungerville
Was Scot M'Gill M'Gregor !
A traveller’s horse was ever a source
Of scorn to Scot M'Gregor.
Said he : “I canna parceeve the force
Of feedin’ every bletherer’s horse.
A mickle o’ waste’s a muckle remorse ! ”
He was a stingy beggar.
My oath !
The sort of sentiment you’d endorse
Of Scot M‘Gill M‘Gregor !
But Saltbush Bill came o’er the hill
One night to Scot M‘Gregor.
A-trotting along as wild’s you please
With a sapling dragging between his knees,
And leading another of them small trees,
And says, “ Gee up, yer beggar ! ”
That’s so.
Like some small kid that plays “gee-gees.”
“ Mon’s mad ! ” says Scot M‘Gregor.
Says Saltbush Bill to Scot M‘Gill,
“ I’ll leave my nags, M‘Gregor.
I’m going again by the morning light.”
And, thinking him mad, Scot said he might.
So Saltbush leaves the sticks all right.
But, mad ?—the artful beggar !
Great Snakes !
Old Saltbush William was just the height
For Scot M‘Gill M‘Gregor !
Next morn M‘Gill of Hungerville,
The hungry-hearted beggar !
Finds two strange horses feeding still,
And says, “ I’ll pound ’em, that I will! ”
But up comes artful Saltbush Bill ;
Says he : “ They’re mine, M‘Gregor ! ”
Oh, Ghost !
You ought to have heard the curses shrill
Of Scot M'Gill M‘Gregor !
Yes, Scot M'Gill, of Hungerville,
Is of the,clan M‘Gregor ;
If you should travel across the hill
To Hungerville—don’t take it ill,
But never refer to Saltbush Bill
With Scot M'Gill, the beggar !
Good Lord !
A son of a gun from Hungerville
Is Scot M'Gill M‘Gregor !
Orange.
W. T. GOODGR.
Last!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lot fell upon Rurnjut.
Amongst the others arose a little commotion of
surprise, not unstreaked with satisfaction. The
gods had done justice at last !
“ G°ds,” they said, for though, as titular
Mahometans, there should have been for them
but one God and one Prophet, far nearer to their
souls sat the grotesque polytheism of their fore-
fathers. For they were wood-cutters of the wild
Mohotta jungle—so tiger-haunted, still, that lots
were cast at close of every day’s work to decide
who, upon the homeward track, should walk
last, and, therefore, nearest to the striped de-
stroyer that so often slunk along unseen be-
hind. them. And, since to every one of the
others, while Rurnjut had been with them,
the chance had come at least once, though never
before to him, they gathered round now to read
the gaunt, saturnine countenance, eagle-beaked,
with the white track of a wound upon the fore-
head and a peppering of smallpox about the
cheeks.
On this unlovely countenance appeared a great
disquietude, for it was not ten days since the
evening procession had last lost its terminal-
snatched away with no more than a grasp, a gasp,
and a brief, blood-curdling rustle of the camel-
grass. But the chagrin of which Rurnjut gave
much greater sign than of fear, was not so
genuine. He was in the not uncommon mental
position of trembling at the arrival of the chance
he had been hoping for. But he looked round
contemptuously enough at his fellows. Lean
and half-naked and shaggy-haired, back-bent
with continual use of the Malaysian adze-axe,
hollow-eyed with simmering swamp-fever, leg-
HE HAD BEEN THERE.
Tommy (about to be beaten by his ma): “Go on,
belt away, mother! Never mind the yarn
about it ‘ hurting you more than me.’ I’ve
heard that chestnut before.”
wounded by the vicious edges of the scimitar-grass
—the Coromandel-man reflected that, while these
hopeless, aimless creatures were nominally free-
men,. he was himself an actual slave.
“By the Holy Hill of Hala,” he said aloud, in
Tamil, as he fell into the place of danger, “it
must end to-night! ”
The man in front of him looked round, as they
started along the narrow jungle-track.
“What bad words sayest thou, foreigner, in
thy swine’s language ? Bring not thus the tiger
upon us, I say—lest he mistake me for thee ! ”
Whereupon Rumjut—cursing both him and the
tiger soundly in the vernacular—brought, it was
afterwards observed, his fate upon himself.
* * * *
The sun had dipped, and the fleeting
equatorial twilight would not serve them another
ten minutes. But there was only one more risky
place to pass. Beyond that big nogosara—still
catching something of the western glow upon its
branches of white blossom—the narrow way
changing suddenly from a cleared path through
wild sugar-cane, became a trodden track through
lofty camel-grass, amongst the feathery tops of
which the earliest fireflies were already flitting.
With shortened breaths and silent tongues and
straining ears, the long line of figures, as if moved
only by a single will, increased its pace, as into
the shadowy, grass-walled'aisle of danger stepped
the first man. “We are very late !” he whispered
to himself. “Not in that black man’s place would
I care to be to-night ! ”
But the “ black man ” —engrossed entirely with
the subjective animal he was about to “ evolve
from his inner consciousness ”■—had forgotten all
about objective tigers.
“Now!” he muttered, when in turn he had
reached about the middle of the deeper dimness ;
then, with a short shriek that set the others run-
ning for their lives, he threw himself swiftly aside
into the grass and lay there, striking out with
arm and leg to provide the remainder of the illu-
sion. Then he lay still, listened, and got up,
laughing softly. He had been his own tiger !
* * * *
It is the will of Alla ! ” said Itahsan-
Bak. “A strong fellow was he, but impudent
therewith and lazy. And the infidel dog
spoke evil words thou sayest, Isam ? ”
“ Ay ! cursed me, he did,” said tooth-
less Isam, nursing the foot he had
wounded in the stampede. “ And more
—he cursed the tiger ! ”
“A sufficient explanation!” opined
everybody present; and Rahsan, a lip-
Mahometan of much unction, summed
up.
“Is it not written: ‘Better than the
unbeliever is the beast that cometh out
of the darkness ! ’ ”
* * * *
“The wood-cutting animal must
have a flavor of its own,” said the Con-
troller of Arjin. “This makes eight in
three months.”
“ Eight what ? ” asked Mrs. Controller-
“ Eight woodcutters the tigers have
carried off up at Mohotta. I only wish
the brutes would get hold of that hypo-
critical scoundrel, Rahsan-Bak ! I’d stake
my existence he knows what became of
that money I got rapped over the
knuckles about. Not a sufficient escort,
forsooth ! Plenty of escort there was—if
the wooden-headed idiots had kept clear
of the Mohotta. They’d rob the Angel
Gabriel, up there; and Rahsan’s the
worst of ’em—for all his Allas, and Pro-
phets, and scraps of Koran ! And now,
I suppose, there ’ll be another allocution
from the Resident about this tiger-
business. That’s the worst of these
people fresh from Europe. When he’s
been as long in this cursed country as
I have, he’ll know that there’s pretty
well as many tigers as men in some parts
of it.”
Rahsan-Bak—upon a solitary and
surreptitious drunk—had failed to carry
out the liberal programme thereof. A chupa, it is
true, is not far short of a quart, but the brazen
vessel of that capacity which' stood beside the
sleeper’s mat was still half full of arrack-and-water.
That was how Ruinjut diagnosed the mixture, at
all events, before he fortified himself with a
copious swig for the part he was about to play.
The moon—shining full upon the faithless pro-
fessor of Islam, 'relaxed and
swinish with forbidden
liquor—showed Rumjut
also that the door was
securely bolted inside.
“The windows, he
thought, were safe,” mut-
tered the intruder, who
had indeed only reached
one of them after a cliff-
climb that would have
...done honor to a monkey.
He stretched an arm
to touch the sleeper—
changed hismind, stooped
down, groaned horribly
in Rahsan’s ear, and
darted swiftly into the
middle of the room,
where, with the moon-
light full upon his face,
he stood motionless, and
waited.
Rahsan grunted and turned over; then sat
drowsily up, forgot his Mahometanism in his
fright, and lustily invoked the Pig-God of his
ancestors.
I I thought thou wast dead !” he stammered
presently, finding Rumjut didn’t move.
“I am dead!” the other answered, coolly;
whereupon Rahsan, fumbling hastily for the
chupa, knocked it over in his trepidation, then got
up and babked into the shadow against the wall.
I he. tiger killed thee?” he asked, as well as
his violent shivering would let him.
“ The tiger ate me ! ”
“ Ate thee ? ” Rahsan’s .knees let him
down upon the floor with a flop. 1 * Then,
thou art—an unjiak ? ”
What an unjiak was Rumjut hadn’t
THE JOY OF MANHOOD.
"I wish you was a. man, granny !”
“ Why, darling ?”
“Cause then you wouldn’t have to work !”
the remotest idea. But it was clearly the correct
play to accept the position.
“ I am an unjiak ! ” he said, calmly.
The other grovelled on the floor. ' “ Spare me,
Datu /—spare me ! Father of the Forest, have
mercy ! Take not thine other shape, or thou wilt
slay me without tooth or claw ! ”
“ My other shape,’’ the ready Rumjut answered
—wondering inly what that might be—“thou
shalt not see ; unless ”
“Anything! Anything thou wilt, Datu! Only
harm not a harmless old man ! ”
‘‘ A rich old man ! —which is more to the pur-
pose ! And money I would have. Therefore,
mistake not! ”
A WELL-BALANCED MIND.
“ Money ? ” Rahsan, in his astonishment, ven-
tured to look up. “ What can a- —a tiger want
with money ! ”
In a flash the acute Coromandelee compre-
hended what he was supposed to be—a man-tiger,
taking either shape at will !
“Good !” he thought. “ There’s more money
in this than in being a miserable, ordinary ghost.
111 get it all out of him—every cobang.”
I am man as well as tiger,’’ he answered,
fiercely. “ Therefore trifle not, or— 1 ' ”he gave a
long, rasping growl that mafde the other shrink as
from a knife-point. !
1 hou shalt have it!” Rahsan screamed,
hoarsely, eager to avert the threatened metamor-
phosis. “Every guilder thou shalt have! But
none of/it have I here how.”
“Thbn to-morrow night will I come hither.
Disappoint me not ! ”
“ I dare not disappoint thee ! ” groaned the
superstition-smitten wretch. “ But come not
hither again, I pray thee, for I fear to look upon
tpee ! Take thou" the 1 ’ bag, to-morrow night from
-.-from the hole in the dead kasamby-tree that
stands alone amongst the bujok-bushes across the
river there. In that’place will I put it at even-
ing. ”
So shalt thou save thy miserable carcase. Bow
down thy face ! ” —and Rahsan lay humbly prone
till the black man had disappeared again by the
window. \ v ■
* ; \
It was a good-sized leather-bag, and Rah-
san, dearly as he loved its contents, had not dared
to diminish them by a guilder. But as he toiled
with ms load through the bujoks, the imminence
of the great sacrifice made avarice a match for
superstition. At the foot of the huge old kasamby
he dropped the bag and wiped the moisture from
his forehead before he sat down and, with trembling
fingers, untied the bag for a last, fond feel; it was
too dark for a look. For half-a-minute he sat
.with his hand buried in the coins—then, with a
sudden impulse, he snatched it out,’hastily re-tied
the neck, jumped to his feet and tool< the bag once
more upon his shoulder.
I cannot! —cannot ! cannot !” he
muttered, as he went stumbling hur-
riedly through the undergrowth—obli-
vious, for the time, of everything
blit the precious pressure on his
shoulder. Then suddenly came
a stealthy, ominous rustling
of the bujoks, and two ap-
palling disks of luminous
light shone out upon
the darkness in front
of him. Tor a
moment he stood
paralysed ; then,
wit h a cold
sweat breaking
out all over him,
he turned and
made for the tree
again, while the
cause of his
alarm—a real
tiger—was mak-
ing hardly less
■haste in the op-
posite direction.
“ The tracks
of he I see in
morning, all
roun’ dem bu-
joks. Rahsan
think heunjiak.
Why he not eat
da t dam ole
Javani rassikal, I not understand.”
irius concluded Ruin jut, proprietor of the
higgest restaurant business in Rangoon ; a con-
®e ] rr * purchased as he had just ingenuously con-
fided to half-a-dozen of us with the proceeds of
his Mohotta coup.
“You’ve been in Java,” said another of the
listeners to me. “ .Do you think there’s any truth
in all this ? or has our hook-nosed friend been
having us on a string ? ’’
“ I see nothing impossible in it,” I said. “ The
man-tiger’s firmly believed in all over southern
Java supposed to be produced only when a tiger
eats the whole of a man—which, by the way, is
never. As for the trick—Rumjut’s ‘rassikal’
enough, as he calls it, for anything.”
.Rumjut, smiling like a benevolent vulture, ad-
mitted that he was “plenty rassikal.”
Same as all person,’’was hiscorollary. “Every-
body rassikal—only some no get catched.”
A philosophy in which the estimable Rumjut is
not alone.
Alex. Montgomery.


Miss Maloney’s “ Reppitation.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT IT MAY COME TO.
YIP YAP: “ You mallied, missi?”
LADY OP THE HOUSE: “ Yes, John. Why?”
YIP YAP: “ Oh! bymeby me no likey have bleach a ’ plomise; maybe me wanta
go China! ”
There was a big sept of Kellys in that part of
Maoriland distinguished from each other,
according to old local custom, by descriptive
agnomination We had Kelly the Barge, and
Kelly the Ram, Kelly the Rske, Kelly the Liar,
and Kelly the Gawgaw. What follows is a trans-
ciipt from the life history of the last-named Kelly,
and it may be explained that his nick-name was
an En lish corruption of Ka-Ka, the biggest and
stupidest-looking of Maoriland parrots.
Though I am some what prejudiced in Kelly’s
favor, I cannot deny that the sobriquet fitted him.
He was a herculean simpleton with prominent
e rs and a voluminous golden beard, and his
daily bread was earned by the conveyance of
mails from the river landing place to the town of
Whakarongatai, with a little gum-digging and
sleeper-cutting thrown in. The Gawgaw was as
proud of the mail “ contrack ” as if it had been a
Postmaster-Generalship, and he valued it all the
more as it brought him into official connection
with pretty Fanny Maloney, the daughter of the
storekeeper and postmaster at the river.
Long, long had be sighed for the print-clad
divinity of Maloney’s Landing. Not that he had
ever spoken to Miss Maloney on the subject of his
affections. He was far too diffident for that; in
deed he seldom addressed her at all. Sometimes,
when she handed him the mail-bags—-which she
wa3 in the habit of making up—he would blush
right down to his collar-bone, and remark with
confused inappropriateness: .“They say that
kauri gum will be <£4s a ton at the stump afore
the winter is over. ’ Or he would tell her, gasping
the while with nervous trepidation, that “ Johnny
Simpson had just bought a noo bell-accordeon,” or
something else equally inconsequent and silly.
Then Miss Maloney would scrape a speck of seal-
ingwax from her apron, make some commonplace
reply, and with a whirl of her skirts would be
swallowed up in the avenue of axe-handle and
flour-sack bisecting the paternal store. Where-
upon a great lump of joy would, rise in the Gaw-
gaw ’s throat, and with a shake of the rein and a
“ Gee up ! Titokowaru,” he would gallop off—an
inarticulate Loehinvar in moleskins and dungaree.
But Kelly the Gawgaw’s poor, unsubstantial
little idyl came to an end with the arrival
of Rennall Taylor, the new post and telegraph
master at Whakarongatai. This functionary « as the
first fruits of a new regime. Heretofore, old, staid
married men had been sent to fill the official
positions in the mud-insula' ed townships of north
ern Maoriland ; now an attempt was to be made
to improve the social condition of these God-for-
gotten settlements by sending up spruce, person-
able young clerks, whose influence would wean
the local girl from her tendency to brown wincey
and elastic-side boo s, and would, moreover, be an
object-lesson in culture to the gum-digging and
timber-getting aristocracy generally. Taylor, a
well-shorn, well-groomed young fellow, had been
small potatoes enough in metropolitan society, but
here, amid the nascent civilisation of Whaka-
rongatai, he became a social star of the first
magnitude. The sale of stamps at the post-
office trebled in a fortnight—Heaven only
knows what the girls did with them.
There was an epidemic of dances and pic-
nics and riding-parties, solely for the delectation
of the young Crnsar who had come, seen,
and conquered Whakaiongataian femininity.
In the eyes of Fanny Maloney he presented such
a contrast to the
hirsute, rough,
idealess hobble-
dehoys of her
unbeautiful
surroundings
that she fell a
victim at their
very first meet-
in g. Their
official connec-
tion favored in-
tercourse, and
ere long their
r elationsh i p
had become
such as invari-
ably—when the
embers of pas-
sion have ash-
ened to the
greyness of sa-
tiety— ends in
misery. I sup-
pose Taylor was
at first attract-
ed by her hoy-
denish pretti-
ness, but mas-
culine human
nature cannot
long endure
female initia-
tive in love-
making, and
his passion, I
take it, had
scarce begun
to wax ere it
waned. Fanny
certainly was
unmaidenly in
her methods,
but I don’t
want to excuse
Taylor. Taking
him by and
large, he was a
pitiful cur.
Meanwhile,
tte poor Gaw-
gaw had wa' di-
ed the ship-
wreck of his hopes with a surprising stoicism.
The appearance of fSathanas in his Eden had
seared his heart, but he winced not —at least not
till it filtered into his dull comprehension that his
divinity was being talked of lightly.
One day, some months after Taylor’s arrival, I
overtook the Gawgaw on the road from Whakar-
ongatai to the Landing. He was sitting de-
jectedly in the saddle and warbling miserably to
himself an interminable bush melody in honor of
“ The Bold Colonial Boy.” I can only iemember
one stanza:
“lama gay young feller,
An’ I likes my whisky clear.
“ You can go to h ,” said Mary Jane,
Ye “he son of a gambeleer.”
r
“ Ah, Kelly ! ” I said, as I trotted up alongside,
“ light-heai ted, as usual.”
The Gawgaw looked at me very hard, and said,
slowly, “You know better than that, mister ; an’
well you an’ everybody else knows why,
mister.”
I made a negative gesture, but Kelly
went on:—
“ No, mister, you know right
enough! I respect you
because you are
always writin’ in
the papers for
the good of
the districk,
to have the
roads metal-
led, an’ a new
pound at the
Landing, an’,
as I must
speak to some-
body, I’d
sooner speak
to you than
to anyone
else. What’s
a - worryin’
me is Miss
Maloney’s
reppitation.
Now, p’r’aps
you think
I’m jealous
a’cause he
cut me out ?
No, it ain’t
that. I felt
it b;\d, a’ course,
but I took my gruel
an’ never squealed. It’s
this, mister: When a gell, mister, goes
balmy over a city toff, an' le s him see
it mornin’, noon, an’ night—well, we all
know what happtns. It happens to so
many wimmen in every hundred, an’ has,
ever since the world I egan ; but we don’t
like it any better to happen to our own
sisters or them we’re fond of, mister, al-
though we know, if our own wimmen folk
escape, someone else’s wimmen folk has got
to suffer—to make the average come out
right! ”
“Why, Kelly! ”1 interjected, “you are quite
a philosopher.”
“ Yes, mister,” he added, grimly. “Up to that
point only. It’s human nature. But do you
know what he did this morning ? I was in the
office at Whakarongatai, a-waiting for the mails,
and he was a-talking to his pals all along the East
Coast about his ‘ success ’ with Miss Maloney. I
know the Morse alphabet all right—picked it up
from the last lightnin’-jerker—but a-course he
didn’t know that. Yes, mister, he was clickin
off his villyanny on the duplex to a couple of
coves at Gisborne an’ Napier, an’ they signals
back, ‘ Good old sort! ’ and ‘ Good on yer section! ’
There he stood a-grinnin’ at the congratulations of
his pals ! An’ in the interests of Miss Maloney s
reppitation, mister, I ups with an insulator and
flattens him out.”
“Good Lord! Gawgaw,”(thenick-name slipped
out), “ did you kill him ? ”
“ No, Mister. Though he ain’t got the
manliness of a trouser-button, I spared him.
I got some brandy and some stickin’-plaster
and fetched him round, and told him quite
calmly that he mustn’t put Miss Maloney’s
reppitation into dots and dashes. Lord,
mister, I’d a-killed him like a flea if I hadn t
thought perhaps we ll need to make a husband of
him in the interests of Miss Maloney’s reppita-
tion ! D’ye t« ig ? ” And the poor devil winked
mysteriously.
“ Ah ! mister, you don’t know what that gell’s
done for him. I’ll tell yer ! The mail from the
Landin’ got very heavy after he came, and I foxed
Miss Maloney through a hole in the window, an’,
blame me, mister, if she wasn’t priggin’ rasp-
berry jam an’ canned salmon an’ sheep-tongues,
arid sendin’ them up to him in the mail-bag.
! but the bags did get heavy ; but I never
says nothin’. But when the contrack’s up I m
a-goin’ to double my tender or jack it. I’m using
four horses now, instead of two ! Do you know
what she’s been doin’ lately ? Why, sendin’ him
up billets o’ wood and dam great lumps of coal in
the mat’-bags. S’elp me, mister, and him, the
mangy cur, to go a-braggin’ of her shame and a-
ruinin’ her reppitation over 300 miles of publio
telegraft wire, contrary to the reggilashions. So-
long, mister,” concluded Kelly, as I struck off the
main road. “ Keep your thumb on what I told
yer—in the interests of-—you know what. ”
* * * *
Shortly after this I left the district, and the
pettinesses of my Whakarongatai experiences
were fast being swallowed up in the larger in-
terests of metropolitan journalism, when one day
I was surprised to read in the papers that Felix
Kelly, mail-contractor at Whakarongatai, had
p’eaded guilty before the Supreme Court to a
charge of tampering with the mail-bags between
Maloney’s Landing and the township. It was a
mysterious sort of business, as the registered
letters were untouched ; and the Judge, in passing
sentence of 12 months’ imprisonment, said that he
took a merciful view of the case because the
prisoner seemed to be a man of weak understand-
ing.
During the next few days Whakarongatai again
obtruded itself on my notice. There was a report
of the sudden departure of Mr. Rennall Taylor,
late postmaster, to Westralia ; he having
severed his connection with the civil-service of the
province. And next day I “subbed ” a telegram
from my old location announcing that the whole
district had been severely shocked at the acci-
dental death by drowning of Miss Fanny Maloney,
the only child of Patrick Maloney, Esq., J.P., of
Maloney’s Landing. There was a vagueness of
detail in the “gram” which to the experienced
pressman suggested a “hush-up.” Properly, it
' would have been my
duty to wire for
further particu-
, lai s, but the Gaw-
gaw had in-
fec’ed me to
some extent
with a ten-
derness for
Miss Malo-
ney’s “ rep-
p i tation,”
and I fore-
bore.
It was,
however, not
until long after-
wards that I got the
“ full strength ” of the
business. It was Kelly
the Gawgaw himself who
gave me the facts. He
had been out of Mount
jEden gaol a day or two, and
was much the same as when I
had last seen him —hairing his prison-crop, which
certainly did not improve his appearance.
“ I’ve just been up to pay for some masses for
poor Miss Maloney,” he said, when our greeting
was over. “If the clergy’d sell curses on the
head of the villyann who druv her to it, half me
stuff would have gone that way. But, Mister,
you never blew the gaff about what I told you
about the sheep-tongues an’ the firewood an that,
so I’ve kem to tell you how I got jugged. The
day it happened I had got ‘ the office ’ that a postal
inspector was goin’ to be at Whakarongatai to see
the bags opened. There had been rumors of some-
thing being crook, you know; perhaps he had been
skiting about the cheap raspberry-jam and the free
coal. Well, I wasn’t goin’
to see Miss Maloney get
in the soup, if I could
help it, so I kep’ my
eye on her through
a hole in the win-
dow-frostin’, while
she was makin’ up
the mail. She was
as pale as a ghost,
and there was
some awful
change about
her, but I didn’t
take a tumble
just then. She
put a rum-
lookin’ par-
cel into the
bag. ‘lt
ain’t
THE NEW WOMAN.—WHY NOT?
wood and it ain’t coal,’ says I to myself, but there
was no Stamps on it, an’ I knew it was irreg’lar.
Well, I got away with the mail, but that unstamped
parcel, and the notion of the inspector at the other
end worried me till I bruk the seal an’ opened the
bag ; an’ in that parcel, mister, was a pore little
dead infant —Miss Maloney’s infant. The pore
gell wanted Taylor to have his share of trouble
with it. But, thinks I, ‘ Kelly, Miss Maloney’s
reppitation first,’ so I buries the baby, an’ a-
course the inspector at the office twigs the opened
bag, .but I didn’t let on ; so I’ve took my twelve
months in the cooler. Bes’ way, wasn’t it,
mister 1 ”
Kelly squeezed my hand, and J
think he must have pressedit pretty hard, for some-
thing salt and moist came suddenly into my eyes.
‘‘So long, mister. My next dart’s Westralia,
an’, if you read in the pepers of anythin’ suddint
happinin’ there to a y'/ung chap named Taylor,
you’ll not be so surprised as you’ll gammon to
be.”
J. A. PHIER.
WHIGH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
k § poili* kaol ske been, because Kcr prelfc| face
Brew to Ker feet all merv wK° came
could be Seen behind eL|es ; a trace
0f clouds, screedd a sunnq
&sitk cKeck, mine, and sigh echoing stoK
well eacK knew tbe £>c|mpt°ms of Isves g[ow-
Asked witK voice and roguish eije,
cue to plaq fair, or all cue knotu?
A\aonlctnd
B
The Passing of Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My old pal Bill was dying—dying fast,
A-crossing of the Great Divide at last; _
And I, for Bill’s sake, ere he took the track,
Stepped down the creek and brought the chap i»
black,
Who, just to give him all the help he could,
Explained arrangements made for bad and good ;
And when he spoke of heat and smoke below,
“ That’s me ! ’’said Bill; “ the place I want to go.”
■‘Because,” Bill said, ‘‘the heat’s what I like
best;
Since I turned twelve I’ve tramped the scorch-
ing West;
And if on other tracks I’ve got to roam,
I’d like them just to look a bit like home ;
For if it’s hot as fury, I’ll be bound
There all the Western swaggies will be found.
I’m going, pal ” —his dying words came slow—
“ Where every man who loves the West should
go.”
JIM.


“At the End of the Day.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'* B °redom is responsible for all my sins ; T’d be
as good as gold if I were content with' life, but I
never am, and I must have distraction, so I flirt
with you.”
“ Thank you—at least you flatter me in calling
it a sin. , I was afraid it was a matter of no
moment,” Frank Way selected a cigarette from
his case and lit it. Mrs. Greer smiled and slipped
a dainty foot in a white shoe backwards and fore-
wards on the rug at her feet,
“ It is a sin ; not a very big one, but still a sin.
I am not breaking social laws or scriptural com-
mandments, but I am helping you to think lightly
of my sex.” She spoke flippantly, but Way knew
her well enough to realise that she more than
half meant what she said. “ I would give any-
thing on this earth not to be bored. I would
change places with my housemaid, or give away
my good looks ; you do not believe me, still it is
absolutely true.”
No, I do hot believe you.”
Of course not; men are So stupid. Listen, we
sit here, you and I, building castles in Spain, and
discuss what life might be had I married you in-
si. ad of George, and it is only pastime for us
both. Were we in love, there would be some
dignity in it, but it is the merest idle flirtation.”
‘For you, it may be.”
She laughed. “ Ah, yes, you are as good an
a -tor as I—better, I believe—for you sometimes
deceive even yourself; I can never do that. Other
men talk to me, not quite in the same way, per-
haps ; still, in a way that, ah ” She broke off
abruptly, and with a frown.
“ You are in a queer mood to-night; what has
gone wrong ? ”
‘‘There you are—all the same! If we ever
show our real selves, ever talk straight-out, we
are asked what is wrong. Even you, who have
a’l kinds of queer cranks and little sympathies,
don’t understand me.”
“ As a rule I do,” he said.
She stood up and re-arranged some flowers
on the low, wide mantel-piece. Frank Way
leant back and looked at her admiringly.
He liked her tall, elegant figure, convey-
ing a suggestion of litheness and strength; her
round arms and ol i vc-tin ted fingers flashing with
rings; her creamy complexion, square jaw and
full, red lips.
‘‘You are all such fools,” she went on. “ When
you are young you declare you understand
women. Then you learn a lesson or two and grow
puzzled ; you take to calling us riddles ; finally,
you announce that it is impossible to comprehend
us, which means you are too lazy to try, too sel-
fish, and too dense. ”
‘ ‘ Thank you. ’
‘‘Oh, I am not speaking of you in particular—
you are all the same. You believe* where you
should doubt, and doubt where you should
believe.”
He smiled. ‘‘Do we? That is a new gown
you have on, is it not ? ”
She nodded. “ Yes, and it is a success, I think.
I am afraid I do not thoroughly estimate the
pleasure I get out of pretty clothes and other
comforts and luxuries, but I should miss them
terribly if they were taken away.” She was
silent for a moment; then went on in a slow, mus-
ing tone : “ To-night my maid was doing my hair,
and I glanced at the reflection of her face and
mine in the glass ”
“Well?”
“And her expression was sweet, good-tempered,
and happy, while mine was—exactly what it is
now.” And she turned towards him.
“ How do you describe it ? ”
“ Blank, bored, blase ! She works ten hours a
day for twelve shillings a week ; gives half her
earnings to a delicate sister; is in love with a
butcher-boy, whom she hopes to marry in about
fi\ e years time ; and is grateful for an old dress of
jacket. I have every comfort, a kind husband,
and’’—she smiled cynically “many friends, ex-
cellent health, and also—so you tell me—good
looks ; then why should she be
ha PPy, and I unhappy?”
“Occupation, and lack of it.”
May be. You, a busy law-
yer, seem happier than Garry
Ivellow, with his yacht, race-
horses, and nothing to do.”
He stood up and leaned
against the mantelpiece near
her, then touched her fingers
gently. She drew them away
sharply, and looked at him for a
moment from under her half-
closed eyelids.
“I beg your pardon,” he said,
simply; “I scarcely realised
what I was doing. You go on
talking in this way, and whether
I understand your nature or
not, I certainly understand that
you are unhappy, and because
we are friends I would like to
help you if I could.”
She laughed. “I am not un-
happy—l have not arrived at
the dignity of a great sorrow.
I’m just bored. I wake bored ;
I go through the day bored;
d° not he sympathetic, it
is wasted ; and were it not
wasted, remember that your
friendship and sympathy would
be the most dangerous thing
you could offer me.” She paused
abruptly, then turned towards
him with a smile. “ After all,
we neither of us believe in friend-
ship—it is sentimental rubbish.”
“Is it?” Frank Way’s tone
was quiet and constrained, and
he did not meet her eyes.
Certainly. For my own
part I am not capable of being
anyone’s friend. Do you know
that I would discuss you with
anyone, and make capital of any-
thing you might say, if it
amused me to do so ? If you
went away to-morrow, we would
have forgotten the parting in a
month’s time.”
“You are quite wrong. If I
have ever liked anyone, I never
forget them.”
“Ah, you take life too seri-
ously, and you believe in your-
self. It is a great mistake to
believe in one’s self. If you
went away you’d miss me at
first, as you might a favorite
pipe or stick ; in a year I’d have
become a pleasant memory,
suitable to sigh over on senti-
mental occasions.”
“ Don’t ! ”
“There! You bring flirta-
tion to perfection. You say
neither too much, nor too little, and you modu-
late your tone beautifully.’’ She paused for
a moment, then went on briskly—“l often wish
I could have a fresh start, that I might fall in
love with someone at eighteen, and love him all
my life as people do in books.”
‘‘ And sometimes out of them.”
“ I suppose so, but I hardly believe it. Widows
and widowers marry again ; girls and men are
jilted, yet And other twin souls.”
Still you can imagine yourself marrying a
man you loved, and who loved you, and finding,
as years went by, that, though passion might
have faded, you became closer and dearer com-
panions.”
She pressed her hand for a moment over her
eyes. “ That would be better than anything, but
I have never met anyone who satisfied me. I
have fancied myself in love ; then all has vanished
and my hands were full of Dead Sea apples.”
“Ina manner I satisfy you.”
Yes in a manner—the Bohemian part of me.
i know I would like to travel with you, to see
strange places, to have all manner of ups and
downs; but ”
“ But what? ”
“ Lut we’d grow weary of one another. I’d
bore you, for I’d bored, and one day we’d look
INCOMPLETE.
LITTLE JIM: “He ain’t finished yet, Dad !”
D AD: “ That’s just what I thought when I bought him, Jim!”
PREPARING AN IMPROMPTU .
AGONISED MISSIONARY: “But why are you going to kill me now, after letting me live in peace so long?”
CANNIBAL CHIEF : “My dear Mr. Jones, I am awfully sorry at the necessity, hut, you know, I’ve got to sustain
my reputation as a humorist in this village; and, while looking at you this morning, the
idea struck me that it would he reckoned rather smart if I remarked 'Pass the parson’ when
you were being served up. I MUST look after my reputation, you know.”
in one another s eyes and a thrill of weariness
would run through us.”
He shrugged his shoulders. “ I cannot attempt
to under.-tand you ”
“No ! Well, ihen, do not try. If you under-
stood me you would think less of me.”
‘‘l do not believe you when you say I only
satisf.i the Bohemian side of your nature.”
She turned impatiently. “ Oh, well, never
mind; we’ve talked of it all before —arranged
trips to Fiji, S, ain, Japan, anywhere, everywhere,
talked of all we would say and do, and it is all
such folly.”
“Yes, hut what sweet folly ! ”
“ Possibly sweet but, nevertheless, the merest
folly a pastime, an excitement, a stimulant in a
jaded flirtation.”
“ Don’t! ”
It is quite true. I talk to other men—not in
the same way. perhaps, but in the same spirit.
Lindsay Smith sings (o me ; we talk of music,
and rave mildly over Wagner, and he implies all
through that he is thinking of me only, and I sit
by the piano, near the big lamp with the pink
shade, and I could tell him exactly how his
thoughts filter through his self-conceit. But, of
course, I don’t, for it would he rude ; and then
there is an impressive silence that is Lindsay
Smith’s strong point, impressive
silences. Presently lie rises abruptly,
and bids me good night—another of
his strong points that ; it suggests
ovrr-" r light feeling.” .
“ What are mine?”
‘ Y ours ! Oh, sympathy, delicate
intuitions, a happy knack of express-
ing a great deal in a few words ; all
of which must be very valuable to
you as a barrister. Frank I think
«■ ill write a book, and I will call it
‘ The Philosophy of Boredom.’ I’m
sure I understand all its phases.”
“ Pm afraid you do.”
“You see I would gather ideas
as I went on. Do you ever get
so on edge with everything that
you dare not move, but must sit
Quite still with clenched hands, and
every separate nerve sawing on the
0'h j r ? ”
He shook his head. ‘ I’d be cer-
tain I needed a whisky at .any ap-
proach of such symptoms ”
“ Don’t laugh ; it’s torture while
it lasts, and there is the underlying
awful fear of losing control of one-
self. ”
And you call that being bored ? ”
It is the outcome of blues and
boredoom ; surely you understand
me ?
Not altogether. Surely you ex-
argerare.”
“ Kxoggerate ! Oh, my dear
I rank, if you could only under-
stand how I under-rate ; only people
who suffer, can realise the agony
blues and boredom may inflict.”
He looked at her, and she
coloured. I seem to show you
my inmost soul when I talk in
that way; but there, you under-
stand. Lindsay Smith, if I spoke
of such things, would look fright-
ened, and suggest a tonic. Frank,
you are very good to me.” She
spoke with something of a tremor in her voice
there was silence for a moment, then he said
awkwardly :
“I’d give anything to help you to make life
better and more real ”
“ Don’t; we won’t talk of it. I know that things
can never be any better. I must bear my bore-
dom as other people bear a deformity or scar, and
I must try and be plucky over it. You think I
am a coward, but I never speak of it to any one
but you. ”
I do not think so ; you are the bravest woman
I know.” He laid his hand on the arm of her
chair. She laughed, and looked him full in the
face. “We are playing with fire, my friend, and
the worst of playing with fire is that, despire
burns, the love of playing with it grows, and one
loses interest in any other form of amuse-. ear,.”
She rose. “I’m going to bed. You had better
say good-night. You’ll find George in the library.
Life is a mistake, is it not? Yet one is half af aid
of the other thing, whatever it may be. If only it
were oblivion! but, somehow, I know it won't
Good-night,” and she held out her hand to him.
Vic.
WOLF.
Bill Turns Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I MET Jim at the top of one of the mountain
glens. I recognised him at once, for I had heard
him described so often in story and in song.
“ Can you ’blige me with a pipe o’ ’bacca ? ” ho
asked. As T handed him the pouch he unslung
his swag and sat on the log beside me.
“ On the wallaby ? ” 1 asked.
; “ Well, M.iste-,” he said, “to tell you the truth
I’ve just done a stretch for stealin’ ferns from
that reserve there.”
He didn’t look like a botanist or like a man
who owned a fernery, so I asked : “ Much sale
for them ? ”
“ Oh I didn’t take ’em for sellin’,” he said.
There was an awkward pause, which I broke »t
last by asking, jocularly, “ Where’s Bill ? ”
“ 1 lid you know Bill, Mister? Well, look he e
—I ain’t one as speaks bad of them as is gone ;
and, anyway, it’s the first time as ever ho went
back on me. You see, me an’ Bill was doin’
pretty well. A cove can make a good livin’
off what he gets at the houses when
strangers is here. But, anyways, tucker ain’t,
everythin’; a man wants a smoke an’ a b< er
sometimes. Time was when you could «et
a pipe from ev’ry one you met, but now the coun-
try’s civilised ; coves ’ll tell you they don’t smoke
—with the pipe in their mouths ! Bill says, one
day, “ I wish to ’Eaven I could ketch some' bloke
shakin’ ferns,” says he, “What for?” says I.
“ Why, cos they gives you five quid for informin’!
Look here, Jim,” says he, “me an’you ain’t had
a spree for a good bit. Tell you what. You pull
up some ferns, an’ I’ll go an’ inform on ye.”
“ What’ll I get for it?” says I. “Oh, ’bout a
month,” says Bill. So we fixes it up, and Bill puts
the ranger on to me. Well, mister, I comes out
yesterday, thinkin’ wot a time we was goin’ to
’ave, an’ damn my rags if Bill ain’t turned dorg ! ”
“ What! cleared out ? ”
“ Oh, no fear of Bill doin’ that; only, ’stead of
waitin’, lie goes an’gets the bloomin’ ’orrors, an’
kills hisself. First time ever I know’d Bill to tun?
dorg ! ”
N.S.W.
PONTE


A Stripe for Trooper Casey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The magpies had said good-night to the setting
sun, and already darkness was moving through
the dead timber. The first notes of night-birds
came from the ridges, and a curlew mourned in
the reeds of a creek.
My brother Will shook his reins and rode away.
“Good-bye, Sis,” he said, “I will be home
pretty early.”
I smiled, knowing that he reckoned without his
host. Will was visiting Lizzie Lacy, and Lizzie
had a sweet face. Love’s pretty trickeries upset
many promises, and I knew that my brother would
not return till the small hours. But what was
love to me—a simple country girl with a heart to
lose and nobody to find it ?
The cold chilled my fingers, and I shuddered. I
was alone, with no one to talk to. Mother and
father had gone to Bathurst that day, and evil
men walked the roads, lured west by the gleam of
gold. As Will disappeared in the distance, fear
struck through me like a wave of cold. There
was a dance at Staunton’s, and Mary had invited
me. I was sorry now that I had refused her.
Still, if Mary’s heart was as perfect as her face,
she would not have said hard things of poor me.
She should school her tongue, although she might
bo a fine woman —which was trooper Casey’s esti-
mate of her. The little successes that please a
woman had spoilt her, gilding her pride till it
dazzled one’s eyes painfully. If I had grey eyes,
it was God who colored them—and someone has
since told me that it is the pleasantest color of all.
* She said, as well, that my cheeks were red—country
complexion. I blessed God for that also, bee ruse
it meant health and strength. They could be pale
enough at times—but pale only where hers would
have been ashen.
I remembered myself and laughed. All this
bitte ness because Will was visiting Lizzie Lacy,
and no one was coming to kiss; my hand ! Silly
Carrie, I said to myself, you must bide your time.
You are over-young yet to harbor these thoughts.
Time will surely bring you the rose, and as surely
the tho'n that wounds.
I had turned to enter the house when Sally whin-
nied f otn a distance, and came down the green lane
between the cultivation-paddocks at a high trot,
her sik er tail lifted in excitement and streaming
out behind her. She halted at the slip-rails and
stretched her head over them, coyly inviting a
cares \ I gave her a cake, smoothed her velvet
nose, and talked to her till the trees in the distance
were very dim. Now, while I fondled, I noticed
a curious inattentiveness in the mare’s manner.
She seemed to heed me with one ear only. The
other continually flickered back and quivered as
though distracted by a distant sound. Listen in-
NOT CHIN-MUSIC.
“ Is she singing hi German? ”
“I fancy so; she doesn't waggle her chin enough for French !”
tontly as I might, I could discover nothing. Peer
a 5 I would, I saw dead trees, and nothing else.
But this listening and peering made me fretful
and afraid ; and, with a final pull at Sally’s fore-
lock—a lingering pull that told how loth I was to
leave her—l turned and entered the house.
The fl e burned steadily. All the little sticks
that splash and splutter and noise so much were
in - hite heaps, and only two great logs of iron-
bark glowed sullenly. I lit a lamp, sat down,
and gazed into the fire ; sweet pastime for pensive
moments. At a girl’s age-of-dreams, questions
come in troops, and a log’s red side is often rich
with fancy food. My head pillowed on an arm, I
looked side-ways down. The fire drowsed my eyes,
and, in a little while, sleep shut them wholly.
Remember, at that period Crime went down the
roads in many guises !
I awoke with a start and looked towards the
door. Two men stood in the room—a tall and a
short man. They were dressed in sailor clothes,
and one’s eyes squinted horribly.
“Who are you ? ” I said, rising to my feet and
feeling strangely nervous.
“ Weary men, lassie ” said the tall man.
“ All the way from Sydney,” added the other.
“With not a bite for two blessed days,” con-
tinued the first.
“ And ne’er a sup,” said the second.
“Indeed,” I remarked, pr-tendinur sympathy
with their lie; “ that is hard. But I will give you
full and plenty, and when you are satisfied you
must go—for,” I continued, thinking to soften the
words, “we do not allow any strangers to sleep
here. ”
“ Yes,” said the tall man; “ feed us well, go d
lassie.”
“ And,” added the other, “ being satisfied, we’ll
leave you all alone.”
Then they both chuckled, and moved to the
table.
As I laid cold meat and cream and bush honey
before them:, a nervousness assailed me that made
my hands dance.
“ All alone, lassie?” said the tall manat last,
throwing himself back in his chair.
“ Yes,” I replied, but—recognising my mistake
instantly—continued : “ That is, for a lir tie while.
I expect my brother every instant —he is with
trooper Casey.”
The short man lit his pipe, the tall one follow-
ing suit. “ Time to be gone then,” remarked the
latter.
The former drew the stem from his lips and ex-
pelled a long white plume. “Which first?” he
said.
“ The gilt,” said the tall man.
I heard the words, and suddenly sprang up and
ran for the door. “Money first,” I thou.ht;
“ what second ? ”
“ Ah, would you ! ” said the sho t man lea pin ;
in front.
“ Let me pass ! ” I cried ; “ someone is coming.”
He did not move, but stood With folded arms,
smiling coarsely.
“ A sweetheart, perhaps, lassie?”
“ My brother,” I answered.
The tall man opened the door, put out his he d,
and listened. A moment after he drew in and
shut it.
“No one,” he said ; “thelassie’s mistaken.”
“ Come,” said the short man, extending his
arms.
I retreated as lie advanced, till at length I stood
by the fire. I was all flushed with rage, and col l
with fear.
“My brother is a big man,” I said ; “he could
kill you both with one blow.”
They laughed brutally, and the short man said,
“ He has a p etty sister.”
“If you are uen you will not harm me. Tell
me what you want, and I will give it you.”
“Take her at
her word,” inter-
rupted the tall
man, coming for-
ward.
“ I will, ’’replied
the other. “What
will you give us?”
“ Whht do you
want?” I asked,
bright ening.
■‘One’ thing and
another, lassie,”
said the tall man.
“Tobacco, ’sug-
gested his com-
panion ; “ tea and
sugar and flour
“A word in
your ear,' lassie,”
interrupted the
short man, touch-
ing me with an
outstretched
hand.
But I drew
away, and tried
to look down fi om
my little height.
“ Go out of the
door, sir—this is
my father’s
house! ”
“Pert words
from pretty lips,”
said the short
man. “ A kiss ! —-
a kiss! ”
With that he
ha 1 me in his
arms, and drew
me in close. I
struggled, at first
in silence, but—at
the touch of his
bearded face—
threw back my
head and tilled the
house with cries.
He did not desist
—only grew fier-
cer ; nor did his
fellow make any
motion to release
me. His grasp
was like a vyce,
and blue marks re-
mained long after.
Once in the
struggle I saw
stars, and thought a wicked dream had passed.
A gust of cold wind st uck my cheeks, and j
strove to fiee myself. Then the wind blew again,
and again I saw stars —the door was open and
someone stood in the doorway. It was a man-
tall as a giant, I thought, and the curse he
thundered seemed like a great song.
The sailor released mo and drew apart, laughing
to lighten his guilt.
“ God bless you ! ” I said, moving to the door—
both hands on my heart, for it was pm ting fiercely.
Before I reached him the stranger raised a hand
to make me pause. He had a gun at his shoulder,
a long, bright barrel that gleamed fitfully.
“In the nick of time,” he said calmly—“ which
first ? ”
I looked at the two sailors. Thor stoo l close
together, distressed by fear. Tire tail man slanted
sideways, like a sapling from the wind, and the
short one cowered behind an upraised arm as if to
ward a blow.
“ Which first? ” said the stranger again.
“Neither,” I replied, shuddering.
He sloped his rifle
a little, looked at
me cynically, and
hinted something
that filled me with
shame.
“No, no,” I
cried, “ do not say
that. I never saw
them before, and I
am a good girl. ”
A smile crept
across his lips, and
his wide, dark eyes
softened.
“ I believe it,” he
said shortly.
He stepped for-
v ard and halted in
the centre of the
room.
“You were hun-
gry ? ” he said to
the short man.
The man nodded.
“ And she fed you
on cream and h >ney
—the best she had?”
The man did not
answer.
The gun went to
the shoulder again,
and the dark eyes
looked along the
levelled barrel.
“And you wanted
to pay her in your
own foul coin. Now
for this,” he con-
tinued, “ I’ve a mind
to put hot lead in
your brain.”
I ran for ward with
a great dread lest
he should do as he
threatened.
“Go away!” I
cried to the sailors—
“go quickly, while
j ou are safe ! ”
The men turned
as if to slink off,
but the stranger
warned them to
stand ve"y still.
“You must be
punished for this
night’s work,” he
said, ‘ and then you
may go—both of
you-as far as Ber-
rima. ”
The two men
started and eyed
him keenly.
“Just so, just so,” he said, nodding from one to
the other—“ a guilty conscience, eh? ”
They scowle i and sank their eyes, and he turned
to me.
“ Get your whip ! ” he said.
I stood irresolute, and lie continued.
“My arm is tired holding this gun. They
should have been dead long ago. Get your whip! ”
I ran away, got my whip, and returned.
“Go forward and stiike that man across the
face.
“ It would be cruel,” I replied.
“Quick! or he will be dead before you reach
him ! ”
Then I was in front of the sailov
“ Lift your arm,” the stranger said.
Then he told me to strike with all my force —
“ As you would a wicked steer.”
I obeyed with some hesitation, and struck
lightly. But presently faint-heartedness forsook
me. At the second lifting of the whip a sudden
spirit of mastery surged my arm with fieiceness,
so that I dealt some savage blows. The sailor
sheltered his eyes with his hands and cried aloud
for mercy. Then I suddenly remembered myself
and drew away, shudd ring and half in tears.
“ Good ! ” said the stranger. “ And now for the
other —they are mates ”
“ He did not offer me any hurt,” I replied.
The stranger looked at him. “You are lucky,”
he said.
The man’s face ligh ened with pleasure.
“ But less lucky than you think, my good man,”
he continued.
I noticed the white fear that came into the tall
man’s face, and the sudden upwa'd look of his
companion.
“ Come here ! ” said the stranger, beckoning to
the short man.
The sailor approached, trembling. After a few
paces had been taken, “Halt!” the stranger cried.
The man stood still on the instant.
“Squint-eyed, and with the limp of the leg-
iron—dressed like a sador ! ” said the strarger, in
loud, clear tones. “Get some saddle-straps, my
girl! ”
“ Why? ”
“ Get them,” he said, shortly.
I went away, and displeasure at his brusqueness
made my cheeks burn. Did it paint them also —
that he spoke so gently on my return ?
"I am not used to ladies, and I mean no
offence, ” he said.
I forgave him, and said that I had felt none.
“ Y"our action to-night shows that you are a
good man.”
“ Perhaps,” he replied ; “ but one star does not
make a heaven. ”
lie was silent, and I forebore to ask what he
meant. He motioned for the straps, and I gave
them.
Then he turned to the man, and his voice har-
dened.
“ Down on your faces ! ” he thundered, “ quick,
quick, both of you, or ’’
They were down on the instant, abject as
worms.
“Now take i his gun, my girl,” he said “and,
if that man o much as wriggles, shoot Mm. I
will manage ihe other.”
The man was fashioned to command. I took
the gun, and if the prostrate figure had moved
then it would never have moved again. But the
sailors were utterly cowed, and did not murmur
while the stranger pinioned their hands behind
them. This done, he rolled them over and looked
down at them.
‘ What does this mean ? ” I said.
“ A stripe for trooper Casey,” he replied, and
laughed.
“ For trooper Casey ? Ido not understand ? ”
“ You will, in time,” he replied.
With tha' , I had to content myself. Who this
man was, with the command on his lips, and the
disobey-me-if-you-dare in his eyes, I did not know.
I only know that he had reserves of gentleness,
which spoke through his harsher moods like a
bird’s song in a storm.
“ You, there ! ” he said to the short man ; “do
you know what they are doing at Weatherley’s ? ”
The sailo*- turned his face aside, and was mule.
“ Or you ? ” to the tall man.
“No,” the man replied. “Where is Weather-
ley’s ? ”
FORCE OF HABIT.—AT THE ASYLUM ,
OLD INMATE : “ ’Ullo! I. hat arc you here for?”
NEW DITTO: "Fits !”
OLD INMATE: “So am I.”
NEW DITTO: “ Well, have one with me.”
“Liars—both of you!” said the stranger.
“ Weatherley’s, under the Range.’’
“What are they doing ? I interposed.
“ Burying a dead woman,” he replied, looking
from one to the other of the prostrate men, and
nodding as he changed his gaze.
“ How sad !” I cried. “ Poor Mrs. Weatherley.
When did she die ? ”
“ Yesterday.”
“ She was a strong woman.”
“ She met someone stronger.”
“ Ah, yes—Death ! ”
“ Death and two devils !”—he ground his teeth.
I looked at him in wonder.
“ Two devils—what do you mean ? ”
The short man lay on his side, looking up as a
beaten dog looks at his master. The stranger
jaised his foot and administered a short, sharp
kick.
“ Answer! ” he said. “ which of you killed her ? ”
“Not me,” groaned the sailor; “’twas the
bushrangers. ”
“You liar ! ” cried the stranger in a rising, in-
credulous voice, as though he doubted his own
ears “We do not ” He paused and looked
at me, and saw that he had revealed himself.
“Ah ! ” I whispered as he turned away. I un-
derstood now, and yet ho did not seem as black as
people painted him.
“ I tried to hide it,” he said, “ but it slipped
out. It is a bad thing even at its best.”
Then he looked very downcast, and I pitied
him. An angel impulse stirred me, and I stepped
forward, raised my face, and kissed him.
“ Good ! ” he said, his fine eyes flashing, “ ’tisa
long time-since ”
He lowered his voice and continued, as if to
himself. “ But what does it matter ? She is only
a child.”
“ To-night has made me a woman,” I replied.
“ No, no, you are a child. No woman would
do a thing like that. But some day you will be a
woman. Then you will kiss with the lips only,
not with the heart—cheating the heart that loves
you.”
It was some minutes before he spoke again.
“ I saw a horse in the stockyard,” he said ;
“ bring him round I want you to go some-
where.”
And when Sally was ready at the door and I in
the saddle, he continued : “ Ride to Staunton’s—
Casey is there. Tell' him ” —this with a low
laugh —“ that the man who borrowed his horse at
Weatherboard waits here to give him a stripe in
exchange. Come back with him yourself. ”
I turned Sally’s head to be gone immediately.
MAGISTRATE : “ What on earth made you steal this
gentleman's door-mat ?”
PRISONER: “ An ’ it plase, your Honor, it had
‘ wclcovie ’ written acrass it in fellers as long
as your ar-ruml ”


“ Wait—another word ! Would you like to see
me dead or trooper Casey dead ?
“ Oh, no ; how can you ask ? ”
“I distrust women,” he returned, since l
met Judas in petticoats.”
4 ‘Try me,” I replied; U I could not be false
after what you have done.” T n
“When you come to the bridge, cooee . 1 will
be here watching these brutes, and when 1 hear
your cry I will up and away ”
As Sally moved off some words followed from
the door, where he stood in the light.
“ Good-bye, little girl! ” ,
“ Good-bye ! and I will always remember you.
A curie w whistled, and the stranger laughed
to make the parting easy it seemed. Yet some-
thing that Nature had put into the curlew s
whistle went through the man s voice and sad-
dened me for many days. It seemed that both
bird and man mourned something lost.
I galloped along the track that made a siding
in the green hill and slanted to the creek.
Sally’s hoofs rattled on the turpentine planking
of the bridge, and presently struck fire from the
ironstone on the farther side, Where the track
wound through wild hops I gave her free head ;
for there was open country. Where the scrub
crept in she slackened of her own will, not liking
the rebound of the bushes. In a little while we
came to a second creek, where bullocks heads in
a white line made stepping stones. She crossed
it with a bound and a splash, and climbed the
slope beyond in a few strides. Another mile
brought me to Staunton’s log-fence, and throu h
the trees I saw bright windows, A little later
there came to me a concertina’s music and other
sounds of merry-making.
I fastened Sally to the s-tockyard gate, and
walked through the doorw'ay. A number of
couples were there, swinging round and round in
a dance. As I walked into the room I felt
strangely out of harmony with the surroundings,
the music having put a spirit in my feet that
made them seem to drag.
Mary Staunton had trooper Casey for a partner.
She looked very fine and pale, but as she went by
she scarcely deigned to notice me. Trooper Casey
was six feet high, and had curly hair —the hair
that women fancy. Every time he wheeled his
metal buttons flashed. When the dance, finished
he was near me, I touched him on the arm.
“ Mr. Casey ! ”
“Hallo, Carrie!” „aid Mary Staunton, in
affected welcome; “ how late you are ! ”
“ I didn’t come to dance, Mary—only to see
Mr. Casey. ”
' “Ah, I should have known,” she answered,
with a little, mocking laugh, and with a glance at
my drpss, where Sally had splashed it in crossing
the creek.
I tossed my head and turned from her.
“ Trooper Casey, can you spare a moment ? ”
“ What do you want ? Say what you want, here
and now,” said Mary Staunton. “That is, if you’re
not afraid of us hearing it.”
‘ * I intended this for you alone ” —I addressed
the trooper—“ but now ’’—with a sidelong look at
his sweetheart —“ everyone may hear it.”
' “ What is it, Miss AnsonJ ”
. ‘ Do you want a stripe ? ”
“Why, one ’d think you were the Governor’s
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
In view of the large number of up-country children lost in the bush, it is
suggested that cow-bells be supplied free by Government to every family.
lady,” said
Mary Staun-
ton, laughing
so that I
blushed.
I took no
notice of her,
other than
turning my back, and then I smiled quietly as I
spoke.
“ A gentleman waits at our house to pay you
for a horse he borrowed at Weatherboard.”
I watched him keenly to see how he took the
news. On his cheeks two red spots stood out and
burned. He gnawed his under-lip, and there was
a suppressed anger in his eyes that glowed like
covered fires. From those standing around there
went up a great laugh, and Casey turned to a
group who forced their merriment overlong.
“ You are great laughers,” said he ; “ but are
you men enough to fight ? ”
None of them made a movement to accept the
challenge ; but, on the other hand, it was curious
to see how speedily the laughter faded from their
faces, giving place to something almost sad.
Then up spoke Mary Staunton.
“ Carrie Anson,” said she, with tremulous,
white lips, “if you come here to insult people,
you’d better stay away.”
“Don’t mind her, Mary,” said the trooper;
“it’s a trick some fool has made her play.”
“ Indeed it is not,” I replied. “The man
who gave me that message is waiting at our house
with two sailors, and one of them ” —I dropped my
voice so that only he and Mary heard —“killed
Mrs. Weatherly.”
The trooper started, as though shot through;
looked me in the eyes, and drew a long breath.
By God! ” he cried, and moved towards the door.
“It is three to one, Mary,” he said.
“Do not go ! ” she answered ; “ you may be
killed.”
“It is man to man, trooper!” I interrupted;
“ two are bound and the third keeps watch.”
“ Stuff! ” exclaimed Mary, viciously : “he keep
watch ! You will not go alone, trooper.”
“Alone! I must take the man. Where are
my carbine and cap ? ”
“ Take someone ! ” pleaded Mary.
“No,” Casey replied, “I will do this my-
self. If I succeed you know what it means,” and
he looked meaningly into her eyes.
I laughed pleasantly,
“ I shall be a bridesmaid —eh, Mary ? ”
She did not smile, but went off with a set face,
swaying her skirts behind her.
“With the help of God, Miss Anson,” whis-
pered Casey, confidentially, “ I shall make three
prisoners to-night.”
“ With the help of God, you shall not, trooper
Casey,” I whispered to myself.
As the trooper turned to leave the room, his
carbine on his back, his sabre at his side, and his
cap pressing a cushion of brown curls, I did not
wonder Mary Staunton had lost her heart to him.
He was a man to delight any eyes.
Some came torwai d and offered to assist him,
but these he refused coldly. I passed out and
was in the saddle before he had mounted.
Then he said, in surprise, “You must stay
here, Miss Anson.”
“ I must go home,
trooper Casey.”
‘ ‘ There may be
bloodshed.”
“There must be
none.”
“You are very
brave,” he said, sus-
piciously ; “are you
sure it is no hoax ? ”
“Follow me, if you
are not a coward,” I
replied.
As I passed her,
Mary Staunton mut-
tered something about
‘ ‘ an interfering minx. ”
The trooper she warn-
ed to be careful. In
my heart I believe
that she thought his
chief peril lay in me,
and I laughed to think
that, after all, an out-
law may not be the
greatest danger in a
man’s path.
As the trooper rode
after, his bridle jingled
in the silence.
“Miss Anson,” said
he, “these sailors that
you spoke of —was one
a tall man ?”
“ Yes.”
“ And the other short.”
“ With a squint.”
“ Just so,” and he relapsed
into silence.
The track was narrow, with
no room for two horses. This
prevented us from riding abreast,
and gave me an excuse to keep
in front. Several times Casey
urged his horse forward, but I
patted Sally and she kept her
place. At the creek he made
a bold bid to front me, but the
mare flashed forward and headed
him at the farther side.
“ Draw aside, and let me
ride in front, Miss Anson.”
I answered that I knew the
way quite well.
“ That may be, but I have a
different reason.”
I was dumb, having nothing
to answer.
“There maybe danger ahead,”
he continued, “and you are
foolish. ”
I cast about for an answer,
and remembered a last week’s
storm.
“ There is danger,” I replied—
“ a fallen tree, and you might
flounder in the branches.”
He muttered something under
his breath, but I did not catch
the word.
In a little while we reached
the fallen tree and rode round
it. Beyond he spoke again.
“Yon can have no objection
now.”
“None whatever,” I said—
“ only that a little way along
a swarm of bees have fastened
to a limb. You might mistake
them for a wart and brush
them with your shoulder. That
would not be pleasant, would
it?”—and I laughed to gild the
prevarication. But Casey, see-
ing no humor in the situation, re-
mained dumb.
Presently I cried out to him
to beware of the bees, and he
listed in his saddle.
“ Now ? ” he asked.
“Not yet, trooper—we are
in the bush and I prefer to
stay where I am, because if you
rode in front the branches
would come back and sting Bally’s eyes.
“ Rubbish 1 ” muttered Casey.
When we were through the bush and among the
hops, he suddenly bade me halt.
“You must play no tricks, Miss Anson.”
“ La ! who is playing them, Mr. Casey ? ”
“ The man at your house is a desperado ”
“ Is he, indeed ? ” —with all the innocence of the
world in my voice.
“ And you are an accomplice.”
“ Dear me, what does that mean, trooper ? ”
“ It means that you must stay where you are.”
“ But I must go home.”
“ Then I shall arrest you.”
“ Arrest me, and let three grown men go free! ”
“ But you make it necessa y,” he said.
“Trooper, the desperado is a brave man, and
would be as likely
to kill you as you
would be to kill
him.” *
“Have no fears
for me,-Miss An-
son.”
“I have none. ’”
“Then they are
for ”
“The man. who
saved me?” —and
I went away like ah
arrow. It was the
first time I had
come into conflict
wit!) the law’, and
the situation thrill-
ed me. . Casey with
a great oath thun-
dered close behind,
calling on me in a
low voice to hold
up, and muttering
dire consequences.
I laughed, bent for-
ward and bade
Sally do her best.
It was necessary,
since his horse had
better pace and
gained greatly at
every stride. Now
the animal’s nose
was at my saddle,
now at Sally’s
shoulder, and now
we raced level to
the bridge.
I rose in the
saddle, threw up
my face, and sent
a long, long “ coo-
ee! coo-ee!” speed-
ing across the open.
“ Hush, you hoy-
den ! ”
I tugged at the
reins, throwing
Sally back on her
haunches, and again
I cooeed.
Then I sat back
and listened. The
trooper was now a
fading bulk in the
dark. The speed
of his horse on the
siding was terrible,
and his rein ani
sabre jingled fierce-
ly-
Then, one —two
three, came the
sound of slip-rails falling. I sat back in the
saddle with a sigh of deep content, and breathed
as I had not for many minutes. Far and farther
away I heard another- horse, his hoof-thuds in
the dead timber sounding like footfalls in an
empty house.
“ You have done good work to-night,” said
trooper Casey, when I entered the i oom a little
later—“ fine work for a decent, self-respecting
girl.”
I picked up his sleeve where the silver braid
circled it.
“This looks lonely, trooper—it would be
prettier if there were two of them, would it not ? ”
He smiled in a wintry way, and this gave me
heart to say that the stranger was not so bad,
after all.
Casey shook his head. \
“ Bad enough,” he replied.
Will came in shortly after, and these words
followed:
“ Where did you meet him ? ”
“ At the boundary gate,” Will answered.
‘ ‘ W hat did he say ? ”
“ Looked along his gun and ordered me to hoist
my hands.”
“ And then ? ”
“ Took my horse and watch —and left me his
animal.”
“Never mind,” said the trooper quietly, “1
have two prisoners. And he was not so bad, after
all —eh, Miss Anson ? ”
“No, trooper; especially if it should happen
that the horse he left is the same he borrowed.”
Casey rose to look out at the dawn.
Roderic Quinn.
THE Pleasures OF age
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
k prettp toot, an ankle j
f ne&t: ' - A
a wir\d that l|
IW ***’” IT
boot a wearer 1
fl sweet
pacing" view of stocking new.
&' whiff of subtle scent" e / '
(§3ive all this jol|
T° a white-haired bop . Ml
, damme I bes content N - S =T
Content,
happej and content * M
<: Uec >( satisfied . The kindly breexe T/
©bplaps- well, just enough, .
Me might have sighed to kist and
■Sphc bit of stuff
Bn dags of pore,gone long before
(But now the wiser gent /^flllflS®
(San simplp doat /*tllwmM
@n a petticoat /Ml w^mi
A n d damme! be content- vl YjMjKm
Conte nf,
®uifc happp and content. j?
EDMUND FISHER
Mary’s Advertisement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a moment of pique, because Tom Nugent
seemed to have transferred his a tentions to
another girl, Mary Browne put a matrimonial
advertisement in the paper. She became horribly
ashamed of herself immediately after doing so ;
but it brought several replies, and, among them,
one that she rather fancied. It had a manly and
genuine tone, and the writer signed himself “ Six-
foot-one.” Mary had always liked big men.
“ There will be no need to close with him,” she
reflected. “ I’ll just meet him in the Arcade and
—and see if he is as nice as his letter. ’ ’
He was to wear a white camellia. She, herself,
was to carry a pink fan (she had not liked to brand
herself too distinctly). And when she reached
the corner where she had appointed to meet him,
feeling more ashamed than ever, she pretended to
be admiring things in a shop-window for some
time before she could persuade herself to face
round and look for the man. Also, she nervously
crunched the fan up in her hands.
It was quite a relief to find that no young man
had come yet. But, somewhat to her annoyance,
she saw Tom Nugent walking up and down ; and
he, of course, was the very last person on earth
she would have cared to know about this silly
affair. He took off his hat coldly.
“Bother him!” thought Mary, “I wish he’d
go.”
But he did not go. And when, as the result of a
furtive glance at him, she suddenly observed that
he had a white camellia in his buttonhole, cold
shudders took possession of her. She dropped her
pink fan on the pavement. Tom saw her pick it
up. Their eyes met and both simultaneously
grasped the situation.
“ My goodness, are you the big man with the
white camellia ? ” asked Mary, almost forgetting
to be ashamed.
“Looks like it,” said Tom with a grin. “I
suppose you’re the dark girl with the pink fan ! ”
Then they both laughed, and neither knew what
to say next.
Mary collected herself first —the woman always
does. “ Hood-bye,” she said, nodding coolly, and
was moving off. But Tom followed her.
“ But I say,” he said awkwardly, “ I thought
we were to meet * with a view to matrimony.’ ”
TWO JUMPS.
(Scene — Kitchen; enter wet and muddy boy.)
FOND MOTHER : “ Wot, yer little wretch, hev' yer bin wadin’ that creek
ag’in instead of goin ’ round by the bridge ? ”
SON: “ I never waded it —I jumped it !”
FOND MOTHER : “ Then ’ow did yer come splashed and dirty, yer little liar ?”
SON: “ Well, yer see, I had to take—a —TWO jumps !”
Mary got crimson. “Of course—but —er —we
didn’t know it would be each other ! ”
“ You mean you didn’t know it would be me!”
“ And equally, you didn't expect it to be me/”
“Oh, well, / don’t mind it’s being you ! ”
“Don’t you really!” she said sarcastically.
“ What about Lucy Carr?”
“ She’s a sham, and I’ve found her out, Her
color doesn’t come and go like yours, Mary. And
now that we’ve gone to all this trouble, don’t you
think we’d better close ? ”
“ Anyhojv,” said Mary afterwards, “no one
will ever suspect that we advertised for each
other, seeing that we’ve lived opposite for years-
and years ! ’ ’
CLAUDIS.


The White Wife and the Brown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We are confident that Mrs. Masters and
yourself will make the lady’s stay agreeable at
Fagaalu, ” the manager’s letter said, “and you
will find her husband, our new supercargo, a very
fine fellow, and easy to get on with.”
<* * * •
. “ Here, Melanie, come along, old woman,”
sajd Masters, the trader, to his native wife. “ The
barque will arrive from Sydney in a few days
timbre’s a tamaitai papalatji (white lady) on board,
aqu they want you to be her uo* whilst she is
hijre.”
Melanie’s eyes glistened? White women were
rare visitors at lonely-Fagaalu. Once a year, it
was ti ue, when the missionary barque arrived, one,
perhaps two, white ladies would come ashore, but
thjjy were missionaries’ wives, and never passed
inside the door of the trader’s house to see his
native wife. That would have been scandalous.
Site might', if so she wished it, have called upon
th,cm at the native teacher’s house, and paid
homage afar off by sitting down on a mat in the
furthest corner of the house, while fat, greasy
Lepeka, the wife of the equally fat and greasy
tJuher, Paulo (Paul), Christianly whispered in
the ears of the holy white ladies that that was the
white man’s wife who wasn’t married to her hus
hand. And Melanie, who would have once liked
a marriage in the Church, with its attendant mild
excitements and gluttonies of baked pig, had long
since abandoned the idea and contentedly accepted
her position malgr6 tout as one of the three ladies
who ruled the village. Perhaps she stood highest
in public estimation, inasmuch as the other two—
the chief’s wife and the teacher’s lady—were both
women of common blood, whilst she was of the
best in Tutuila.
**- * *
“Is she young?” she asked of Masters.
“ Will she have hair of gold-thread like the wife
thou hadst in Sinif .long ago—she who married
another 2 ”
Masters laughed. How could he tell! She
might be young ; she might be old and withered.
But that was none of their business. All they
had to do was to entertain her well and make
much of her.
“ True,” said the placid-minded Melanie; “ and
if she be as ugly as an aitu (devil), yet will that
fat pig Lepeka die with envy to see a white lady
a guest in my house. I will send word to my
three brothers at Pago Pago so that they may
hasten down here to get drunk and do honor to
the white lady.”
• * ♦ *
“ ‘Like the wife he had in Sydney long
ago.’ ” Pipe-in-mouth, Masters was walking to
and fro in front of the house that night and think-
ing of an incident of his past life. That was
nearly five years since, but even up to now
* Friend. (Sydney.
Melanie’s and his monotonously happy, lazy exist-
ence together at Fagaalu had not entirely blotted
out the memory of the little blue-eyed, yellow-
haired woman who was the partner of his first
matrimonial venture.
• * * *
They had led a turtle-dovey kind of life in
those old days on the shores of Port Jackson. Six
months after their marriage he lost his Lillet, and,
being an energetic, self-reliant man, he shipped as
steward on board an American lumber-ship re-
turning to Puget Sound. He found a friend on
board in the second-mate, another Sydney man,
and two or three evenings in the week he would
get leave to go ashore and see his wife, and take
his new friend -with him. Laurance—that was
the second-mate’s name—was a fine, handsome
fellow, and one night as the three sat together in
the little cottage they made plans for the
future. When they came back from the Sound
the two men were not to part. Laurance,
who had had long experience in the Island trade,
had saved money, and they would buy a little 30-
ton vessel in Maoriland and run her on trading
trips in the Gambier Group. And he could buy a
bit of land at Mangareva, and they would put up
a house and store there. Masters was to live
there with his wife, while Laurance ran the vessel.
And the pretty wife had smiled joyously. She
really did love her husband, but she liked Laur-
ance more.
**- * *
Dreams ! Six weeks afterwards, as the
Noord Brabant lay thrashing her canvas to rib-
bons in a fierce night-squall off Beveridge Reef,
Masters was lost overboard, and although two
boats made a long search they came back to the
barque without him. But Masters didn’t drown.
The strange tale of that terrible night’s adven-
ture I need not here tell—of that long two hours’
agony alone in the ocean when he saw the Noord
Brabant’s lights slowly disappear from his vision,
and of his rescue by the schooner John Bright,
whose cook, glancing over the stern, saw the un-
conscious man drifting past in the moonlight, sup-
ported by a life-buoy. Then a long illness, almost
death. ,
Months afterwards, as the John Bn.ht was
slowly crawling along through the North Pacific,
she spoke a timber-ship bound to the ’‘colonies
from Port Townsend, and Masters went on board
and asked for a passage. But the Yankee skipper
didn’t like the idea of having to feed such a
hollow-eyed, gaunt-looking being, and declined to
give him one. And so Musters, almost despairing
of ever seeing his pretty 3 oung wife again, went
back to the John Bi ight, never knowing, when he
looked at the receding sails of the Yankee lumber-
man as she bore away on her course, that on a
shelf in the skipper's cabin lay a letter to his wife
from Laurance, telling her of her husband s death
and his own heartfelt sorrow and S 3 mi athy.
And Laurance’s sympathy and sorrow were
genuine enough. Else had he not gone b ek to
Sydney and told her so in words, and married her
a month after wad.
* * * *
Of Course, Masters heard of it. When his
strength came back to him, urged on by the
fevetish desire to get back to her, lie one day
found himself halfway home, at Apia, in Samoa.
A brig, the Wild Wave,
had just come in, and
he was waiting to see
her captain, when he
was shown a wee., y
newspaper. Thei eit
was, plain enough:
“ At Church,
Sydney. Henry R. A.
Laurance to Helen
Masters.”
* * *
Possibly, had he
been living at the time
in civilisation, he
would have gone back
and made three per-
son d lives unhap y.
Although an English-
man, he had not the
rigid ly-conventional
idea that the divorce-
court was part of the
m achinery of the
Wrath of God against
women who committed
bigamy, and ought to
be availed of by in-
jured husbands. So
he got violently drunk,
and concluded not to
disturb them. “I
suppose she re dly did
think I was drowned
. . . and what the
devil would she have
done by herself i o
live ! ” Still, he would
have been better
pleased had Laurance
been a stranger to
him —no man cares to
know his successor.
By-and-bye, he sobered
up, and, after trying
several things, got a
berth as trader, and,
having been informed
by an old white trader
that Melanie was a
girl with a fairly good
reputation, despite her beauty, he installed her
as matrimonial venture No. 2, settled down
at Fagaalu, made money, and ' acquired the
usual intense dislike to the idea of ever going
back to the world again—common to men of his
nature in Polynesia.
. * » *
There was much commotion in the village
when the trading bar„ue arrived. Melanie in
spotless white muslin, flitted to and fro within the
house smoking cigarettes, and cut sing her women
assistants’ laziness. Masters was away at an
adjacent, village on business, and pretty Melanie s
little lands shook nervously at the thought ot
having to meet the English lady alone. Her
English was scant but vigorous, and she was
conning’ over the problem of whether she should
add ess her guest in that language or not.
Masters’ eldest child, a little girl, followed her
mother’s movements with intense curiosity, and
presently a bevy of young native girls swarmed
intu the house with the news that the white lady
and her husband had landed, and were “close
up.”
Then Mrs. Ma ters No. 2 pulled herself to-
gether, and, throwing away her cigarette, want
to the door, and with a graceful, • modest dc-
RELATIVE VALUES.
TRAINER: “ Horse cooked , and the go ne!”
OWNER: “ Curse the boy! Buy boys for a fiver a-piece. There’s five hundred notes worth gone!
HE KNEW HIS WAY ABOUT .
ST. PETER: “You are too late — we’ve closed.”
B OOZER: “ Yes ; hut where’s the side-entrance ?”
meanor ard bashful smile, held out her hand to a
lovely bring, with thick masses of golden hair.
Beside her stood the husband, a big, sedate-look-
ing man, who stooped as he entered the door of
the trader’s thatched dwelling.
* * * *
“ Sit thou here, O lady,” Melanie said in
Samoan, indicating a chair, and then, in English,
she murmured apologetically, “ My man he soon
come —come now, I think.”
“Damn these traders, Nell!” said the super-
cargo to his wife ; “ th s fellow had no business to
go away from his station when the ship was due
However, as he seems to have jolly nice quarters,
we’ll make ourselves comfortable until he turns
up. I think you’ll like staying here for a month
or so, while we go through the Kingsmills. Eh,
pet ? ”
The woman nodded and smiled. “Yes. Harry ;
but I’ll miss you terribly, though. Oh, Harry, do
look-isn’t she a lovely child?” and she drew
Masters’ little girl to her and looked wistfully into
the girl’s face.
“ Ay,” said the supercargo, shortly, and he
took some papers from his pocket and commenced
to read. “ I wish this fellow would hurry up.
Hallo, here he is now ! ”
* JP • •
Fanning his heated face with his broad hat,
the trader stood in his doorway, and said “ Good
morning I’m sorry I wasn’t at home when— ”
A muffled shriek cane from the supercargo’s
wife as she rose and stcod swaying from side to
side, holding by her shal ipg white hand the brown
hand of the trader’s will .•
“My God, it is my husband ! ” Then she sank
back, and lay with her head upon Melanie’s
bosom.
" What the devil does this meah ? and the big
man strode forward and seized the other by his
arm. One look into his face was enough.
“By God, Masters is it pOu ! As Heaven is
my witness we thought you ffead.”
The trader’s eyes met his in a long search-
in ;■ glance, then turned to where the unconscious
tiguro of the white woman lay supported in the
arms of the brown one, who with affrighted eyes
glanced appealingly upjjo his.
He reacted out his hand to the other man ;
“ That’s all right. Lef : us go outside and talk.
Melanie will see to your wife. She has fainted.”
* * * 9 *
That night, whilst Masters and Lauraifce,
cigar in mouth, were gravely picking out the
former’s trade gooffs on board the Palestine, the
two women talked-
“ Are you better now?” said Melanie, as s-hp-
caressingly ran her hand down the eolden locks, f
A smothered sob answered her, and the yellow
hea l buried itself a • omr the pillows of the couch-
Melanie turned her lace awry despairingly, anff
then lit a Cigarette. What a fool this woman was
—nothing but sob, sob, sob ! • What could she do
to make her dry h- r tears ? Masters had told her
to look to her well whilst he was away on the
ship.
Presently the brown woman slid her hand under
the cheek of the other and turned her face up to
heis.
“You no like to stay here now ?
The white woman shuddered. “ No, no, let
me go away.”
“What for?” and the philosophical Melanie
sent two long streaks of smoke through her
nostrils. “Why you ‘shamed’? You got hus-
band now. ” _ i
Mrs. Laurance almost sprang up, and seized the
native wife by her shoulders.
“ Tell me,” she said, “ did he ever talk of me ? ’
“ Yes,” said the truthful Melanie. “He tell me
that he marry a white woman once, with hair like
gold.”
“ No more ? ”
Melanie shook her black locks. “No more.
You like eat some roast pigeon now ? ”
The white woman turned away, sick at heart.
“ And for a soulless being like this! ” Then
she remembered that Masters was not to;
blame. But how, being a woman, she could pos-
sibly have contrived to recollect this I really
cannot say.
* * * *
A few weeks afterwards the captain of the
Palestine was talking to some Kingsmills traders
who had come < n board. “ Oh, that little half-
blood, there. She’s Masters’ daughter Curious,
kind of a man, ain’t he? Never saw my super-
cargo before in his life till the other day, and yet
he and Melanie gave Mrs. Laurance their little
girl to adopt. They have no children, you know.
It’s just like Masters —as decent a fellow as ever
stepped. I believe if he took a fancy to a man
he’d give away his whole darned family if he wa?
asked to.”
LOUIS BECKE.


ACAPSTAN CHANTY
(For the Bulletin)
oilpd-
(vrtjf 2k ! Were, sljoV’iy' ef ajppe !)
all You. f>ollies a^boumt,
*• Coye t>u-ll'ejr oVer!)
<sis(pecl ou/ &/ lopcjpT? r lpv/p
'fte will 6€iVe tefo/e qbe<v cJoWn >
iTL fo/ 'Rlly witfppy L^P^rf crown! *
i (Witt? \ }{ad-y*! iToV'e*' 1)
uja Wjrlf? ! eedle !)
§owyd. witt> ll yk cacpsfej? (3)olly d^y! )
ut'wHtjitjc spa<T?kfr eedlc !)
y\zy !
I&! Vifr/fje eye so blue!
tiu £y * Vc ' V n ?°1’ fer Y&P i
J#r<2s J N cll be f t
ffizllej-el) ! c°n?e Jdu-11 er ov'er'!)
Kjs§ I)i7i7 cheerily, s*c/ Q*>od~bye~
TOs WiFe z*?' jAryily 177 Je c K^e,
g)ltlT Jell <5009 be l?ascK §o dopfyou.cr
iv i 7) Qyydyzy'foo!
(Vi^>Ul-Y^! wfcYe eraJopQ'. )
Tirnbuc^sjo^
(PaJleyep! Coye, pull 'er ov'ey' r)
Jr§t acT AVei-^aj—Wei,
Jr§i Skp asr TsJ>l&3y»
Jf&) c ifue ajl xu?tjl v/e ac*/ay
(wilt? is *roVef!j
Mp <roo4-}>ye ’lj^^iei^ay j} Moll!
(Wi^^ cr avlop<r!) f fk
feaWell 6\Well ftll! ' /J
(K^leyel?! eoipe Idu.ll ey ovfey ! } '^Mm
SWsJleifecl aJl N c Lo77gM
VfeVe Jfti dour atf v/eVe oar Sip jf
Vll-cioWt? befbrti^rporoi 95 S&r? •j\
(W * ! Jo)?ppie 15 !J ii\
c)° y*fs) 'ij)€ Cjweedle.-eedle-eedle ! 1
Kpap4W OvpS&p ! (Dolly i^^dzd^v!)
(isliT'v/juy'itye. KzY ! (jyfe e dle-eed.le-<eedle f)
i=|ev - 'foYifie JoJ]jes iffedfeYe potyeW&fd bauy&f
"Nil"
A CAPSTAN CHANTY.


IBinclys
Hkwha
n
M
t
T
•R
A
i
M
■ II
H
r"'G
[AUfl^flGM
>D -NATIO/sJ
Coals<6RAA<(o^
?%b ,^/M^,o/vJI
%e TB^c^a s^i
BilMlMCTC^iiißrf?{*H|CJ3i'n
C c 0/V\ET ” doWN 3
Jl^N
notice
OuDGAS OInA-Y
A RECORD JUMP.
"I® is not unusual at Homebush sale-
yards to see a crossbred sheep jumping a
run of 20 pens in succession, at a height
of 4ft. 6in., but the record in high jump-
ing was made yesterday by a bullock in
the cattle-yards. A mob from Queens-
land was being drafted, the property of
F. W. Armytage. The yarns are 26ft. in
length, and generally carry an average of
15 head of bullocks. One bullock, on
being drafted, evidently took exception to
the treatment, and cleared the yard, a
height of 7ft. 6in. This is a record per-
formance, and suggests that an entry for
cattle - jumping should be made at
next R. Agricultural Show.” —Sydney
daily.
STEEPLECHASING UP TO DATE.


The Broken Shoe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long years ago—no matter now how long—one
fierce December
I was travelling, weak and footsore, on a river-
road Out Back;
I was sick at heart and weary of the world, and I
remember
How my tucker-bags were empty on that long
starvation track.
Oh, the world is wide and bitter to the outcast
and the friendless !
But you never know how bitter or how friend-
less it can be
Till you see the big scrubs stretching to the west-
ward, black and endless,
And the sun-glare and the sand-drift on the
silent saltbush sea.
Where among the river timber flashed a silver roof
beside me
I turned from off the treadmill track that leads
but to the grave ;
I would face the world’s last welcome were it
offered or denied me :
They could take me in or scorn me—’twas a life
to lose or save.
There were hands held out to meet me, there were
pitying words and kindly,
As they bore beyond the threshold, through the
roses, my poor weight;
And the fever fought them daily, and I lay for
long weeks blindly
Waging war against her sword-blades and the
banded squares of Fate.
Then I woke on New Year’s morning to the life
that had grown dearer,
Vnd the brown tide whipped the gum-trees and
the grass was waving green ;
And the world was not so harsh, it seemed, to one
pale, friendless shearer,
For I saw glad faces round me, with the sunlight
in between.
THE “ STERNER ” SEX.
And a strong man, grey and rugged, and a white-
haired gentle mother,
And a daughter, sweetly beautiful, brown-eyed
and raven-haired,
Clasped hands and prayed in thankfulness, soft-
voiced with one another,
For the stranger in their household whom the
chastening Lord had spared.
Now, the world is wild and wilful out beyond the
Darling timber,
And the further to the sunset is the nearer hell,
they say ;
Is it wonder, then, I cherish in my heart and aye
remember
Those who nursed me through the fever as I saw
them kneel and pray ?
When twice the floods had mustered from the
creeks above the Border,
When twice the plains had blistered in the fur-
nace of the drought,
When twice the laughing springs had come and
gone in flowery order,
When the grass was green and waving, and the
latest sheds cut-out;
Then I sought the white-roofed homestead by the
river, lightly laden
With a few small gifts as tokens of remem-
brance. It was late
When the old folk came to greet me, and I missed
the brown-eyed maiden
When they crossed the rose-grown threshold
and the pathway to the gate.
And the old man, worn and aged, had the lines of
care and sorrow
Traced deeply on his forehead, and but few the
words he said ;
And I saw the bitter burden of a weeping, morn
to morrow,
In the sad eyes of the woman as she raised her
drooping head.
When the stars were lit and burning, and the
crickets softly singing,
Then he led me to the garden, and he spoke in
accents strange :
And his eyes would wander vaguely, but his voice
had passion’s ringing
That had lost its gentle tuning, and I ,
wondered at the change. ~
'j
So he fashioned his sad story : “ When
the last year’s flood was lifting,
And the dawn of every morning
showed a rising of the creek,
When we saw the wreck of homesteads
daily past our doorstep drifting—
Oh ! the Lord is fierce and cruel! ”
and dark anger flushed his cheek—
“ I was rowing up the river in the
old boat, searching vainly
For the few poor sheep God left
me ” —and his face grew dark
again—
“ I could hear a ‘ cooee ’ ringing
down the water, loud
and plainly,
And I thanked the Lord
who sent me; I be-
lieved in such things
then.
“ And I saw a man’s form
clinging to a branching
gum that gave him
Rest a moment, worn with
waiting, cramped and numb
with cold and fear,
And I called across the water, and I
prayed God I might save him,
But I wish these hands had drowned
him ere I brought the hell-fiend
here !
“ He was weak and starved with hunger,
and we nursed him, was it wonder ?
And we thanked the Lord in Heaven who had
granted us this part;
Hell’s curses on him ! Pardon me he rent
my home asunder;
He wrought my daughter’s ruin, and he broke
her mother’s heart 1
“ He was tall, and straight, and handsome, with
the soft ways of the city,
And he spoke of home and mother —
what words are these for him ?
He sang hymns and read his Bible—
and we liked him—more’s the
pity !
And we almost got to love
him when he said he
knew our Jim.
“ Our Jim, the blue-
eyed giant, Mary’s
brother; he would
ply her
With his tales of
Jim and shearing,
where his wild life
first began;
How Jim and he
were comrades.
But the low cur
was a liar;
Our Jim was never
mate of his—Jim’s
honest, and a man!
“Well, we learned to
like the stranger, and our
eyes were blinded fairly,
And we nursed the viper
warmly who would bite us
to the bone,
And our eyes were rudely opened
when one spring - tide morning
early
We woke to find the scoundrel and
our fastest stock-horse gone.
“ Six hours before I saddled he was racing down
the river ;
But I took the girl’s roan-chestnut that is faster
than the wind;
No fleet-winged terror fleeter than the fiend before
me, never
Fierce wrath one-half so bitter as the man who
rode behind.
“ Across the hill I tracked him, to the river bank
and over,
And there the cur had doubled back to save his
wretched hide;
The watching sun had never waked to see so base
a lover,
The frightened stars had never paled to see such
vengeance ride!
“ So I ran the tracks out West to where the Red
Spring road runs nor’ward ;
Though the hardness of the surface made it
dainty work to do,
I can track, lad, like a nigger, and I raced the
chestnut forward,
For there’s not a road could bluff me off old
Stockwhip’s broken shoe ! ”
“ I galloped over cane-grass swamps, now madly,
now more slowly,
X raced across the sandhills with dark murder
in my heart,
And with the miles the fierce thoughts grew—the
red resolves unholy;
There’s time for him to harbor these who gives
a six-hour start!
“ The sun was noon-high in the gums, when, at
the Red Spring Crossing,
I saw the coward crouching by a dead tree on
the track,
I reined the horse and steadied him, and past his
game head’s tossing
Took aim that asks for vengeance but wins not
honor back. ■■■:■/■■
“ I halted but a moment; in that moment passed
before me
The vision of his white face and his trembling
lifted hands:
THE MUMMERS AND MUSICIANS.
One reason why mummers and musicians wear
long hair is that sixpence will only buy
one hair-cut, but two pints of sheoak.
He prayed to me for mercy, then the bitter wrath
came o’er me:
‘He gave my girl no mercy, and I’ll shoot him
where he stands 1 ’
“ Then a voice came whispering softly, ‘ Mine is
vengeance, so the Lord said,
But the madness held me fettered and I cursed
Him at the ford,
And I shouted to the blue skies, ‘For a God or
devil’s word said
Shall I lose my just avenging ?, Mine’s the ven-
geance, d n the Lord !
“ Then I felt the chestnut tremble and he reeled
and fell beneath me,
And I knew no more that happened till I
wakened in the night,
And all the stars of heaven seemed to cluster and
enwreath me,
And the cold wind kissed my forehead and the
man was gone from sight.
“ And we left our poor girl sleeping by the mulga
trees down yonder,
And the parson said ‘ The Lord’s Will as he
stood beside her grave.
every word is true, lad, tell me
straight, now, do you wonder
If I curse this Lord they speak of, who will
neither slay nor save? ”
N.S.W.
WILL H. OCILVIE.
De Mortuis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* ‘ The crimson thread of kinship ’ is
never more eloquent, seldom more audaci-
ously false, than on a tombstone. When
one comes across a simple, unadorned, evi-
dent fact, one’s duty is to give it immor-
tality, if possible.
I speak of the Petries, of
Brisbane. Old John Petrie
was in the marble-masonry
line —was a notable builder
and tombstone - architect.
The neatest and simplest
legend he was ever asked
to carve on a headstone
was —
THOMAS o •
No age, no “ hie jacet,” no
“ hie ” of any kind, but simply
the above. It was considered
a good enough slab for old Tom
Hole. The surname on the
stone was merely a hole drilled
in it.
• » *
Old Matthew Goggs got ahead
of the game pretty well. It
struck him that he would like to
fix up the future quarters of his
own remains. So he ordered the
Petries to build him a mausoleum,
an order which they executed handsomely. It
was erected at Goodna, alias Woogaroo. A mali-
cious flood subsequently swept it away, but it was-
recovered, and it is now one of the ornaments to
be seen in Toowong (Brisbane) cemetery. It had
a big plain stone let into the wall. . .
Matt Goggs prepared copy for the inscription,
leaving only the date blank. The tomb-artist,
having faithfully “followed copy,” sought
thew, and asked “ What date shall we put ?
“ I haven’t quite made up my mind yet,’ said
Matthew.
* * * *
One day a furrow ed-faced man entered the
Petrie yard, head-geared and generally swaddled
in crape.
*“ I want a stone,” he said.
“What sort of a stone ? ”
“A gravestone, to be sure.”
“ What sort of a gravestone?”
“Marrable, or por-firey, or aggit, or dolly mite,
or sandstone, or bath-brick, so long’s as it’s com-
fortable and in the true faith.”
A stone being selected, the workman asked :
“ What inscription will you have?”
“An ippytaff, to be sure !”
“ What sort of an epitaph ?”
“ A dacent ippytaff in the true faith.
“Yes, of course. What is—er—his or her-
that is, is it a he or a she ? ”
“It’s both.”
“Twins? Dear me!” .
“ Who said twins ? Divil a bit av it. Its three
of ’em; all of different ages, to be sure, and all
of the true faith. There’s Philip—the crape on
my hat’s for Philip ;he was my cousin. There s
two Marys, the rest of the crape is for them. No
relations—but was to be. Philip was going to
marry one, an’ Oi was going to marry the other.
We hadn’t decided which would marry which,
but it didn’t matter much, av coorse, as we were
all of the true faith. It matters less now, to be
sure—except, mebbe, for Philip.”
“What are the full names?”
(( Put down — 6 Here lie one Philip and two
Mary Rileys.’” OJ ,
“ Were they all named Riley ?
“ Sure, no ; but they would have been all Rileys
when Philip and 1 married ’em.”
“ I can’t put them down as Rileys, so. , _
“ Why for no ? Who’s going to choose the ippy-
taff, if not the man who pays for it ? ”
The argument was unanswerable.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER: HIS ILLEGAL FAIR.
SWELL (after a barney): "That’s your legal fare, anyhow.
CABBY: “ Oh, very likely; bat that’s not your legal wife.”
(Fare advanced by half a sov.)


The Man with the Bear-skin
tap.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HONESTY REWARDED.
S MALL BOY: “ Please , sir, I found half-a-crown, sir ; and mother said it
was thieving to keep anything I found; and here's the half-
crown, sir."
P OMOKMAN: “Faith, an' it’s well for me that you've such a jewel of a
mother. Here's a sprat for yer honesty, me bhoy.”
One evening a raggedly-dressed man, with a
swag on his back, a bear-skin cap on his head, and
a sheath-knife in his belt, came to our place and
took possession of the barn. Dad ordered him off.
The man offered to fight Dad for the barn. Dad
ran in and got the gun. Then the man picked up
his swag and went away. The incident caused
much talk for a few days, but we soon forgot all
about it; and the man with the bear-skin cap
passed from our minds.
• * * *
Church-service was to be held at our selec-
tion. It was the first occasion, in fact, that the
Gospel had come to disturb the contentedly irre-
ligious mind of our neighborhood. Service was to
open at 3 p.m. ; at break-of-day we had begun to
get ready.
Nothing but bustle and hurry. Buttons to be
sewn on Dave’s shirt; Dad’s pants —washed the
night before and left on the clothes-line all night
to bleach—lost; Little Bill’s to be patched up
generally ; Mother trotting out to the clothes-
line every minute to see if Joe’s coat was dry. And,
what was unusual, Dave, the easy-going, took a
notion to spruce himself up. He wandered restlessly
from one room to another, robed in a white shirt
which wasn’t starched or ironed, trying hard to fix
a collar to it. He hadn’t worn the turn-out for: a
couple of years, and, of course, had grown out of
it, but this didn’t seem to strike him. He tugged
and fumbled till he lost patience ; then sat on the
bed and railed at the women, and wished that the
shirt and the collar, and the church-service and
the parson, were in Heaven. Mother offered to
fasten the collar, but when she took hold of it —
forgetting that her hands were covered with
dough and things Dave flew clean off the
handle ! And when Sal advised him to wear his
colored shirt, same as
Dad was going to do,
and reminded him
that Mary Anderson
mightn’t come at all,
he aimed a pillow at
her and knocked Little
Bill under the table,
and scattered husks
allover thefloor. Then
he fled to the barn
and refused dinner.
• * *
Mid - day, and
Dad’s pantsnotfound.
We searched inside
and outside and round
about the pig - stye,
and the hay - stack,
and the cow - yard,
and eyed the cows,
and the pet kangaroo,
and the draught-
horses with suspicion,
but saw nothing of
the pants. Dad was
angry, but had to
make the most of an
old pair of Dave’s,
through the legs of
which Dad thrust
himself a lot too far.
Mother and Sal said
he looked well enough
in them, but laughed
when he went out-
side.
* * *
The people com-
menced to arrive on
horseback and in
drays. The women
went on to the
verandah with their
babies ; the men hung
round outside and
waited. Some sat un-
der the peach - tree
and nibbled sticks and
killed green - heads ;
others leant against
the fence, while a
number gathered
round the pig-sty and
talked about curing bacon.
The parson came along. All of them stared at
him ; watched him unsaddle his horse and hunt
round for a place to fasten the beast. They
regarded the man in the long black coat with awe
and wonder.
Everything was now ready, and when Dad
carried in the side-boards of the dray and placed
them on boxes for seat-accommodation, the clergy-
man awaited his congregation, which had col-
lected at the back-door. Anderson stepped in ;
the rest followed, timid-looking, and stood round
the room till the clergyman motioned them to sit.
They sat and watched him closely.
“ We’ll now join in singing hymn 499,” said the
parson, commencing himself to sing. The congre-
gation listened attentively, but didn’t join in.
The parson jerked his arms encouragingly at them,
which only made them the more uneasy. They
didn’t understand. He snapped his arms harder,
as he lifted his voice to the rafters ; still they only
stared. At last Dad thought he saw through him.
He bravely stood up and looked hard at the
others. They took the hint and rose clumsily to
their feet, but just then the hymn closed, and as
no one seemed to know when to sit again, they
remained standing.
They were standing when a loud whip-crack
sounded close to the house, and a lusty voice
roared:
“Wah Tumbler! Wah Tumbler 1 Gee back,
Brandy ! Gee back, you ! !! !! ! ”
People smiled. Then a team of bullocks appeared
on the road. The driver drawled, “ Wa-a-a-y ! ”
and the team stopped right in front of the door.
The driver lifted something weighty from the dray
and struggled to the verandah with it and dropped
it down. It was a man. The bullock-driver, of
course, didn’t know that a religious service was
being conducted inside, and the chances are he
didn’t much care. He only saw a number of faces
looking out, and talked at them.
“ I’ve a cove here,” he said, “ that I found
lying on the plain. Gawd knows
what’s up with him —1 don’t. A ,
APOLLO UP TO DATE.
J ACKABOO: “ Ha ! my good man, don't I — er—remind you of—er —Apollo ? ”
OLD STONEY BROKE: “My oath, mate, yer do! Yer remind me of a blessed Apollo
candle ’orright ! ”
good square feed is about what he wants, 1
reckon." Then he went, back for, the man’s swag.
Dad, after hesitating, rose and went out. The
others followed like a flock of sheep; and the
“shepherd” brought up the rear. Church was
out. It gathered around the apparently dead and
stared hard at it. Dad and Dave spoke at the
same time.
“ Why,” they said, “ it’s the cove with the bear-
skin-cap ! ” Sure enough it was. The clergyman
knelt down and felt the man’s pulse ; then went
and brought a bottle from his valise —he always
carried the bottle, he said, in case of snake-bite
-and things like that—and poured some of the con-
tents down the man’s throat. The color began to
come to the man's face. The clergyman gave him
some i”ore, and in a while the man opened his
eyes. They rested on Dad, who was bending
benignly over him. He seemed to recognise Dad.
He stared for some time at him, then said some-
thing in a feeble whisper, which the clergyman
interpreted—“ He wishes you ” —looking at Dad —
“to get what’s in his swag if he dies.” Dad
nodded, and his thoughts went sadly back to the
day he turned the poor devil out of the barn.
They carried the man inside and placed him on
the sofa. But soon he took a turn. He sank
quickly, and in a few moments he was dead. In a
few moments more nearly everyone had gone.
“ While you are here,” Dad said to the clergy-
man, in a soft voice, “I'll open the swag.” He
commenced to unroll it —it was a big blanket —
and when he got to the end, there were his own
trousers —the lost ones, nothing more. Dad’s eyes
met mother’s; Dave’s met Sal’s; none of them
spoke. But the clergyman drew his own con-
clusions, and on the following Sunday at Nobby
Nobby he preached a stirring sermon on that touch-
ing bequest of the man with the bear-skin cap.
Steele Budd.
The Making of a Saint.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘ I can’t help crying, Silas. I have been
spending the afternoon at Deacon Hanby’s, and
there was a lot of other women there. They were
more than usually catty, and scratched dreadfully,
at me more than the others, because the minister’s
wife mustn’t talk back. And it has been so hot —
so dreadfully hot—and the flies worried me, and
I ” Here the tears flowed afresh.
“My dear ■ girl,” said the Rev. Silas Greyson,
“ you are thoroughly run-down and worn-out. If
you don’t get away for a while from this hopeless
place I shall lose you altogether. Talk about sol-
diers,” he added, bitterly, “ they can be no worse
off in Asia and Africa than we poor preachers in
these up-country furnaces. Minnie, you must go
away. Accept the invitation of your brother’s
wife and go across to Maoriland for a few weeks. ”
Then followed argument between young wife
and husband. She could never go so far by her-
self, nor in a cowardly way leave him at his post.
He might fall ill without her, &c., &c. The demon
of “narrow means” precluded the idea of both
going ; so, in the end, she yielded and went —alone.
* * * *
A great hotel, built like a Swiss chalet,
and overlooking a tiny bay : one of Maoriland’s
health-resorts. Torest clothing the great hills
almost down to the sandy shore, while seaward
are faint blue islands breaking the deeper blue of
ocean. Groves and avenues of pines and Scotch
firs surround the house, and make pleasant shelter
from storm and sea. Truly a place of rest; a
summer nestling-place.
A pink glow had returned to Minnie’s cheeks,
and her figure had rounded prosperously in an
atmosphere of free breeze and sunshine. Every
day there had been excursions—boating parties,
bathing parties, picnics; a hundred pleasant, inno-
cent ways of passing the time. To her, a dweller
on hot, treeless plains, the great depths of greenery
with their dense shadows were, like the ever-
changing pictures of emerging rock and moving
tide, inexpressibly beautiful. Even the people
seemed so different from those to whom she had
been accustomed—that little coterie of canting,
illiterate men, and sour, shrewish women. How
far away seemed the tiresome, ceaseless round of
life, from chapel to Sunday-school, from district-
visiting to Dorcas Society, from prayer-meeting
to Bible-class. How bright and graceful these
others, the worldly women, were ! They seemed
fond of her, too, and wished to pet her; never
trying to “ scratch ” like their more godly sisters.
They were making holiday like herself, and here
holiday was not a mockery.
The men, too, were cultured, with deferential,
though frank and open manners. One of them
had seemed to take a special fancy to her. He
was not an Adonis ; he was tall and sunburnt,
and her delicate frame and \ frailty of health
appeared to attract and appeal to his sturdy man-
hood. His attentions were unobtrusive and unob-
served by others, but she perceived them never-
theless, and sympathy began to go out from her
towards this chance acquaintance of her few days
of liberty. j \
The last night of her stay arrived. All the
evening she had watched the, dancing, patting
time impatiently with her foot, but unable to
mingle with the flying figures j because she was
kept in bondage by the thought of being “ a
minister’s wife.” During the hours of the dancd
she had heard every now and then at her shoulder
the sound of her man-friend’s voice, with its
slight inflections of tenderness and its suggestions
of restrained virile power.
As midnight drew near she found herself stand-
ing on the verandah with him. it was time for
ted—the conventional time—but she rebelled.
She knew that in the bedroom she shared with
her sister-in-law and to which that sister-in-law
had retired hours before, the air would be close
and stuffy. Out here there were great spaces of
moonlight and wind-swept air. Why should she
go indoors just because it was the regular time for
bed ?
“ Come,” said a deep voice, full of invitation.
‘ Come for one short stroll along the avenue by
the sea. The others have all disappeared ; we are
alone here now. It is my last night, remember.”
She looked irresolutely toward the pines. Shafts
of moonlight slipped between the trunks and lay
in slanting white distinctness across the road, but
she knew that between the avenue and the beach
there was a belt wherein the trees grew closer,
where the shade was thicker, and on which the
fallen pine-needles had made a carpet over which
the foot trod noiselessly. In those dense shadows
there was no light save the faint, pearly reflections
of the little waves that broke their edges into
foam under the branches. She had never spoilt
her youth-time with unripe love-making at chil-
dren’s dances, nor in maidenhood had she gradu-
ated in the conservatory or in the snuggery “ off
the verandah.” Yet her woman’s instinct taught
her with full prescience what would happen if she
invaded that pleasant solitude with her com-
panion. There would be touches of seeking
fingers that, at first repulsed, would return and—
be held fast. There would be an arm passed
around a yielded waist; ardent, loving words ;
even, perhaps, kisses. And, while she pondered
and hesitated, out from that avenue of darkness
and flickering light, out from those fragrant
breathings of shore and forest, it seemed as if
Life and Health, and Youth and Love, were coo-
ing to her like a brood of doves, sighing “ Come—
come —come ! ”
She whispered, “ Just for a few moments then,
but—NO ! I will NOT ! ” Her voice had risen to
a defiant cry.
Turning to her startled companion, and looking
into his grieved eyes, she said :
“lam so sorry—l spoke rudely and abruptly ;
pray forgive me. It was something I saw—in my
own mind. Good night.”
“It is not ‘good-night,’ but ‘good-bye,’” he
replied. She put out her hand, and he held it
tightly for a moment. Then, bending his head,
he imprinted a kiss on the warm, upturned palm,
and closed her fingers over it as if to tell her to
hold the kiss fast for him. Then he went down
to the shore.
* * * *
“ Mamma, don’t you think Mrs. Greyson looks
like a saint? ’’whispered Julia Hanby to her
mother as they sat in chapel. (Julia was at the
gushing age.) “She is so pure-looking and re-
fined since she came back. She seems almost holy
to me now.”
“Um!” replied the mother. “ She sits there
demure enough for anything ; but, as to her looks,
I liked her better in her old bonnet than in that
new outlandish thing she brought back and that
me and others will have to pay for, I suppose.
Attend to the minister, Julia ! ”
Nevertheless Mrs. Greyson was a saint, for in the
hour of sore temptation she had made the Great
Renunciation and cast Romance behind her.
Now she was apparently absorbed in the service.
On her outward ears fell the usual shower of phrases
concerning “grace’’and “election” and “right-
eousness,” with many repeated interjections of “0
Lord but all these were unheard; the telephone-
wire of the auditory nerve bore no message to the
central station. The eyelids so meekly cast down
served not only to shut out the glaring heat and
hide the flushed faces of the congregation, but they
made a darkness in which there came to her little
flashes of opalescent light, as of waves breaking in
deep shadow. In her nostrils was the scent of
pines, the salt of the sea; in her ears were the
murmurous brooding sounds of a summer night
among wooded hills. The kid-gloved fingers closed
into a tiny fist over some invisible, imperceptible
thing that seemed to nestle in the palm of her
hand.
Yes, she was a saint but—if don’t you
think ?
Maoriland.
EDWARD TREGEAR.
'fiV/fij, r] u ckar Mfljrpij Id uj Mil upot] [ht-
O/ Hf-o/fjj !" * * *•+*
non) njy. taWlkeftrw, comeAlfiitie
to ifjg de-fattjs of
HEAVEN ANN HELL: A LECTURE


An Old Maid’s Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some years ago —say, nine or ten—
When I had dreams of manly glances
And thoughts of nothing but the men,
And flirting, dressing, drives and dances ;
In short, when I was but a maid
To whom the hours were all too fleeting,
I mot my love—l’m much afraid
I never shall forget that meeting.
I met, I say, a pair of eyes
Which looked in mine in boldest fashion,
And seemed to say, without disguise,
Such wicked things that, in a passion,
I turned away and vowed no chance
Should ever find our hands united ;
When, oh, he begged for just one dance,
And I was in his arms —delighted !
And then he talked, in whispers low.
Till he had won my heart completely ;
I don’t know what he said, but, oh !
I know he said it very sweetly.
And when the dance was o’er we paced
Through garden paths and fern abysses ;
I felt his arm around my waist,
And then, oh Heaven ! I felt his kisses !
How long we stayed I couldn’t tell
It must have been till twelve, or nearly ;
The time had never passed so well,
But, then, I’d never loved so dearly.
I only felt that I could stay
Like that with him for evermore, and
We had so many things to say,
Although we’d said them all beforehand.
And, when we parted, then I dreamed
Of his brown eyes, like all young misses
In their first love, and once more seemed
To blush beneath his ardent kisses.
My every vein was in a glow,
The very fancy was so pleasing ;
Love seemed to course from tip to toe,
Just as it did when he was teasing.
For weeks and weeks we met and wooed ;
Down sunny tracks we wandered gladly ;
No lover yet so softly cooed,
No maiden ever loved so madly.
He promised me, in accents low,
A villa and a pony carriage,
And jewels, dresses, wealth—and, oh,
Insisted on an early marriage !
And so, one summer morn, we twain
Went off in state ; no grander wedding
Shall on this earth be seen again—
I felt as though on roses treading.
And, oh, I wore the siveetest gown ;
Such lace, such flowers—l fairly floated !
No lovelier bride was ever known,
While he —ah, he looked so devoted.
The breakfast, too ! Fond memory
Brings back the speeches and the crushing ;
The compliments addressed to me,
The jests which set the girls all blushing.
And later —in the afternoon—■
’Midst showers of rice and shoes, elated,
We drove off for our honeymoon,
The happiest couple ever mated.
No words could quite describe the joy
Of those two months —too quickly over ;
We lived a life without alloy,
I and my handsome husband-lover.
No sweeter time could sweethearts know ;
We never had a single worry ;
I don’t know where we went, although
’Twas somewhere up—or down—the Murray.
And then our home ! the quaintest nest
In all the world, of that I’rn certain,
With cunning nooks where one could rest
Snugly behind an ivy curtain.
And later, when there came our way
A baby boy—how hot my face is !
I loved to take him there to play,
And watch his thousand little graces.
Ah, me ! and must I now confess
That all this tale is sheer romancing !
I never had a pretty dress,
Nor caught a male-eye at me glancing.
And all the pleasure I can give
Myself is just to sing this song, for
Drear is the life I have to live,
Dreaming the life I vainly long for.
Vic.
WALTER L'ESTRANGE.
AT A ROYAL SOCIETY CONVERSAZIONE.
[?]OFKSSOR (reekiny with microscopic information): “ Those a[?]
microbes. ”
YOUNG PERSON: “What, really your own, Professor? How
nice !”
“ Lose Who May”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Dear Antony, —lt is a year since we parted,
and there has not been a moment for either of us
that we have not been conscious of that parting.
I know you need me, dear, as much as I need you.
Life means nothing now, save a certain stoical
courage which may be very admirable in the
abstract, and very exemplary, but is very weari-
some. I have been driving to-day on the Bois de
Boulogne, and have longed for you so that I
could not believe you would not appear in the
street, or meet me at the hall-door when I came
in. But you did not, and I have felt so before,
and you never came. I tell myself that I shall
grow used to it in time. I wonder if I shall!
*,* * *
“ To-day I passed those old buildings by the
Sainte Chapelle, and II remember one day, as we
sat over the fire, you and I (I like to write you and
I) we talked of staying there on one of those
make-believe trips we used to plan for ourselves.
How happy we were, and were we mad ?—at least
I feel we could not have acted otherwise. Well,
I saw that little street, and I remembered you
had told me there was a funny, old-fashioned
house there at the end with gardens in its windows,
and an iron fence with strange, gargoyle heads ;
and you had said when funds were low we would
stay there, and be petted by the old Trench land-
lady who looked after her lodgers as though they
were children, and who worried when they were
in trouble. And, Antony, you
said we would make friends with
the artists and people, who lived
there ; and, as I drove past the
house, a tall artist man and a
funny little American girl came
out of the door. I wanted to
stop and speak to them, and ask
them to come and call upon me;
they somehow seemed a link with
you, but they would have thought
me crazy, wouldn’t they? We
drove back again past the house,
and I saw a face at the window of
an upper storey—l think it was
the landlady. I wanted to stop
the carriage and go in and talk to
her, but I was afraid of myself, I
was too near tears, and so we came
home, and I ran upstairs, and got
pen and paper, and am writing
to you, dear. I must write, I have
not written before ; and you, have
you written any letters and—
burned them ?
» • *
“I have such lovely clothes;
everything I buy seems sweeter
than the last. To-day I have on a
brown cloth suit, and golden furs,
and such gloves—one gets them
made to order here. Yesterday I
bought a red evening dress, a dull,
warm red silk with a strange,
shimmering corselet of I don’t
know what fantastic arrangement
of filmy gauze and sequins. It is
barbaric —your word but it is
more than handsome, it is fascinat-
ing. I tell you this, for you want
to hear, don’t you—you, who care even if I tell
you the color of my gloves, or that I wore a
bunch of violets yesterday, and that there is one
of them amongst these pages.
* * » *
“ I will not grumble or complain. How much I
used to do so !—but now it is not worth while, and
while I am writing to you I forget that I am un-
happy. Sometimes a dull, numb feeling overtakes
me, and I wonder if things matter, if I could
ever be happy even with you. That is from being
over-tired, and is a re-action after Oh, my
dear love, are you glad to get this letter ?
• * • *
“ You know this hotel, possibly these very
rooms. You can imag-V- the life we lead, very
;ay, full of interests, I
■suppose ; but nothing
is really interesting
now, is it? You have
been so good to me—
even when you cared
most you thought of
me first, and it is hard
for a man to do what
you are doing. I ap-
preciate it, dear; but
it is for me, and so
you are glad. Some-
times I wonder if it
was worth it; if it
would not be better to
write and say, come !
But so long as I can
bear it I will not do
that, and I have borne
it for this year, so why
not for many years ?
It seems a waste of
pain, though; for who
benefits ? My husband
does not. Shall I write
here ‘ Come, come ! for
I can’t bear it, for I
know there is nothing
worth having but love.
Nothing ! ’ You would
come, I know, and be
utterly glad, and never
have one regret, for you
love me.
* * *
“We did not talk
about it very much that
last evening, before I
came away, did we,
Antony ? There was
nothing to be said, ex-
cept ‘ I love you, and I need you, and I may
not have you.’ Your last kiss burned on
my lips for long after. I shut my eyes,
and can almost feel it now, and my fingers
were bruised. Should I have listened to your
pleading—were you right, and was I wrong?
I do not know ; I only know that I will not say
’Come’ until I cannot bear it, then you will come ;
you will take me in your arms. Antony, Antony,
I want you so !
* * * *
“We are not good—l speak particularly for
myself—l got a bad start, I think. lam afraid
the good people are right when they forbid a life
such as ours would be. I feel they must be right;
not morally, but because we must give adherence
to the world’s laws. I argue with you, a lawyer.
I pit my woman’s brain against yours, and say it
would be wrong. And we must bear it somehow,
taking what dreary consolation we can in saying
‘lt is right.’ Some day, I may not be able to bear
it; some day, no right or wrong on this earth could
hold me back, and then I’ll say ‘ Come ! ’ And
in that same day I will hear your footstep, your
voice asking quickly where I am. And I will
open a door near you, and—and, Antony, it will
all be over—all the terrible pain and longing, all
the great want made out of our need for one
another, and there will be a meaning for us both
in sunshine and color, in sea and sky. We shall be
together, together—you and I. Hand-in-hand,
with little need to speak, content with each other’s
presence, and laughing with the great gladness
that we are together.
* * ♦ •
“ Why can’t I help you bear it a little—you, my
dear old friend as well as my lover; you who
work hard to avoid thought, who have lost the
best thing in life in losing me ? You understand
what I mean : could I have been with you and
loved you as I do, you could not have asked any-
thing better from life.
m * * •
“ But we will get on somehow. I will be proud
of your success—proud that I love you; yet
by irony of fate, you will care so little for your
realised ambitions ! You want success that I
might share it ; without me it will seem nothing :
failure would seem less ironical.
* * * *
“Are you thousands of miles away from me,
when, by shutting my eyes, I can almost see your
face ;by listening, fancy I hear your voice. We
used to sit together by the fire and gaze into the
coals and talk of anything and everything. Some-
times I wonder if it would be possible, after all,
to go back to those days ; to put poor Love
by and tell him never to speak to us, nor touch us
with his soft fingers. You said you were strong
enough for that"; I wonder if you were !
* * * *
y° u were not > t° r I would tempt you ; I
nd f?ht try not to, but I would for all that; I
would P ut my arms round your neck, my lips on
your forehead No, the old, sweet friendship
13 S one > and we found for a fevv short weeks fche
best thing in life, and then we had to give each
other up. What little easy words they are to
write, and yet they have broken our hearts. Do
you recognise me, Helen Greer, in this woman
who loved you so utterly ? People think I am
hard, cynical, worldly; so I am, except to you,
and because you know that side of me, because
you found it and loved me, I am yours utterly,
* * * *
What are you doing, I wonder, what lave you
been reading and thinking ? You will write to me
- n answer t 0 this, but it will be eight or nine weeks
before I receive your letter, and I will count
the days until I may expect it. Antony, Antony,
I love you ! That is all I have to say in this, and
have been . mo ™ f than an b ™ r J ayin h ?w™ l
could go on saying it for ever, knowing how you
love me _ Why nlayn > t j i oo k up and see you be-
side me, looking into my eyes, and then ”
* * * *
She stopped writing; there were tears unheeded
on her cheeks. Ihe many sheets ot the letter lay
before her . Qn the last y he ink was not yefc dr /
g he i ooked at them for a moment, then gathered
them up quickly, and carried them across to the
fireplace. In a second they had blazed up, and
le blackened fragments lay among the coals oi
“ red aWay up the ° hlmney
Yic.
A. LEO WATTS.
Her Phantom Rival
For The Bulletin
4© loVe rr?c did
-tq „ B e crfe e
f*uVt|4fcrie&T-Were })j.d
-p Jfron? Go-red eye
})e &y£ ) w&y ’-wilt? a. lie.
Or boldly Steady, & fell I}eY avTw
UfW Wa/rr?, is, beAfiugisW
0 ’ 5° jAst'’ yg> p
JL l©Ve silll &J?d- J.o/e Will
tJyvUtfjcYejl, ~by 'WjyfeY’ -WjT?<d
afld. jjojd if fasT" I
.dWpi fefet/ 0 I°©K. bybodibtfTpipd- )
X° 4ay?> xJjei? J°^l)S) 10 V Tyztf-e- Trje bfipd. M
Jf
Oije Vision X prefer*
”10? e 'Wiyonp t dbou-obT">/ou. Weife
Edmund Dsne[?].
E.K. “A brother of mine, out tar back,
writes:—Thanks for Bulletin. It was well read
before I got it. You see the man at the P.O.
took a squint. The mailman called at the pub,
and took a squint. It got to the station. The
boss read it —on the sly. The super, sent it out
by the ration-cart. The driver met the boundary-
rider. They both chewed it over. Mate and I
had three meals of it. Then two old swaggies
took it down the track to God knows where.”
S.C. : “Never furnish your house with
creaky wickerwork. Say you have been sitting on
a wickerwork armchair from 8 to 11 p.m.; about
midnight the thing will start to relax itself, and
creak and squeak and wriggle about the floor. On
three several nights have I been aroused from a
peaceful slumber, and poked about, armed with a
curio-club, before I dropped down to the cause.
Two lovers, where I have been living, do their
spooning on a sofa of this infernal make ; and the
thing generally times itself to about 2 a.m. to ease
itself of the blissful pressure of hours before, and
don’t it just perform ! We had a party one night,
and, half-an-hour after the guests were gone, the
little wickers and the big, and the sofa, and all the
rest of ’em, were regularly dancing the lancers. J
don’t live there now !


Cardigan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE REAL MACK AY.
“Never, (hie) knew the old beggar stand so quiet before—he must know I'm a
bit shprung.”
The room was almost dark ; but Cardigan, lean-
ing from his stool, could see the edge of Emily’s
white face against the window-pane. The thun-
der of stampers reached them from the gully
below.
“ Yo’ needn’t bother over that, Emily. Don’t
let ’Lizabeth see your face. Steady, my gel;
it’ll be all right. ”
Cardigan locked his stiff hands over his knees
and moistened his lips afresh. “ P’r’aps you’d
better meet Tom ; it’ll gimme time to think.”
Emily’s head dropped lower ; two flaming spots
burned under her full temples. “ Oh, Mr. Cardi-
gan, if I had only known ; if ”
“ Don’t be a little fool. I want yo’ and my lad
to come in that door together. Run and meet
him afore she comes.”
Emily passed from the room, her head down, as
if afraid of Cardigan’s kindly face. He did not
look up ; his slow mind was grappling with certain
happenings that were not very clear to him.
The quick night blotted out the bush. Someone
with a lantern was singing in the gully below.
The southern express thundered across the bridged
valley, smearing the darkness with scarves of
flame.
A woman climbed up the boulder-strewn track
and entered the back-door, stamping her strong
boots on the white slab in the passage. Her lasli-
less lids blinked in the half-light; her thin hands
jerked her bonnet-strings asunder. Cardigan
winced as she flung herself into the room.
“ Where is that girl ? Out again, I suppose ? ”
“ I sent her to meet Tom. He is late.” Cardi-
gan straightened his bent shoulders.
“ Sent her to meet Tom ! Good God! why ? I
won’t have that hussy a-meeting him : I won’t—
I won’t! ” She bit out each word with ferocious
emphasis ; her small, deep-set eyes blazed rebelli-
ously. Cardigan’s stiff hands opened and shut.
“ They’re fond of each other, ’Lizabeth. P’raps
you’ve noticed that she’s a bit different lately ;
surely you’ve noticed that, ’Lizabeth 1 ”
The woman stooped
as if she were dodg-
ing a cut; the sneer
on her thin lips fitted
the lines about her
hard mouth.
“Noticed her!
God ! it’s the talk of
the township. This
comes of bringing
servants from Syd-
ney.” She stood in
the centre of the
room, her straight
fingers dug into her
narrow hips.
“What’ll we do,
’Lizabeth ? ”
“ Do! ” She swung
round venomously as
if to strike him on
the cheek. “ Pack
her off to Sydney by
to-night’s mail. ”
“What’ll become
of her in Sydney, ’Liza- A
beth ; have yo’ thought? ” K
“ God ! you’re particular now, Jim. Did
I engage her to make love to my son?
There’s a hospital in Sydney—let it be born
there. I’ll give her five pounds. But she goes
from here to-night. ”
Cardigan drew a deep breath.
“ You’re a merciless woman, ’Lizabeth. All
your life you’ve been the same. This gel came
to us innocent enough. Yo’ was mighty sick and
wanted help. We’re to blame. Tom’s my son,
and she’s been livin’ under our roof. I’ve tried to
reason things, and I know if we send her away
there’ll be harm. 1 see it in her eyes. She is
well-eddicated ; she trembles and stammers when
yo’ rip out a hot wurd. She ain’t a gel to take
her shame like the bushies hereabouts. Don’t
send her away ’Lizabeth. We're old —I am. I
wouldn’t like to drag her from a watcrhole or lift
her from the
bottom of a
shaft. She’ll do
it, ’Lizabeth;
it’s in her
blood.”
Cardigan
stood up, his
white head bent
across the win-
dow-frame ; he
made his appeal
without a ges-
ture.
The thin-lipp-
ed woman
stamped on the
hearth.
“Where’s the
pity for me
that’s starved
and slaved to
bring my lad
up ? Oh! you
fool! I hate you
and your ways!
Thank God,
I’m strong and
open-eyed ! ”
“And there
is to be no mercy
for Emily?
Think, ’Liza-
beth ! ”
“Think of
what, Cardi-
gan ? Of her
married to my
child ? No, no, my God ! not chat ' Let him
marry a woman that’ll lift him. Must he slave
day by day in a mine like a Oeast. like a convict ?
Do you feel as I feel when I run in there and
cover my head ? Give her a chance, you say ;
ay, and give my lad a chance too, Cardigan !
Give him a chance ! ”
“Me and yo’have been together nigh on forty
years; ain’t we, 'Lizabeth ? ” Cardigan heaved him-
self from his stool and moved towards her. “ Nigh
on forty years, eh, ’Lizabeth ? ”
No answer from the darkness.
“Yo’ ain’t my wife, ’Lizabeth—people didn’t
trouble about church in them days. I ain’t re-
bukin’ yo’; I shouldn’t ha’ mentioned it if Emily’s
trouble hadn’t cropped up . . . By our own son—
under our roof; think of it, ’Lizabeth ! ”
No answer.
“ Lord, what a trump-card for a man to hold in
the hour of need ! You’ve always been agin me,
’Lizabeth. You’ve stamped round and hustled
me for forty years, and it never struck me till now
that we was never married proper.”
No answer.
“ What a merciless woman yo’ are! You’d sacri-
fice ’em both because yo’ itch to see him in flash
clothes. Tom loves the gel and he is afraid of yo’;
we’re all afraid of yo’ . . . Don’t stand in my
way, ’Lizabeth, or it’ll be the worse for yo’! ”
The heart hammering at his ribs belied the
threatening voice. He knew that she was crouch-
ing near the hearth, white-lipped, quailing in her
savage despair, and the knowledge of it cut him
through and through. She had battled with him
for forty years, in flood and drought and Are. She
had starved with him and nursed him on the
Eraser, and kept his camp on twenty fields. She
loved him now in her own fierce way. But Emily
must not be cut adrift with his son’s child. For
once in his life he would play the strong, hard
man.
He stepped to the door and peered into the
gully. Voices reached him—a woman’s an'"
then a man’s. A wet pebble gleamed in tf e
starlight; again and again the deep lungs of t 1 c
THE WIDOW’S COUP,
LARRY (the navvy) : “ You sent for me, boss?”
T HE BOSS: “ Mrs. Hoolan tells me you’ve boarded
and lodged at her place for three months, and
you haven't paid her anything. Now, we
don’t allow that kind of thing on this job, and
you'll have to sign this procuration order or
leave. ”
Larry : “ Look here, boss ; I don’t want to leave the
job, and I’m not going to work a dead horse,
so if you’ll give me a day off to-morrow I’ll
marry her . and well make it square.”
valley gave up their load of wattle-scented breath.
TJp and up came the voices. The man was laugh-
ing nervously.
“Is that yo’, Emily? and is that yo’, Tom?”
Cardigan saw that he was holding her waist, help-
ing her across a deep flood-trench.
“You’re late Tom, aint yo’?” A clean-faced
youngster hopped over a near boulder.
“ We’ve been scheming, dad, and Em can’t
scheme a bit. She’s in a funk, and so am I. ”
“ Don’t worry about that, my lad. Mother ain’t
so hard she ain’t so hard. You’d better come
inside.”
They entered stealthily and grouped themselves
silently in the centre of the dark room. Cardigan
leaned over the table and spoke gently to the
huddled shape in the corner.
“Are yo’ there,’Lizabeth ? Aint yo’ goin’ to
offer Tom and Emily a cup of tea ? ”
The woman moved: her fingers sought the
match-box above her head. Emily slipped for-
ward and brushed the dry sticks together. The
flame of the match lit up two faces and showed
their tears falling.
ALBA DORION.
In the Shadow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM of an ordinary appearance and a medium
height; still these are not reasons why I should
so often he mistaken for some other
person. Were it only ov,c other, I
should feel little astonishment ; hut
the similarity applies to dozens.
HIS BROTHERS NAMES.
THE PAESON (to Johnny, aetat eight): "Well, Johnny T hear you have two
more little brothers.”
J OHNNY: “ Yes; Dr. Brown brought them this morning.”
T HE PARSON: "And what are you going to call them, Johnny ?”
J OHNNY: “ Well'm, I dunno—but I heard father say when he came down-
stairs 'Hell and Tommy ! '”
This annoys me. For the males who claim my
acquaintance are, socially, of low degree, though
I ought, perhaps, to have consolation in the fact
hat women are invariably gracious in their
address —till I discover my identity. These ex-
periences have cost me nothing, beyond a tempor-
ary annoyance and some slight embarrassment.
By some few I have profited. Others progress to
an interesting stage, then abruptly break off-
leaving me devoured by an unsatisfied curiosity.
Such a one occurred the other evening.
As I came smartly round the corner, for the
night was chilly, two women and a man advanced
to the gutter-edge, and gazed down street for the
expected tram. One of the women—young by her
figure—turned as I passed, and I returned her
stare. Looking over my shoulder, I caught
her still staring, and when I had gone a few
st ides, I stopped, and turned, and stood irreso-
lute in the shadow of an unlit building. With
her, however, was no hesitation ; she came quickly
to me with words of recognition.
That 1 should have undeceived her on the
instant, I admit; but her speech flowed so impe-
tuously that her confidence shook me to bewilder
ment. For the rest —was Ito shame her with the
knowledge that her secret was betrayed to a
stranger ?
“Jack!” she exclaimed, “Why didn’t you
stop and speak ? I was going to write. Jack, you
don’t mean it? Not really ! You can't! Oh,
Jack, you couldn’t ho so paltry; I could never
belie eit of you ! It isn’t as if I had injured you
in any way —you know I haven’t, and you know
you don’t love me. It’s not love, or wounded
pride, or anything like that; for you knew well—
oh, how often have you said it yourself !—that'
some day I would marry someone else, and forget
you. Not that I’ll ever do that! But this is
mean ; it’s spiteful! it’s—oh, Jack, you won’t !
Let me tell him myself, in my own way. Not
that it would make much difference. Not to me,
at any rate; but I am thinking of mother and
those at home. You know how much my marry-
ing him means to them. And we’re to be
married next week, instead of next month, just
because of mother. And if you But I can’t
believe it of you. It was only because you were
in a temper that you said you would tell. You
don’t know how much I’ve thought of you lately,
Jack, and now you write like (his—like a school
boy p’aying sneak. It’s so unmanly— so unworthy
of you. You don’t—you can’t know, what I want
to think of you. How, when I come out of the
church and go home with him, I shall still have
someone to think of in my mind, as the hero of my
girlhood. Jack, Jack, don’t make me—you won't!
Oh! I toow you won’t. But I just want to hear
you say so. Tell me you won’t, Jack, please I
Oh, Jack please I—promise,1 —promise, won’t you ? ”
I dared not speak. In the urgency of her
appeal her face came closer, her eyes sought mine,
till I dropped my head, as much in shame as that
she should not recognise her mistake.
She took his hand—my hand. “Jack,” she
whispered, “ please promise ! ” I bowed an agree-
ment. Jack must have been stone, to have with-
stood her.
“ You promise ? ” she g-isped. I nodded again.
“ Oh, Jack ! ” It was a sigh —a heart-rush to
the throat.
She looked quickly to right and left; then her
arms were round my neck, her lips stole upwards
under my hat and kissed me.
It was nothing —a mere touch. Still—she
kissed me !
“ God bless you!” she whispered. I felt her
tears, and writhed.
“ They’re calling; I’ll have to go,” she said,
“ Good-bye, dear Jack, and, oh ! I do thank you.
Good-bye, dear ”
She ran lightly to her friends. As the tram
moved she
threw a kiss
from the plat-
form. I raised
x. my hat, then
turned sadly
homewards Not
Jack himself could
have felt more con-
trite.
Though I had re-
gret, then, I am glad
now that my mind
holds no recollection of
her face, to cry me
shame, or prick my
conscience. For I see
now the despicable
character of my sil-
ence.
I should have
stopped her have
denied J ack —have —a
hundred ways now
rise before me, who
then was dumb.
There is slight com-
fort in the reflection
that she will have
married this week,
while J ack is yet pon-
dering his course of
action.
For I am over-
whelmed with my
disgrace. J have even no condemnation for
Jack, so acutely does it press.
But I have a great curiosity to learn what Jack
knows.
E. & O.E.
On the Rocky River.
THE PAESON
Oh, she was fair and twenty,
Nigh nude as babes are born,
And streamed her auburn tresses
Out to the golden morn ;
A-straddle on a cedar,
I saw her bending low,
Upon the Rocky River—
In flood-time long ago.
I sprang into the current
And quickly gained the craft;
With lifted oar she threatened,
And bade me dangle aft;
Vain wight who swam to save her
She merely took in tow
A-down the Rocky River—
In flood-time long ago.
In mid-stream out careering
And whirling round went we ;
In vain I pleaded crampings—
As adamant was she.
“And if you dare to board me,
I’ll send you down below ! ”
She said on Rocky River—
In flood-time long ago.
Whilst sweeping round and under
A stout limb bending o’er,
She caught it like a monkey
And swung herself to shore.
A humble wight and wiser
That cedar took in tow,
Alone down Rocky River—
In flood-time long ago.
She hates me now like poison,
And oft I wonder why—
Who dreamed not Love’s requital
My fair one would deny.
I’m branded “ brute ” and “coward,”
And only this I know :
We met on Rocky River—
In flood-time long ago.
N.S.W
Edward S. Sorenson


A Raw Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a shepherd by the law of heredity, just as
in slightly altered circumstances he might have
been a peer. On this run half-daft old Jock—his
father—tailing the sheep, had roared profanely at
the dogs for a generation or so. On this run too,
ho had him-self wandered for the best part of his
life,'muring under the gums and swamp-oaks,
waitingfo" his inheritance and writing poetry.
Occasionally he visited the scattered town-
ship. two or three miles away, but very rarely.
He didn’t 'ike the schoolboys there, they teased
him so, and he was always glad to get home again
where, in the old bark hut, he could laugh at his
own little jokes till the tears came, or recite his
poems t> a deaf old man. It was a pleasant life
he led in 'hose times. But after that day when
the old man, his sun having set, was yarded for
the long dark night, “young” Jock grew melan-
choly and nervous. He fancied in the daytime
with the sheep that he could hear his father still
bellowing “ Wide out! ”to the dogs, and at night
THE HOOD CLERGYMAN : “I am sorry to see you
give way to the pernicious influence of drink .
Think of all your old home associations —
think —think of your mother !”
BOSKY BOB : “Gam! ’Ow kin I remimber me
old woman? She pegged out six monce afore
I was born!”
a strange, ghostly figure took gruel near the Are
quite regularly, and melted away.
The hig, awkward fellow was lonely perhaps,
hut then they had been nearly forty years together
—forty years —and he had no other tie.
He saw scarcely anybody. Once every week his
rations were left in the hut; sometimes at long
intervals he met a swaggy in the bush and sat or
walked with him a while, talking in his disjointed
way. These were the events by which he counted
time, and meanwhile the dust of about a year
gathered on his pen, which probably would never
have been used again but for one circumstance.
That circumstance wore a black dress, not over-
long, and hair of reddish tint.
She appeared to Jock first one Monday morning
just after he had turned the sheep out, and he had
barely time on that occasion to take his two dogs
by their collars and drop into the bracken fern out
of sight before she passed quite close.
The incident, small as it was, gave Jock a new
impetus. It might have been hereditary tendency
again, for the probability is his father before him
had been married, or maybe it was merely in-
stinct. At all
events that little
glimpse of black
skirt rustling the
ferns turned the
shepherd’s mind
towards matri-
mony, and for an
hour after the
girl passed he sat
on a log, look-
ing up the hill
where she had
gone.
. Then he tied
the dogs up,
hung his dinner-
bag on a hough,
and set off over
the hill. When
he got back, the
sheep had wan-
dered out of
sight and it was
afternoon, but
.T ock was radiant.
“Washing at
Thale’s,” he mut-
tered to himself,
untying the dogs;
“ must pass this
way homeagain,”
and, glancing
over his sho"l-
-der from time i o
time, he hurried iluough
the bush and brought the
sheep back, still muttering
—“ Must pass this way.”
It was dark, however, when she did pass that
way, and the shepherd and his sheep had gone.
Next day he was there, though and the t ext,
and every day till the following Monday. Then
she came again just as she had done befo: c. but
most unexpectedly, and Jock ducked out of sight
in a second. He had intended saying something
to her this time, only she came on him so suddenly
l,e couldn’t think what it was until she passed.
Then he rushed out behind her and shouted :
“Hello there !”
No doubt, to give him his due, he would have
said more than this if the girl had given him any
encouragement, or even time, hut she didn’t.
She simply fled as hard as she could. This
move on her part upset Jock’s calculations alto-
gether, still he concluded that it was a perfectly
legitimate act in a game of which every move is
fair, so he gave chase. But he had no chance at
all; he was too fat.
Jock wasn’t accustomed to violent exertion, and,
sitt'rg on a log some little time afterwards, could
see plainly enough that there were drawbacks to
this style of com ting, and as a natural consequence
he decided that future communications should be
written. That’s how the pen came to be used
again.
It was a few days before he had a suitable letter
written. Every nivht he composed a fresh one,
till he got the happy inspiration ; then one morn-
ing he marked in big letters along the top of the
screed, “ Notis,” and an hour or so afterwards
Jock was tacking his love-letter to a tree.
“ Ought to see that!” he said, aloud, eyeing the
paper critically and scratching his head, “ Every-
thin’ splendid ! ‘Bed’ rhymes with ‘red,’ and
‘marriage’ with ‘ porridge;’ and then the finish,
‘ ewes trooly J Condon ’ ! ’Stonish ’er, that will —
fetch’er straight away,” and Jock went off through
the bush like a man who has set a good trap and
can afford to wait events. Nor had he long to
wait ; when he called again on his way home with
the sheep there was a message sure enough,
written in charcoal across the face of his.
Jock’s heart beat high in anticipation as he
spelled the words slowly, but the message turned
out to be rather an unimportant one after all. It
was merely an order, in fact, to “ put his head in
a bag.” The shepherd stood contemplating this
with somewhat of a pained look, when his dogs
barked, and almost at the same moment a girlish
voice said:
“ Good evening, Mr. Condon. Don’t run away ! ”
—for Jock looked a bit scared and didn’t answer.
“I suppose that was intended for me?” she
continued, coming close to him and jerking her
thumb in the direction of the tree.
“Well, yaas.”
“Nice way, I’m sure, to address a young lady.
Why didn’t you put it in an envelope ? ”
“Didn’t know yer name,” said Jock, edging
away a yard or two.
The girl’s laugh ran < through the trees.
“Didn’t know my mine ! Why, I’ve known
you since I was that big. Don’t you remember
coming to our place a long long time ago for a
pup ? ”
“He’s dead,” said Jock. “Snake bit him;
had worms bad, too. ”
“ Well, you know who I am now, don’t you ? ”
“ Yaas then, as if following up a pleasant line
of thought, “ He was awful poor, he was, w’en the
snake bit him.”
Jock was never happier in his life.
“Oh, never mind that!” she said. “See, it’s
getting late. The sun will be down in a few
minutes. You wanted to say something to me,
didn’t you ? ”
“ It’s there,” and he pointed, grinning, to the
placard on the tree.
The girl pulled the paper down and read it
through again slowly, while Jock shuffled about.
There were only the two of them there, in that
bush, and night was closing in.
“Well,” she said presently, folding the paper
and putting it in her pocket; “ you want to marry
me. Is that it ? ”
Jock grinned and shuffled still more. “It’s all
there. It’s writ.”
“So I see.” Then she thought for about a
minute and continued; “ But it takes money, you
know, ”
“ I’ve got it,” said Jock, feeling brave enough
almost to put his arm round her.
“ How much have you got? ”
“Nevermind. I’ve got it.”
A SIDE-LIGHT ON THE BREAKER'S ART.
LAFY JANE: “ Oh, dear! Football?”
LORD HENY: “No; amateur horse breaker!”
“Thirty pounds l ”
“ More’n that.”
“ Fifty ?—a hundred? ”
‘l’ve got it'”
“In a bank ? ”
“ No : hid.”
“ Well, I’ll think ir. over,” the girl said. “ See
you here o-morrow afternoon.’’
“ To-mi rrow,” Jock repeated after her. Then
when she had gone about fifty yards he called
out:
“ I say, will yer have me ? ”
“ I’ll see,” and so she disappeared.
The shep-
herd didn’t
sleep that
night from
sheer happi-
ne s. He got
up about mid-
night, an d,
only partly
dressed, stole
softly out into
the darkness
and down into
the gully below
thehut. When
he came back
he bore two
bags, and then,
behind a bolt-
ed door,in the
light of a
slush-lamp, ho
e nptied them
and counted
again the re-
sult of his
father’s saving
and his o -n.
It was nearly
da ybre'ak
when the haws
were returned
to thei- hi ding-
place.
Thoti lcame
again as she
promised, and
he was wait-
ing.
“I think I
will agree,”
she said.
“Then >on
will have me?”
he asked,
eagerly
“ I think so.
But what ab-
out a house ?”
Jock hadn’t
thought of
that at all.
“Of course,”
she went on,
noting his
blank look, “ I
can't go to live
in that miser-
able old hut
of yours —not
without a lot
of improve-
ment anyway,
and furniture
Have you got
any furni-
ture?”
“ Making a
bed now, ” said
Jock. He had,
in fact, started
to build the
uprights of it that morning.
She laughed. “But there will be a lot of things
wanted, you silly man. It’s no use you will ha\ o
to spend money.’’
“ How much?”
The girl mentioned a sum which she thought
would cover the necessary work. Jock winced. „
“ Better leave it to me, if you intend to do it,”
she said. X know what’s best to get.
“ Will it take all that ? ” he asked.
“Not a penny less. Why, there’s pots, and
pans and tubs —no end of things to buy- (l
Then, seeing his wavering look, she added, Ut
course I’ll go to the city myself and get them as
cheap as I can. Do you think I’m worth it?
Jock was still considering tha,t point, so he
simplv said, “ Books like rain to-night.
However, the upshot of it was that a few days
later the shepherd paid the price.
“ Whi e I’m away,’ she said, ‘ you put a fence
round the place and clean out that hole in the
stilly. v
Jock cleaned the well out in very little time, but
the fence t iok longer, and he had already been
nearly three weeks at it when it occurred to him
that it was about time
his bride - elect came
back.
Then he grew uneasy.
So one night there was
a timid knock at old Bob Johnson’s door away
down in the township.
“ Who is it? ” said Boh himself, as he opened the
door and looked into the darkness,
“ Is the gal in—her with the red hair ? ” was the
response.
“ Why, is that you, Jock ? Come inside, man.
No, Maggie, she’s gone to Melbourne this fort-
night since. Took a situation there.”
J ock turned from the door.
“ She —she —the dog got bit with a snake,” he
said, and hurried away into the night.
DARGO.
THE SPINKSIAN PARADOX.
SPINKS (“successful" candidate—12 a m.): "Radish an gentlemens
— hi c —again I saysh if you support me you will have
Pro’bition ! ”
Comrades.
(After Whitman.)
[FOR THE BULLTIN]
Attend, camarados, while I sing you the song of
mateship in Bananaland !
Lo ! I will sing of skies of brass and a soil parched
as the brimstone'floors of Sheol.
Of comrades stiff as a crutch, dry as a poisoned
dingo, numerous as the flies on the hat of a
Flinders sundowner and infinitely more varie-
gated ;
Of gruesome grog, of baneful beer, of weird and
wondrous whisky ;
Of the shanty-keeper who knows everyone and
sees everything, of the policeman who never
sees anything at all ;
Of such and such-like do I sing.
T will sing of Hoo-ki-lah the Smellful, his arts so
quaint and hellful, his bed on the banana-
box, bis “fattee white gel,” his quaint and
curiously-scented eabbagee, his admiration for
the fair sex as expressed in his soulful ejacu-
lation of “ Welly ni ! ”
(Embrace me speedily, camarados !)
A song, too, for the Jap, the little brown man—
also more particularly for the little brown
woman ; a paean likewise in praise of the
peripatetic Hindoo pedlar and our fragrant
compatriot ‘ the Blitish subjek floom Hong
Kong ! ”
(/ embrace you also, camarados —strictly in im-
agination. )
I will sing also of Tommy Tanna, his nose-rings,
his bracelets, his baleful island-club, his Sun-
day hymns, his Monday murders in the man-
grove thicket, his “ GloryVbe-to-God-book ! ”
(Thy hand, 0 cannibal camarado, and lover of the
lono-piy !)
And so shall I weld you, O festive Mongolians,
into a great and glorious nation; diverse, it is
true, in breed and color, but united by a
sublime devotion to dirt and barbarism and a
common undying hatred to soap and water !
(Embrace me, camarados, while I hold my nose !)
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or at least to arrest disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa plays an important part,
acting solely as a first-class nourishing food—it
strengthens the spstem to resist, oppose, and over-
come the attacks of disease. You’ll hear someone
say, “ So-and-so has a strong constitution ; fol-
low that up and you’!! find that So-and-so follows
the golden rule of being temperate in all things,
and pays attention to diet and exercise. Does he
or she keep up this strong' constitution by taking
medicine or swallowing pills ? No indeed ! They
have discovered that prevention is better than cure.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a means m the hands
of everyone to build up and maintain a sound con-
stitution, which enables its possessor to travel nis
life’s iourney without the aches and pains which
are in many cases preventable. Thus we come
round again to common-sense based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney-
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.


Idylls of the Turf.
‘UNDER TWO WHIPS”: A DISQUALI-
FIED JOCKEY’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ifou see, the thing was this way —there was me,
That rode Panoppoly, the Splendor mare,
And Ikey Chambers on the Iron Dook,
And Smith, the half-caste rider, on Regret,
And that long bloke from Wagga—him that rode
Veronikew, the Snowy River horse.
Well, none of them had chances—hot a chance
Among the lot, unless the rest fell dead
Or wasn’t trying—for a blind man’s dog
Could see Enchantress was a certain cop,
And all the books was layin’ six to four.
They brought her out to show our lot the road,
Or so they said; but, then, Gord’s truth! you
know,
You can’t believe ’em, though they took an oath
On forty Bibles that they’d tell the truth.
But, anyhow, an amateur was up
On this Enchantress, and so Ike and me
We thought that we might frighten him a bit
By asking if he minded riding rough—
“ Oh, not at all,” says he, “ oh, not at all.
I learnt at Robbo Park, and if it comes
To bump’ing I’m your Moses ! Strike me blue !”
Says he, “ I’ll bump you over either rail,'
The inside rail or outside —which you choose
Is good enough for me ” —which settled Ike;
For he was shaky since he near got killed
From being sent a buster on the rail,
When some chap bumped his horse and fetched
him down
At Silly Bridge, so Ikey thought it best
To leave this bloke alone, and I agreed.
So all the books was layin’ six to four
Against the favorite, and the amateur
Was walking this Enchantress up and down,
And me and Smithy backed him ; for we thought
We might as well get something for ourselves,
Because we knew our horses couldn’t win.
But Ikey wouldn’t back him for a bob;
Because he said he reckoned he was stiff,
And all the books was layin’ six to four.
Well, anyhow, before the start, the'news
Got round that this here amateur was stiff,
And our good stuff was blued, and all .the books
Was in it, and the prices lengthened out,
And every book was bursting of his throat,
And laying five to one the favorite.
So there was we that couldn’t win ourselves,
And this here amateur that wouldn’t try,
And all the books was laying five to one.
So Smithy says to me, “You take a hold
Of that there moke of yours, and round the turn
Come up behind Enchantress with the whip
And let her have it; that long bloke and me
Will wait ahead, and when she comes to us
We’ll pass heron and belt her down the straight,
And Ike’ll flog her home, because his boss
Is judge and steward, and the Lord knows what,
And so he won’t be touched—and, as for us,
We’ll swear we only hit her by mistake ! ”
And all the books was laying five to one.
Well, off we went, and cornin’ to the turn
I saw the amateur was holding back
And poking into every hole he could
To get her blocked, and so I pulled behind
And drew the whip and dropped it on the mare—
I let her have it twice, and then she shot
Ahead of me, and Smithy opened out
And let her up beside him on the rails,
And kept her there a-beltin’ her like smoke
Until she struggled past him pullin’ hard
And caine to Ike ; but Ikey drew his whip
And hit her on the nose and sent her back
And won the race himself—for, after all,
It seems he had a fiver on The Dook
And never told us, so our stuff was lost.
And then they had us up for ridin’ foul,
And warned us off the tracks for twelve months
each,
To get our livin’ any way we could ;
But Ikey wasn’t touched, because his boss
Was judge and steward and the Lord knows what.
But, Mister —if you’ll lend us half-a-crown,
I know three certain winners at the Park —
Three certain cops as no one knows but me ;
And—thank you, Mister, come an’ have a beer
(I always like a beer about this time) . . .
Well, so long, Mister, till we meet again.
THE BANJO.
HE KNEW WHERE TO FIND IT.
C YOLISTE (hill climbing): “ Mister, this road has been rising for the last mile or so; ho it
far does it go before I’ll find a drop? ”
M ISTER: “ Oh, about half-a-mile on you’ll come on to Casey’s pub!”
Two “Characters”: an Incident.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was writing when she entered the room, and
when she spoke he answered carelessly—thought-
lessly. She flamed into passion, and smacked his
face. He froze. The worst passion is cold
passion.
“ The other cheek,” he said, calmly, and turned
it. She struck again, promptly and with vigor.
Then he rose, and they stood looking at each other
for a full half-minute ; his face deadly white, ex-
cept in two places, her’s as red as fire : then her
eyes fell. “I am writing a letter,' he said.
“ Please do not disturb me again.”
She left the room. He went on with his letter.
In five minutes she was back again, beside him.
“I am awfully sorry, Harry,” she said. ‘‘For-
give me, Harry ; I didn’t know what I was
doing.”
He wrote on, calmly.
“ I was frightfully angry, Harry.”
He scratched out a word, bit his pen, and
started again. She knelt down beside his chair,
her pretty face as white now as his had been ; her
eyes full of sorrow and fear.
“ Hit me, Harry! ”
He started a new paragraph.
“ Harry, forgive me !” And when he made no
answer she jolted his right elbow; his nib
crossed, made a hole in the paper, scattered black
dots of varying size picturesquely over the page.
He changed his nib, got a new sheet, and started
to copy.
“ Won’t you forgive me, Harry? ”
He took no notice.
“ Please, Harry ; please ! ”
“ Can’t you see I’m busy ? ’-’ he said at last.
She rose from her knees and —hit him again.
A.nd he went on writing ; finished the letter,
addressed an envelope, closed it, stamped it, laid
down his pen and looked up.
Her hands hung listlessly by her side ; her head
hung very low, and two bright tears were racing
down her cheeks. There were many little splashes
on the oilcloth at her feet.
Rain melts ice. He stood up, raised her head
gently, and kissed her on the lips. In a moment
her arms were about his neck ; the last tears fell
on his coat.
“ Have you forgiven me, Harry ? ” she said.
“Yes, child.”
“ Really and truly ? ”
“ Really and truly.”
“Will you forget that I hit you ? ”
“Yes, I will forget.”
And she thought he would.
A man like that !
N.S.W.
A. G. WOOD.
"RIDERLESS."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A broken bridle trailing ,
A saddle scratched and scarred —
And Brown Bee at the railing
That rings the station yard ;
No stockmam, sits astride her,
But, by those flanks afoam,
Wild terror was the rider
That lashed the good mare home.
She snorts across the moonlight
Through nostrils red and wide —
The challenge of the unbacked colt
To those who dare to ride ;
She snorts across the moonlight
Through nostrils wide and red —
The terror of a dumb beast
That has looked upon the dead.
His saddle and his bridle
We’ve softly laid aside,
We’ll leave the rough gear idle
Till he comes back to ride ; —•
Our eyes are to the ranges,
And when the dawning pales
The brown mare stands and whinnies
With her lean head on the rails.
WILL. H. OGILVIE.
The Voice of the Child.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No, she hadn’t been hasty. She was—yes, she
was sure of it. Why, he had deceived her about
everything that was of importance to her. How
he had lied ! Yet she could have put up with
that if all his professed sympathy with her inter-
ests had not been hollow pretence.
“I talked of Burne-Jones last night,” she said,
“ and he sneered at me. ‘Oh, that is interesting! ’
he said. ‘Now give us some Browning.’” She
was certain they were sneers.
Now, Ashton- But she hadn’t married Ash-
ton. She had only married Barfield. Was tied
to Barfield, at least.
He might, he had said, drop in to-night. That
meant, she knew, that he would drop in. How
well they seemed to understand one another —
already. Was there really anything in the theory
of affinities ?
She sat for several minutes thus entertaining
herself, and was more than ever satisfied that she
was very much wronged. She sighed as often and
as deeply as such a wronged woman should, and
finally was so satisfied about the matter that she
longed for a “good cry.”
“ Bah ! ” She was disgusted—with the woman
that wanted to cry. That was not the woman,of
spirit and determination that she flattered herself
Ruth Barfield was. She looked at the clock,
because to study the time seemed the most busi-
ness-like thing she could think of at the moment,
and went in to her room.
What sights her frocks were ! She had been
trying to please Barfield—to conform to Barfield’s
tastes. Barfield’s tastes ! She sneered now.
Some women, most women, couldn’t sneer. And
they icouldn’t sneer at their husbands. They
daren’t!
Here was one, though; a tailor-made gown.
She always had liked it. She hadn’t worn it for
18 months ; not since poor little
But she must not think of that just at that
moment. It always made her feel good—and
miserable.
* * * *
“ A man, Mr. Ashton, can always have con-
genial surroundings. He can, at any rate, move
until he finds them ; and there must be some
pleasure even in the search. But what would
they say of a woman who ”
“ Ah, yes, but —I beg your pardon. Well, I
was going to say that a woman can command con-
genial surroundings to come to her.”
“And feel the surroundings that are with her,
and that she can’t change, more odious because for
a few minutes now and then the surroundings that
come to her are congenial! ”
Her look, though, carried her further than her
tongue.
“ Poor little woman ! ”
“ No, no ; you mustn’t sympathise with me ;
you mustn’t even pity me. But —it is hard some-
times. ”
The tears in her voice brought him to her side at
once ; and she let him smooth her hair.
How gentle he was ! That was still in her mind
when she said, after a long pause—
“ He boasts that he is happiest now when he is
on one of his wretched trading boats, busy driving
a bargain with a storekeeper or—or someone. He
brings that atmosphere here, and—oh, it stifles
me ! ”
Ashton was smoothing her hair again ; for the
rest, he only repeated, but more softly, as he drew
her head to his shoulder, “ Poor little woman 1 ”
* • * *
She turned her face from his to hide the shame
of her still-untold surrender.
The sobs were coming. She covered her eyes
with one hand, and struggled to reach her pocket
with the other. The tears had reached her eyes,
and the hand struggled more desperately. He
turned her face in his hands, and kissed the tears
away. But still they flowed. At last her fingers
caught the handkerchief, and she snatched it out.
Both started a little. For something fell, and
rolled, tinkling, across the floor.
A tiny rattle—a baby’s first toy.
She sprang to her feet, and, turning her back
upon him, hid her face against the couch, and
cried pitifully.
“ Ruth, what ”
“Leave me, leave, me. Oh, go away—now ! ”
He put his hand upon her shoulder, and she
threw it hotly away.
“ Do, do leave me ! ”
He went towards the door after a few seconds
of irresolution ; and impatiently kicked the stupid
thing out of his way.
“ You brute ! ”
She faced him, springing to her feet. Her tears
had been in a moment dried by the heat of anger.
“ You selfish, sneaking coward ! ” she hissed.
* * .* *
When Barfield came home she was still crying
over the toy.
“I took out the dress,” she told him, “and
found this in the pocket. Little Dot must have
slipped it in a day or two before she died, for I
haven’t worn the gown since—l couldn’t.”
“Poor little woman,” he said.
He smoothed her hair, too ; and as she looked
up into his face presently she saw that there were
tears in his eyes as well.
P.
Mining Maxims.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Truth is not in the well, she is in the stopes.
Legal managers are known by the companies
that keep them.
God is in Heaven, hut the Underground Boss
is always with us.
The claws of the wild cat dig the deepest
wrinkles.
There is often move in a mine than appears on
the surface.
Herrings are salted when we wish to keep them.
It is different w ith gold-mines,
If you don’t inve tigate. you’ll never accumu-
late.
An old dog for a hard lode.
A “ stick ” in time saves nine.
Pry before you buy.
By their shoots ye shall know them.
Experts’ reports are ex-parte reports
An ounce on the plates is worth two in the lode.
A wild cat always finds its way Home.
A share-broker, like an editor, should have no
friends. i
The investor must ignore the printing, and
study the “ plates.”
Many are “ called ” but few are chosen
What goes up must come down.
A good “ retort ” turneth away wrath.
The “face” is the index of the mine. “My
face is my fortune, sir, she said.”
Vic.
SLLAS SNELL.


A Box of Dead Roses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old lady was a most amusing creature, and
she had a past which was a record amongst pasts.
Only that she was rich enough to buy the whole
district, its “society” would have “cut ” her long
ago ; as it was they only talked about her with
meaning looks and whispered condemnation. At
least the generation to which she belonged did
that; the younger one only looked and wondered.
Bent with rheumatism, bushy-browed, fierce-
eyed and hard-featured—there remained no trace
of the beauty and charm which —so report said—
had sent more than one good man to the devil.
On sunny days she would have her chair moved
on to the generously-built vine-sheltered verandah.
She liked to see what was going on, and she said
that in Australia most things happened on veran-
dahs. This particular one had been planned and
built in early pioneering days, and had, no doubt,
Sfeen many ups and downs of varied incident.
One could listen to her by the hour when she
was in the vein for remembering pages from
her own life or from other lawless lives of early
days, when all country west of the station was
unknown Australia. Like most old people, she
was given to repetition, but she told me a story
once which neither I nor anyone else could ever
induce her to tell again.
It was about a young wife—the most innocent
of brides, who thought the world of her husband,
and had no wish or look for other men. Yet the
house was full of other men in those days, and they
all gave thoughts or looks, more or less, to the pret-
tiest woman in the district. Every evening she
used to stand at her bedroom-door, looking along
the verandah, until she saw her husband returning
from his work ; and every evening he brought her
a rose from the big bush by the steps—that was
during the first months of her marriage. Next
year, the rose-bush bore as abundantly as ever,
but the man often forgot to pick a flower for her;
and after a time he forgot altogether.
The young wife was painfully ideal and long-
suffering, and never gave him a word of reproach ;
she was still so much in love with him that she
was shy, and blushed' like a girl when he came
near her unexpectedly. “ Fancy ; after two years
of married life ! ” And the old lady smiled
wickedly, and continued—
“ She was tired one night, and went to bed early,
leaving her husband smoking and reading in the
dining-room; but it was so hot that she presently
got up, threw on a gown, and strolled along the
verandah in the shadow -for a breath of cool air.
The sultriness of the air brought out the strongest
scent of the moonflowers. Just there, at the cor-
ner near the rose-bush, she saw her husband with
his arms round a woman, kissing her lips Over and
over again—they were full, very red lips, such as
men like to kiss.
“ The woman was one of the housemaids—the
soft-voiced, self-contained, velvet-footed one who
usually brought in the tray for supper, and whose
eyes never left the floor as she did so—a girl who
seemed to have no thought beyond her duties.
“The wife heard enough to show her that the
woman had thoughts for many things besides—
enough to tell her that those kisses were not the
first by any means ; that the man’s life had been a
long lie, except, perhaps, during the very early
days of marriage. She liked to think that he was
all hers then. A delusion also, possibly—but a
harmless one.
“As it was, she stole off to bed without saying
a word. I call that a ‘ verandah tragedy, ’ my
dear, because her whole nature changed in a few
moments. Not that there was much to notice one
way or the other at first—except that she said she
could not bear the scent of the moonflower and
had the creeper taken up at the roots. She did
not even send away the housemaid. Why should
she ? But things were a great deal more pleasant
for the ‘ other men ’ afterwards—a great deal, my
dear. She used to sing and play to them, and
dance with them, and flirt with them, and fill the
house with visitors and so on—in fact, she was a
beauty, and had only just awakened to a knowledge
of her power. You see, the station and money
belonged to her; so she was freer than most wives.
“There was the baby, of course—a lovely, soft-
faced little thing that used to take its mid-day
sleep in a string hammock, swung up there by the
trellis. She was fond of the child—yet, when it
died and was buried by the lagoon in the garden,
she used to sit dry-eyed, looking at the hammock
that swung loosely in every breeze without its
accustomed burden. She even said she was not
sorry—because the boy might have grown up to
break some woman’s heart, and the world was well
rid of the breed. Perhaps it was best so; though
—looking at the other side of the question—he
might have lived to blush for his mother.
“ One day her husband was brought in, dead—
kicked by the horse he was trying to catch in the
yard. They carried him straight up the verandah
to the big spare-room, and the blood was dripping,
dripping all the way.
“She was a tidy, methodical woman always, and
she sent for the housemaid—-the Velvet-footed one
—and bade her wa.sh the boards. The girl had a
wonderful power-of self-command usually, yet, at
sight of that blood, she shivered and trembled
like one with the palsy. Sentimental people said
the wife was perfectly inhuman to think of the
state of her verandah at such a time—and, of
course, a kind friend told her. She laughed as
she said, ‘No ! I am not heart-broken. I went
through that experience two years ago.’ .
“ Well, my dear ” (and the old lady’s voice
sounded a little tired), “she lived a long, long life,
and rather a varied and interesting one, from an
point of view, at any rate, d often sit
and think of her and of many things which hap-
pened on this old verandah, but of late years I
forget a great deal. I like best to remember the
days when the young wife used to stand listening,
listening for her husband’s step—the sweetest
music in the world to her.
“ No doubt she was an arrant little fool and bored
him to death. I think, now, that he was no worse
than the majority of men: a clever, interesting
woman could have managed him. She became
all that afterwards—for other men —but, as I said
before, she was a totally different woman. Live
every inch of your life, my dear,” finished the old
lady, impressively. “ One life, one love ! —the idea
is perfectly absurd.”
Two years later I saw the old lady again—
feebler, worn in body and mind. She still sat in
sunny weather on the verandah, but now she
always had a little cardboard box on her lap,
caressing it with her withered fingers.
“Look, my dear,” she said, “this box is full of
dead rose-leaves—they all came off that bush by
the corner, years ago. Young people are so care-
less and forgetful. I may die at any moment, and
unless I had it with me they would never remem-
ber to bury it in my grave. They are the dearest
things I possess ; the reason why they are so dear
I shall carry a secret to my grave also.”
The old lady had evidently forgotten she had
ever told me a story with roses in it. ~
Q.
ETHEL MILLS.
A Dreamer of Dreams.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The song-thrush loves the laurel,
The stone-chat haunts the broom,
But the seagull must have room
Where the white drift spins ashore
And the winds and waters quarrel
With the old hate evermore.
You clear with scythe or sabre
A pathway for your feet,
I move in meadow-sweet
By the side of silent streams,
And you are lord of labour
And I am serf of dreams.
You fill the red wine flagon
And drink and ride away
To the toil of each new day,
But I quaff till dawn be pale
To the knight or dame or dragon
Of a dream-spun fairy-tale.
You win your chosen maiden
With a bracelet for her wrist,
Lightly courted, lightly kissed,
She is yours for weal or woe ; '
But my heart goes sorrow-laden
Bor a dream-love long ago.
Let our pathways part for ever,
I am all content with mine—
For when lips are tired of wine,
As the long-dead dreamers tell, .
There are poppies by the river,
There is hemlock in the dell.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Some Sentiments.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world’s greatest sufferers are afflicted with.
Nervous Ability.
Love laughs at locks—especially wedlock.
The man who marries for money has at least a
reasonable defence.
Vanity covers a multitude of skins.
It is a man’s duty to stick to his colors, a
woman’s pleasure to change hers.
When a man cannot get the woman he loves, he
puts up with the woman who loves him.
Forgiveness is good business. It is easier to
bear your enemy than support your lawyer.
Nothing is impossible but the Ten Command-
ments.
All plain-women are sentimental. The pretty
ones have no need to imagine their amours.
The ideal wife never marries.
Woman prates of her virtues, man of his vices.
What hypocrites we are! It is the bride's
mother who weeps at the wedding.
Man is happy at the dinner-table, woman at the
dressing-table.
Few men can maintain an interesting conversa-
tion with a woman in the presence of her hus-
band.
Women have discovered the secret of perpetual
emotion.
An honest man is the noblest work of God, but
who knows when He may attempt an honest
woman ?
It was a fool, who never had dealings with a
Scotchman, that named Scotland the Land o’
“ Cakes.”
The man who keeps good whisky has many
friends. [To say this, is to exhaust the obvious. ]
Biography teaches us that a non-est man is the
noblest work of God.
Hell is made hot for the benefit of those who are
out in the cold on earth.
Original sin is the world’s greatest chestnut.
I have an idea that Adam ate the apple and
then God made woman.
Even if she have doubts about the weddings,
the girl believes that wedding-dresses are made in
heaven.
He is a lone man indeed whose sins have for-
saken him.
The millennium will come when we try to live
up to the standard we set for other men.
Emptiness is nearest to contentment.
We have all of us too little sympathy for the
poor man who has seen better nights.
A vicious deed may be the act of impulse, but
to return good for evil is cold malice.
It is better to be a rogue than to look like one.
Woman’s is not the gentler sex—only the gen-
teeler.
Vic.
E. DYSON.
“A Merry cnristmas to You All!”
Xmas Holidays Cannot be Enjoyed without Good Health. If you are Tired, Low-Spirited, Weak, try
|, Mi"n« PiNK PULS FOR PALE PEOPLE
They are a Magnificent and Permanent BLOOD TONIC, acting beneficially on the Heart, Nerves, and Spine.
THEY WILL GIVE YOU THE BEST OF HEALTH AND SPIRITS!
A Dainty Letter from a Dainty
Lady.
ONCE SHE WAS TIRED AND PALE.
NOW HER COMPLEXION IS PINK AND
PRETTY, EVEN IN THE SUMMER’S
HEAT.
AND SHE HAS BEEN MADE STRONG.
Miss Phyllis M. Green, of 34 Bay-street, Glebe,
writes to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. as
follows: — _ , ,
“ Dear Sirs,—Last summer I suffered very much
with pains in my head and chest. I was attended
constantly by a very clever doctor. I took his
medicine’until I was tired of it; and I tried
several other things, but I gradually became
worse. I could not eat; I got quite weak and
pale; and if I ever tried to sweep the floor I
would have to sit down several times before I
could finish it. It was a trouble for me to do any-
thing. If I walked up-stairs, I would have to sit
down when I got to the top, for a rest. I had not
the least color in my face or body, and p ople
used to say I was going into a decline. Mother
advised me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pilis for
Pale People, as she said I was very pale and they
might do me good. I bought some of them, and
two or three doses improved me wonderfully. I
took four boxes in all, and I am now a different
girl altogether. I have such a nice, pink com-
plexion, and am quite strong and healthy, and can
lo any work without feeling tired. My friends
O'.
WILLIAMS’
INK
ILLS
FOR
LE
and acquaintances ask me
what I took to make
such a wonderful change
in me, and I tell them
‘Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills.’ I will always sound
the praises of your pills.
I am a really good adver-
tisement for them, both in
town and country, as I
previously went inland for
a change for nine weeks,
but I came back worse.
Since April, when I started
to take Dr. Williams’
Pink, Pflls, I have never
been a day ill, and now I
am the picture of health,
thanks to your pills. I
feel it my duty to write
and thank you, and Twill
always remember you for
savingmylife.-Ever grate-
fully yours, Phyllis M.
Green.” Could we print . 1 '
daintier, prettier, or mo> -
sincere testimonial ?
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, complains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with headache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption. If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore health’s roses to the cheeks ; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of puberty, thus avoiding all chance of disease or early
decay.
■
■
■■w
■ S ■ mßtlllllSPrTiH
,\ i«3 Mm
.. ■■ >. ■ ■ ■
Will
■P l-£: '.VI := ; -s: " : :
n..
m
n
OM§
*
■
Wmm
a
IS
i ■
■
PSYCHE AT THE POOL.
Severe Headache and Chronic
Sleeplessness
Completely Banished.
A CASE OF VERY GREAT IMPORTANCE
TO MANY AUSTRALIANS.
Mb. Edwakd M ‘Manus, the popular proprietor
of the Bourke-street Turkish Baths, Melbourne,
which are under the distinguished patronage of
Lord and Lady Brassey, writes to us as follows :
“For about 15 years I have suffered extreme
agony from severe headaches and loss of sleep—
troubles which became almost unbearable in the
summer-time. I was in such a deplorable condi-
tion that I could hardly bear being spoken to while
suffering from these attacks, and frequently at
night I have risen from my bed and sought for
some spot where there was no noise. I have walked
away into some park to try and get quietness, as
any noise or bustle would increase the pains in
my head. Four months ago I was recommended
to try your pills by the medical practitioners who
came here for Turkish baths. I did so, and now
have pleasure in stating that your pills have cured
the headaches from which I suffered so acutely.
I consulted several medical men, they prescribed
for me, but I received no permanent relief from
their treatment. Many of my friends and cus-
tomers knew of my condition and the terrible
pain I suffered from. However, after taking four
boxes of your pills I began to notice an improve-
ment in my health, and I continued taking them,
with the result herein stated. My health is now
perfect. I have taken ten boxes altogether. Be-
fore my recovery I really tried all sorts of supposed
remedies, but without any good effects whatever.
But I am very confident that Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills have completely cured me. They are a re-
medy which I strongly recommend, for the pro-
prietors keep faith with the public. In considera-
tion of the marvellous benefit I have received, I
have much pleasure in allowing you to publish my
letter. I have been conducting these baths for
the last eight years, and my work is now a pleasure
instead of a trial, thanks to your pills, which I
have recommended my friends to take. I was
born in Ireland, County Roscommon, Athlone,
and am now 28 years of age.”
You yourself can be cured in the same way as
Mr. M‘Manus has been cured !
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure liver and kidney
troubles, rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, loss of
physical strength, neuralgia, anaemia, all female
irregularities, insomnia, debility, indigestion, sick
headaches, &c. Obtainable from all chemists and
dealers, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W., who will forward six boxes for
15s. 3d., or one box for 2s. 9d., post free. Send
"tamps or postal-note.


it
99
(BLACK BOTTLE)
Ii^jiSISSCY
%
m
me
i
J§
i
mwm
>*=
3L, yte
m
t
i
-_^.
yj
Vjo-y
-=^
ip
*
3=^
sr
ZfrL v
?v
f^Vv!
>AJ
it
*3
?)
'TV,
SHHKSPEIRE
AND
6 6
Let’s drink together, friendly.”
Henry IY., Act ~4~ Scene 2.
Whisky of the right sort, such as the “D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle), taken in the right way, is good
for body and mind—it preserves health, and is
often an invaluable remedy in disease.
THE WHISKY OE THE WISE.


em
Entirely at Your Service!
OSBORN & JERDAN,
Opticians, Electricians, and Mechanical Model Makers.
438
We have many articles especially appropriate for XlUdiS Presents,
and a glance over this page may lead to business. A New Catalogue
of Model Engines and all parts for making them, and also list of
many useful and sensible articles specially suitable for the season, may
be had by writing to
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite
Lassetter’s).
MAGIC . . .
LANTERNS
FOR THE HOUSE.
ranis m
No home where there are children should be
without a Magic Lantern, for it is impossible to
conceive anything else costing so little money that
can give such an immense amount of amusement.
We specially cater for this business, and have a
splendid line of Lanterns—the “ALADDIN” —
which, though perfect in every respect, are very
cheap, and show a beautifully clear, sharp picture.
They are stong, being made entirely of Russian
iron rivetted together, have first-class lenses and
specially - powerful kerosene lamps, whilst the
slides are particularly well-colored, and the assort-
ment of subjects just such as to delight the
children. There are five sizes.
post.
No. I—Aladdin,-with 12 slides (48 pic-
Our “EXHIBITION ” Lantern is a much more
elaborate and powerful instrument, and is suitable
either for the house or for public shows, and, with
the stock of slides we include, is without doubt
the best value ever offered in this way. The
Lantern itself is black japanned tin, is fitted with
4in. compound condensor, so that full-size slides
can be used, and lias a perfect 4-wick refulgent
lamp, capable of showing a picture clearly, over
10ft. in diameter. With it we include 100 Slides,
which can be selected on any subject wished, such
as Travel, Temperance, Humor, Pathos, etc., a
list of which can be had, or we will make a selec-
tion ourselves, and exchange any ones that may
not please. We include in the number some good
moving, mechanical ones ; also, Good Night, Wel-
come, &c., and LECTURE matter for each set.
PRICE, £5 f COMPLETE.
A Most Complete and Perfect Instrument.
MODEL.. .
STEAM ENGINES
Send for Catalogue.
These models are of English manufacture, and
are guaranteed to work well under steam, and to
be absolutely safe, each one being fitted with a
safety valve. They are very complete models,
and have Whistles, Brakes, Smoke Stacks, etc.
Most boys have a great liking for these things,
and few presents could give them greater pleasure.
We have them at a variety of prices, and will
quote a few. More information can be had by
sending for our catalogue (post free).
mi
IEVIATHAN
MODEL STEAM BOATS.
10s. 6d., 205., 30s.
“THE FURY,” a well-made Locomotive,
enamelled green, with brass name-plate, 6iin. long,
on 4 brass wheels. Price, 7s. 6d. —post, Bd.
“THE RAPID,” the same size, with Solid
Copper Boiler, Brass Bed Plate, etc. A very
pretty little engine, indeed. Price, 1(U. 6d.
“THE DOVER,” a great favorite. Made
entirely of Copper and Brass, 2 powerful Cylinders,
Steam Dome, 6 Wheels.
Price, 18s. —post, Is. 2d.
VERTICAL ENGINES, a special line. 3" Tin
Boiler, Brass Cylinder, Safety Valve, and Fly
Wheel. Price, 2s. each—post, 6d. These work
excellently; are wonderfully cheap.
AMATKUR . . .
PHOTOGRAPHIC
OUTFITS
• o 9
rm
m s
mmm mWßnHwi m
ii- j \3mmmm
m
The Student’s Outfit
(As Illustrated).
This is a very Cheap Set, yet marvellously well
made, and will do work that one would think im-
possible with such an inexpensive instrument. It
is made by Lancaster (a name known throughout
the world), of polished mahogany, with strong
cloth bellows folding into a small space; the
lens (the main point) is a very good one, and will
take portraits, groups, landscapes, fee. It has
folding tripod stand, and a double dark slide.
The Price, complete, is <£l 7s. 61. ; or we
supply a full kit, with dark-room lamp, plates,
chemicals, dishes, papers, and everything necessary
for turning out photographs, for <£2 25., in-
cluding full instructions. Takes pictures 4J x
inches.
HAND CAMERAS for Snap-shot Pictures.
We have just received the very latest, the
“POLO,” price £1 17s. 6d. It is the Best
and Simplest we have ever seen.
The “Tivoli” Outfits,
IN HALF-PLATE & WHOLE-PLATE
SIZES,
are the great sensation just now, and must astonish
anyone who knows the ordinary cost of a Good
Outfit. Listen what the set consists of, and
draw your own conclusions
(1) Camera, Mahogany, Leather Bellows, Double
Extension, and ever} 7 possible movement,
including Reversing Back.
(2) Rapid Rectilinear Lens, with Iris Dia-
phragm.
(3) Best Book-form Double Dark Slide.
(4) Three-fold Ash Tripod Stand.
(5) Thornton Pickard Shutter.
(6) Stiff Waterproof Case, with lock and key
and strap.
PRICE —Half-Plate Size £5 5 0
Whole-Plate Size 9 9 0
Have you ever heard of such a price before?
FIELD, RACE
AND
OPERA GLASSES,
SPECTACLES,
&0.,
&c.
Our “Stockman’s” Glass.
This is a new line we have just landed
for Christmas, and is a good example of
what a splendid glass can'now be made for
little cost. It is exceedingly powerful,
faultlessly made, and handsomely finished
in green .leather with nickel fittings, and
enclosed in solid buff leather sling case.
Price, <£l 10s.
For the Ladies we have dainty OPERA
GLASSES, ranging in price from 7s. fid.
upwards.
Good Glasses, plain black mounts, 7/G
~ fancy, black & gilt, 10/6
~ Mother o’ Pearl, 15/- upwards
We have a splendid stock, and are always
pleased to show, or will select best possible
value, for any country orders.
Purest Brazilian Pebbles.
For the Old Folks, a nice pair of Spectacles or
Eye-glasses should be a most acceptable present.
If it be possible for them to call, we can guarantee
to suit the sight perfectly ; or, by sending an old
glass we can match it, or will forward instructions
for self-testing.
SPECTACLES.
Good Steel Frames, pure Pebbles, per pair ss. Od.
Good Nickel Frames ~ ~ 7s. 6d.
EYEGLASSES (as Illustrated).
Best Solid Nickel Frames, purest Brazilian
Pebbles 10s. 6d.
lOct. Rolled Gold Spectacles or Eye-
glasses, 15s. and 17s. 6d.
This is the very latest; to all appearances it is
solid gold, and will wear like it, and will stand
any tests. The frames are beautifully made, and
the pebbles the purest procurable.
SOI" 1 ') GOLD SPECTACLES and
E EG LASSES, 255. to 355. Od.
MICROSCOPES.
We carry a good stock of these, at a great range
of prices, and can supply a good BOY'S MICRO-
SCOPE, magnifying 50 times, for (is. 6d.; or a
Tip-Top STUDENT’S INSTRUMENT for £5.
Shall be most happy to forward full particulars to
enquirers.
THERMOMETERS.— We keep the best
English makes for every class of work or trade.
For Brewers, Sugar-boilers, Lolly-makers, &c.
Chemicals and Clinicals, and Maximum and Mini-
mum Self-registering, &c.
BAROMETERS. —We have first-class, reli-
able Instruments in a great variety of fancy de-
signs specially suitable for presents.
FINALLY.—Our Stock is most complete and
up to date, and includes everything that a modern
first-class Optician should keep. We shall be
glad to receive a call.


Christmas Display of Watches, Jewellery & Silver-Plate
... IS THE . . .
Finest and Most Brilliant Exhibition in Australia.
For VARIETY and. QUALITY Isi XT3NTEQUA.LLED-
Our object is to give you* every satisfaction—whether in Town or Country.
c/>
0
©
CD
20/-
20/-
A. Saunders’
UNRIVALLED Short-wind, Keyless. NON-Magnetio Lever, 20s,
in black or nickel; perfect timekeeper ; stands hard riding and
knocking about; “will last your life.” A written guarantee
for 12 months. You cannot better it for double the price.
Other cheaper lines, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED BOOK OF WATCHES.
Pure Silver Lady’s Companion Set,
17s 6d. A Nioe Present.
apwaaagsw
mmmm tfm
New Floral Bar Brooch, 5s 6d
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
3s, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Isc. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s"6(1"; Extra Strong, 10s;
15c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. Saunders.
3 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 20s;
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
Pure Solid Silver-Top Cut
Glass Ladies' Puff-Box,
15s Gd.
Gold Locket, 255.
Silver, ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Puie Stiver . nor, Velvet-
back, 255. Latest style.
Pure Silver-Top Scent
Bottle, 11s Pel; Chased Top,
12s 6d. Splendid value.
&
A
9c. Buckle, 17s 6d; 15c., 30s.
9c. Solid Gold, 21a,
15c. Gold, 30s.
Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15u. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
15c. Gold, Pearls, Diamonds and Rubies, £lO.
15c. Gold Heart.'and Arrow Brooch, Diamonds and
Rubies, £3 5s ; 3 Diamonds, £4.
A. Saunders.
15c. Golfl Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires,
ot her styles,
8s Cd, 5s 6d, 7« 6d, 10s.
A. Saunders.
3 Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 10s 6d.
A. Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch (Red,
Blue, and White Stones), 12s 6d.
8
Wcj\
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
Our New Chain Bell and Pin, 7s 6d.
Small size, ss.
Send for our
Complete
Book of
Jewellery.
A. S lunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s ; 15c., t 2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
A. Saunders.
Child’s Gold Bracelet, any name, 12s 6d.
2 Amethyst Heart and Bird and Chain
Gold Brooch, 15s.
9c. Gold Twin Love Birds, 10s 6d, 13s 6d ; 15e.
Gold 20s; 15c. Gold, set with pure White Pearls,
’ ' 32s 6d, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed.
Try us.
Do Call
or Send
for
List.
o*
9o
SAUNDERS’
Strong Reliable English Levers.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest,
and best time-keepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, 14 10s, £5, £5 10s,
£'6 £7 t 8 3 4 5 and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or
Ke'vless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d, 11s 6d,
12s 6df, 15s, 16s (id. Extra quality, 20s; guaranteed, bold, £lO, ±l2 10s,
£l5, ±2O. Direct Agents for Rotherhams and Waltham Levers. Send for
Price List. ~ _ . ,
The 19fch Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases, £4 4s, 15 years’guarantee;
ditto 14c Gold, patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the same strength
£3O watch.” Ladies’, “ beautifully ornamented, sa
a '• , v
Send for Illustrated Price Book of M atches.
, same price.”
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
255, 355, £2 ss, £3;
extra, £3 ss;
15c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£5, £6 ; with Key
Padlock, 10s extra.
All secured with
safety chains, and
in cases.
A. Saunders.
New Name Bracelet, 255. Any Name or Initials Free,
16c. Gold, £3 ; narrower, £2 and £2 10s.
Chased Links, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 40s.
was
m
m
9c. Gold, Set Red or Blue
Stone, 20s ;
15c. Gold, 355.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d ; 15c., 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
..
9c. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s Cd and 3s.
9c. Gold, 10s Cd ;
Plain, 12s 6d; 15c., 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
BEX
i’ure Diamond Hand
Rings,
15c., 30s ; 18c.. £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamond, £5 ss; Larger,
£6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
180. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double-cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send for
illustrations.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, Diamond,
2 Rubies and Sapphires, £2;
15c., Gold, 20s and 30s.
Anv Name.
9c. Gold', 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
mi
a®
mm
15c. Solid Gold, Diamonds
2 Red or Blue Stones, 255. ’
All
Articles
Post Free.
Watch
Repairs
Guaranteed
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £'6, £7, £B, £lO.
All guaranteed.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, 5 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
£ 4 4s, very strong'.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 15s and 17s tid, latest style.
2 Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £2.
A. Saunders.
15c. New Style Ivy Brooch, 255.
(US'
9
m
n
A. Saunders.
5 Heart Gold Orescent., 17s 6d.
Stone Set, 20s. Latest style.
Gold, Pure White Pearls, 10s Od.
Plain Bird, 8s (id.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Pure Diamond and Ruby, £2 10s.
Special value.
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold-mounted Boar’s Tusk, Chain,
and Bell, 15s 6d; without Bell and Chain, 10s 6d.
Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls
£3 ss; 5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, ' 5 10s, £G,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Price Illustrated Book.
£3, £3 10s,
£0 10s, £7,
Send for
POST
YOUR ORDERS TO
SAUNDERS,
G-uaraxiteed. tlx© Utmost Satisfaction.
815 OEORCtE ST., SYDNEY
(NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION).


be Glass
of FaSbioo
• Horderns
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY -
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn tennis, Ac,
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &c
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
—2
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to £3 3s.
XJSB
Spooler's
:ROYAL NAVY DRESSING
FDR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
DF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
Simffl'iililiiHiiiHllhhliiiMoiiuji!
ROYAL NAVAL
PR€SS!N<S,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of l«ime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO.,
MCeIL) o urne. „
ItHEI
!ea
iiSi 4 ” “ Common Sense
Drams ” relieve Deafness an~
Head Noises, where, medical ski 11
fails. The only Scientific Aura l
[Sound Conductor. Safe to wear>
jcomfortable, invisible, no (dan"
Igerous) wire or me tab attach"
inent. Recommended by physi"
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
' J. A. Chalmers, A-rent.
229 Collins-street, Mr nrne.
Where the ' Dead Men tie,
, Poems, by Baroroft Bgake ;
portrait, and 32 illustrations, 5s
and Other
with memoir,
\ ■ Wall Ogilvie’s charming volume of verse,
j “ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,” is now ready. .In
case of any local difficulty or delay in supply, the
best plan is to order'direct from The Bulletin,
enclosing 4s. 6d. in stamps or postal notes ; and
get the book by return post.
Alba : The King of Sydney Domain is a
man of caste. _He stands 6ft. in his bare soles :
his frock-coat is a miracle of string and patches.
We meet daily. He sits for hours under Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair with the sea-wind in his white
mane, his deep-set eyes fixed on the ships
that pass and go down. He will smoke
anything, and is a perfect glutton for matches
—I believe he swaps them for sheets of
brown paper—the blankets of the Domain. The
King has a past—he unfolded it yesterday in ex-
change for a match. “ I’ve been well off in me
time. I’ve lived on the fat, and drunk more
beer n ’ud float the Rile Harthur. When I git a.
soft thing I stick. Bast Xmas I sees a lady an’
her lirrle girl fiddlin’ wiv a line off the rocks yon-
der. Every time the lirrle girl gorra bite the lady
screamed wiv jiy. It was a warm afternoon ; rne ,
socks wuz dryin’ on the wall : I turned to fetch
em, an’ I hears the lady shout ’elp ! Next thing I
sees was the lirrle girl strugglin’ in the warrer. It
was a soft job : the warrer was terrible shaller, but
I made the best of it—pretended it was a mile
deep. I swimmed with the lirrle girl over me
arm ; one of me legs was on the bottom all the
time. The lady held me hand while the crowd
collected ninepence. But the lady took me home
in a keb—fine house it was, groom an’ kerridge
an’ a lawn as b'ig as the harbor. Don’t ask me
how I was treated. I used ter call on ’em reg’lar.
The blahky groom used ter nod ter me, an’ when
the dawg wanted ter bite me he says ‘ away to
Fer kennel yew stinkin’ ’ound ! ’ In the drawin’-
room I was Mr. Primrose. Lirrle Cissy—that
was her I fished out of the warrer wud
stand by me knees an’ call me her preserver.
‘ You’re a fine lirrle guyrl,’ sez I, ‘ an’ you’ll soon
be big enough ter fetch yer preserver some beer.’
I had ter break the beer gently cause they wuz
teetotal: but Lord, they overlooked it an’ the
groom was sent out fer the bottled stuff. Every
day I rolled up: never missed a meal. Arter-
wards I’d swagger inter the drawin’room wiv one
of Uncle George’s cigars between me teeth. Lirrle
Cissy was always waitin fer me—Cissy an’ her
lirrle dawg. I was a champion barnacle; yer
couldn’t shift me wiv a Nordenfeldt battery. At
last they got tired of me—dead tired. Nothin’
offensive was said, nothin’ that might hurt me
feelins. They tried in a hundred lirrle ways tef
choke me off. She hinted an’ hinted, but, Lord, I
used ter warm her up by picturin’ lirrle Cissy an’
me battlin’ against the crool rocks. By an’ by
she wouldn’t warm up at all. An lirrle Cissy wud
never come near me. I hung on. The blanky
groom got nasty. One Sunday I found the gate
locked. I climbed over wiv a heavy heart an
knocked at the front door. Nobody answered. I
knocked again. Somebody upstairs sez ‘go
away.’ ‘Don’t say that’ I sez. ‘Let me see
lirrle Cissy onct more.’ I folded me : arms an
waited. I leaned ’eavily against the verandah. I
heard a rustlin’ among the fernery; lirrle Cissy
peeped out. ‘Shall I sool the dawg on him
mamma?’ she sez. ‘Yes, dear,’ says mamma,
‘sool the dorg on him.’ I stood there heart- I
broken, an Cissy’s lirrle dawg came up an’ bit me.
I could ha’ kicked him over the blanky tank—but
I ler him bite me. Me heart was broke ”
CH hh
ROPRIETO
ILLS
DM FA
Lint if
IEDINBURG
a©
Trade
Companyl?
EDINBURGH. oufiflj
t?;""
Brink
Moderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ ‘ for the stomach ’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
[you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L
Painless Dentistry,
THE ....
[ondon Dental
Institute,
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S.‘D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Ley Minutely Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVEBT’S
CABBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped. Hands, Earache, .Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
TiARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Australia!? MtitCial
JUBILEE YEAR.
Established 1849.
ProVidcot Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves; and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at' 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £415,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706-
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, .Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send for Price List. !£&
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best ai\d Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sucsex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
IS Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
w.
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYA3MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this.l attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has ke't my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION , —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. JUSTICE MURRAY and Mrs. Murray both certify to the Curative
Properties of Rose’s, Celebrated Eye Lotion. Upon their recommendation
several obstinate cases of eye-complaints have been cured with the Lotion after
the failure of doctors’ treatment and the frequent use of other so-called remedies.
They give Mr. Rose full permission to use their name.
Sold, by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PROPRIETOR:
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAR—connected with Sydney
Exchange.
jjotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and-
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing: Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall ivill accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also,
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel,
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
Electric and Hot Salt
Fishing and Boating;
Plum
THB
‘ Plum’
ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
p ■ / Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
Price Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
W.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Mlanf Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
j If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
OuVOne-man Sulky, £5 ) 2-Spribg Sulkies, £7-; 3-Spring
J Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
' best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
I £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los, Ladies’Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and- every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
I HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
I forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE. —Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 16 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.


NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
IMPERIAL^
MAIL STEAMERS.
Four-Weekly Fast Service to England and the Continent, via Colombo, Naples and Genoa.
The Imperial Mail Steamers of the Company include in this Service four of the LARGEST and REST Equipped New TWIN-SCREW Steamers of the
World, each of approximately 11,000 tons register; which steamers, apart from their large tonnage, are remarkable for their splendid sea-going qualities. Their names
are as follows :
S.S. BARBAROSSA 10,767 tons.
S.S. KONIGIN LUISE 10,566 „
S.S. BREMEN " ... 10,525 tons.
S.S. FRIEDRICH DER GROSSE 10,531 „
NGrLISH spoken
on board.
Each vessel car-
*' ries Stewardesses
in all classes, and a
duly qualified Doctor,
whose services are gra-
tuitous.
The Lighting of the
steamers is entirely by
Electricity.
All State - rooms are
furni lied with toilet con-
veniences, and electric
bells are in communica-
tion with the Stewards’
department, thus ensur-
ing prompt service.
There are a great num-
ber of Bath-rooms, with
all kinds of douches.
Passengers can have
their liupn washed on
board during the voyage.
Luggage not wanted
in the cabin§> is placed
in a conveniently - situ-
ated baggage - room, to
which access can be had
at any time.
Passengers for Eng-
land, going overland
from Naples or Genoa,
can leave their heavy
luggage on board, and
receive same in South-
ampton.
Passengers are allowed
to stop over at all inter-
mediate ports, and to
continue voyage without
extra charge on any later
steamer, provided there
is room.
:
m
4
/
I
i
m
mm
m y*4
W4k
/ ■
■
WM.
„ "**
' i ■ - . •■-■■ T-'
': • ;
■
«
» 'Vfi
\
....
North German Lloyd Express Steamship KAISER WILHELM DER GROSSE.
THE RECORD-BREAKER AND LARGEST STEAMSHIP AFLOAT.
Tonnage, 14,349 tons; 28,000 horse-power. Average Speed across Atlantic, 22g knots ; Highest Speed, 26 knots; Highest Day’s Record, 580 miles,
ALL CABINS are
on upper deck and
promenade decks,
and are therefore
cool and airy.
Whilst the First-Class
appointments may fitly
be described as luxuri-
ous, the Second-Class is
thoroughly comfortable,
being much in advance
-of the old - fashioned
First-Class in days gone
by. There are state-
rooms of large dimen-
sions, several eabines-de-
luxe, Pullman’s, and a
suite of rooms, for which
special fares are charged.
It is the custom of the
N.GI.L. to berth two
fassengers only in each
'irst - Class cabin, al-
though, with few excep-
tions, every room will
readily accommodate
three or four passengers.
The cabins are unusually
spacious, containing, be-
sides the berths, a full-
length sofa, two folding
wash stands, and a ward-
robe.
Selected brands of
standard Wines and
Spirits are available at
moderate prices.
An up-to-date Library
for use of passengers is
on board.
PRESENT Total Tonnage of the N.G. LLOYD FLEET, 316,146 tons, with 301,540 h.p. Steamers building will increase total tonnage next year to 383,646 tons.
The N.G-. LLOYD, since being established in 1857, has safely transported OYER THE OCEANS more than 3,500,000 of passengers, and has gained the
highest reputation for SAFETY, SPEED, and COMFORT, the ACCOMMODATION and CUISINE being UNSURPASSED.
Through. Tickets at Reduced Rates are issued over the Company’s own extensive Lines to Europe, Asia, North and South America, East and
South Africa! Through Rates from Queensland, New Zealand, and Tasmania. Round-the-World Tours at Special Rates.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, First-Class, between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this Company or by the Railway Offices, are inter-
changeable for Return by Rail or Sea. For Full Particulars apply at the Company’s Office—
WEBER, LOHMANN & CO., Agents.
63 Exchange Corner, Pitt-st., Sydney.
Improved Ptinjpiog MacbiO^ry
■'
k:
r
..
Blake Vertical Sinking Pump.
timmtk
Can Only be Obtained from Makers of Undoubted Skill and Reputation.
The M BLAKE N
T« Built by such Makers, and its Record is UNRIVALLED.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX PUMPS,
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL,
PISTON and OTSIDE - PACKED
PLUNGER PATTERN;
FOR EVERY
POSSIBLE
PUMPING
PURPOSE;
in fact, there is no Pumping Proposition made,
which the “ BLAKE ” cannot take in hand.
Duplex Pumps
—FOR
ALL SITUATIONS and CONDITIONS
IN STOCK,
including Pumps specially made for
the Cyanide Treatment
of Ores.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
Blake Duplex Horizontal Steam Bump.
BLAKE PUMPS fitted Complete with BOILERS, PIPING, VALVES, &c/,
Suitable for Irrigation.
Specifications and Prices on application
E. F. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and
General Machinery
Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 BOURKE STREET.
Representatives
in WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. BARRE JOHNSTONE & CO., LEAKE STREET,
Representatives in NEW ZEALAND : JOHN BURNS & CO., AUCKLAND.
Representatives in NORTHERN QUEENSLAND : W. SAVAGE & CO.
FREMANTLE.


Christmas Presents. Aew Year Gifts.
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE,
No. 190.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s Cd j
16-ot., £llss ;
Silver, 4s Cid.
No. 137. •
0-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
9-ct. Gold, £1 ss;
15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 139.
oct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s Gd.
(p)
pm
m
No. 193.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s Cd ;
15-ct., £'l 10s ;
Silver, 4p.
No. ES6k 9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6rl.
No. 111.—New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 999.—9 c. Gold, - carl and Amethyst
Brooch, 15s 6d.
No. E 550. —9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s Od
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s Hd.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart),
10s 6d.
9-et. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
8 fine Diamonds,
18-ct. Gold, M 17s Cd.
m
: a
tesiS
u
4#
' No. 141.
ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
No. 39H.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork,
7in. long, 9s 6d.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
±1 12s 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, ±3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d
No 245.— Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4a.
15-ct.,
set Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond,’ 2 Rubies,
18-ct. Gold,
No. 215. '
0-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
lbs Cd.
No. 130.
9-cfc. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long,
Pearl Handle, 14s Od.
w
i
No. 285.—Finest Cut Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7s 6d.
No. S6l.—Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Cruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
No. 310.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish, 3iin. Ion?,
10s 6d.
S'
No. 265.—Medal.
9-c-t. Gold, £-1 10s ; 15-ot., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
1®
m
mi.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, Gin. long, 3s.
mi
No. 386.—Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6d.
No. 402. —Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entrde Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 334 in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to JBI Is.
No. 414.—Elegant Clock
6in. high, 17s 6cL
No. 417.
Elegant (lilt and Nickel Nau*
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, 8 .jin. high, £1 Is.
No. 369.
Elegant “ Queen Anne ” Electro-Silver Afternoon Tea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
e&Wfi pi
mm
□r'e
cirjgß*:
SSbb
Sees
mm
SESOO
rifloi
mamm
No. 364. —Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £i 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
! S*
No. 84721
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2
iilMHig
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (SO pages) Post Free.
character of. the goods, any of which will be
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


H crr RaSSn)£iSS€i)’£ Alfalioc Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaliue Pills completely curerl me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider .you are deserving of
success, which Ido most heartily wish you. \ ours c'S*" 6 "
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus :To Herr Rassmussen. h* eal
Sir,—l think it mv duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaliue Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I ha\e recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cuted
by their use. —Yours, R- A. LUCKIIAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Cooigardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaliue Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak .Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Cooigardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaliue Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. \\ ar-
oonga, writes that the Alfaliue Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgo'orlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kaigoorlie that the Alfaliue
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfal.ne Pills cured me, When all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mas. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the frst of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To llerr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through inrempet-ance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893/
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
1 am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
■eommenoed your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
unen. With many thanks. —1 am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
'To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
iPills completely cured me. Previous to . taking your
[Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and Ishall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
<on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
.testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
IRemeciies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The •Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A.—“ Herr Rassinussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.— “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen lias now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney'.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Deal- Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express mv thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. PI. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
(Hission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen lias devoted liis whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration’the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, arid that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Ddte Herbalist•
IMPORTANT
■ ■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
A/faline Remedies.
HERR R&SSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cared Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Livei and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia,
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
l ar o-e number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
and a
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RasSHIUSSeiL
whether you send to his Branches or to liis Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HanS RaSSmilSSeil,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“ H R., ox
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
ADVICE FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. Gd.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate a’.l Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy' is Purely Herbal and entirely' free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes,- clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cute
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Cnildren and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful f»r Beautifying ttie Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves. Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
' ,ll — riT "" HTTITITTTI T» TIdmATJ
Strengthening
By taking Herr Has sinus sen's -A-XjIDCTIES
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled tor all r(mnd
Xyasight, Improving ,h. Memory, BOO K!
PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Only
Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr H sl ss 11111 s s en 3 s Head Office :
AND important branches as follows
54*7 Georgre Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE
160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
.ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
XALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindel! s, Jeweller)
KANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


GOOD
BLOOD
Your heart beats over one hundred thou-
sand times each day. One hundred thousand
supplies of good or had blood to your brain.
Which is it ?
If bad, impure blood, then your brain aches.
You are troubled with drowsiness yet cannot
sleep; you are as tired in the morning as at
night; you have no nerve power; your food
does not seem to do you much good.
Stimulants, tonics, headache powders, can-
not cure you:, but
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
will. It makes the liver, kidneys, skin and
bowels perform their proper work. It re-
moves all impurities from the blood. And it
makes the blood rich in its life-giving prop-
erties.
For biliousness take Ayer’s Piles. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
D . S . IVJ A 1 R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring-, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2 6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
2 6 ; Staffs,'4/;; Cylinders, 3 ; 6. All work guaranteed
• 12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the infest modern tools and appliances necessary
for the exe mtidn of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, ft/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, y& per oz.
iVe are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigz^ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps (or full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country Order*
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and-Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ROYAL LOUNGE”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
- ings Made Up.
A -MUTANTS Engaged for the Country .
Dottles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cynicism is Egotism turned sour.
When a man has ceased to kiss his wife before
breakfast, Love has ended and Marriage begun.
Morals are an accident in man ; a necessity in
women. Women like making a virtue out of
necessity.
Women don’t altogether approve of a man com-
mitting murder, but they hate him making love to
another woman.
A man may sell his children’s comfort for beer,
but he would think himself dishonored if he failed
to share it with a pal.
A man.may carry off Ugliness with dignity. It
is a crime in women, punished by solitary confine-
ment.
Women spend more thought over personal
adornment than men. They need to !
A woman admires the cleverness of a man who
despises all women but herself. When a man
realises this he has powerful doubts about his
wisdom in one particular instance.
Marriage is a registry-office where the man always
insists on “ character,” and the woman trusts to
luck.
Any woman can make a man love her for three
months, but there is only one woman who can
make him love her for a life-time.
When a man sneers at women, it is like the fox.
and the grapes—with the difference that he has
eaten the grapes.
ONLYS.
The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths Alliance,
90 King-street, City, have a Xmas show of un-
rivalled novelties, selected by their expert buyers
in London and on the Continent. Visitors should
not fail to inspect the display ; they will be more
than pleased.* ; (
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page '
39 of this issue.* ;
A Novelty for a Christmas Present.
The Calcar |||atch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year, j
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
To purchasers of this Watch we will present, Free of
Charge, a solid Silver H.M. Gent’s Single or Double Chain.
Address-THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH 00. LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNS
CHLOROPyHE.
‘
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be-
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its‘general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
MICK SIMMONS.
♦
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
♦
All Sportiog Materials at Lowest Ctit Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS! S LANDED. T
BATS. —Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
~ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s 6d
~ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) ... ... 16s 6d
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s 6d
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) • ... 14s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
~ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod .. .
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
~ Full Size
TAN LUG GUARDS.—Youths’ ..
~ Men’s
~ Men’s Skeleton,.best gold cape
BA LLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
~ Duke's P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
- complete (-/ his is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICKET NET’S.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
5s 6d
7s, 7s 6d
9s 6d, 12s 6d
... 12s 6d
4s 6d
ss, 6s 6d
7s 9d, 9s 6d
... 10s 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
~ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
~ 'Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
~ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s Od
~ Dark and Sons’All-oane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
~ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson's, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
~ ~ Match, 5J40z.,15; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET .SETS.— Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 8,3, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
A.sfe loir
WHITE
HEATHER
WHISKY.
T>OOK OF NATURE
” —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POK, HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more-than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED*
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious MolL Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free ls : 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post. ,
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptamer'on, unexpurgated, French Stories, postFs.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s, A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
HOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor A 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate' One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is,
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
THifWiFE’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIBi ]Et>©jEiE!ELT JBJE!A!R,
Glieap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BY ROYA.L WARBAmT OF AFFOHffTMEKrT TO “THE QXJEEKT.
A&k for
Wb'Sky asd
‘Scbwcpps’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
Braody aod
‘Scbwcppc
SO PA WATER, &C-
-SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.PTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarral,
SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
!Jj|| I
i .
r*V"*
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL A WARR A”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
PUr wTP™ I Ip^°I?Sf , L 3ILVm ' X ’ EAD COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
br PRICES 1 AID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For .all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The, Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W
■ Y7/./J , ■


VICTORIAN RAILWAYS.
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR EXCURSIONS
(1898-99).
Summer Excursions.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS will be issued TO and FROM ALL STATIONS
(suburban excepted), and at the Central Booking Office, Flinders-street, Melbourne, from 17th
December till 3rd January, both days inclusive (Sundays excepted), available for return for one
calendar month from date of issue. The journey must be commenced on the date the ticket is
issued, but after a distance of 15 miles has been travelled the journey may be broken at the
discretion of the passenger. On tickets issued at Spencer-street and Prince’s Bridge stations
and at the Central Booking Office, Flinders-street, bearing dates from 17th till 27th December
inclusive, and from 28th December till 3rd January inclusive, the journey may be commenced
on any day during the respective period, and the tickets will be available for return till 27th
January or 4th February inclusive, as the case may be.
Seaside aijd Sippslaod Lakes
EXCURSIONS.
From 15th November, 1898, till 30th April, 1899, Seaside Excursion Tickets at Holiday Excursion
Fares will be issued at the principal stations to Geelong, Queenscliff, Wensleydale, Dean’s Marsh,
r orrest, Timboon, Portland. Warrnambool, Port Fairy, Frankston, Hastings, Bittern, Mornington,
Stony Point, Sale, Bairnsdale, Foster, Toora, Welshpool, Alberton, or Port Albert, and combined
raibvay and steamboat tickets tor the Gippsland Lakes. The tickets will be available for return for
three months, and the journey may be broken at Melbourne for three days going and returning. Pur-
chasers of seaside tickets to Queenscliff or to Warrnambool and Port Fairy (via Penshurst) and Port
Fairy (via Terang), may make Drysdale, or Marcus Hill or Koroit respectively their destination
instead. For full particulars see posters at all stations.
inst.
Mountainous District Excursion Tickets.
These tickets will be issued at Melbourne to stations as under on days shown, commencing 18th
Toongabbie
Briagolong
Beechworth
Bright
Huon Lane
Tallangatta
Mansfield
Ist Class
Return.
.. 22 2
.. 29 1
.. 34 10
.. 39 8
. 40 6
. 43 0
26 5
2nd Class
Return.
14 10
19 5
23 3
26 5
26 11
28 10
17 7
To Mansfield, Beechworth, Bright, Huon Lane, and Tallangatto by all trains on Fridays and
Saturdays, available for return till the Saturday in the second week following their issue. Holders of
aright tickets may terminate their journey at, or commence the return journey from, any station
Vtyrtleford to Bright inclusive.
Melbourne to Beechworth and Bright tickets are available for return from Bairnsdale.
. -To Toongabbie and Briagolong by all trains on Fridays and Saturdays from Prince’s Bridge,
Richmond, South Yarra, Toorak, and Caulfield, available for return till the Saturday in following
Toongabbie tickets are available for return from Traralgon, latter station to stamp tickets.
These tickets will also be issued by all trains daily from Warrnambool, Port Fairy, and Portland
Beechworth and Bright at the following fares :
TO BEECHWORTH.
First, Return. Second, Return,
s. d. s. d.
Warrnambool ... 68 1 ... 45 5
Port Fairy ... 72 4 ... 48 0
Portland ... ... 85. 0 .... 66 10
Tickets will be available for two months.
The journey cannot be broken on any of these tickets, except on those issued at Warrnambool,
Port Fairy, and Portland, holders of which may break their journey at Melbourne (but not elsewhere)
for three days both going and returning, and before the return journey is commenced they must be
presented at the Booking Office to be stamped, and no tickets will be recognised unless they have
been first so stamped. . .
Holiday Excursion Tickets.
From 18th November, 1898,_ till 30th April, 1899, Holiday Excursion tickets will be issued by last
trains on Fridays and by all trains on Saturdays, available for return till the following Monday to and
from all stations outside a radius of 20 miles of each other, provided the return journey can be com-
pleted within the time for which the ticket is available.
These tickets are also to be issued by the following trains from Melbourne on Fridays :
Bendigo Line ... ... ... ... ... ... 450 p.m.
TO BRIGHT.
First, Return. Second, Return,
s. d. s. d.
72 11 ... 48 8
77 2 ... 51 5
89 10 ... 60 3
Ballarat
Warrnambool and Queenscliff Lines..
Seymour Line
Bairnsdale Line
4 40
4 15
5 15
4 30
Combined Rail and Steamer Tickets.
Melbourne and Queenscliff. —During the summer months combined Rail and Boat First-
Class Return Tickets between Melbourne and Queenscliff are issued in connection with the P.S.S.
Hygeia and Ozone at 7s. 6d. each. Melbourne and Queenscliff issue these tickets on Fridays and
Saturdays ; and Messrs. Huddart Parker and Co. and the Bay Excursion Co. on Saturdays and
Sundays.
Tickets are available for return till the following Monday. Passengers going by rail return by
steamer, and vice versa. The journey cannot be broken.
Melbourne and Mornington. —During the summer months combined Rail and Boat First-
Class Return Tickets are issued in connection with the pleasure steamers Hygeia and Ozone, at 6s. 6d.
each. The tickets are issued at Prince’s Bridge on Fridays and Saturdays, and by Messrs. Huddart
1 arker and Co. and the Bay Excursion Company on Saturdays and Sundays. They are available for
return till the following Monday. Passengers going by rail return by steamer, and vice versa ;orif a
passenger travel by rail to Mornington or Prince’s Bridge on the combined ticket, and desire to return
by rail, he may do so without extra payment. The journey cannot be broken.
q C °wes.and San Remo. —Combined Rail and Steamer Tickets to Cowes and San Remo, via
otony Point, are issued at Melbourne, Geelong, Ballarat, and Bendigo at the following fares :
SAN REMO.
Ist Return. 2nd Return.
17s lOd ... 14s lid
27s 3d ... 21s 2d
32s lid ... 25s Id
38s 5d ... 28s 9d
COWES.
Ist Return. 2nd Return.
Melbourne ... ... ... 13s 4d ... 10s 5d
Geelong... ... ... ... 22s 9d ... 16s 8d
Ballarat.. .. ... ... 28s 5d ... 20s 7d
Bendigo ... ... ... 33 s nd ... 24s 3d
S:earner proportions:—Cowes, 4s 6d ; San Remo, 9s.
Available for return for two months. The journey cannot be broken on these tickets except at Mel-
bourne, where passengers from Geelong, Ballarat, and Bendigo may break for three days, either going
or returning. Tickets must be presented to be stamped at the Booking Office, Stony Point, before
starting on the return journey, and no ticket will be recognised unless so stamped.
Con)bii)?d Rail $ Coacb Tickets.
(A.) —Combined Rail and Coach Return Tickets, as under, will be issued at Melbourne from 15th
NOVEMBER, 1898, to 30th APRIL, 1899 :
Spencer-street and Prince’s Bridge will issue these tickets to stations on lines leading out of their
respective stations. The Central Booking Office will book to all the places named.
The tickets to Sassafras will be available for return for one week; to Lome, Port Campbell,
Princetown, Peterborough, and Flinders for three months ; and to the other places for one month.
The journey cannot be broken on the rail portion of the route, except on the Dean’s Marsh and
Timboon tickets, on which the same break as is allowed on Sea-side tickets will be permitted.
Combined Rail and Coach Circular Tickets
Will also be issued as follows, available for one month; journey cannot be broken on Rail portion
of route.
1. Melbourne to Healesville (by rail), thence to Marysville and Alexandra Road
(by coach), and Alexandra Road to Melbourne (by rail); also the reverse route.
FARES: —Ist, 265.; ... 2nd, 21s.
2. Melbourne to Healesville (by rail), thence to Wood’s Point and Mansfield (by
coach), and Mansfield to Melbourne (by rail); also for the reverse route.
FARES Ist, 775. 6d.; ... 2nd, 725.
3. Melbourne to Bright (by rail), thence to Omeo and Bairnsdale (by coach), thence
to Melbourne (by rail): also the reverse route.
FARES:—Ist, 995. ... 2nd, 86s. 6d.
(B.) —Cheap Combined Rail and Coach Tickets will be issued as under by the Western Stage
Company and Mr. Chas. A. Rice (Torquay only) from 15th November, 1898, to 30th April, 1899 :
Coach proportion ss. on Geelong, and 4s. on Drysdale tickets, except on Anglesea and Airey’s
Inlet tickets, the coach proportions on which are 10s. and 15s, respectively. The Company and Mr.
Rice’s vouchers are to be exchanged at the booking-offices for Ordinary Return tickets to Geelong or
Drysdale, as the case may be.


Dissatisfied.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* Thine eyes, where Night’s dark glories are,
Are fitted for a face so fair,
Set like a pale imprisoned star
Amid the tangles of thy hair;
In thy lip’s bud such sweet is housed
That Cupid’s self the bee might oust ”...
“ One cannot live," quoth Fate the wise,
“Oft cheeks and tresses, lips and eyes."
My eyes fell hotly on her face,
Down dropped the lids when hers they sought,
White guardians of Love’s hiding-place,
The bridal curtains of her thought;
My breath disturbed their dusky braid,
It could not lift the veil they made . . .
“ One cannot live" warned Fate the ivise,
“ On lids and lashes, lips and eyes."
Within her lids Love stamped his feet,
Rebellious for his freedom lost,
And thro’ their pearly white a sweet
Rose-tinge ran where he bruised them most;
I pitied Love his half-eclipse
And turned again toward her lips . . .
“ One cannot live,” diraed Fate the wise
“ On love and kisses, lips and eyes. ”
“ Dear Heart! lam not oversage,
Nor care I much how Life should run ;
A bread and water hermitage
May be the best when youth is done.
Till then, ’t were folly past a doubt
Such lids and lips and eyes to flout ”...
But still the echo smote the skies,
“ One cannot live on lips and eyes,
Not live—not live —on lips and eyes l ”
Vic.
THE PAGAN.
Two gallant N.S.W. soldiers who had been
“ partaking ” rather freely walked unsteadily on
~,,,,, , , , A
board the Manly ferry-boat and sat down. One,
a red-nosed little chap with a big moustache, the
very caricature of a warrior, had just had enough
to make him talkative phis big, clumsy, red headed
mate was affected differently, and sat down in a
hog-like manner and proceeded to pull at a short
black pipe. As the boat drew out from the wharf
the little chap started on the subject of an in-
vasion, and grew eloquent on the chances a foreign
fleet would have of landing a force on these sunny
shores. Rut he failed to rouse any enthusiasm
in the breast of his companion, who continued
to smoke his pipe and spit solemnly into the
water. “Suppose,” said the warlike orator
at last, talking straight at his solemn coin-
panion in the hope of drawing him into
an argument and crushing him with his
superior knowledge —“ Suppose I was General of
the Noo South Wales army, an’ I said to you,
‘Ginger, there’s the Russians outside those Heads
in three big ships, and ’ere’s 3000 men for yer to
beat,’em with, in yer own way. What'd yer do?
Would you let ’em come into the ’arbor ’ere, or
would yer let ’em go down to Botany Bay, and
land there ?’ ” But Ginger was not to be drawn.
“I’d let ’em do what they d well pleased,”
he mumbled, shortly. “ Yes—that’d be a eunnin’
move,” said the little chap, with the patronising
air of a field-marshal.” “ Not a bad bit ’er strategy
at all. But, suppose I was General again ”
Ginger grunted objectionably—“and suppose,”
went on the diminutive warrior, unheeding the
interruption, “ the' Russians was out there as
before, and I sed to you, ‘ Ginger,’sez I, ‘there’s
0529 men for yer. You’ve got to keep those there
’Eds. Use yer own manoeuvres, but keep them out
’or this ’ere lovely ’arbor, or I’ll court-martial yer.
What’d yer say to that—eh?’” Ginger took his
pipe out of his mouth and spat over the side.
“ I’d tell yer to go to ’ell,” he answered, decidedly.
Then the rest of the passengers looked towards
the promising young commander, but he gazed
thoughtfully oiit to sea, and was silent.
PREPARED
and do not again suffer from the Fly Pest this coming summer,
when you can get for
Is. ONE SHILLING- l s .
a
(Stamps will do)
A Ptirc Silk Fly Veil
These are Pure Silk, not the ordinary Cotton ones that we
sell at 6d., but SILK-—beautiful, bright, double-twist and netted
silk (quite an ornamental Veil, either when up round the hat or
down in use), deep fringe, full size, suitable either for Ladies’ or
Gentlemens Hats, to wear in the saddle, driving, cycling, walking,
or working in; also to wear at Race Meetings, Agricultural Shows,
etc., etc. Please say, when ordering, what color you would like
sent, either Brown, Grey, Green, Blue, or Fawn. By sending us a
shilling’s worth of stamps, we will send you, Carriage Free, a
Fly Veil or Fly Net to your nearest Post Office anywhere in Hew
South Wales. Our address is pretty well known, but to save
mistakes or delay we give it in full. It is
Messrs. HORDERN BROTHERS ,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Outfitters, Tailors,
General Drapers, etc., etc..
Nos. 203, 205 , 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET (only),
SYDNEY.
N.B.—VVe sold thousands of these Fly Veils last summer, and shall be glad to reckon
YOU amongst our customers this summer. Don’t forget, we send these Fly Nets or Fly
Veils, as well as everything else in the Drapery Line, Free of Carriage anywhere in
New South Wales, by the Parcels Postal System. (Try us.) You will be pleased with
us, as thousands of residents in the country are. No delay in answering your letters at
Hokdern’s in Pitt Street.
ECKEKSLEY’S
-THIS IS THE—
Most Wonderful Medicine of Modem Times-
A PANACEA for INWARD or OUTWARD DISEASES of the Human. Frame.
For
COUCHS,
COLDS,
INFLUENZA
IT ACTS LIKE
MAGIC IN ITS
EFFECTS,
AND RELIEVES
and CURES THE
DISEASE.
ALL THROAT AND CHEST
DISEASES,
as CROUP, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, or any
Difficulty in Breathing, it Quickly Dispels. For
DIARRHOEA or PAINS in the STOMACH, a
few drops taken on sugar instantly relieves it.
All Travellers by land or sea should never be
without it, as the MENTHOLINE prevents
SEA-SICKNESS.
For outward use, by painting a little on the
forehead, it cures Headache. Also, by applying
to the parts affected. Toothache, Neuralgia, all
Rheumatic and Sciatic Pains are relieved by it,
by painting the parts with MENTHOLINE and
applying wet compress—directions for which are
given With the medicine.
Thousands of Testimonials
HAVE BEEN RECEIVED,
A FEW OF WHICH are GIVEN BELOW:
A SEVERE CASE of BRONCHITIS CURED
BY MENTHOLINE. .
Mr. JOHN SKEHAN, Desailley’s Flat, Sale,
writes as follows : —“Your Mentholine is the only
cure for Bronchitis. In my own case I find it an
invaluable remedy for Chronic Bronchitis.”
To Mr. John EckerSley, St. Arnaud.
Dear Sir,—Having been a great .sufferer from
Neurahjia in my head, which affected my sight
till I could scarcely see, I can recommend your
Meiitholine to any suffering from that disease.
After using several ‘bottles.of Meiitholine lam
thankful to say that my sight has improved,'(ind
I am not now troubled with pains in the head. —
I am, yours faithfully,
.ALFRED BUTLER.
2 Albert-st., Footscray, May 10, 1892.
Mr. Eckersley.
Sir, —I write this to inform you that my
mother has suffered the most excruciating pains
in the chest, trying all doctors in the district and
every remedy that Could be recommended for the
relief of pain; but she could get no relief from
these agonies until I gave her a bottle of your
Mentholine. which relieved the pain immediately.
—Yours truly,
MRS. WODE, Seymour.
SOLD by ALL CHEMISTS and Respectable
MEDICINE VENDORS, or Posted
Free to all the World,
U- and 2/6 per Bottle.
N.B.—Be careful you have ECKERSLEY’S
MENTHOLINE, as we find unprincipled \enrlors
are mixing crude Eucalyptus Oils with Meritho-
line, and deceiving the public.
J. ECK€RSL€y
& sow,
182 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, & St. ARNAUD.
Longmore’s Celebrated Women’s Iron Tonic.
Giant Bottles, sent free to any part of the Australian colonies. Price, 3s. Bd.
"Will cure Weakness, Want of Blood, Loss of Blood, and all Anaemic Diseases in Women and
Growing Girls.
Invaluable in Hot Climates.
Longmore’s Unrivalled Corn Cure . . .
Guaranteed and Warranted. Sent Free to all Australia for Is. 6ct.
Longmore’s Celebrated Everton Cough Remedy.
Stops a TICKLING GOUGH immediately.
The Oldest Pharmacy in Victoria. The best-known Pharmacy in the Southern Hemisphere.
Write for Particulars.
FRANCIS LONGSHORE, 185 & 187 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
SWALLOW
a<xx-c3L -
~„ARIELL'S
JAMS & JELLIES
CANNED FRUITS
LEMON PEEL
RICH BLOCK CAKE
Ye Old English Plum Pudding
MmCE! MEAT
CHRISTMAS CAKES
CANTERBURY CAKES
lt ISC I ITS
CHRISTMAS CH€€R


The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rrHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
J- which issues Special Policies granting— .
I Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors:
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary. ’
Dr. TARRANT,
P.E.G.S.E., L.K.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.G.P.E.,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Ciarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.-'
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
Wo Man or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced Rieir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
vou experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels • Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &a Dr.
TARRANT makes
A.tosolut©ly KTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Pavalysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lunar Troubles, Couefhs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides , and consequently ensuring'immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be aecommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses* under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If von are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
Miscellaneous,
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY.-HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Miss'.ng Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency-traces miss...g perse.;.,, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kirf, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Office: i : 101 SWANHTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE. jj
The Bank of fjorth Queensland
•LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
VVM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,00P
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000
£350,000
ILLUSTRATED AUSTRALIAN THEATRICAL
1 ANNUAL and GALLERY OF CELEBRITIES
Price, One Shilling ; postage, 4d. extra. Contents :86
pietures.by Falk, Talma, Newman, Johnstone O’-Shanfiesy
and Co., etc. Three New Theatrical Stories : “An Aus-
tralian Flirt,” by Emily Soldene ; “ Quiet Lodgings,” by
Bert Royle ; “ The Prompter’s Revenue,” E. Lewis Scott
and a New Song, full music size, “ She Was True,” by
A. W. Juncker, the celebrated composer of “ I Was
Dreaming.” Wholesale Agents: ROBT. A. THOMPSON
and CO., ISO Pitt-street, Sydney; and Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Capetown, and London. ;
™E GRAPHOPHONE.
UP
GR£
The Superior
TALKING
I MACHINE
TALKS!
LAUGHS!
SINGS ! AMUSES ! and
ENTERTAINS!
PRICE (including Repro-
ducer, Horn, and Record),
£2 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY,
Sole Importing Representa-
tives for Australia. Agents wanted where we are not
already represented. Send for Catalogues of Grapho-
phones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets, Musical
Instruments and Music; also for the best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG,” price 2s. 6d. Trade
supplied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
ST. PAULI
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
TRADE MARK
CIRL K BRAND
QUI BELL’S! FLUID DISINFECTANT is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vijipr, Comfort, and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Bald head, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
QUIBELL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT clears out Bugs’
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
Business Announcements.
WSJIfcW'W-*
SB
• Australia’s •
Favorite Typewriter
75,000 IN DAILY USE.
Used by the Government Departments of Sydney;
the Metropolitan, Suburban, and Country
Police Courts; Insurance, Banking', and Com-
mercial Houses; Stock and Station Agents;
Solicitors, Physicians, etc., etc.; the Queens-
land Telegraph Department; Hansard Depart-
ment ; Government Railways, etc. ; and in
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, and
New Zealand.
Send for Catalogue and List of Users, with
, .Testimonials.
Ribbons, Carbon, Linen Paper
for all Machines.
Edison. Mime ograpH.
STENCIL, INK, &c.
“ EASY” SIGN MARKER
AND •
GENERAL OFFICE SUNDRIES
Second-hand Typewriters of others Makes
CHEAP.
FISHER & LINGHAM
(W. E. Fishek),
Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
n AREMODERMA,” the Great Freckle CURE.
1/ Removes Freckles, Pimples, &c. Cures Eczema,
and all Skin Diseases ; Beautifies the-Ce ll H )lexio, \ ; an ." 13
the Creme des Creme’s for the Skin. Price Is., all.chenlists.
Post free all parts, Is. 3d., from Mr. KING, Chemist, No. 2
Gurner-street, Paddington, Sydney. Wholesale Agents.
Elliott Brothers.
The London & American Supply Stores
tmmmAimim
I=lB®=
ilk
UPPL
ORES
LONDON & AMERICA
. FOB . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
Suitable Christmas Presents,
Amateur^^^
Photographic Outfits.
The Pocket Kodak.
£1 Is.
The Bull’s Eye Kodak.
£1 17 s. (id.
The Flat Folding Kodak.
£2 7s. 6d.
375 GEORGE ST.,
Sydney,
Complete Outfits from £1 ss.
Free Instructions ! Catalogues Post Free
The No. 4 Cartridge Kodak.
PREMO CAMERAS
Prom £1 ss.
&
■J
260 COLLINS ST.,
Melbourne
65 R UNDUE ST.,
Adelaide,
and.
81 QUEEN ST.,
Brisbane.


r
TEnms
A. H. MOORE & CO.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYD NEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet ... ... 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
from 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... fi/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, &om 10/6.
£. H. Smith S Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
IXTortli Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN'S
Cookery Book.
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6c31.
To he obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
V
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Barmaid.
Sydney ES
Confes-;
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
HAVING devoted special attention to the Second-hand
Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books Prescribed for the Junior, Senior Matriculation
First, Second and Third year course examinations for
1899 and 1900. Special attention is drawn to students
and teachers that they can be purchased from me at
nearly one-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Ransome’s History 3 6 for 2/6 ;
Geikie’s Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/- ; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3 6 for 2/-'; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for 3 - ; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3 6 for
2/-: Todhunter’s Algebra, 2 6 for 1/6; Hall and Knight’s
Algebra, 4 6 for 3/-; Hall and Stevens’ Euclid, 4 6 for 3/-;
Todhunter’s Euclid, 3/6 for 2/-; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/-; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/- ; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for 3-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4 6 for 3-; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Balfour Stewart’s
Physics, 4/6 for 3/-; Otto’s German Grammar, 5 - for 3/-;
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7/6 for 5/6; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra
RW S¥TI\TMF!T? Second-hand Book Arcade,
. VV . OXVIINIX i-i-Lb, xos Castlereagh-st. , Sydney.
Telephone, 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 wavs sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CAHDS. 35.-»
SECRET
Photos,
(2) lfi.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
‘Continental Supply Agency,
» Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
£@"Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
1 00 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
Roll The Cotton Down.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We sing l no song of Right or Wrong,
Or War, or Fame, or Duty,
Our chanty free it still shall be,
Of ships, and beer, and beauty ;
So roll the cotton down.
The Ocean Pride swings with the tide,
Oh, roll the cotton down.
Aye, messmates true ! . . Kit’s eyes are blue
And Bet’s a dainty clipper—
Black brow, red lip, one day we’ll ship
With Cupid for our skipper.
Ho ! Roll the cotton down,
With bridal veils to be our sails.
Yah / Roll the cotton down !
Long nights, long days, calm, clear and haze,
She’s kicked and guttered through it,
A racing run, storm, wind and sun
And 'men to drive her to it.
Now roll the cotton down.
Our fight is fought, her wharf-line’s taut,
We’ll roll the cotton down.
Now, we shall eat—good, fat, fresh meat,
And take our hard-won pleasure ;
Now, we shall laugh, jest, love and quaff
And sing our drunken measure
Of '‘‘‘Roll the cotton down."
Our mint of joy may prove—alloy,
But roll the cotton down.
True sailors we, let loose from sea,
And tavern turned and townward ;
Blear aftermath of barren path
That grades life’s journey downward.
Bah 1 ' Roll the cotton down.
Let care go sink ! Drink, comrades, drink !
And roll the cotton down.
Before our days they walked our ways,
And held our hot emotions,
Who at world’s gates dared Hell and Fates,
And opened up five oceans !
So, roll the cotton down ;
All damned are they (as we some day),
But roll the cotton down.
Black Bet’s a queen. Kit’s eyes a-sheen
Are deeper than blue waters.
Red tides of Hell ! Our souls we’d sell
For these white devil’s-daughters.
Hey ! Roll the cotton down.
“ You love me true ? ” Then I love you—
Oh, roll the cotton down I
Let preachers fault : all blood is salt,
All flesh both red and human.
We’ve songs to sing, we’ve hearts to fling
Before the feet of woman.
So roll the cotton down.
Life’s pleasures pass, fill up your glass,
We’ll roll the cotton down,
Cotton down,
Roll, roll the cotton dozen.
Sydney, ’9B.
E. J. BRADY.
Handsome Nickel Puzzle Matchbox.
j Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
•Jl
f
£
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id.;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil paintings; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber ; 6 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion—a blind person can thread them; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
LIJ
O
CO
GRIMAULT’S
UIDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold bv all Chemists.
£ojC mm
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains ,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-eard, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
motjth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales,
The [atest Insect powder.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES, AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
THE UNWELCOME GUEST
WHERE HE COMES. HOW HE COMES.
WHY HE COMES.
Death
comes a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
conscious-
Iv invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, b e -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overtakes
them, and
death that
is prema -
ture b e -
comes in-
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman :
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—-
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
•‘Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic—something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes “ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable.”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes : —“lt is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure.”
Mr. Win. Stevenson, Manager of the Presby-
terian, Sydney, writes :—“lt is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate. ”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr. Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Feldheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part, of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. lid.
sA
“I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st,, Sydney
GIB
DEAF
qSjj
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir, — Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
□urSPECIAL BELTforLADIESis
REALLY A MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature s <wn
gift to man —Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECI
GENTL
Drunkenness
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
The CELEBRATED and only SAFE,
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO A GENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address —
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED By /OO YEARS USE.
□^ROBERTS’
yo/i
SKtrf MEASEf
and Wo a/vos
or £ V£R Y
DESCRIPTIor/'
D?ROBERTS -0- On I C
Alterative pills
FOR SKIN DISEASES.]
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF TEE
SrOMAC/-/ & LJVER .
or ALL CHEM/STS //// x 2/? EACH
BEACH & BAR NIC OTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
MELBOURNE.
A
muffin
POST FREE
hwc^es-Clocks-Jevi/ellery-BirtHdav>
WeddipJg z CrißisTEi'Jii'jc Presents
H-NEWMAISI- 1755177-Fl I7ARFTri St*
OPPOSITE G:P.Q.
MELBOURNE.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing- one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss— Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c. ;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CnphrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioi?.


THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS is :
£T IS INDISPENSIBLE ! IT IS INVALUABLE!
the No. i
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR—
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
prietor of Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, writes:
“ I have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, and l canstrongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled."
ITi
tnr<
*9 >?%9
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
or to 361 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
West Australian
International Mining
■ and Industrial
Exhibition
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FEED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
COOL, ISN’T IT? Marshall’s Paddington Brewery,
To Messrs. E. RICH & Co., Ltd., Sydney. Oxford-st., Sydney, Feb. 25, 1897.
Dear Sirs.—As requested, we have taken the reading of the thermometer under
our roof covered with “ P & B RUBEROID,” as compared with that under our roof of
Galvanised Iron (under as nearly similar condition as possible), with the following
results Jan. 29, noon, hot day, Ruberoid, 86°, Iron, 112°; Feb. 3,11.30, hot and
bright, Ruberoid, 90°, Iron, 105°; Feb. 4, 11.30, no sun, Ruberoid, 75°, Iron, 78°;
Feb. 5,11.30, hot day, Ruberoid, 84°, Iron, 108°.
Yours faithfully, Herbert W. Gillies, Secretary.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. \V. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rose&Jack, Agents,Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M‘Phbrson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HISTORY of
YANKEE DOODLE
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
ID Africa.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the- youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever ip.
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, -they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
10 Australia
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY EOR HIMSELF
XMAS PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Thousands of Latest Novelties.
OUR LATEST ‘REGISTERED" NOVELTIES.
RE 25
14s. 6d.
“Solid Gold”
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 6d.
REGS
Without Pendant,
13s. 60.
Solid
Gold.
New Bird Heart
and
Hell Brooch.
Remarkable
Value,
15s. each.
G
O
X
J)
P
I
N
s
&
c
11
A
I
N
P
K
N
JD
A
N
T
S
Our New Wild Roar’s Tush
Brooch,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, 6s. 6d.
Gold-mounted, 14s.
LINKS TO MATCH.
Silver, 4s. 6d. ; Gold, 10s. 6d. pair.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
Real Amethyst
Sutton Ho'L.
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6 6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6
„ Heart, 7/6 ~ ~ 5/6
„ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3,6, 5,6, 7/6,10/-
Q
Gold Xmas Sell Brooch, 10s. 6d.
Our New
Twin
Bird
Brooches.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair,
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
NOTE-
-Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
yOU Have Suffered
for 20 years, VITADATIO will cure you, and
don’t forget it. VITADATIO will cure you
(without operation), even when the eminent doctors of London, Melbourne, or any other
part of the world have failed. Be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Consumption,
Piles, Gall Stones, Liver or Kidney Complaint, Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism,
Gout; Sciatica, Indigestion. &c.
MR. S, A. PALMER.
Clever investigators have discovered some remarkable remedies for “ the ills that the flesh is heir to,”
and amongst that number Mr. VV. Webber’s VITADATIO may fairly rank as one of the best. What it has
done and what it is claimed to do are sufficiently demonstrated in a pamphlet by Mr. S. A, Palmer, the
agent for the Australasian colonies. Mr. Palmer himself is a living illustration, as applied to Hydatids, of
the benefits of Vitadatio, prepared by Mr. W. Webber, of Launceston, Tas. He went to Tasmania for the
benefit of his health, was given up as incurable by the doctors, and found “ deliverance from the disease” in
the medicine he is now pushing. Mr. Palmer tells his story in these words :—“ After I felt sure I was getting
better, I called again to see Mr. Webber, and said, 4 You ought to be prosecuted.’ ‘ What for ?’ he inquired,
4 for making a medicine that is curing you 1 ' I said 4 No, but you ought to be prosecuted for keeping this
remedy in this little corner of the earth, and not letting people know about it throughout the world.’ ’’
People who have been cured of TUMORS, CANCERS, SCIATICA, HYDATIDS,
BRIGHT’S DISEASE and other Blood Ailments all testify to the wonderful curative properties
of VITADATIO, the Herbal Remedy. It is also said to be an admirable specific for Indigestion
and Debilitated Constitutions.
For Testimonials of those that have been cured, write or send to the Agent,
S. A . BALM Ell, 45 and 47 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PRICE OF MEDICINE is ss. Gd. and 3s.‘ 6d. per BOTTLE.
Ask your local Agent, Chemist, or Grocer for it. If not obtainable locally, send to Head Office.


Ton Can
Better and Cheaper
, | I'W-, I ',
bfW ■' n
!
«■ mm
■I
A.X.
W. H. PALING & GO. LIMITED
Than Anywhere Else in Australia.
PIANOS
BY
STEINWAY & SONS, JOHN BRINSMEAD & SONS,
RICH LIPP & SOHN, CARL ECKE,
JULIUS FEURICH, UEBEL & LECHLEITER,
GORS & KALLMANN, And' other "First-class* Makers.
Our Special Models, the
088-ANS by Estey &
“VICTOR” and the “BELLING,” are splendid value at £46 10s. and £36 respectively.
Co. and Story & Clarke, from £7 Upwards.
Banjos, Mandolins, Guitars.
SOLE AGENTS for LYON & HEALY’S
Celebrated “ IVAS JIB UK NS.
Violins, Accordeons, Autoharps, Cornets, Flutes, Mouth Organs, Polyphons, Musical Boxes
Reliable Violin Strings, and every tiling pertaining to Music.
This Splendid VIOLIN at 31s 6d., including Bow, Case and Fittings
Complete, Post Free, would make a beautiful Xmas Present.
Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to.
& Co. Ltd
340 George-street, Sydney; and Queen-street, Brisbane.
Paling
THE LIGHT OF THE AGE I
Can be made anywhere.
ACCOMPLISHES A REVOLUTION IN THE LIGHTING OF
Isolated NoCiSeS, Snjall TowijS, Hotels, Statiops, MipeS, SlCiicipg
Claires, Predges, etc., etc.
Do you
Eig'ht Reasons for Usings Acetylene.
light your Home, Store, Office, Shop, or Factory with the new illuminant—Acetylene?
If you don’t, you will do wfell to note the following reasons why you should :
1. The light is the same every day in the year.
2. It gives the brightest light for the least heat.
3. It burns free and needs i.o chimney.
4. It gives a light more nearly like daylight than any other
illuminant.
5. It has no soot.
6. Color values are the same by Acetylene light as by daylight.
7. Decorations are the same by night as by day when you use
Acetylene.
8. Candle-power for cand'e-power it spoils only one-hundredth
part the air that open gas flame does.
The Explosives Department of the English Home Office, after a series of exhaustive tests, have decided that Acetylene is perfectly safe to use under 100 inches of
water pressure. The generators used by this Company do not require more than from 2 inches to 4 inches. This is conclusive evidence as to the safety of Acetylene for
domestic use.
The Insurance Companies make no extra charge for the use of Acetylene, provided their rules, which are very simple, are complied with.
Write for particulars to the Acetylene Gas Company of Australasia Ltd., 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S.W., Sole Patentees of Crystalline Carbide of Calcium for A ustralasia.
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦■» ♦♦♦»♦♦»♦♦♦♦»
cnuTion This Comp envy tvill take proinpt action against any person infringing their patents.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Bill). Iflont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
PaumbvolviiKj Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
EOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
HEAD office
Intersection Honter,Bughaho
CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
• SYDNEY •
Esta aLt shed /873.
WIOffi .CE-lN'AttST*M** *
Annual Incomeand Infested
Funds QQO Sterling.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices For New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Fitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MAOI’HIiIISON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances ab Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy. .
'< E. N. PARKER, Manager.
The Universal Land and Deposit
.p Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under* the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 25» PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
TNEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest: 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum atid 5 years, 7 p.c, per annum,—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonces has a security in the assets of the Company—
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
ANL> DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the i
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
THIS ASSOCIATION is noted for its PROMPT and
LIBERAL SETTLEMENTS, having paid away upwards
of £200,009 in Losses in Victoria and N.S. Wales.
The United Australian mutual
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Established 1879.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP 35.000
RESERVE LIABILITY 213,200
HEAD OFFICES . 79 P |ydNEY f ET
and 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
The Capital of this Company is £38,000 Paid-up, with a
rr e f? n 'e Liability of £213,269, which, in regard to its
liabilities to the public, is equal to that of the principal
Insurance Companies transacting business in Australia.
A. WEBSTER,-General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Hauls of 'New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up'Capital ".. ... .. 1,950,090 0 0
Reserve. Fund.. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. ... .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K, Mackkllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
- Sir James Reading Fairfax.
Reginald James .Black, Esq.
„ s_»,yv. *_■ Auditors:
■F. W. -Other, Esq. A. G. Jlilsox, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Aeaiaiid; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
' tk- n o ef \States, Hamburg ami the United Kingdom,
it, allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on (iebentures; and invests money on their behalf in
]u me securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
raKgs the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
otes; and letters, of credit, and conducts all customary
bankmg.l,usings. .
eob h !^ an H aWh issues: Circular Notes in sums,of. £lO or
~“V> begctiahle On*tne‘tToiUiheiits of Ehrope and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrCist€€s, CxccCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ...
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898
£150,000
£60,000
£150,000
£6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : G 4 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
I’aid-lp £3,069,662
Directors :
lion. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Eso., J.P.; lion. W. 11. Entitling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A.; Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. 11. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 lii.shopsf/ale Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. It. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyonjr), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARE, A. I. A., General Manager.
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, elc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. 11. Peachey, L. A. Jessoi*, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. CIiYNE; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. VV
Farqdhab. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
IVTATIONAL trustees,
J3I EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: lion. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man); W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassv, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irvmg,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director: Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
OflicesT-454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
{’able Address— lII KMSP.ru
Code —MottElNG & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. <595.
Box No. 237, 0.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarise & Oo
(A RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
' ' Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
AI) EX AIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOKLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
aV {)'!r' 'M N V ESTO RS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free or application.
6 6 A
WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
To every purchaser
of one "of our 2 6
“ Burmese ’’ Silver
Chains (either
Ladies' Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will. present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are *no
Co n d i t i o n s or
BSn"^£°ered t (anr colony) of-P^Note
f GIFT a^bea'u*
ban? on the watch-chain.
Mention lit turns. ......
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'.
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Gabo, Friday, Dec. 9, 5 p.m.
-Leura, Friday, Dec. 9, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dee.l7,l2J»oon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Friday, Dec. 9, 5 p.m.
Leura, Fiiday, Dec. 9,5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
PREMANTLE
OERALDTON
Gabo, Friday, Dec. 9, 6 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 10, 2 p.m.
Konoovvaira, Tues., Dec. 13, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 17, 2 p.m.
BDNDABERG A
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE I 1
LUCINDA POINT fl
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c. J
Peregrine, Sat’day, Dec. 10, 2 p.tn.
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 17, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Torts received Daily.
LOWEST (TIICICENT FAKES TO ALL POKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Si Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via ameriga
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
nil other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Sireet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
o*'^
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle. N_... -
vND
J 4fl>
Business Announcements.
zfkin c J)kea4e<S.
s9leu) Widcodery
“*£iymo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LTGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
\ QE SUFFERING.
Ba.vswater, Sydney, October, 189 S.
W. TI. Mat.yox, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir.—For years past (about ten), I have been
trouble with “Acne" in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligtnolliene "
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
1 natu rally took same “Cum Grano Sails ’* and was in-
clined not to use it; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligntolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEOUGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Bal larat,
My dear Mr. Mat. yon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Call Anderson arid other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
vour ointment Ligntolliene; and after about two months’
treatment I may houestly Say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. 1 will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am Still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, TIIOS. LE GAY HOLTIiOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Maly on,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat! Vic.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
5s and 7s 6cl eacli.
pgr Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Shipping.
THE ADELATDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOli MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Itockton, Friday, December 16.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Monday, December 12.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
December 16.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Monday, December 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bulimba, Saturday,
December 17.
Best <l5 Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
U. 8. Y UILL and CO., t.TI)., Agents,
C Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of C5OO tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
[(l‘lliiiraith, ffl'Eacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Week's
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from ±l4 to ±67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, ±55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A- U. S. IN- Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINK
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOIvTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY AND BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bds
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passcnyer Accommodation, Attendance 'uid
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE -B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton, -
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agent*.


cc
o
m
v*
<
>v. •‘•'V
«. * .
Hi 4.
:
v »
i.r'
iHMmm
v-
xr •*«.
Sir
TO" I
*=s~>
,-r-
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : ‘ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns?”
Second Bear : “ No 1 Kodaks 1 ”
Australian Depots
—FOR —
KODAKS.
“7 ■ “
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKERSROUS€
v PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
K. <3r» WA.TELUKTS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
c
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGE S! SYDNEY.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY®SIZE OF LOGS.
Up-to-Date Flour Milling lVlEtcliin.ery, Engines & Boilers,' steel ‘Windmills.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Over 2200 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
VANDYCK
CIGARS
2*
/? wxr
ULD < tt/y?/IGRANr
SMOK£
#OMTO
©lf 8
©M Is
: M.RUHY WSYDNLY
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m pm m SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes'in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE'S
A 1 WHISKY
BRANDT’S PATENT
HANP ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10 I EVERY WIFE HER OWN
MINUTES! | ICE-MAKER!
SSf lOlbs. of Ice and Iced Water produced at a cost of 2/-.
Price - - -50 s.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
23C Pitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
I]
|Pl#|?y
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLU’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway. Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBAHT.
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
■tiL
cuU
■V4Qs£.
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 Yorte Street;,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System/’
PEICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Highest Awards wherever Exhibited..
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
M
■
ECONOMY IN -
CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE ~~ RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON - & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELEOTIiIO CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.




The. Bulletid. Christmas Supplement.
Competition.
o m nnwitw xiti'ce fjjijpaper offpwl a |rpe push tTerico frrtfe icst
flrijifjal (kigij for a double- page Cf)ristmas Supphnjent if be
bridled ii] Color*. Stipulating ftjcit fife subject mrtibe'distinctirflij
fliisfi ration"
fljf mult mtnfaJorj - Ot)li},.ff}esktcl}Utoijf
uj arc all of sucfj mol ytril'lfiflfeedi&rcaiijffl'TeiMy mh? upljisitjitja
Aljfiicj; 3?j tirfa Itjeptw.-Ttjereforejje moUtt topublislj Ifeldh tf (Ije oMio
tjot d 1 <jo To ftrico if dill fft bpfor Iff dtojUf If/e eqitors disjjij.
| * \J ✓ w • %» v
ii|i Hfl
} S 4ik t s
Mjßßll
£ Lon ‘*>- Lxpetitttgr
m
T OR’s
r \ac-
L.dHi
m ,
rK


JMyqHTeR.
/jLonpon
ARTIST*
•/ doj
r0^
‘y> *




RONISCH
RONISCH
RON ISC H
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS :
NICHOLSON <& CO.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LEA AND PERRINS
}
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Cold Wholesale by the Proprietors, i
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally. i
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. )
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and D
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged >
TO TVF!T«'V' C3C>IMCIE : *JE3T , X"X’iC<OUJ'.
WINES The Best B Z li * only 0> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ssoai HSIHI
Cures While Sleeping
TBSTIBSOKTIA-L.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being' a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of' your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonning ton’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGrTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, FLATU-
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.
Tire Austral
Engineering Co.,
. . MELBOURNE ,
,cturers
.
the Following
Steam Engines of all sizes and for all purposes.
Pumping and Winding Engines, for mining,
pumping, sluicing, and general purposes.
Boilers of all sizes, kinds, and pressures.
Condensers, surface and jet, for engines.
Condensers specially adapted for treating water
on the West Australian Goldfields.
Tramways, aerial, wire rope, mining, &c.
Stamper Batteries; Ore Crushers, Rock Breakers,
Vanners, Amalgamators and Concentrators.
Cyanide and Chlorination Plants,
Air Compressors and Receivers.
Cornish Lift and Plunger Pumps.
Duplex Pumps of all sizes, high pressure and
compound.
Centrifugal Dredging Pumps.
Hydraulic Sluicing Nozzles, and Gravel Ele-
vators.
Turbines, Pelton and other Water Wheels.
Mining Machinery and Requisites of every
description.
ria : WORKS, coiw Naijija
.
Streets,
sis
iy-,
New South Wales :
L. SCRUTTON & CO
Queensland:
A. OV€R€NP &
•J _ . ■. - ’ " "
?'t* ■


The New South Wales Fresh Food l Ice Co. Ltd
HAS A
Branch in Western Australia
(with Mr. PRANK VILES, Manager for that Colony, and the Registered Office at Mouatt-street, Fremantle).
SfSujtfS&.iL.'S*?” "*“* ( " GoU “ s ‘"' " d rammty «”
" B "° d ‘ B "“" ° w “ Or..m, 5 a,
i»asps jwarat £ ssrr w au - mpoetaht <™*>*
H *“ l Office :2i Syd,,,. H. PATESON, M«„g„.
THE SYDNEY DEPOTS
. . OP THE . „
New Sodtb Wales Fresb Food & Ice Co. Ltd.
92 KING STREET - - 23 ROYAE ARCADE
afford especial opportunity to 'V isitors from the other colonies for obtaining Light Refreshments
AFTERNOON TEA, ICES, LIGHT LUNCHES, etc.
We give the Menu, as also a list of the Pastries, Cakes, etc., etc., we supply.
MENU
With Glass of Mi Cup of
Tea, Cocoa, Coffee, or loed
Drink
is $
SMALL GUP BLACK COFFEE
STRAWBERRIES AND CREAM
PASSION FRUIT AND CREAM
FRUIT SALAD AND CREAM
FRUIT TARTS AND CREAM .
BAKED APPLES AND CREAM
CREAM ICES (various)
WATER ICES „
JELLY, per Glass
BEEF TEA, per Cup ...
plat! pi acrot "is 0 -
bolled o eggs LII TOWL 4 HAM ' IS IS
°? p of Tea ...
CARBONATED BEVERAGES, drawD through Ice/from gya tal Fountam. Sinah Glass
L,ltto _ ... _ ditto ditto Large Glass
*sB= an. a 7 Vanilla. Lemon, Pineapple, Strawberry, Raspberry and Ginger.
ese beverages are highly commended by the Faculty, being flavored entirely with the pure
Juice of the Fruits.
6d
ggfgggregggggggsrjrg
Wedding- and every other kind of Cake Made to Order.
List of Pastry, Cakes, etc
Afternoon Tea Cakes
Almond Cakes
Almond Napoleons
Almond Puddings
Angel Cakes
Apple J acks
Banbury Cakes
Bath Buns
Berlin Buns
Bon-Bons
Bordeaux Cakes
Bread Rolls
Charlotte Russe
Cheese Cakes
Ooeoanut Cakes
Coffee Cake
Coffee Cakes
Congress Tarts
Cream Cakes
Cream Fruit Ices
Cream Horns
Cream Napoleons
Cream Tarts
Crystal Palace Puddings
Currant Cake
Custard Napoleons
Custard Rolls
Custard Tarts
Desdemonas
Eclairs
Fanchonettes
Fancy Assorted Pastry
Fancy Assorted Pastry (small)
Fruit Pies (in dishes)
Fruit Tartlets
Galantine of Chicken
Galantine of Turkey
Genevas
Glazed Tongues
Ham (cut)
Ham Sandwiches
Ice Cream (various flavorings)
Ice Puddings
Jam Puffs
Jam Tarts
Jelly
Ladies’ Fingers
Lawn Tennis Cake
Lawn Tennis Cakes
Lemon Buns
Macaroon Biscuits
Macaroon Biscuits (large)
Macaroon Tarts
Maids of Honour
Meat Pies
Meringues
Meringue Creams
Meringue Pastry-
Meringue Sandwiches
Milk Rolls
Mince Pies
Nenish Cakes
Orange Sandwiches
Othellos
Oyster Patty Cases
Oyster Patties
Pork Pies (Melton Mowbray)
(Larger sizes as ordered j
Potato Oakes
Plain Cake
Plain Cakes (round)
Queen Puddings
Raised Game Pies
Raised Pigeon Pies
Ratafias
Sandwich Cakes
Sausage Rolls
Savoy Cakes
Scones .*■
Scotch Pies
Short Bread
Simnel Cake
Simnel Cakes
Sponge Cakes
Sponge Cakes (moulds)
Sultana Cake
Sultana Cakes (round)
Surprises
Steak and Kidney Pies (in dishes)
Steak and Oyster Pies (in dishes)
Swiss Roll
Tea Cakes
Tongue Sandwiches
Tongue (per lb.)
Veal and Ham Pies (in dishes)
Water Ices (various flavorings)
Wedding Cake (Ornaments extra)
Xmas Cakes (plain)
Xmas Cakes (iced & ornamented.)
Xmas Puddings
Varieties
Yorkshire Cheese Cakes
RICH BLOCK CAKES
Made from first quality materials by an experienced Pastry Cook.
CUT
AS REQUIRED.
Sis
per lb.
r*f :
FOE
BACH KIND.
Rick Genoa Cake Rich Currant Cake
Rich Madeira Cake Rich Seed Cake
Rich Cocoanut Cake
With Cherries and Currants,
Almond Iced on top, and . . .
Oocoanut . . .
Cake
The above C
. '
A fruity cake, Almond Iced and Fondant
Almond Genoa Cake
Almond Paste
in centre, whole
Almonds on top
Cake
With Almond Icing on top,
Angelica . . .
The above are made in 10 and 16 lb. Blocks.
es cannot be equalled, let alone excelled, and are obtainable at our Depots as above, Harbor-gt., or the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Pitt-street.
HC oc x
25 Harbor-street, Sydney.
.
H. PATESON,
