

McEWAN’S
WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
••
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GrXT-A.R A.3XTTEEI3 PURE COCOA. A.3XT3O EXTRACT OF MALT.
R. Gr, WATKINS & CO..
107 Kent Street, Sydney, *
. . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
' EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
SOLE AGEN
49
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS. C
tJp-to“Date Flour BCilling MTachinery, Engines & Boilers,! Steel Windmills.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
ass
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
IT-' vr~'- *
mmmSk
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
*V»y
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
itim'» l> -? LK, i GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
y >s f tkt
C°"Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Proctor
STEAM ENGINES
AND PUMPS.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
BCCBMTRIO THRASHUVTG MACHINES, SA.W BENCHES, & c ., &c
THORNE'S
At WHISKY.
BRANDT’S PATENT
HANP ICE-MAKER
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
101 bs. of Ice and Iced Water produced at a cost of 2/-.
Price
-50 s.
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Fitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
i Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
Hadley s Orient ftotel.
cM
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICf 8c SON, LTD.,
11*7 TST ork Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical x4.uthorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Highest Awards wherever Exhibited.
Vandyck
CIGARS
if /
7T<5
/Lom/iG/?AA/r
SMOK£
;HRUnrWSYI>NEY:
©!? 8
F®M Is.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 981. J
[Saturday, December 3, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T3Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. INDIA.
Landor’s Forbidden Land, 3Ss, post 40s ; Gculburn, the
Lord’s Prayer, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Bruce’s The Bible and
Literature, 6s, post 6s Cd ; Black’s Plans for Primary
Teachers of the Sunday School, 2s 6d, post 2s 9d ; Mac-
donald’s Gold Coast, 7s 6d, post 8s ; Kekwood’s Life, by
Birrell, 10s 6<l, post 11s 3d ; Milne’s Seismology, ss, post
6s 6d : De Sale’s Housewife's Referee, 2s 6d, post 3s ;
Saintsbury’s Short History of English Literature, 8s 6d,
post 9s ; Keary’s The- Journalist, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post, 3s
and 4s ; Russell’s Romance of a Midshipman 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Hooking’s Mistress Nancy Holds-
worth, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Phillpott’s Chil-
dren of the Mist;- 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Wil-
liams’ Our Imperial Heritage, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s arid
4s ; Balfour's To Arms, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Gissing’s Town Traveller, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
JUST PUBLISHED.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’s COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
ANGUS FAULKNER ; Or, the Sport of Destiny, by Mrs.
Marcus Sv.nxot.
THE BUTCHER’S GUIDE AND FARMER’S COM-
PANION. By William Dusstan, Cr. 2s 6d ; post 3s.
BELOW AND ON TOP. By Edward Dyson, author of
“ Rhymes from the Mines,” etc. Cr., wrapper, 2s 6d ;
cloth, 3s 6d. Post 3s and 4s.
NEARLY READY.
WARRIGAL SERIES -No. 4. THE ONE BLACK
SHADOW. By Bessie Cole and F. \V. D. Moore.
Is 6d ; post free Is 9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Which applies, of course, to
Cigars and Pipes. No woman
likes the smell of stale tobacco
in the house, and cigars and
pipes leave behind a fragrance
not desirable. No smoking is
permissible
They are dainty, mild and frag-
rant, and leave no trace behind.
You can smoke a Cigarette at
the dinner - table. Therefore,
r '*:'
THE RED PAGE .
The controversy about the title-deeds of an
Australian poet can be easily dismissed. The
material thing is the deeds, N not the title. If
the argument is as to the exact value of our
“sea-girt virgin sprawling under the southern
stars ”
The persistence of the ahoricinal valuation of virginity
recurs continually in our verse and prose : witness the
hawker’s recent lied-Page phrase (above quoted) ; Arthur
Adams’s assertion re Maoriland, that “ Memory has no
chaster virgin ” ; and so on. Hardy has never succeeded
in convincing the average man that “ what stilt abode in
such a woman as Tess outvalued the freshness of her
fellows”—that “ the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim
was better than the vintage of Abiezer.” Philosophy-
conquest from the mountain of hereditary instinct is
hardly one grain of sand per century.
as a literary force ; —as to how much her
plains, scrubs, mountains, flora and fauna, are
worth in iambics and anapaests ; —then, of course,
the fact that Daley is an Irishman and Ogilvie a
Scotchman must be weighed in the balance. But
for purposes of general literary discussion Ogilvie
and Daley are just as much Australian poets as if
they were Australian-born : their poetry has been
liberally inspired by Australia, it has been written
and published in Australia, and in the mind of
Scotland and Ireland and the rest of the world
their work is classified as Australian work.
* * * 9
Some arbitrary definitions—
Emotion—a, cerebral reaction to sense-messages,
and particularly an instinctive, aboriginal, pris-
tine, racial reaction ; i.e,, a reaction to the strong-
est, simplest, most familiar impulses— to joy, fear,
comradeship, love of woman, home, country.
Intellectual emotion— a cerebral reaction to sense-
messages, but particularly an individual reaction ;
— i.e., a reaction colored less by ancestors than by
parents, altered by personal experience, by books
read, society met, the environment of the ego con-
scious and unconscious. Usually intellectual emo-
tion is not so strong as emotion; it is always
harder, colder ; but it is subtler, and sometimes
finer and sweeter.
E.g. : When Edwin hugs Angelina on the upper deck of
a moonlit Manly ferry-boat he gives and receives emotion
(price Id., plain). When it isn’t Angelina’s night out, and
Edwin is alone on the ferr.v-boat, and he is a romantic
kind of Edwin, and murmurs Daley’s
“ I love the Night ! Bright Day the soul shuts in ;
Night sends it soaring to its starry kin.”
or Stephens’s
“ Oh, summer-night of the South ! Oh, sweet languor of
zephyrs love-sighing !
Oh, mighty circuit of shadowy solitude, holy and still 1 ”
or Whitman’s
“ Press close bare-bosom’d night—press close magnetic
nourishing night !
Night of south winds—night of the large few stars !”
then Edwin is (partly) a victim to intellectual emotion
(price 2d., colored).
.Fancy tethered to earth.
Imagination— fancy freed and soaring beyond
the stars.
* * • *
Now it is possible to make arbitrary mea-
surement of the poetical characteristics of some
Australian poets
Daley intellectual emotion plus fancy.
Quinn =emotion plus imagination.
Ogil vie=emotion plus fancy.
Kendall=intellectual emotion plus imagination.
Gordon=emotion plus fancy.
Stephens = intellectual emotion plus fancy.
Lawson=emotion.
Boake—emotion plus fancy.
Bayldon=intellectual emotion.
And so on. Of course spheres overlap : Daley
is occasionally streaked with emotion, Quinn with
intellectual emotion ; the imagination of Kendall
is rather in the atmosphere of his poems than in
the poems; Boake’s and Ogilvie’s fancy wings
higher than Gordon’s —sometimes almost reaching
imagination ; Stephens’s intellectual emotion is
often close to emotion. And so on.
The justice of this classification should be ob-
vious to any careful reader, though there is room
for debate on minor points. The difference be-
tween Ogilvie’s “ The Near-side Leader,” for
example, and Quinn’s recently-printed “ The Camp
within the West,” is easy to see. Quinn's verses
have no distinct reference to anything visible or
tangible ; there are human figures dimly seen, but
they exist only to give shape.and colour to an
emu .ion : they are as impersonal as the winds and
tides, and the emotion they suggest is almost
as cosmic as the winds and tides. Ogil-
vie’s verses refer to a horse, one particular
horse; and the horse’s appeal for sympa-
thy is skilfully justified and phrased so as to
leave a fine poetical impression. But it is
not the same kind of impression as Quinn gives.
Ogilvie’s verses reflect pure emotion ; Quinn’s re-
flect emotion plus imagination. Crudely essenced,
Ogilvie’s is the poetry 1 of a weary horse; Quinn’s
the poetry of weary humanity. Whence in-
directly the dogma that Imagination, the fine
flower of Poetry, is a transition from concrete to
abstract, from individual to general, from tem-
porary to eternal.
Fancy is an attempted transition, a half-way hero a
light, which fails. ’
And the deduction: the more
objective is merged in subjective, reality in dream,
the loftier and intrinsically better the Poetry.
1. Extending the deduction to the whole field of Art:
this is precisely what paint-impressionists are striving to
express. The “impression” is an endeavour to soften
the hard outlines and crude hues,of the Real, to suffuse
the suoject with the atmosphere of mystery and romance
— i.e., of Poetry.
2. This deduction is not necessarily a “ decadent ” for-
mula, though it verges' on the doctrine of Verlaine’s “ Art
Poetique,” extolling the hinted hue before the gross
colour. For a dream can shine like scarlet and remain a
dream. Idea! Poetry has the sun's heat in the moon’s
lighi : Night and Day unite to make it magic. Maybe
tins was Verlaine’s idea: he wanted the precise joined
yvi'h the vague in ecstatic intoxication. (Which again
is a condition sought for by painters: it might lie held
that Rossetti deliberately drew untruly in order toaeeen-
tuate his artistic effect; and that, for the most parCthe
charges of bad drawing brought against him are made by
realists unfitted to comprehend his results.)
Some successors of Verlaine have also extolled the per-
fect beauty of faded things (Morris carpets and “ Patience”
and “ new spring suitings ” perpetuate the idea for En<>--
lish-speakers) ; but MaliarivnS, for example, extolled fn
faded language—which matched the idea and spoilt it.
For vou cannot drive a nail or a word farther than it will
go ; and onomatopoeia and similar devices are aids, not
essentials, in poem-manufacture. It is a fine thing to get
a husk to fit the kernel ; but the main thing is the kernel
If emotion goes when epithet comes, the result may be
“ precious,” but it is not Poetry.
(The cult of Faded Things and the glorification of their
supreme beauty have a natural home in Australia, the
Land of Faded Things—of delicate duns, delicious greys
and dull, dreamy olives and ochres. Iri such an environ-
ment, Bill and Jim (thimselves Faded —Tired deni-
zens of a Tired country true decadents, always fall-
ing down ; aslope like their gum-trees, and held up
only by the intervention of a post or fence) should
be naturally attuned to the tenderest chords of {esthetic
sensibility. Yet we have been content to let 'strangers
foist upon us the vulgar English ideals of glaring green
and staling red and orange, and denounce our grave har-
monies of rock and vegetation—shadow laid on beautiful
shadow, light on dusky light. And this though the lead-
ing English art-magazine, The Studio, passes by all
the English emeralds and flaunting autumn tints
to bind itself in dull Australian green ! This,
though intelligent Englishmen themsrlves revolt
against the traditions of their crudely - coloured
country, and declare, like returning Morley Roberts
that “there was one thing that struck me' in’
England as very strange, not to say painful, and that was
the vivid colour of the pastures. We are quite proud of
our perpetual verdure ; hut, to tell the truth, the tint, of
the grass after the soberer dull greys and greens and
browns of Australia was extremely unpleasant to my
eye. I thought the colour glaring, not to say inartistic;
it certainly was not unnatural, and yet it struck me as
being as nearly that as if someone had deliberately
painted the fields. It took me months to get reconciled
to it.” Precisely. And the typical English beauty looks
as painted as the fields, with her coarse contrast of red
and white ; yet we permit. Englishmen to come here and
decry the divine pallor of Australians tinted like a
capricious coral ! Englishmen have even been permitted
to denounce the gum-tree, the most picturesque tree that
grows on earth, always at ease, Bohemian, unconven-
tional. To see the cushioned tops of a gum-tree moving
in a breeze—that gum-tree shaped like a soaring para,
chute made of a score of minor parachutes which lift
and strain as if eager to be off and up ; - to watch the shift -
ing interspaces of sky through the cordage of branches,
and hear the birdlike murmur of the leaves, almost a
twittering;—this is to receive a litieral aesthetic educa-
tion. Yet Englishmen persist in, bringing hither those
dense, sombre trees of theirs which defy even an Austra-
lian sun-ray, whichalmost disdain to ruffle in an Alls' ralian
breeze; trees with the heavy magnificence of an English
dinner, and often as dull;-and call upon us to admire
these unnatural exotics I Englishman Marcus Clarke has
even called our gum-tree “ melancliolv," our forests
“funereal,” and won Australian praise for the ludicrous
misrepresentation 1 It is quite time for Bill and Jim to
take off the English spectacles and open their Australian
eyes to the beauties of this country as she are.)
3. Always provided that the poem, while gaining the
charm of dream, retains the force of reality. In weak
hands the effort to lift fact to imaginative heights re-
sults merely in incoherence and splashes. It does not
follow that incoherence is a poem, and splashes are a
picture, because they have been reached bv methods
which in strong hands would have led to the making
of a poem or a picture. Convinced of the validity of his
means, the Mallarmist, poet or the impressionist painter
is apt to take his result for granted. It isn’t. Only the
means are granted ; the result depends on his use of
them.
* * ♦ 9
Ogilvie stands just now at the head of our objec-
tive verse-writers ; Daley at the head of the sub-
jective.
1. The objective men deal with outsides, externals,
realities, and the sensations they awake ; the subjective,
if they take an external peg for thought,'.speedily merge
it in their dream and the sensations of their'dream.
There is no hard-a(id-last line; but essentially the following
classification holds. Objective : Ogilvie, Lawson, Paterson,
Gordon, et al. Subjective: Daley, Quinn, Stephens, Kendall,
etal. (The order here, as elsewhere on this page, is acci-
dental. To establish an order of merit would involve
reams of weighing and measuring, and then only a per-
sonal opinion would be established).
2. Kendall has held sway in poetic heads so long that
one almost, grudges the pre-eminence which Daley’s “At
Dawn and Dusk” has won for him. But the most
enthusiastic Kerulali-lover, judging fairly, should acknow-
ledge that the weight, the sustained accomplishment, of
Daley’s collected work places him first--, with this reserva-
tion : that Daley seems to have put forth the best that
was in him, and we have only hints gnd glimmerings of
Kendall’s better best. [ls it profitable so to compare and
criticise? It is more; it is necessary: for one cannot
rightly praise without.referenee to a standard of praise,
and a standard involves comparison between (not rivals
but) concurrent comrades in the fellowship of the Muse.]
But Ogilvie, like Gordon, is sliding into
the subjective and higher rank. “The City of
Gray Griefs,” (now first) printed on this page, is
a transition-poem, marking what may become an
essential change in his manner. It differs from a
subjective poem like Daley’s “Dreams” because
the reality is unabsorbed, there is a constant
metaphorical reference to the streets, corners,
domes and minarets of an actual city. This need
not detract one whit from the charm of the in-
dividual poem ; but a series of poems so charac-
terised would be likely on the whole to take lower
rank -.than a sfcries of purely subjective poems,
other things being equal. It is because other
things are not equal that Ogilvie, though essen-
tially objective, is poetically worth more than
many an essentially subjective writer.
* * * *
Ogilvie tried his pen at sonnets a little since,
and the best (and irregular) result (now first
printed) heads this page, It shows the vision, and
the power of picturing his vision in words, which
are poetically among his most fascinating attri-
butes. Of a thousand persons who saw the “lithe
young squatter ” probably five hundred failed to
note the anti-climax of rusty stirrups to gleaming
gear—so blind are many of us, though seeing.
And of the possible five hundred who rioter 1 , and
queried, and heard the story, possibly one hundred
appreciated the romance, and possibly a dozen
felt it fully. And there was just one who felt,
and whose brain instantaneously crystallised
emotion into words surely almost as vivid as
itself—
The lifeless form bound to the saddle-gear.
The blood-drops falling on the stirrup-bars.
Vision—emotion—and the phrase which leaps to
concentrate emotion: these are the Poet’s pre-
rogatives.
* • * *
It is a defect in Daley that he is usually hard
and cold ; his work is sculptured—sculptured in
coloured marble, indeed, but still hewn slowly,
and lacking the irresistible vehemence of passion.
In his earlier work— e.(j., “ A Sunset Fantasy,”
and “ The Old Wife and the New ” —there is the
desiderated heat, and these pieces will always bo
preferred by readers who wish to feel as well as to
admire—to receive a heart-throb as well as a bead-
thrill. In his later work— c.<j., “The River
Maiden” and “Night”—Daley is less occupied
with conveying an emotion than . with accumulat-
ing and elaborating beautiful images arid phrases ;
and the pleasure gained from these pieces is more
intellectual, less intimate and personal. The
later note may by some be held finer ; but it is
weaker. Ogilvie, more youthful, is more fiery ;
and while Daley writes slowly, quarrying out his
verses, Ogilvie’s come rushing almost uncalled.
With his head hot with emotion lie takes his pen,
muses a moment, there is a breath from the Muse,
and the thing is done. He says, and no doubt
truly, that most of his verses cost him no more
than half-an-hour in composition, and that if his
first attempt to convey a poetic impression fails he
can never convey it. Either a poem writes itself
or it cannot be written at all. This is not the way
to compose a “Paradise Lost”; but it is the way
in which lyrics are composed. And (once more)
the lyric remains the best fruit of poetry.
* * * *
From Ogilvie’s way of composition it results
that his verses have no marks of the file: they
are simplicity itself. And when he adds tender-
ness, the result is as fine as in “Leila”—•
That is a poem which Tom Hood would have been
proud to write. Ogilvie has all Tom Hood’s
limpid sweetness, though his lyre be not yet
tuned to the magic fibre which sings in “Fair
Inez.” (Ogilvie has indeed shared the emotion
which inspired “Fair Inez,” but Hood’s is trebly-
distilled. )
* * » *
Both Lawson and -Boake have a certain fullness
of vigour which is not in Ogilvie ; though Ogilvie
is vigorous. His poetic jet is flung as high, but it
is narrower. Yet Ogilvie’s better education has
given him a better sense and mastery of words
(approximating him to Gordon), and in a peculiar
intensity of phrase he is unrivalled. Eg.,
The spirit and the sweep of this are a.s good as
Browning at his best; and even Browning might
have envied the last stanza and the magnificent
last quatrain.
* * • *
It remains to say that Ogilvie has assimilated
and expressed the poetry of the Bush and of bush-
life better than any other writer (Boake, who
assimilated, died before he could fully express);
and that as Tie is young and ardent (his book re-
presents the gleaning of some five years ; Daley’s
of some fifteen) he is likely to heighten his claim on
Australian love and esteem. That book, indeed,
could already be made substantially better by the
inclusion of verses written since it went to the
printers; and a piece called “The Bush, My
Lover,” in particular (to appear in The Bulletin
Xmas number) is the finest poetic utterance which
the spirit of Australia has inspired.
BEN HALL'S STIRRUP-IRONS.
A lithe young squatter passes in the dust,
His buckle.rgleaming and his bars a-glance;
But laden with long years of old romance *
The slender stirrups covered with red rust.
The troops are scattered and the dark days dead
When robber-bands made wild the Lachlan Side;
No hunted outlaws to the mountains ride,
A thousand pounds of blood-fee on their head ;
And only these quaint stirrups hand us down
The thrilling story no one halts to hear
Of long, wild rides below the trusted stars,
And that last mournful journey to the town,
The lifeless form bound to the saddle-gear,
The blood-drops falling on the stirrup-bars.
W. H. O.
LEILA.
The nodding: plumes steal slowly by ;
Fair women turn, their heads aside ;
And yet the purest there must die
As poor Love-Leila died.
In town, a boy who never knew
Of better love than this
Is mourning' Leila’s eyes of blue,
And lone for Leila’s kiss.
A horseman on the burning plains
A hundred miles north-west
Bends gently o’er his bridle-reins
And prays for Leila, Rest!
A main who buried all his dreams
Of Love long years ago,
Has dropped one other tear where gleams
Love-Leila’s breast of snow.
All virtuous the world appears ;
But those who turn aside
May never win such honest tears
As fell when Leila died.
HABET!
Down ! And the World’s war-squadron splashes
Past, loose-reined, in the blood and the mire ;
Brown arms sweep and the hared steel flashes
On to the goal ot the World's Desire.
Down ! By the war-steeds hot hoofs cowering,
Broken the sword-arm, bent the sword,
And away to the front leap the sabres showering
Blows for the Hell-hearth, blows for the Lord !
Did he clutch at the moon for jewel
To hind on his bosom and wear?
Did he fight with a fate too cruel
Or follow a face too fair?
What does it matter the reason why t
He is down ; and it's little the World will care
As it sweeps in a foam-fret by.
Down ! Weeps the moon, and he never wore it.
Down ! Ariel the stars mourn into the mist.
Fate's ri d weal is across his forehead ;
Somebody’s face has never been kissed l
Flushes the dawn, and one vulture-speck
Spires and spins in a reeling sky ; f —
Down ! And it’s little the World will reck
As it rides red-rowelled by.
THE CITY OF GRAY GRIEFS.
Somewhere, hid in our hearts, a City stands
Gray-mossed with all the sorrow of the years,
And broken-arched with Love’s unclasping hands
And mortared stone to stone with bitter tears.
Here at each corner of the silent streets,
By every fountain in the empty squares,
Each one of us his stifled Sorrow meets
Beneath the mouldering'arches, unawares.
From dawn till day-death, white beneath the sun,
Hand in cold hand go past our sheeted dead,
Bale with regret for deeds of ours undone,
Weary with longing for our words unsaid.
Here the dim .Sin's held close in buried days,
With the loud sandals of Remembrance shod,
Make hollow echo on the grass-grown ways,
Calling the vengeance of an unknown God.
Here the lost chances of a ruined life
From shrivelled lips let loose a mocking tongue,
Or turn and stab with a relentless knife
The souls that scorned them when the world was
young. C y -
Here the hot kisses of a cruel love,
The lustful kisses, burn like heated brands:
Here is no rest; no Lethe to remove
The snowy fetters of the clinging hands.
Fades the red sun from minaret and dome
Night after weeping night; and still beneath
The gray-grown Griefs in long procession come,
Death’s messengers without the peace of Death.
W.H.O.


RS
■ ■
FREEMAN
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG- MEN.
S'tnrmtnmK of Dreaded Diseases which
. «/’ 1 destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less serious nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“ Stop—be sad ! ” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmarrried man,
“Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSoi)-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious in its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment’s delay. Don’t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
60 Engravings.
16 colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
Debility, Loss of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. JLt is an
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain. At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeling of unrest, attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, bashtuiness
and loss of energy. You soon become ainbitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You nnu
little enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide, lhe cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. Vou grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and it you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples. It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for JNervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes—bring back the lustre to your eyes, and
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life—ambitious —successful. Don t delay, immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
1 ake time by the forelock —nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting. T .
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. IN o matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
equipment and low charges. .
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case fully: Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
CURED, we are ready to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
m
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO-
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
CORHKSFONDENCE P.O. BOX 135.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in' the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young" Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, gmdi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of lull-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands -and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
mmm
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily, I
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE. I
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
’'TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young and
Old Men ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain same easily
and permanently Prof.
Bead’s LIFE SYRUP cures the most obstinate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, &c. # A Written
Guarantee given m all cases The Life Syrup stim«
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdram of vital fluid, which so weak
ens and destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps for my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how aL
nervous disorders are cured, and m many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. BEAD, 145 Collins St.,Melbourne.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
Agents for Thbkapion— FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPS/TT & Co.
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by liicord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remat kdbly short time, often a tew days only,
removes all discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of the blood, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruinof health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and viatour to the debilitated.
THERAPION sssas
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
above Trade Mark, which is a fac-simile of word
“ Therapion ’’ as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE-NO PAY,
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NOTE—
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CUBED by
EXHAUSTION
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ;no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Boijrke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
ATROPHY
„ , IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength,
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
, book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Pavorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
Fort he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
‘ 4 Light and Life.’'
tfflis valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharm&oy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
• . . Monster Prize List.
registered
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII tim: Yi:ai; Round.
50,00-0 Subscribers at 5.
When Full, will be Drawn on the Advertised Day of the
Next Principal Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : shares in the above.
Name
Addi •ess
ROSEHILL S. December 10.
50,000 Subscritjers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name..
Address
CARRINGTON S. December 31.
50,000 Subscribers 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Marne
Address
SUMMER C. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at £3-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name _
Address
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
s
NOTE.-
-Tlie SPECIAL, when full, will be drawn on the advertised day of the next Principal Race.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


be 6IaSS
of FaSfrioi)
ANTHONY • tiOBDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . ■
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY—
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &c.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
9
0
HEADACHE
\ CURED!
A Headache Cure should be
instantaneous, safe, certain,
and effective, however often
it is used, and free from dan-
ger of evil after-effects. The
public should know that some
so-called headache cures are
dangerous, and ought not to
be used except under medical
advice. A headache cure, free
from every objection, is ob-
tainable, and known as
BISHOP’S
Citrate of Caffeine
It immediately cures the
worst headache, and dispels
all feelings of exhaustion and
weariness. Supplied by all
Chemists at
i/iJ4 and 2/-, or
of ALFRED
BISHOP, Ltd.,
Mfg. Chemists,
Mile End New
Town,London.
EL
USE
Spoopcr’s
.oONfJJjj.
FDR
t BROWN LEATHER
1 BOOTS & SHOES
" OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
: DIRECIIONS FOR USE
V^uuwnimiiwMiiiHiimwlii
ROYAL NAVY
DRSSSIN6,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of laime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining: Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
THE
DEAF
HEAR
m~ “Common Sense Ea*
Drums” relieve Deafness anj*
Head Noises, where medical ski 11
fails. The only Scientific Aura l
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear>
comfortable, invisible, no (dan"
Igerous) wire or metal attach"
ment. Recommended by physi"
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Where the Dead Men Lie, and Other
Poems, by Barcroft Boake ; with memoir,
portrait, and 32 illustrations, ss.
mms
GrO TO BCBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Hage 17,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
ROstraliag. AlOtaal p r< ,„ idt ,,t Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES)
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash buipius
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £415,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors :-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; ™ os - LITTLEJOHN
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. iJ-T- WALKER Esq ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq.; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEOE, 1<.1.A.,F.F.A., T.S.S.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Established 1819.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, VO/- per Set.
US’ Send for Price List.
H. HILLXER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENOS'FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
vith High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEVER, PYEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S * FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
' you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. JUSTICE MURRAY and Mrs. Murray both certify to the Curative
Properties of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. Upon their recommendation
several obstinate cases of eye-complaints have been cured with the -Lotion after
the failure of doctors’ treatment and the frequent use of other so-called remedies.
They give Mr. Rose full permission to use their name.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PROPEIETOR :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
f; i
fH i
■
as
Telephone, S 6 KOGARAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotelgrighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall will accommodate SOO persons. Large Swimming: Baths; also, Electric and Hot Sal*
Water Ttnths fa sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating’
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
THE
‘Plum’
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
t Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Price
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
HXT.S-'W- Carriage & Saddlery IManf Company,
, Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’ Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
Our special
No. 2.
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
JBB.IB. 6.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Legion of the Lackers.
There is a mighty army, whose retreat long since
begun,
Goes westward, westward ever, with the progress
of the sun;
An army never marshalled, never numbered, never
led,
Whose wages are but scanty, and whose soldiers
poorly fed :
The legion of the lackers—by the force of want
bid range,
Whose prospects have been mangled by the Jugger-
naut of ’Change.
All through the land they wander, by an evil fate
dismayed—
Few are the chances Life affords to derelicts of
trade.
In vain is their endeavor into other ranks to
glide—
All labor is skilled labor to the men who have not
tried—
From post to pillar driven, they pursue their
weary quest
Till they find Life’s manumission in the Scylla of
the West.
Hail to the age of progress ! we are on an upward
way !
And the world goes leaping onward to the bourne
of perfect day ;
Soon will come the consummation of the theoristic
plan,
And the upward march of progress will evolve a
perfect man.
In the clank of mechanism sounds the tocsin of
the free,
And the curse that came with Adam ever exorcised
shall be.
What matters it that countless hearts for lives in
ruin bleed —
The good of unborn millions surely justifies the
deed.
The pathway of advancement was with hardships
ever paved,
And by present minor suff’ring future agony is
saved ;
The records of invention are with confirmation
thick,
From the cotton-spinners’ “jenny ” to the “ Mer-
genthaler’s ” click.
“All men are born to trouble,’’said the Israelitish
sage —
And there’s little room for doubting that they get
their heritage.
Though perfection may come floating on Inven-
tion’s flowing tides,
’Tis the lust for wealth and power—not philan-
thropy—that guides ;
And, thoiigh future good may follow, those who
now the hardships bear
In the clank of mechanism hear the tocsin of
despair.
N.S.W.
GEORGE POWICK BROWN.
The Song of the New-Found Field.
I sing to them that found me,
That sought me far and near ;
From the Maori’s trembling mountains
To the Arctic ice-fields drear.
To camps they pitched with doublings,
To duffer holes they digged ;
To strong hands rough with turning
The windlass roughly rigged.
They lack no room to roam in
That chase the gleam o’ gold ;
The ends of earth are open,
But needs must they be bold.
Will-o’-the-wisps of fortune
They follow, pole to pole ;
And jack-o’-lanterns fleeting—
The girth of earth their goal.
The glamour draws them seeking
The pay-streak in the drift ;
And deep the reef and lode-line
They prospect, shift by shift.
They lack no room to roam in,
The fields are wondrous wide.
And leads still lie deep buried,
And reefs still lie untried.
The dust shows plain their wand’rings
From soak to lake of salt;
In virgin tropic forest
The fever bids them halt;
They stake their claims in twilight
Beneath the Northern Lights,
Or with the Bushmen warriors
Their laagered vanguard fights.
By head-race round the ranges,
By flume across the span,
By sluice-box in the cutting,
By cradle and by pan,
By mill and hauling engine,
The thudding stamp-heads’ din,
By shaft and shift and furnace
The glist’ning gold they win.
To each the chance of fortune
That sifts the golden sands ;
And some return full-handed,
And some with empty hands.
To each the chance of fortune
With every claim they stake ;
But ’twixt the four pegged corners
Waits many a long heart-ache.
And some lie on the hill-side,
On plains all heaped and holed,
And some lie in the level,
Deep-buried with their gold.
Dry plain and frozen glacier,
And flood-swept river-bed,
Oh, men must fight for fortune,
And women weep their dead.
So, here’s to them that found me,
To luck and “ fortune’s frowns,”
To the huts in the far Sierras,
To the new-built iron towns ;
To claims worked-out in silence,
To the roaring stampers’ yield ;
It is sung to the hearts of heroes —
This song of the new-found field !
PROSPECT GOOD.


•jpg
’• ••.•.* y
* V *<
3NIMV3
H3QMOd
o
111
m
Suits .
Dyspeptics
REST* BEST IN THE Woe
MANUFACTURED BY
Washington H.Sout&C 0 , Pitt St. Sydney.
AND SOLD BY Alt GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS ■
: :
p
- .
■
4
IBP* 5
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Casfclereagh-street, Sydney.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
P#B
BUILDING PAPER
M te J°E T) RIcH * Co., LTD.“ Spri " g " d ’” Be<K,rot ‘’ April 6 ' 1898 '
_ 24-26 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—The roll of Ruberoid Roofing which you supplied me at
Wahroonga has proved satisfactory for Poultry Houses. Will you please
send another roll, for which I enclose cheque for £2.—Yours faithfully
(Sgd.) J. HULL.
-FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rose&Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M‘Piierson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents: E. BICE & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDOA SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARLTON ALE.
Tattersalfs Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
3' 1 '““ George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre); and located within a
Criterion thet ° f MajeS^’S ’ the Palac e, and the
criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
f T ility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TARIFF:
Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
■
Paiziless Dentistry.
THE ..
[ondon Denial
Institute.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its _t tranches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
BEFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cunt.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
nifll
MPA
UMT
{EDINBURG
Trade II;,!®' Mark
iotcA^y^/übif
! V Distiller s Com ranylT ,i
!*" EDINBURGH.
Jni„„L £ llit tO/o , UAr^ j, if D /<£iu /{fl/tey.
( w A'flj iU A ,J/■,riuJ’»'A" v *-
Drink
Ploderately.
Take a little Whisky
“fortliestomach’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. "One
glass At meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L/
Sufferers from Uric Acid
You may end your
sufferings by drinking
PVRXRX
'lhe wonderful mineral
water of New Zealand.
Don’t take a preparation from a mineral water when you
can get the best mineral water itself.
Cures Gout, Indigestion, Rheumatism, Sluggish Liver,
&c., &C., &c. °° ’
TESTIMONIALS from doctors of highest repute may be had from
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., O’Connell-st., Sydney,
AGENTS for N.S.W. and QUEENSLAND,
& CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO defy competition.
TOOTH
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
history or
YANKEE DOODLE.
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
lO Anjerica.
lO Australia.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through Hew Jersey on Hew York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
j flagging spirits of La Fayette’s, soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Boodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons pee Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TON'GL T E. Every smoker should
TRY EOR HIMSELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Toi. I - '.—No. 9SI.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1898.
I’niCE Gn.
AA /J R T _ /"
0
n _ ... '
■Stf-u? PAR Jf-^, rt . sv / -
'~A > CfariZ 7 aJrttyS.
L “ '
«rvA j-fer
A. SAVAGE LANDOR, FEBRUARY. IS9T.
A. SAVAGE LANDOR OCTOBER, 1807.'
"In tbo Forbidden Land,” by H. Henry Savago
Landor (W. Ilelneinann), which arrives la two
volumes, advanced post copy, from George Robert-
con and Co., has created a London sensatloq in
Journalistic form.
Tbc nalure of Mr. Landor's own personal ciw
.pcriences at tbo bands of the Tibetans could)
lhardly bo more eloquently expressed than in tha
two portraits here reproduced from photograph^
reiizJ b
%L*<x*
$ 4*5 5^ e v
- \
%
V
A ir U S e p T
A Jar- v ,
/<? /
/'<•’=:ci / >V7<- a //v .4?,/.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 .12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Rlach and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 546 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljcJ. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
ylZelz/ri.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1898.
On Behalf of the Widow.
1. Where under Part 111. of the Stamp Duties Act,
1898, duty is payable or chargeable in respect of the
estate of any person dying after the first day of Decem-
ber, 1898, or is payable or chargeable on or after the death
of any person so dying in respect of any estate the subject
of any settlement, trust, disposition, conveyance, trans-
fer, vesting, purchase, investment, or gift, such duty shall
be levied, collected, paid, and charged and chargeable
under that Act according to the duties hereinafter men-
tioned.
Where the total value of the estate,
after reducing all debts, exceeds
£5OO, but does not exceed £l,OOO ... 1 per cent.
Where the value And does not
exceeds exceed
£l,OOO ... £5,000 2
5,000 ... 6,000 8
6,000 ... 7,000 81-5 ~
7,000 ... 8,000 3 2-5
8,000 . ... 9,000 3 3-5
9,000 ... 10,000 3 4-5 „
10,000 12,000 4
12,000 ... 14,(100 41-5 ~
14,000 ... 16,000 4 2-5 „
16,000 . ... 18,000 4 3-5 „
18,000 ... 20,000 4 4-5
20,000 ... 22,000 5
22,000 ... 24,000 5 1-5 „
24,000 ... 26,000 5 2-5 „
26,000 ... 28,000 5 3-5
28,000 ... 30,000 5 4-5
30,000 ... 32,000 6
32,000 ... 34,000 6 1-5 ~
34,000 ... ' 36,000 6 2-5
86,000 ... 38,000 6 3-5
38,000 ... 40,000 6 4-5
40,000 ... 44,000 7
44,000 ... 48,000 7 1-5
48,000 ... 52,000 7 2-5
52,000 ... 66,000 7 3-5
56,000 ... 60,000 7 4-5
60,000 ... 64,000 8
64,000 ... 68,000 81-5 ’
68,000 ... 72,000 8 2-5
72,000 ... 76,000 8 3-5
76,000 ... 80,000 8 4-5
80,000 ... 84,000 9
84,000 ... 88,000 91-5 ’
88,000 ... 92,000 9 2-5
92,000 ... 96,000 9 3-5
96,000 ... 100,000 9 4-5
And over the value of—
-100,000 ... 10
2. Where under Part 111 of the Stamp Duties’Act
1898, duty is payable or chargeable in respect of the
estate of any person dying after the first day of December
1898, or is payable or chargeable on or after the death of
any person so dying in respect of any estate the subject
of any settlement, trust, disposition, conveyance, transfer,
vesting, purchase, investment, or gift, there shall be
levied, charged, and paid for the use of Her Majesty and
to form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, accord-
ing to the rates hereinafter mentioned, a duty upon any
property or any interest in the same which any person,
on or after the death of the person so dying, takes under
or by virtue of any probate of the will, or letters of
administration of the estate or order to collect the estate
of the person so dying, or any such settlement, trust,
disposition, conveyance, transfer, vesting, purchase, in-
vestment, or gift.
Lineal issue or lineal ancestors of the
deceased, or the husbands or wives of
any such persons 1 per cent.
Brothers and sisters of the deceased and
their descendants, or the husbands or
wives of any such persons 3 „
Brothers and sisters of the fathers or
mother of the deceased and their de-
scendants, or the husbands or wives of
any such persons ... 6 ~
Brothers and sisters of a grandfather or
grandmother of the deceased and their
descendants, or the husbands and wives
of any such persons 6 ~
Persons of more remote consanguinity,
or strangers in blood to the deceased 10 ~
—Painfully elaborate resolution introduced recently in
N.S.W. Assembly.
The proposal to raise increased probate and
succession duties, which was affirmed by the
Assembly but rejected by the Legislative
Council of New South Wales a year or two
ago, is revived by the above resolution. And
The Bulletin again takes up the case on
behalf of the widow and the small orphan.
* • * •
Two or three things may be reasonably
allowed just here, before the widow comes
on the scene. The Reid Government has
always had a great difficulty in making ends
meet —in fact, it has never made ends meet;
and it is now driven to partially admit the
fact. It is difficult to see how anything very
large can be done by retrenchment; the one
distinctly good point about the Reid Minis-
try’s finance is that it hasn’t been extravagant
in its expenditure. It wants a great deal
more new revenue than it now demands—at
least £BOO,OOO a-year more—to enable it to
pay out of revenue the things that should be
charged thereto, and which are now put into
loans, and left as a burden and a dead-
horse to posterity. It is pledged not
to levy import duties —it does levy
them on a large scale all the same, still
there are limits in this direction. It is
distinctly pledged not to increase the land-
tax beyond the present penny in the £—not
that its pledges amount to much. There
isn’t very much revenue to be obtained by
abolishing the land-tax or income-tax ex-
emptions—besides, a special tax on the little
cocky who scrapes a scanty living out of 50
or 100 acres of ground, or on the man who
earns 30s. a week for the support of himself
and his family, would arouse a storm of
opposition, and it wouldn’t look well on the
part of a Government whose loudest boast
is that it has taken the burdens off the poor.
An absentee tax is contrary to the Foreign-
trade policy of booming the outside capi-
talist, and a graduated land-tax upon
specially large estates is shut out by the
promise above-mentioned that one penny in
the £ shall be the extreme limit. So many
things are prohibited by the Calico Jimmy
gospel that there is very little except in-
creased probate and succession duties to fall
backvtipon, And, so far as concerns the
duties on large estates and those proposed to
be levied on bequests, large or small, to
strangers in blood, there is nothing at all to
object to.
• * » •
But, as regards the small widow, and, in a
less degree, as regards the small orphan, the
case is different. In the first place, it seems
that the estate, if over £5OO and under
£lOOO in value, is chargeable at the rate of
1 per cent, probate-duty. Also, that the
widow is liable for 1 per cent, succession-
duty—payable no matter how small the
estate is. Therefore, if the estate runs to,
say, £520, and it is all left to the widow, it
appears that that unfortunate female is taxed
2 per cent. Below that she is still taxed,
but not so much. The Bulletin desires re-
spectfully to draw the attention of the
cornstalk Parliament to the fact that this
is, in very many cases, a special tax levied
on a very poor and distressed class at a time
when it is least able to stand that tax. The
average widow is elderly ; there are plenty
of exceptions, but in the bulk of cases she
has a habit of being elderly. Very often she
knows no trade, except the unremunerative
one of a housewife—learned by keeping her
own house; and that of a laundress and
plain needlewoman —acquired through the
necessity of doing her own washing and
sewing. A generation which jeers at the
female who wants to know any other occu-
pations, and calls her a New Woman,
and a Shrieking Sister, and uses language
about her snatching the livelihood of
men from them, can’t complain of this.
Very often she has three or four
children either below working age or
not sufficiently above it to earn anything
appreciable. A community which brags
about the increase of population as one of
the greatest blessings of a community, and
as a sure sign of its virility, and which puts
in prison for seven years the professional
gentleman who helps to prevent the increase
of population, can’t complain of this either.
And very often there are thousands of good
reasons why, after many years of hard work
and economy, the old man dies of rheumatism
or some other ailment caught through ex-
posure while repairing the public roads, and
only leaves £520, and is darned glad to leave
so much.
* * • •
Said amount may easily represent no
income at all. A six-roomed cottage with
the bit of ground attached and the furniture
can account for it all, and leave no ready
cash whatsoever (the old man’s illness often
absorbs all that), and no cash income to live
on or pay rates and taxes with. If the cot-
tage is sold (cottages don’t sell any too
readily just now) and realises, say, £350
(presumably the old woman still wants
the furniture), that means, with hard
economy, about four or five years’ support,
including the rent of the new house; and the
widow can’t positively rely on dying at the
end of four or five years. Nor can she rely
too securely on her children keeping her at
the end of that time—some children grow up
to be unlucky, or to loaf, or drink, or marry
and go away to remote regions, or go away
without marrying, or die. The widow may
be too old or feeble or incompetent to earn
her living by domestic service or washing, to
say nothing of the fact that her family may re-
quire her attendance. Also, she may live in
the bush, where people do their own washing.
She is generally too brown and battered to
be a success as a barmaid. There are very
few occupations open to an elderly widow
with no educational advantages—most widows
are of that uninteresting variety—and there
isn’t one which furnishes even a decent live-
lihood. And when this melancholy old per-
son loses her husband and her sole income,
Premier Reid (the gentleman who advocates
taking the burdens off the poor) proposes to
lay a special tax on her poverty and her loss
by way of celebrating the event.
* • * *
The Bulletin advisedly describes the fre-
quent variety of widow above set forth as
poor. The male person of 25 with no
encumbrances, with strength, a moderate
amount of education and intelligence, a very
moderate but reasonably reliable salary,
but with his life and the world—such as it
is—before him, may be comparatively rich,
though his whole visible assets are the
trunk of clothes in his boarding-house. The
woman of 45, with no breadwinner, no pro-
fession, who has forgotten in her married
life the art of hustling with the outside
world for . a living—such living as the world
affords to a woman at the best, who is bur-
dened with a family, and has lost her good
looks, and has the best part of her life
behind her iiistead of before, may have £5OO
or £6OO worth of assets and yet be miser-
ably, sordidly poor. When this same question
cropped up a year or two ago, and this
paper hung out a shingle with the same
legend “On Behalf of the Widow,” there
was a great addition to the postage reve-
nue through the letters it received from
unthinking scoffers to the effect that there
was no need to worry so much over the
widow with £5OO or so, when stacks of
widows would be glad to have one-tenth the
amount. Several Foreign-trade politicians
were among that horde of correspondents.
Yet if the widow with £5OO deserves no con-
sideration because other widows haven’t
£5OO, then the man with an income of 15s.
per week should pay income-tax because
other people have no income at all ; and it is
no good worrying about how the tea-duty
presses on the poor because there are plenty
of people still poorer who can’t get any tea
at all. In these days “Dr. MacjLaurin's
widow” was one of the brutal standing jokes
of the Foreign-trade press. But the widow
is as numerous and as deserving of considera-
tion as the shearer. The main difference is
that the latter has a vote, and the Govern-
ment and its organs, therefore, can’t afford
to treat him with disrespect.
* » • *
In The Bulletin’s opinion the widow
should be exempt from all probate and suc-
cession duties up to, say, £5OOO. She
occupies a position unlike that of any other
legatee. According to the law of man
and the alleged law of God, she and
her husband are one, and she is only
inheriting her own property. Where the
old man makes a small pile by industry and
economy the old woman, in most cases, is,
by all equity, his full partner. She has to
economise as much as he ; to deny herself as
much as he does ; in most cases, she has to
work as hard as he does, in order to save
domestic expenditure and give the pile its
first start. To her, as a rule, the alleged
inheritance of the little family fortune doesn’t
mean inheriting anything ; it simply means
that she loses her income, and, as a hollow
mockery of a per contra, that the deeds of the
house and the garden, where she has always
lived, have her name on them instead of
the old man’s. If the property goes
to an outsider, the tax means that he
gives to the State something of what he
has gained, and the rest is profit. In the
case of the widow it often means that she
has lost most of her assets (the old man and
his earning capacity being generally the big-
gest part of her estate), and the Government
proceeds to take part of what remains. It
taxes her for the use and luxury of her
domestic calamity, and makes her pay for
her loss. The amount isn’t large enough to
do the State much good, and it is quite
enough to do the relict, in many cases, a lot
of harm. And in most instances the whole
idea is foreign to the boasted principle of
relieving the poor and laying the burdens on
the rich.
* * • *
This paper isn’t a widow itself, and certain
reasons of sex make it eminently improbable
that it will ever be one. All the proprietors
will be dead before they leave any widows,
therefore the matter doesn’t concern them
personally. Any person who wants to heave
the obvious jibe that plenty of men leave
widows before they are dead (secretly, by
the back gate, or over the fence in many
cases, for fear of observation) is hereby in-
formed that this paper has thought of that
joke already. The point at issue is that by
exempting the widow up to, say, £5OOO
the Treasury won’t lose very much, and
a class which is, in the main, very
poor and very helpless, will gain some-
thing. If it doesn’t gain very much,
it will at least gain all that the State
can give it in this matter. And if it isn’t
the very poorest class in the community it
is at least poor enough to deserve considera-
tion. The argument that the old relict with
£5OO or £lOOO doesn’t deserve so much
advocacy when so many other relicts have a
great deal less, doesn’t come in anywhere. If
it is followed out to its legitimate conclusion
even the homeless cripple who tries to live
on offal deserves no consideration because
there are homeless cripples who haven’t the
luck to find any offal.
Threepenny Democracy.
Thebe has lately been printed a “Geography of
New South Wales,” by J. M. Taylor, M.A.,
LL.B., an amiable person who dwells in a rut.
It is a painstaking text-book, and on p. 96 it
declares that—
N.S.W. possesses abundant educational facilities. An
excellent system of primary education is furnished by the
Public Schools at a merely nominal cost, and in case of
poverty of the parents the fees are altogether remitted.
And so on, with the usual rut-remarks. A writer
on geography is not expected to discuss education;
and this rut-writer can’t afford to criticise it, even
if he has the capacity. His book is “ prescribed
for use in schools by the Department of Public
Instruction, N.5.W.,” and he must flatter the
fetishes. If he didn’t there would be no pre-
scription, no publication, no credit, no cash.
* * * «
New South Wales is governed under a pro-
fessedly Democratic constitution ; and among pro-
fessed democratic ideals are liberty, equality, and
fraternity. Or, if not equality of state, at least
equality of opportunity, so that noxious class-
divisions may be broken down, and the many may
achieve all the rewards and privileges reserved
under an oligarchical government for the few.
And New South Wales has a Parliament elected
by popular vote ; and a formidable section in that
Parliament is called the Labor-party—a body of
Nature’s noblemen, with lofty intelligences and
beautiful legs, who watch with sleepless and incor-
ruptible vigilance that democratic ideals shall not be
departed from by one jot or tittle. And the N.S.W.
system of education is made national, that poor as
well as rich may have the advantages of Knowledge;
and it is made compulsory, that careless or ignorant
parents may not defraud their children of those
advantages ; and it is made secular, in order that
the religious feuds bred by traditional creeds may
not canker the teaching ; and it is made free—free
as air—so that the child of the humblest may par-
ticipate in its blessings equally with the child of
the wealthiest, and at the outset of social life the
alert minds of children may realise that they live
under a Democratic constitution where each has
the same rights and privileges as another, and
there is One Class in One Country.
* * * *
Or, rather, that was the goal set for the framers
of the Public Instruction Act. But their hearts
fainted; and education in New South Wales,
though it may be held national' and compulsory
(with reservations due to natural difficulty or im-
perfect administration), is semi-religious and not
free. The religious instruction is in the national
schools rarely more than an empty form, and
causes little social friction. But the Paid-Educa-
tion, the compulsory fee dragged weekly from ill-
filled pockets, is a festering social sore. With em-
ployment irregular and wages small, 3d. a week,
or 10s. a year, is felt as a tax, When there are
three or four children of the compulsory school-
age, Is. a week, from a wage of 30s. or 405., is a
heavy burden. For the children have to be fed
and clothed, and when their school-fees must be
taken from their food or clothing—what a boon is
education! What a shabby, grudging, illiberal
boon !
* * * *
“ In case of poverty of the parents, the fees are
altogether remitted. ” They are ; by branding the
children and their parents as paupers in a com-
munity where, unluckily, pauperism is still a dis-
grace—almost a crime. The teacher collects the
fees ; and, no matter how he may try to shield the
feeless from the sharp eyes of others, he cannot.
And teachers are human, often overworked and
underpaid. You cannot get all learning and all
chivalry for £95 a-year. So there is often a Mon-
day morning crucifixion of a shrinking child. The
children with threepence pay unconcernedly or
proudly, according to temperament. The children
with no-threepence are asked to explain how they
justify themselves poor little wretches! for
having no threepence. “Please, sir, father’s
out of work; and mother says she hasn’t
it.” “Please, ma’am, mother has been sick,
and couldn’t go out washing, but she’ll send
it when she can.” And so they explain—
some callously, some with hot cheeks under the
glare of a score of interested eyes—the eyes of the
Children with Threepence. And behind them
goes a whisper: “’E don’t get nothing but dry
bread for his dinner.” “She an’ her sister have
only one pair of boots between ’em.” The teacher
notes the reasons, catechises, warns; and the
Children with No-Threepence sit down again—the
unclassed, the paupers, knowing themselves sepa-
rated from the others by the gulf of Threepence.
And this spectacle is one of the familiar products
of “our glorious ” Democracy and our “ excellent
system of national education ” in the 39th year of
Responsible Government, and the Bth year of the
N.S.W. Labor-party !
* * * *
The division between rich and poor, between
Threepence and No-Threepence, is often carried
into the playground, often bears fruit at home.
“Mother, Susy Jones had no threepence again
to-day ” —with the unspoken innuendo, “I’m three-
pence better than Susy Jones.” Meanwhile Susy
Jones is asking, “ Mother, why can’t I have three-
pence-like Henrietta Simpson ? ” So the iron
enters into the little souls—or the gold that pierces
more deeply than iron. In some schools there is
a weekly collection ; but as children ‘ 1 forget, ”
or “mother hasn’t got change,” the fees are
often collected twice daily—and much time is
wasted in rating careless children, or in correcting
mistakes. If any business man will consider what
it means to worry 3d. a week out of, say, 130,000
children, who often have to worry it out of their
jjarents, he will realise the immense loss of time to
children and teachers. Considered merely as a
method of taxation, no move cumbrous, no more
stupid system could be devised. And the waste
of time in school is only the beginning of waste.
Many children get into arrears ls., 2s. 9d.,
ss. 6d., and so on, and upon the teachers is saddled
the responsibility of collecting the arrears, with
the tremendous book-keeping and reporting in-
volved. Upon the country is saddled the cost of
a special staff of clerks to deal with arrears and
exemptions and check the teachers’ book-keeping
and reports. The system is so complex that it is
wonderful it does not die of its own weight. It


lives' only by the piling-up of tape and documents
to an incredible height—a height which only people
acquainted with Government departments can
imagine. And even then it fails to collect more
than a percentage of the debts.
• ¥ • •
Most children, most parents, postpone as long
as possible the application for a pauper-certificate
absolving from the payment of fees. In the mean-
time the teacher is acting as bum-bailiff, brought
into perpetual conflict with parents, rated by the
inspector if the arrears are large, continually dis-
tracted from his work or recreation. And the
humiliation involved in the efforts to enforce pay-
ment falls upon the poor, the hard-working, the
class already sufficiently humiliated— in the name
of glorious democracy. In a school of 150 to 200
pupils the teacher may have to make out 20 or
30 bills every month for school fees in arrear—
form A. Form B is a memorandum telling the
parent to send along the fees, or he will be reported
to the Department. Form Cis the report to
the Dept., under eight heads, and taking several
hours to prepare. Dates and amounts have to be
hunted up, and a copy kept. Form D is sent to
the Dept, with fees paid every month, and has a
host of interesting complications. Form Fis the
pauper’s form, in considerable detail, endorsed with
the teacher’s report. Form Fis a special report
on a case of arrears, and completes the batch.
And the Department has to keep a month-to-
month reoord of the thousands of children (id. in
arrear or more, as a check on the teacher ; to note
and check every individual case of exemption ;
and generally to oversee from Sydney the finances
of the remotest parent in the province.
* * * *
Report said that the N.S.W. Public, Service
Board examined into the working of the Educa-
tion Dept. Since the Dept, goes on as before—
surely report lied!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Support in Return for Concessions.”
Judging by the present political situation in
N.S.W., the policy of support in return for
concessions is producing very little in the way
of democratic legislation. The support is there
all right, but the concessions fail to come
along. The Council Reform Bill has again
dropped overboard to be a lost Jonah in the
vasty deep where Unfinished Legislation washes
around till the Day of Judgment. The long-
promised measure for consolidating the two
Savings Banks into a Slate Bank of Issue is
just where it was four years ago. The scheme
for the resumption of large estates for Closer
Settlement and the Local Government scheme
are never heard of nowadays. The Old Age
Pension system is promised on a small scale in
a year or two ; and a small instalment of the
State Land Bank principle is also promised not
quite so far ahead ; and a law providing for
arbitration in trade disputes is promised before
very long; and it is promised that the important
provisions of the Coal Mines Act, which
have been allowed to lie in abeyance for
two years, are to be enforced next February.
But while sundry valuable democratic schemes
are thus looming in front with the same old
loom, and a lot more have dropped hopelessly
behind, hardly any of them have actually
arrived. The things that are coming, and the
things that were once coming but which have
given up all attempt to get here, are very many,
but those that are actually here can almost be
counted on the thumb of one hand. The
establishment of a modified Foreign-trade
policy can’t be reckoned as a concession to the
Labor and Democratic party, for it professes to
have sunk the fiscal issue. So the list about
boils down to an income-tax which presses
equally on the man who earns a precarious in-
come by daily toil and the one who has a sure
income from investments, and which strikes
the man with £lOOO a year and the man with
£lO,OOO in practically the same degree. Also
a land-tax which doesn’t discriminate between
the man with a medium estate and the
man with half-a-county, or between tlie
absentee and the one who spends his
income in the country.. The concessions
are a mere speck, while the support is
enormous. Yet the situation isn’t so curious as
it looks. The relative cases of Lucknow and
Broken Hill about explain it. The Reid
Government and the late Dibbs Govern-
ment each had a big labor disturbance on
hand. In each case Capital was the aggressor,
and in each case Labor looked to the Govern-
ment for support. When the Lucknow gold
capitalists wanted the State to give them time
to crush their employes by granting a suspen-
sion of the labor-conditions, the Reid Govern-
ment declared it would oppose the concession,
and thereby gained the gratitude of Labor.
Then it didn’t oppose, and the owners got the
State assistance they asked for, and it thereby
gained the gratitude of Capital. When the
Dibbs Government had a somewhat similar
opportunity, it gained the gratitude of Capital
only by briefly and coarsely telling Labor it
would see it damned first, or words to that
effect. To all intents and purposes, Labor gob
left just as badly in each ease, but the way of
doing it was different. And now the Labor-
party chooses between the lying crowd which
promises everything and gives little or nothing,
and the brutally honest or honestly brutal one
which a few years ago promised nothing and
gave about the same as the other lot. Tlie
Democratic cause, unfortunately, makes very
little progress either way.
The Curious Case of Mr. Broadfoot.
Eleven months ago one Broadfoot, of a mani-
festly ill-regulated, if not irrational, turn of
mind, was sentenced, at Melb. Sessions, to 12
months’ “ hard,” for indecently assaulting
children, and, in order that his weak brain—
evidently incapable of controlling his abnormal
passions and desires—might have a chance to
recuperate in the cool seclusion of the prison-
cell, the Judge likewise awarded him four days’
“solitary” every four mouths. The wretch
became so peculiar in his behaviour that lie was
kept under observation (in itself a source of
irritation to the victim), but the gaol medical
officer thought there was not sufficient
cause to warrant his committal to Yarra
Bend Asylum. Presumably, also, there
was not sufficient cause to warrant the remis-
sion of the second ami third terms of solitary.
The result was that the other day the prison
gates opened to discharge a confirmed lunatic,
who walked along “ with a scared expression,
yelping and whimpering like a dog,” and be-
having so eccentrically that he was arrested,
pronounced insane by two doctors, and com-
mitted to the asylum. All of which is a
hideous commentary on the Vic. penal system.
The man was certainly more or less non compos
at the time of his sentence, and the lovely
“ system,” instead of trying to cure his disease
by rational, scientific treatment, endeavored to
“ deter ” him by a course of the silent, solitary,
masked folly of Pentridge. And bow many
more lunatics, or quasi-lunatics, are there at
present inside that stockade, being subjected to
“ solitary ” and the lash and other hideous and
disgraceful deterrents of alleged crime ?
Probate.
Premier Reid, on the proposed N.S.W. death-
duties (estates under ,£5OO to go free of probate
duties, but succession duty to be paid on all
bequests, however small, widows and children
being let off at 1 per cent) — (Telegraph report):
This schedule is exactly the same as the Victorian,
with the exception of the small estates of from £2OOO to
£5OOO. ... In all the other Australian provinces but
Victoria the exemptions were about £2OO or £3OO. Vic-
toria was the only case where such liberality was shown
as to grant exemption up to £lOOO. To follow the
example of the sister province would be to destroy the
revenue produced by the duties. ... It was more liberal
than any of the other provinces.
As usual, Premier Reid manufactures bis facts
as he goes along to suit his case. His liberal
proposal is to exempt estates below £5OO and
to charge the widow 1 per cent, duty all round.
Victoria not only grants exemption up to
£lOOO, but up to £50,000 it lets the widow and
children off at half-rates. Westralia charges
no duty on estates worth less than £l5OO, and,
if the estate is worth only £2500, it charges
duty on £lOOO only. Also, the widow or children
of deceased pay per cent, only on estates
under £2500, so, with the liberal exemption,
Westralia leLs the relict or orphan in humble
circumstances oil’ at about one-sixth of the
rates which Reid proposes t.o charge. When
the old man leaves only £l5OO, and the whole
property goes to the widow, W.A. law charges
her nothing, and for £2500 it exacts from her
only £5. Maori land, the most Democratic
province, and the one which goes in most
heavily for direct taxation, when the property
goes absolutely to the widow or widower iets him
or her off absolutely free, no matter bow large
the estate may be, on the fair and logical ground
that husband and wife are equal partners, and
that when one inhen\s from the other he, or
she, is only nominally inheriting what is really
his, or her, own property. But M. L. gets level
by charging high rates to outside inheritors —
the estate worth £21,000 pays 10 per cent, in
Maoriland, while Premier Reid proposes to
charge only 5 per cent. Therefore, when the
N.S.W. boss politician says that Victoria is
the only province which gives exemption up to
£lOOO, he spins the usual fiction ; and when
he alleges that his schedule of duties is more
liberal than that of any other province he is as
recklessly inaccurate as he generally is—which
is a pretty severe thing to say.
—
Salvation at tlie Other Man’s Expense.
The sweet unreasonableness of dogmatic reli-
gion asserted itself vigorously in the case of
Alfred Archer at Melbourne Gaol last week.
He had murdered his mate in cold blood for
the sake of £lO and a few perquisites ; his
efforts to conceal the crime and escape capture
were fruitless ; he was finally brought to the
condemned cell, where a zealous parson minis-
tered long and earnestly to his mortal funki-
ness, with the result that Alfred Archer
became very penitent. Anyway, he thowjht he
was penitent, and the good clergyman thought
likewise. Nobody can distinguish between the
workings of penitence, fear, or hysterical hope
in such cases, nor can anybody estimate the
value of “ true repentance ” in any sinner who
will be no further exposed to the temptations of
the world, the flesh, and the devil. The
death-sentence had cut this particular peni-
tent off from all risk of backsliding. His
ghostly comforter having persuaded him to
“ believe,” told him to consider himself
whiter than snow, and Archer did as he was
told. He believed with enthusiasm, and, al-
though he had no appetite for his last
breakfast, he certainly went to Glory
with a fair show of confidence in his luck.
Alfred Archer, of course, had exceptional
luck. He might have refrained from murder
and have died a natural death like any or-
dinary sinner. One never knows how and
when one may be sent for. Some years ago an
English judge died suddenly in a brothel, evi-
dently unredeemed. Accepting Church doctrine,
the Judge therefore died in sin and was lost
forever. How different the death of the mur-
derer at Melb. Gaol, as depicted in the local
’Eraed ! “ God so loved Alfred Archer,”
said the clergyman, reading the burial-service
on the gallon’s, “ that, he gave His only be-
gotten Son that through Him Alfred Archer
might he saved 1 ” . . . Archer, in a firm and
unbroken tone of voice, said, “ I wish to thank
all the officials here, and may God bless them
and keep them for that Heavenly Kingdom in
which I am now prepared to meet my God.”
The fortunate fellow associated his salvation
with the prison and all that therein is. He
was grateful to the warders who had kept him
in the place where salvation is procurable on
easy terms, and died practically thanking God
that he had “ found salvation ” through the
slaughter of his poor but irreligious male, who,
by all orthodox showing, was damned to save
AIF. Archer, Esq.
The Will of the People.
He asked that, if possible, they should stand with a com-
bined front with regard to the resolutions, so that the
other provinces might know clearly what this province
demanded before Federation could he accomplished.
When tlie Bill came before that House amendments, some
of which were no doubt of a drastic character, were
made. But he was sorry to say that when the Bill was
taken to the Convention the amendments of bills Chamber
were treated as so much dirt—(hear, hear)-and they
were sneeringly alluded to as only amendments of the
Upper House. Well, it must be a marvellous satisfaction
to hon. members who devoted a great deal of considera-
tion to those suggestions or amendments to find that the
greater portion had been adopted, and that the people of
the province had in a most unmistakable way stated their
approval of the work which the Council did when the Bill
was before it. (Hear, hear). Although he could not con-
scientiously say that he approved of the Bill, even with
the proposed safeguards, he would accept it —first of all
because he bowed to the will of the people, and, secondly,
because he was afraid that unless they took the Bill
altered and safeguarded as they proposed, the people of
the province might again be divided on the much-vexed
question, and perhaps be induced to accept a much more
dangerous Bill or fall back upon the old Bill, and accept
it without anvalteration at all. These were the considera-
tions which led him to make this compromise, provided
that the Bill was made acceptable to the people of New
South Wales, and workable and reasonable to all the pro-
vinces concerned. But he wished it to he clearly under-
stood that, so far as he was concerned, if the other pro-
vinces took the view that the alterations were not to be
accepted, and endeavored to force the Bill as it stood on
the Government, they would have to vet another Govern-
ment to carry out Federation. And if they hacked about
the resolutions and virtually destroyed them, if they vir-
tually wanted to return to the old Bill, it would be neces-
sary to get another Attorney-General in his place. He
did not say' this in any spirit of defiance, hut he did say
that when they knew the will of the people, declared at
the elections, etc., etc. — Attorney-General Want, intro-
ducing the Federal resolutions in fi.S. W. Leg. Council.
The Federal intentions of the present N.S. W.
Government are best judged by the unfederal
company it keeps. A year or more ago
Attorney-General Want declared himself in
the N.S. W. Council to be a provincialist, the
“ arch-destroying angel of Federation,” and an
opponent of Australian unity in every form.
He quitted, or pretended to quit, the Reid
Government, because of his bitter provincial-
ism, and he stumped the country with state-
ments, mostly untrue, about the alleged mi-
brotherly conduct of the ot her provinces, with
a view to inflaming the parochial spirit in Corn-
stalk land. His famous assertion that N.S. W.
should beware of alliance witii Victoria because
the latter province levied a duty (which existed
only in J. Want’s imagination) on N.S.W.
coal, was only one of a multitude of instances.
The Reid Government took Mr. Jack back
as a convincing proof of its insincerity,
and N.S.W. now finds that same old enemy,
unchanged in every particular, entrusted with
the management of the Federal movement in
the Upper House. He admits that he is still
hostile even to the new scheme drawn up by
bis own Ministry, and that he is only lending
the darkness of his perfunctory countenance to
it as a matter of form. He incites the Council
to make further alterations (of a strictly pro-
vincial tendency) in the scheme by telling it
that the people unmistakably approved of the
last lot of amendments from the same source —
which statement hasn’t one word of truth or
accuracy in it. The Convention rejected the last
batch of Council amendments, and the people
unmistakably approved of the Bill with these
amendments carefully left out. He claims to
be “ bowing to the will of the people ” in pre-
senting the new Bill, despite the fact that the
people accepted the old Bill by a majority of
over 5300. He is willing to go on with the
movement only “provided the Bill is made
acceptable to the people of N.S.W.”—the same
people who accepted the original measure by a
distinct majority, and were informed by the
truculent Want crowd that they couldn’t have
it. If the other provinces desire to go on
with the old Bill, which they and N.S.W. ac-
cepted, Want, at all events, will have none of
it. The people of N.S.YV. sent the Reid
Government back to office at last election on
the Freetrade and Council-reform ticket, and,
“ knowing the will of the people ” as thus ex-
pressed, A.-G. Want is not crying out for the
reform of the Upper House, but for the infuri-
ated chucking-out of the people’s Federal Con-
stitution as endorsed by them on June 3. In
every respect save one, the new scheme is vastly
less democratic than the one which the N.S.W.
community affirmed by over 71,000 votes five
months ago, and, by the time the unreformed
Council of N.S.W. is done with it, it will pro-
bably be even less democratic than it is now.
But the really interesting feature of the situa-
tion is Jack Want, the avowed provincialist, in
charge of the Federal movement, and calling on
the House which doesn’t represent the people
to destroy, in the name of the people, the Bill
which the people accepted, and saying that he
bows to the will of the people in doing so.
The Automatic Ikey Mo and the
Other One.
One Sievier, a rather artful, or exceedingly
foolish, friend of Ikey Mo, was complaining
the other week that The Bulletin’s way of
making a book on, say, Moouee Valley Cup is
much easier to accomplish on paper than in
practice. And the said Sievier did moreover
talk learnedly to The Bulletin re the policy
of laying a bit extra agin’ the favorite
and the chances of being caught napping,
and so forth, all of which was beside the
question of Tote v. Ikey Mo. Sievier and his
brother “ experts ” will please accept this para-
graph as an intimation that The Bulletin re-
quires no teaching how a “book” should he
made— on the linen of the tote. It was on those
lines thatour Moonee Valley Clipbook was made.
“ How accommodating your punters must have
been to allow you to lay exactly what you
wanted,” says the somewhat tricky or very
foolish Sievier. Well, the tote lays exactly
what it wants to iay against every starter. In
each case it lays the total receipts of the
machine (less 10 per cent.) against the total
amount invested on the winning horse. It
“ gets round ” every time, and its price against
the winner is the same for all backers. To make
a fair comparison between the bookmaker and
the tote we must assume that the hook-nosed
gentleman lays his full book against every
starter at “starting price.” And when we
work out a book for Ikey on the tote system we
find that of the two monopolists Ikey is much
the more expensive monopoly to the public.
The public, considered as one person, loses a
lot more than 10 per cent, of his average invest-
ments with theringmeii, even at starting prices.
The tote returns the same price to all backers
of the winner. That is a point for the average
holiday punter to remember, and it is on his
behalf chiefly that The Bulletin is talking.
Hundreds of men at a Melb. Cup meeting get
sinfully short odds for their money in the cases
of all except the heavily-backed horses. When
a medium favorite or an outsider wins, the
public, as a rule, find that the prices
which they accepted were less than “ start-
ing ” price. Ikey Mo’s odds against medium
favorites and outsiders are very elastic, and the
careless, happy-go-lucky punters don’t trouble
to stretch them to their fullest extent. They
take 7 to 1 from the first man they apply to,
and after the horse has won they find that it
started at-10 to 1. The tote has but one start-
ing price. It puts flats and sharps on equal
terms. It . relieves the public of all anxiety
concerning the “market,” and doesn’t keep
them standing round ’midst, the din of book-
makers’ bellowings, waiting to make up their
minds as to what price is the best price they
are likely to get.
Mr. Tiiomas 11. Bath, secretary of the YV.A.
Goldfields Electoral Reform Convention, writes:
1 have drawn my own attention to a par. appearing in.,
your issue of 29th Oct., and concentrated that attention
on the part which describes the Separation movement as
a fizzle. Wherever the information came from I can give
it an unqualified denial. For some time there has not
been much publicity given to the movement, but during
that period a committee appointed from the Convention
has been preparing leaflets and petition-forms. These
are now printed, and in the course of a week or two a
series of public meetings will be held throughout the
goldfields, and the residents will be given opportunity of
affixing their signatures to the petition. The question to
be answered by each signator is: “In the event of our
failing to obtain from W.A. Parliament Redistribution of
Seats on a population basis, are you in favor of
appealing to the Imperial Government for Separation
from the province of Westralia?” In regard to the
feeling in the different centres, Menzies, Broad Arrow,
Belong, Bardoc are all enthusiastic in favor of
the movement, and Kanowna, above all other places,
pledges the undivided support of the entire population..
Certainly, Coolgardie Municipal Council and Roads Board
is not as eager as we could desire, hut the rank and file
have promised the fullest support through one of their
delegates. Esperanc , of course, is for us to a man, and
Albany has declared its willingness to throw in its lot with
a goldfields province in the event of separation being
attained. The question of S.A. poverty and debt-per-
head does not have the least hearing on goldfields separa-
tion, and therefore the solidity of the standing of For-
restian admirers is very questionable.
+ '
“ Jay Way ” to The Bulletin :
Just one more try to get you to see the Esperance rail-
way through W.A. spectacles. Esperance is the nearest
port to the fields—certainly—if W.A. is going to continue
to import all that it requires from the other pro\ inces, as
nothing worth speaking about will grow at Esperance.
Native industries cannot prosper there for want of
materials. Now, W.A. can, and will before long, produce
everything almost that the fields require, but it is in that
corner shown on the map, inside the 14in. rainfall line —
from above Gerald ton by Southern Cross and down
to the sea-coast about half-way between Albany arid
Esperance; and of this district Perth is the natural
centre. Fremantle smelting works get their coal
from the Collie, their flux from Northampton,
and their coke direct from Europe. Would they have
the same chance at Esperance ? The greater part of the
chaff required on the Helds this year will be grown between
Katanning and Newcastle, and sent direct. Would a
single bag of that ever get there by way of Esperance?
The trouble is that the land good for anything costs from
£2 to £8 an acre to clear, and that has kept things
back a bit, but it would be folly to continue, as a per-
manency, an arrangement that would only benefit the
shipping oo’s and the Adelaide importers. Federation
will, of course, change all that —when it comes—but, till
then, every province must keep its own end up : or go
down. Ism quite with you in re the redistribution of
seats, hut the trouble is that the centres are shifting so
fast just now'. The Ashburton was going to he a big
place six years ago. Kanow'na to-day wants a member ;
tw r o years ago it was only two humpies and a dog.
The right men have hardly yet got hold of the log.
Vosper the unshorn is good—as a fly-blister—hut no one
who knows him would dream of giving him political
responsibility. The men will come, no doubt, and then
Forrest will have to take a back seat, hut the trouble
just now is that they are all in such a hurry making their
pile that Jack is the only man in sight to do the work —
and I know the crowd.
“Jay Way’s” explanation about the in-
equality of representation is a fool of a thing,
anyway. If the seats had been fixed according
to the number of electors when the last redis-
tribution took place there wouldn’t he much to
complain of. But that redistribution was a
shameful and deliberate swindle, and that’s the
whole trouble.
A useful little Act of Federal complexion was
recently passed by Vic. Parliament. It enables
the Acts and public documents of other pro-
vinces to be judicially noticed by Vic. Courts.
Formerly, if one wanted to quote a clause, say,
of N.S.W. Companies Act in a Vic. Court, a
N.S.W. lawyer of some sort had to be fee’d to
attend, swear he was an “expert,” and to
solemnly state that, in his opinion, the clause
in question was the law of N.S. W. on that sub-
ject. An even more roundabout procedure was
necessary in order to prove an official signature
to a marriage certificate, with the result that
prosecutions for bigamy were rendered abortive
by the merest technicality, and divorce suits
hung up for an indefinite time. No harm and
much good would be done by a simultaneous
adoption of this Act in all the provinces which
have not passed it already.
+ .
Brisbane Courier :
Payment of members is unanswerable in theory, but it
undeniably exercises a demoralising influence. It un-
doubtedly attracts art inferior class of candidates.
Most of us remember the gay old “ unde-
moralised ” representatives. They consisted
chiefly of squatters from the bakblox, corner-
allotment speculators, retired publicans, and,
occasionally, successful mining men. The same
spotless products of the non-payment system
were guilty of some of the most notorious
public jobs ever perpetrated in Australia. They
fostered (in Queensland) the kanaka trade,
palliated its outrages, ran ridiculous railways
through one another’s backyards, piled up pub-
lic debts mountains high, and last, but not
least, produced the political gang that ran the
Q.N. Bank down a steep place into its present
financial Sheol. A very fair percentage of them
could be seen drunk inside the House, outside
the House, and miscellaneously fuddled every-
where. The present House has its faults, but
it compares very favorably in morale with the
best of the old unsalaried Parliaments. But—
stay ! Isn’t the Upper House in Queensland
unpaid? Yes—and what a beautiful example
it provides of what the unremunerated legis-
lators are and can be I How they rush through
reforms and tear down abuses ! It’s beautiful
to watch them—isn’t it, Courier? Ditto the
unpaid N.S. VV. Council. Ditto Victoria’s gratis
House of Four Dozen Rich Landlords.
More “ jolly and fat.” Pathetic answer to
notification of lad’s absence from Sydney suburban
public-school
Please Mr. My husbuiid as been out of work seven
week and i have been bad off this week for food i have
been oblasre to ao and see and git if i can some food for
my children some days i only had dry beau and tea with-
out ougar i only had bread to give the little Girls for
school this' week George will be on Moday to 6choo'
Please oblage Mrs.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £49,349,231
Increase in Assets daring 1897 ... ... ... ... 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ... ... ... ... 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ... 7.513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
Syoney : 4 Hunter St.
Adelaide, Auckland, Ac.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers'
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best
IICHT^
running
5* machines!
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
-*4S GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St , Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Struck Oil.”
Hkr Majesty’s “The Harbour Lights.”
Lyceum “Judge Not.”
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.'
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John's Variety Co.
Town Hall Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Gondoliers.”
Buou “ Lord and Lady Algy.”
Theatre Royal “ Sporting Life.'”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
In all its long Australian career old “ Har-
bour Lights ” never before got so brilliant an oppor-
tunity as the Firm is giving it this week at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. Williamson doesn’t often
drop into old melodrama, and his only excuse for
resurrecting the aged lighthouse tale was his
desire to show what could be made of it with a
strong company, and perfect mechanism, and un-
limited scenic art. The result justifies the fresh
outbreak. “ Harbour Lights ”is built of the same
human materials as every other melodrama. There
is the horribly good young man who never does
anything wrong, and the bad one who hasn’t a
redeeming spot in the howling waste of slag and
ashes he calls his character. Also there is
the pure and beautiful girl; and the beauti-
ful girl who falls (in the usual long cloak
and hood) down that moral chasm which
has the small illicit infant at the bottom; and the
great suspicion, over ten feet high, which drops
on the wrong man when the squire is found dead
in his mortgaged halls of sin. All these things
are very ordinary, though in the “ Harbour
Lights ” the old materials are better nailed to-
gether than usual. But as a pictorial effort the
“Lights” are perfect. The battleship, with its
turrets and big guns and other details, is miles
ahead of any other thing of its kind which has
sailed on the wooden waters of any Sydney stage ;
and the light-house and the sea-pictures are be-
yond criticism. On its artistic merits, “Harbour
Lights ” is hereby recommended to everybody’s
notice without any reservation whatever, and as a
literary effort it is also recommended in modera-
tion.
* • • *
The company at Her Majesty’s, if it isn’t
the strongest “ Harbour Lights ” cast up to date,
at least lays over every other one that The Bulle-
tin can remember. Julius Knight is at his best
as David Kingley ; a plain character where
the cold wind doesn’t blow on his legs
appears to suit him. Cecil Ward, Richard
Stewart and George Majeroni are excellent. O,
Majeroni in particular is improving rapidly, and
every time this writer sees him lie gets favorably
impressed in a new spot. David Glassford is
eminently respectable, at all events, though lie
shines brightest as an Early Christian. Gaston
Mervale fits his sailor character just about as well
as if it had been thrown at him with a fork by a
very bad marksman. The bright and clever Lillian
Wheeler has the most prominent part as the nice
girl; and Ada Ferrar is the fallen maid witli the
long cloak ; while Harrie Ireland is wasted in the
small part of an old, gaunt, soured widow; and
Florence Terriss conies in casually somewhere. A
co. which can afford to use up good material by
putting two ladies of such ability in two casual
little parts is a pretty strong one.
** * *
“Brothei against Brother,” by Frank
Harvey, is probably put up at Sydney Lyceum as
an encouragement to virtue, but it is very difficult
to see where virtue comes in. The old man with
the bankrupt ironworks has two sons—the elder
one that he doesn’t know of, and the younger cub
in the belitopper and the supercilious tail-coat who
is really illegitimate, though lie isn’t aware of the
fact. When matters are explained the good elder
son agrees, for the sake of the cub in the bell-
topper, to say nothing about it, and his father, in
a burst of gratitude, makes him a partner in the
bankrupt establishment, and gives bin. half the
losses. Also, the generous elder son agrees to be
forbearing with tlie lout, and to bring him up
gently by hand, as it were—which, seeing that the
lopt is at least two stone heavier than he, is a
large contract. And he gets his reward. The
lout and his mother allude mostly to the new part-
ner as “ that menial.” Also, the lout biffs him on
the head, and in remembrance of his promise to be
forbearing lie doesn’t biff back again. His best girl
casts him off ; she says that she declines to marry
any man who can be spanked with impunity. The
loutish brother robs the safe, and puts the blame
on the good young .man who, remembering
Iris promise to forbear, stands it with the meek-
ness of the early spring lamb. When the girl who
fell per medium of the lout is publicly shaken by
her father and required to name her betrayer, that
illegitimate son fixes her with his eye to such pur-
pose that she publicly lays her infant at the door
of the legitimate brother, and he stands that also,
and doesn’t burst with the strain of liis wrath.
Even when his girl throws him over a second time
on account of this transaction, he takes it with a
holy calm. Later on the girl’s deceived father
locks him in a cellar at the works at night, and
burns the premises over his head, and thereby
definitely ruins the firm; and tlie good man
struggles out, much scorched and with his ear full
of hot ashes, and forgives the deceived father.
Then, when tilings are cleared up, he [juts all his
own money into the concern to start it again, and
publicly forgives the lout; and when lie finds that
all his best girl’s fortune has been embezzled to
keep the lout going he says that it doesn’t matter
in the least.
• • * *
Harry Diver gives a very able and artistic
rendering of the forgiving brother ; but, despite
all the excellent work he puts into the character,
that meek individual would look better if he
kicked occasionally. Cosgrove’s lout is also a fine
piece of work. Miss Helene Burdette is a good,
bright, flesh-and-blood heroine ; and Miss Wood-
ville is reasonably good as a blind girl who gets to
no definite destination ; and Miss Strathmore, as
the girl who fell, is wooden and perpendicular.
Frank Harcourt always fills the part of a hoarse
British workman to advantage ; and the rest is
mostly respectable tail. Another Harvey drama,
“ Judge Not,” will ensue next week.
* * * *
“ Robbery Under Arms ” continues to
hold its own at the Criterion up to time of writing,
and looks as if it were good for another week, any-
how.
* & * *
Sampson, the elephantine gentleman who
lifts 40001 b. at one heave, and breaks large iron
chains, and carries horses under his arms, and
does frivolities of that kind, is the newest addi-
tion to Rickards’ Tivoli company. The Strong
Man exhibition is apt to be rather a dreary kind
of wonder, but Sampson is proving an immense
draw. Rickards engaged him (so the advt. says) at
£250 a week, and a showman of his experience
would hardly scatter coin about so lavishly for an
exhibition which couldn’t be relied upon to knock
the unthinking multitude. And, on the other
hand, he would hardly make misrepresentations
about the salary of a gentleman who can lift
40001 b. at one go. A person of these dimensions
isn’t to be irritated with impunity.
* * * *
The Miss Maggie Moore and H. R.
Roberts close their season at Sydney Royal on
Saturday, the last four nights being devoted to
“Struck Oil” with Roberts as John Stofel.
After that the eo. will travel round Tasmania and
Maoriland, and finally drift to the United States
and probably to Europe. The date of its re-
turn is unknown. Roberts’ departure reduces
the number of good young Australian actors
loft in this country to a very few (it seems
that Australia grows clever actors mainly for ex-
port purposes), and in recognition of the loss
which this country will suffer the departing star
gets a benefit at the Royal on Tuesday afternoon.
* * #
Mr. John Bennett, once well-known in
theatrical circles, is to have a benefit at the
Royal on Monday evening. Mr. Bennett, in
the course of a long and stormy career, which
has been none too prosperous of recent years,
has done many things—the saving of 24 people
from death by drowning in various parts of Aus-
tralia being one portion of his record. A consider-
able quantity of unsaleable medal, conferred on
him by the Humane Society, is the result of these
achievements, but it is to be hoped that the 24
partially-drowned people will all take a few
tickets apiece for Monday night, and thus convert
their gratitude into solid cash.
* * * 5)5
~Dante has put on a new programme for
his last two weeks at Sydney Palace —at least the
programme is mostly new, though the old burnt
woman is retained in response to a strong public
demand. The principal tendency of the new bill
is towards ghosts and skeletons and things like
that, though the lady who is beheaded, and the one
who wanders about loose in mid-air, perhaps hardly
come into that category. A bony visitant who has
left his flesh in his dressing-room, and a quantity
of unattached 1 lands that answer questions by
flapping in the air, are interesting people to meet,
and would be worth a fortune to those spook-
raisers whose authenticity the late Judge Win-
deyer used to guarantee. Dante, by the time his
season closes, will have put up a record of 0(5 per-
formances in Sydney, and the curly-beaded gen-
tleman has kept the. Palace full all the time. When
he goes, the best idea would probably be to sell
the luckless building to the Salvation Army.
* * * *
Touring companies will not get a chance to
score in Melbourne presently, when the Opera
House is being rebuilt. Rickards has a lease of
the Bijou (likewise the little Gaiety Theatre below
it), Bland Holt gets the pick of the dates at the
Royal, and the Firm can always find its own co.
for the Princess’s. For long past the Bijou has
been the house of refuge for managers on short
visits, but soon Rickards will take possession, and
if Brough wants to play another season in Mel-
bourne next year there will apparently be only the
forlorn Alexandra at his disposal. Negotiations
between Richards and the Opera House pro-
prietary are off for the present, nor is it absolutely
certain that a new theatre will be built on the
projected basis of <£4o a week ground rent for
the same old site. A high ground rent is an
awful thing for the speculative builder to contem-
plate. Garner and Musgrove, when they put up
the Princess’s, had the Firm for a good fixed
tenant, as far as any tenant can be relied upon,
yet they were not very wise in incurring the
responsibility of £3O a-week rent to an absentee
ground-landlord. At any rate, Williamson didn’t
think it good enough to be their partner in the
building spec.. He isn’t tied to the Princess’s, ex-
cept by his connection with the Firm, whereas
Musgrove is tied to the bricks and mortar of the
theatre by the necessity for providing a half-share
of £3O a-week due to the owner of the earth whereon
those bricks are piled.
* * * #
Percy Abbott writes that the Hellers have
just finished a two weeks season at the Opera
House, Auckland. A feature of the show is an
illusion called the “Escape of Dreyfus.” One
editor refused to advertise the illusion on the
ground that Dreyfus had not escaped. However,
he got away at the theatre just the same every
night in a most surprising manner.
* * # *
“ Lord and Lady Algy,” the second of the
Brough co. productions at Melb. Bijou, is about
the most promising light comedy Australia has
seen since “Dandy Dick ” was new. As with
heavier work by R. C. Carton—instance “Liberty
Hall” and “Tree of Knowledge’’—this is very
convincing in places. A comedy that contains
dozens of smart lines, unforced or otherwise, and
is humorous in suggestions as well as in situations,
and has, moreover, points which touch an audi-
ence’s heart, is a thing to be grateful for. “ The
Liars ” was clever, but chilling. H. A. Jones
writes with a hard-nibbed pen. The piece under
notice is clever and naturally genial. Lord and
Lady Algy are a couple of amiable “sports ” liv-
ing apart by mutual consent owing to their
incompatibility of taste in cigarettes and racing
tips. Algy has a talent for backing losers, but
his Lady gets on to a “real dead-bird ” occasion-
ally, and when at last she wins =B9OOO at one fell
swoop she comes back to her husband like a good
old pal and re-establishes the firm on a basis of
mutual esteem and concession. Previously she
takes him by the arm at a fancy dress ball (where
he happens to be joyfully drunk in tight-fitting
big boots) and bears him safely out of mischief to
his bachelor home. The drunk episode is quite a
new gem of dramatic literature.
* • * •
Algy and his wife constitute the principal
charm of the tale, but there are other humanly
interesting circumstances in it. An affluent bone-
boiler suspects his wife of a secret liaison with the
impecunious lord, whereas Algy, in fact, warns
the soft-headed matron against bolting with bis
elder brother, a dyspeptic humbug of the Joseph
Surface type. Then there is their father, a
preachy, Low Church duke, who dotes upon the
contemptible first-born, and exhorts Algy to copy
bis respectable liver complaint and moral tone.
Mawley Jeinmett, a smileless jockey, achieves
several funny silent effects, also some casual
characters chip into the costume ball aforesaid,
and lend a good deal of operatic splendor to the
second act. Scenery and dresses should help to
put this up-to-date entertainment through a long
season, as seasons go nowadays.
* * * *
The acting, taken all round, is the least
excellent feature of the show. Without looking
closely into the details, one feels that some mem-
bers of the co. might be stronger in their parts.
Among the new people W. H. Rotherham and
Miss Italia Conti make successful first appear-
ances, especially the lady; but the success is not
brilliant even in her case. Dartrey, as the dreary
duke, is better than Lovell, as the elder son,
though the latter can take credit for being hardly
recognisable as the actor who played an ardent
lover in “ The Liars.” Three or four ladies in un-
important parts and handsome dresses make no
impression whatever, but Mario Majeroni cuts a
fine figure; and MTntyre, as the jockey, who
comes speechless to the ball in the dissipated
kilt and socks of the Young Pretender, is a
good joke. MTntyre and Brough (in his big
Marlbro’ boots) assisting oiie another downstairs
to the supper-room, are a memorable pair.
Brough’s Lord Algy is easy and likeable through-
out. He might put more breadth into his drunken
scene perhaps, but he couldn’t be more of a gentle-
man in trouble when he finds himself ordered out
of the house, and his wife comes to the rescue.
This is Mrs. Brough’s best effort; elsewhere she is
simply nice, as usual, with a certain want of
naturalness in her elocution. She doesn’t quite
realise the author’s bright creation of Lady Algy.
All the same, it would be hard to name any other
Australian actress who could do it equally well.
-:K- *
“The Mikado,” which was always a
wicked libel on modern Japan, is now more
libellous than ever, but the quaint charm of Gil-
bert and Sullivan’s opera gets there just the same.
Melbourne rolled up in force to the Princess’s on
Saturday, and the little maids from school will pro-
bably sing to big business for a week, anyway. They
don’t warble as sweetly as when they were headed
by Nellie Stewart, for Miss Parley's voice seems
to have lost a little of its color, and Miss Vane’s
vocalism is not her most valuable asset. How-
ever, the damsel puts some music-hallish “ go ”
into Pitti-Sing’s sassing of Katisha, and scores
the chief feminine success of the show, which isn’t
saying much. With Howard Vernon in his old
place, Chas. Ivenningham and Bathurst shaping
satisfactorily, and Lauri as the heathen potentate,
the male supports of “ The Mikado ” are more or
less equal to the occasion. “The Gondoliers”
will follow.
* * in *
The netv ventriloquist (Lieut. Frank
Travis), at the Opera House, is a seemingly
genuine military person, who parts his hair in the
and puts a considerable polish on his
“turn.” pne of the Lieutenant’s dummy figures
is a life-sized ancient on two sticks, and the ar-
rangements in general show cause why the new-
comer should be billed as the Greatest English
Ventriloquist living. He is certainly a more
finished performer than several who have come
and gone before. Biondi will chase himself in a
succession of false noses four nights this week,
and Peggy Pryde is to patter back to the Opera
House on Saturday.
.«^ T y,
Bland Holt is getting a fifth week out of
“Sporting Life ”at the Royal. Probably he will
get another week or two from that festive but dis-
located panorama, in which case a fresh pair of
interpolated bantam weights will tap one another
with boxing gloves next Saturday.
It seems that Signorina Cesea Voliugi, the Melb. song-
stress whose photo, appeared in a recent Bulletin, did
not get any of her musical training from godfather
Cecchi. She has always been the pupil of Signora Coy,
and in justice to that well-known teacher the fact is re-
corded herewith.
Lady Louise Tighe, who buckled on Wel-
lington's sword when leaving the historic ball for
the field of Waterloo, is still alive and going strong
—at J)5 !
t( The Bulletin's ” brilliant and unique Xmas
number will be published on Thursday next,
December Bth, and agents who wish to make
sure of their orders being filled should send in
early. Single copies will be mailed from “ The
TUiltetin ” office to any Australian address
(except in. Queensland) for 7d. in stamps ; to
any Queensland address, Bd. in stamps. To
any English address eiyhtpence in stamps.
Amongst the items of fashionable intelli-
gence in last week’s Freeman’s Journal is an
announcement stating that Mr. J. Lazarus, of
Queanbeyan, is on a visit to Sydney. Mr. Lazarus
is—or, at any rate, used to be—the Queanbeyan
undertaker. Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan is M.P. for
Queanbeyan, and also editor of the Freeman’s
Journal.
The Massey-Harris Company seem to be
true to the traditions of the country from which
they hail. They believe in big things. On
Monday, the 21st inst., they loaded a complete
train consisting of 23 trucks of reapers and
binders for Orange. This is the first complete
train of reapers and binders that has ever been
loaded in New South Wales to one station, and it
certainly shows that they are not grumbling
about the failure of crops or bad harvest, but
seem to take things very comfortably, and to
judge by the daily appearance of their machines
at Darling Harbor station they are doing a very
large business right throughout the colony, and
their big warehouse at the Broadway, Glebe, is a
scene of activity all the time.*
“M‘G.’‘ gossips about certain hangmen :
The neiv Vie. hangman and his assistant have flown in
the face of all local precedent by appearing on the scaf-
fold in ordinary clothes and absolutely destitute of dis-
guise. The boss seragger, known as “Smith,” is a jolly-
looking, plump little man of about 40, with a jovial, round
face anil a spiky moustache. In appearance he is not unlike
a cross between Vie. barrister Duffy and Premier Keid of
N.S.W., and at Archer’s execution, attired in a well-cut
brown suit and wearing a gold watch-chain, he looked like
an affluent sharebroker or merchant of philanthropic ten-
dencies. He is a man who apparently takes a pride in his
profession, too, for after he had broken Archer's
neck he threw out his chest and smiled like a true
artist on hearing Dr. Shields say it was “ the most
perfect execution he had ever seen.” [Gaol-doctors nearly
always say that, of every execution.] After that, there
was no getting him off the platform ; he seemed to think
the remark was a call before the curtain, so to speak, and,
in the view of the spectators, he fussed round the hole
where the dead man swung, coiling up the slack end of
the rope, and obviously sunning himself in what he
imagined were the glances of admiration thrown from
below. He strikes one as a trifle fat for a flagellator,
looking as if 25 lashes would leave him puffing like a
grampus, but of course there is a rest of a minute between
every stroke of the cat, and, for the first blow, a fat man
is as good as a well-trained one. The hangman’s assistant
is quite a different person, being tall, gaunt, and spec-
tacled, besides wearing the moustache and short side-
whiskers which are the outward and visible sign of godli-
ness. ’flie assistant, in fact, must be a Sunday-school
teacher. He is a trifle younger than his superior, and
takes no ostentatious pride in his work, modestly remain-
ing hidden at the “ wings ” until the spectators file out.
An English correspondent gossips to The
Bulletin of the Crossley-Butt embroglio :
The Leeds triennial festival, the most important one in
England, has just taken place, and Miss Crossley has
again improved her position. In fact, the position of
principal contralto for oratorio and festival work in Eng-
land now lies between Miss Crossley and Miss Clara Butt,
and Lite rivalry between the two will be even keener since
tlie events of the recent festival with respect to which I
enclose three cuttings. Their position is this—Miss Butt
has an absolutely unparalleled voice, and no particular
intelligence, added to which she is musically very lazy
and learns slowly, hut before Miss Crossley’s arrival she
was without a competitor in such music as she chose to
learn. Then came Miss Crossley with a voice second only
to Miss Butt’s, and with far more intelligence ; tire
history of the last two seasons has been that Miss
Crossley by hard work has drawn close up to Miss Butt,
and the latter, though still recognised as the chief con-
tralto, is no longer unchallenged. The feeling between
the two is very bitter, Miss Butt being jealous of a very
formidable rival, arid Miss Crossley being incensed be-
cause, she declares, Miss Butt lias used her influence to
keep her (Miss C.) out of big engagements. Then came
the curious episode of this Leeds Festival. Miss Butt
was to sing the opening Elijah, and on the last night of
the Festival—the contralto parts in the new works were
given to a Miss Mackenzie—Miss Crosslev’s share (to
everyone’s amazement) was confined to a small part in
Handel’s Alexander’s Feast on the Friday night. She was
very indignant at this, and attributed it to Miss Butt’s in-
fluence with the committee. If this was so, it made
what followed all the more amusing—for ten minutes
before the opening of the Festival with the Elijah Miss
Butt was ascertained to be still in bed ! Miss Crossley
was at once appealed to, and sang the contralto part of
the first half with immense success. Miss Butt presently
arrived at the hall in a great state of excitement, and de-
manded to be allowed to go on at once. The stewards said
that Miss Crossley, having begun, should finish the first
part, and accordingly Miss Butt had to be content with
making her first appearance as Jezebel in the second
part, and, as may be imagimd, her state of mind helped
her to sing the vindictive music gloriously. Miss Cross-
ley, however, had secured her triumph. The event caused
much gossip, and finally came a letter from Miss Butt —
which 1 enclose—in which, it was remarked, there is not
even the common civility of thanking Miss Crossley for
coming to the rescue, and remedying her blunder. It was
observed also that the notices of the coming Winter and
Spring concerts, with which Leeds was placarded, con tained
the name of “ Miss /d i Crossley, principal contralto of
this year's Leeds Festival.” This has not unnaturally
added fuel to the already considerable flame ; and at (he
artists’ luncheon with ihe Mayor of Leeds the two ladies
were placed at opposite ends ot the table, whence (hey
exchanged (lie coldest of bows and tile hottest of glances.
In conclusion, “ Australia has adva> c-ed,” and in the
next two years, if Miss Crossiey’s voice improves, her
advantage in intelligence should give her the first place.
P.S.—l saw in your paper some months ago a statement
that Miss Crossley (at Madame Mel> a's advice) was taking
lessons in boxing. This may lie a necessary precaution.
No similar announcement with regard to Miss Bull has
yet appeared.


LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pufe Catholic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
E. A. DAWBAB.N & CO.
mime ha sts,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OP ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison &> Attwood, Sole JProprietorß.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 31°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharye,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/109%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 7i°.
All Mininfr Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv- Markv/ald,
178 William Sir t..
Alklboursb ;
llVut-st., Sydney; 6$ Currie-st Adel.; 27
Brisk. 3 Lambton Quay, Wellington , N. 2.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
“J.A.”: The New York Life is good enough
for any man to insure in.
» * * •
The British Government lias at last decided that
the Australian mints may coin silver for circulation in
Australia only. There is no profit in coining gold—in
fact, there is a slight loss ; and so the British Govt, has
for years allowed Australia to do most of the gold coinage
of the empire. But seeing there is only about 7d. worth
of silver in the alleged shilling silver coinage pays hand-
somely, and Premier Turner already calculates on making
£6JOO a year out of Victoria’s share of the business. As
gold coinage doesn’t pay and silver does it is obviously to
the interest of Australia in future to encourage the use
of the latter as much as possible. One simple way to do
this is to cease coining the half-sovereign, which is an un-
satisfactory bit of metal anyhow. It is mostly thin, bat-
tered and ancient—why the Australian sovereign is
always new, while the Australian half-ditto varies from
25 to’ 70 years of age, is a mystery ; also, it is too
much like a sixpence in a dim light. If the
sovereign could be abolished and replaced by a
40s. gold piece it would also be a great idea, but
unfortunately that seems impracticable just now. At
present, there is far too much gold in circulation in Aus-
tralia. Under an ideal system, gold would only be used
for export. The local circulation, apart from silver, would
he State paper, and the public would be content to know
that it could get gold for the paper if it wanted it; under
such conditions it probably wouldn’t want it—not often,
anyhow. Then the gold coinage would suffer much less
from wear-and-tear, and from loss by fire, shipwreck,
vanishment down drains, and mysterious disappearance.
If the State was the sole issuer of notes, and it could
induce their general use in place of gold, it would probably
make almost as large a profit by the unaccountable vanish-
ment of its paper obligations as it will do by the profits on
silver coinage.
• • • •
“Last year my accounts absolutely showed a
balance ; that is to say, the revenue was £9,485,000, and
the expenditure £9,472,ooo.”— Premier Reid in iY.S. IF.
Assembly, 23rd Nov. The writer has Same Old George’s
own printed accounts before him, and thev sav that the
revenue was £9,489,718, and the expenditure £9,507,202.
Mr. Reid and his own figures are never on speaking terms
with each other, somehow.
* * * *
Tiie Bank of New South Wales (now in its
82nd year—-it and the gallows being the only really
am-ient institutions in Australia) issues its balance-sheet
for the half-year ended 30th Sept., 1893, showing a net
profit of £88,042. There is a great sameness about the
profits shown by the B.N.S.W. They keep such a
mechanical regularity—just enough to pay the regular 9
per cent, and leave anominal fraction over—that a reason-
able inference is that the institution just saws off its
gross profits the exact hunk required for this purpose,
with a little variation at the edge to prevent absolute
monotony, and puts the rest away to write off losses, or
provide for possible losses, or strengthen the “ inner
reserves,” or something of the kind. The following shows
how this curious accuracy in earning the exact 9 per cent,
pans out: —
9 per cent.
Profits. Dividend. Balance.
September,’94 .. £78,614 ..£78,497 .. £ll7
March, ’95 .. 81,714 .. 81,621 .. 93
September,’9s .. 84,737 .. 84,536 .. 201
March,’9B .. 86,480 .. 86,330 .. 80
September, ’96 .. 87,661 .. 87,453 .. 203
March, ’97 .. 87,898 .. 87,727 .. 171
September, ’97 .. 89,462 .. 87,750 .. 1712
March,’9B .. 88,128 .. 87,750 .. 378
September, ’9S .. 88,042 .. 87,750 .. 292
In spite of bad times, however, the B.N.S.W.
still keeps the lead. The profits shown (£88,042) are equal
to £5 11s. 9d. percent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds (capital £1,950,000, reserve £1,200,000). Its 9 per
cent, dividend is the largest in the Seven Provinces, the
West Australian Bank (174 per cent.) only excepted. Its
Stock of coin (£5,010,078) is the biggest in the Seven Pro-
vinces, so ate its reserve fund, its deposit business and its
gross profits: though the Commercial of Australia,
National and Bank of N.Z. have larger capitals. Also it
is the oldest survivor among the banks of Australasia, so
its record has many good points about it.
* * * *
The Cornwall Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
(Launceston, Tasmania) finished a bad year on 30th Sep-
tember. The Melbourne fire and the wreck of the China
both struck this office heavily. The net premiums of the
little institution were £11,985, and the total receipts were
£15,709. On the other hand, losses (£17,618) and expenses
(£3940) made the total outgoings £21,564, and the result
is a disastrous loss of £5855. The last seven years’ record
of the Cornwall reads thus :
Profits. Dividends.
1892 .. £8,116 .. 6J per cent. ..£5,000
1893 .. 6,116 .. „ „ .. 5,000
1894 .. 5,556 .. „ „ .. 5,000
1895 .. 6,122 .. „ „ .. 5,000
1896 .. 5,951 .. „ „ .. 5,000
1897 .. 469 .. £3/2/6 „ .. 2,500
Loss.
1898 .. 5,855 .. Nil.
Profit £26,475 £27,500
The Cornwall is 57 years old, and it never established a
reserve-fun J to meet possible mishaps like those of ’97
and ’9B. Also, it never established a re-insurance fund
till this year—the year when it had no funds available to
do it with. The only way it could he done was by these
two remarkable entries in the balance-sheet:
Liabilities. Assets.
Reinsurance Fund .. £3596 Accumulated Loss .. £4031
The result is that the Cornwall is £435 to the bad, and
has no re-insurance fund at all. It is a very solid concern
with £BO,OOO capital—which seems to he quite intact,
barring the £435 loss above-mentioned—but unless it sets
about establishing a reserve a time may yet come when
its capital won’t be intact by a long way. In proportion
to the business done the Cornwall’s capital is enormous,
which makes it a very safe concern for policy-holders ;
but. on the other hand, the business is so small that it
can’t earn 6j per cent, on so much capital except in years
of exceptional good luck. The 6) per cent, doesn’t look
an exorbitant div., but it certainly is exorbitant to a com-
pany in the Cornwall's circumstances. Everything is rela-
tive in this world. A fruit-barrow or a coffee-stall may
earn splendid dividends on the £5 capital really required
to work them, but if they are expected to earn dividends
on £lOO the situation becomes verv different.
• • * •
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. (Tasmania) is a
quaint little concern which never publishes any state-
ment of its receipts from premiums or interest on invest-
ments, its losses, or expenses. Once a year it puts out a
statement of assets and liabilities, and that is about all.
For a long series of years it paid 10 per cent. Then in
1896 and ’97 the dividend fell to eight, and now it makes
a further drop to 6 per cent. As far as can be gathered
from the scanty information supplied, however, it seems
as if the year’s profits were £2040, and as the 6 per cent,
dividend absorbs -2250, the Mutual Fire Co. is apparently
sailing pretty close to the wind. In 1895 the co.’s re-
serves consisted of £16,260 (reserve, £lO,OOO ; contin-
gency fund, £1240; premiums on insurances unexpired
otherwise re-insurance account—£3ooo ; profit and less
balance after payment of dividend, £2020). Now they
stand at £17,528, so the Mutual Fire has made some pro-
gress. Still, the advancement of this co. in its 25 years’
existence hasn’t been very great, and it seems to have
given up all ambition to grow into a large enterprise,
and is content to pay most of its profits in dividends as it
goes along. The size of its business is unknown. Also,
whether the investments are good or bad is a matter for
speculation ; interest-receipts give some clue to the state
of the assets, but the Mutual Fire of Tasmania keeps the
amount of these buried in obscurity. Still, the little
concern seems to hold its own reasonably well.
* * * *
Another pathetic fragment which has seen
better days, the Colonial Permanent, Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne), issues its balance-sheet to
decompose in the hot sun of inspection. The result for
the year ended 7th Sept., ’9B, is a loss of £lO,lll, which
compares with some previous years as follows :
Profit. Dividends.
1592 .. .. £4,817 10 per cent .. £4,800
1893 .. .. 2,522 4 „ „ ... 1,920
ISJ4 .. .. 104 Nil
Loss.
1895 .. .. 1,501 Nil
1896 .... 823 „
1897 .. .. 920 „
1898 .. .. 10,111
Tiiis institution is 30 years old, so it isn't one of the mush-
rooms of the boom. Too big dividends, and too little
reserve fund, and too much deposit at. high interest in the
good days were the cause of its downfall. In 1893 it owed
£69,00 ) to depositors, and as it now owes £49,500 the assets
are fading away a great deal faster than the liabilities,
Over £11,500 of the £48,000 nominal capital is admittedly
lost. Also two-thirds of the assets consist of “properties
in possession, £75,234,” and judging by present appear-
ances they will pan out for so much less than their
nominal value that the Colonial isn’t likely to do much
more than pay its outside creditors. Of the £lO,lll loss
for the past year, £9327 was made by the sale of securities
which didn’t realise their paper-value, and the other £284
was owing to the society’s inability to earn its deposit-
interest. The latter small discrepancy might probably
be male good in some way, but if the society’s securi-
ties go on turning out like this its latter end will be
lamentable.
* • • *
Melbourne Brewery and Distillery Co., a huge
tanglefoot enterprise whose headquarters are now in Lon-
don, publishes a belated balance-sheet for the year 1897.
So far as can he gathered from the co.’s rather hazy way
of putting things it would seem that it lost £20,408 in
1896 and £30,425 in 1897. It seems to be working on
£132,330 of its own capital and £228,468 of money bor-
rowed at 5 per cent, and upwards. Also, it appears to
have lost £57,222 of its capital, and it certainly looks as
if three years more at the present rate of progress would
lose the rest of it. The entire available cash is £64.
Beer is in an unhealthy condition in Melbourne.
* * • • •
The alleged shortages in Q. Treasury accounts
were, it is stated, brought to light by an ex-bank manager,
who was fixing up the accounts of another institution.
As the leakage is supposed to have existed since 1891, and
the books are examined!?) at least once a year, several
audit officials have a nasty, cold feeling down the spine.
» * * »
On 30th June, 1898, the tonnage of vessels
owned in each province was as follows :
Sailing. Steam. Total
(Tons) (Tons) (Tons)
N.S.W. .. 53,885 63,588 117,471
Victoria .. 40,420 * 61.621 102,011
Maoriland .. 40,352 49,146 89,493
S. A. .. .. 22,595 23,426 51,021
Queensland .. 10,101 12,914 23,015
Tasmania .. 8,857 6,107 14,934
W.A. .. .. 5,935 5,124 . 11,059
182,145 226,924 409,069
In proportion to population, Maoriland is the boss ship-
owing province of Australasia, with South Australia a
good second.
Mr. Reginald Black, being now a director both
of the Bank of N.S.W. and of the A.M.P. Society, finds
his time fully occupied bv the affairs of those gigantic
concerns, and so has retired from the old-established Syd-
ney firm of Jones and Black, sharebrokers, the business
of which is being continued bv Mr. Jones.
* * * •
The other day, in Sydney, it was recorded in
the perfectly serious trade-protection paper, among the
regular hill-of-sale notices, that a Jew had borrowed £lO
off an Irishman on his furniture, loan repayable at the
rate of ss. per week. After that anything may happen.
• • • *
Tlie little syndicate which, for a compara-
tively trifling consideration, took overa well-known money-
lender's business assets (bills and p.ns.) is likely, in the
event of a certain defence being maintained, to “ fall in
the fat ” very badly as the defence raised would affect at
least 85 per cent, of the so-called securities the late
financier’s successors have taken over.
* * * *
Cane-cutters on the N.S.W. Northern rivers
make on an average about 6d. per hour. The Eight
Hours day is practically unknown among them, 12, 14 and
16 hours being a common working stretch. Sixteen hours
gives them Bs. a day, but 8 hours would only give
them 4s.
• * * •
Money must be getting plentiful in Sydney
when one lender invites borrowers to call upon him
“ without any formality— day or night.”
• * • •
Quarter-acre allotment in Flinders-street,
Townsville, sold the other day for £6OOO. Same block sold
last year for £5lOO. Wait till Bowen gets connected with
the northern line and that same Townsville allotment
won’t fetch much over 6000 shillings.
• * * •
“ In all cases in which a miner contracts to get
minerals by weight, the mineral so gotten shall he
weighed.” These words are in the 38th section of N.S.W.
Coal Mines Regulation Act, passed two years ago. There
is nothing there about miners asking the mineral to be
weighed. The courts have decided that there is not.
“The mineral shall be weighed.” Yet the Law moves
not, and the Reid Govt., by saving the Law will only move
in February next, is actually breaking the law as passed
by Parliament and interpreted by the courts.
* • • *
There should be legal trouble over the just-issued
Lake George Mines report, which contains what, if not
true, are easily construable as unspeakable libels on a
man of high professional repute. There are in Australia
quite a lot of people—who bought Lake George shares at
£2 or £3 —who would dearly like t.o hear the Lake George
directors and their late manager say their very worst
about one another in open court'.
* * * •
Ed. Bulletin. —Re “ Shaker’s ” endorsement
(B. 19/IX/*9B) of statement that “ the Palmer would carry a
white population to-day—but for these slant-eyed glean-
ers.” After 24 years’ experience of New England tin
fields, I can say most emphatically that almost every
patch that has been worked by Chinese would have been
worked by whites, if left; and thus allow the fields to
sustain a white population very much longer. Also, it has
been quite a familiar sight to see whites tackle a show
abandoned by Chinese. There are now whole tracts on
these tin fields entirely aban loned by Ch nese, but still
being fossicked by white families who run a garden and a
few head of cattle to supplement the sluice-box. The
white could do his own scavenging on a gold or tin held
and rear some more citizens during the process.
Stannum.
* * • •
The sustained upward rush in the tin market
and the excellent prospects that there won’t be much of a
slump, if any, have stirred speculators to search out the
most promising of old N.S.VV. tin-shows. Some of the
long-deserted Euriowie claims —among them a few in
which J. S. Reid dropped a pot of his Broken Hill profits
—have been pegged. But it is just as well to remember
that, though there has been this big recent rise of over
£2O (from i 62 to £B2 odd) in 12 months, the market has
not anything like recovered the position it held when
most of these mines were tried before.
* * * *
It is not only in the new lands that the spurt in
the tin-market has pricked up prospecting. The cen-
turies-old Tincroft ami Carn Brea, in Cornwall, is raising
£50,000 to put a new shaft down to the deepest levels and
to do other big works —this on the recommendation of
the veteran boss of Cornish mining, Capt. Josiah Thomas.
It looks, therefore, as if, in the opinion of the best
’totherside judges, the tin recovery had come to stay.
* * * *
B. H. Junction North directors have made a
capital choice of a new manager: Capt. R. N. Thomas,
for 10 years mine-manager of Block 10, goes over. Block
10 has had creeps to right of it and creeps to left of it,
but has never had one of its own—it is the only Broken
Hill mine that has escaped. Thomas goes to a property
which all the time wants a man who can do just that sort
of work. He is the oldest “ boss” along the line : he was
underground manager at the B.H. Prop. 14 years ago—
that was in the Wilsons' time.
* * * *
B.H. Junction directors tell a rather more
cheerful tale this half-year. At the end of March there
was an excess of liabilities over assets of 118,141; at the
enrl of September the excess was down to £8143, so that
the profits on the six months work amount to about
£10,0.10. For the six weeks since then the mill has done
better work on better ore, and accounts should be square
early in the new year. The financial statements leave a
good deal to be desired. Though depreciation of mill and
ore-breaking plant is very rapid nothing has been written
off for depreciation since September ’97 —a circumstance
which seems to show that the directors are very anxious
to put a smiling face on the co.’s affairs in view of the
Camden Syndicate’s continued efforts to persuade share-
holders to transfer the management to London. There
are two or three ancient fables about wolves and spiders
and things that might be more or less appropriately re-
ferred to at this point; but they are crowded out. Which
is just what may happen to Australian shareholders also
if they go to sleep.
* * * *
What sort of a hole is being made in the Broken
Hill mines may be reckoned from the fact that between
19,000 and 20,000 tons of sulphides alone are hauled up
every week. Approximate figures:—B.H. Proprietary,
4000 ; Central (Sulphide Corporation), 3500; Block 10,
3000; British, 2000; Block 14, 1900; Junction, 1SO0;
South, 1700 ; Junction North, 1200 ; North, 600.
* * * •
“Pambula” writes Many shareholders in
Falkner’s G.M. co. want to know why, with nearly £2OOO
to credit, didn't the directors declare a 6d. div. at last
half-yearly meeting, and why don’t they do it now ? On
attaining office they promised divs. as soon, as profits were
available. Profits have been available since July.” It
would be unsafe, and Tim Bulletin hopes, unjust, to print
the rest of “ Pambula’s” remarks.
* * * «
Opal-buyers .send a sheaf of assurances to The
Bulletin that there are no very big profits in the gem-
buying business any more, and that the stories of the
huge profits of the past are also traceable to M. Rouge-
naont Grien, during that person's apprenticeship. Further,
it is submitted, amidst this paper’s hear-hears, that, if a
witness in a recent case said that a parcel that was worth
£lOO9 was sold for £BO, the point of most importance is
whether, at the time he made the estimate, the witness
was a competent judge of gems. All that the opal-miner
for his part knows for sure is that there is an enormous
difference in the price he is paid and the price that is
asked of him when he goes to buy an opal-brooch for his
best girl ; and, since he conies into contact only with the
opal-buyer, he observes that that person’s name is mostly
M»ses, and thereupon naturally gives him the credit for
it all.
The White Cliffs opal-miner’s affections are not,
however, devoted entirely to the gentlemen named
Moses and Reuben, and so bn. The English co. shares it
with the latter—partly because the English co. has spread
a big fist over the pick of the field, and partly because the
co.’s chairman has taken the trouble to excuse the failure
of the concern to reach the giddy heights mentioned in
the prospectus by describing the workmen on the field
as wholesale robbers. Some of the sins laid at the co.’s
door have, however, been removed during the last year
or two ; notably trihutors (most of the ground is worked
on tribute) now have the selling of the gem they raise,
the co.’s manager simply putting a reserve on it.
* * * *
If it is not simply a Rongemontade about those
W.A. mines filling their stopes with cyanide tailings, the
statement deserves a little more public attention.
Cyanide of potassium gases are virtually poisonous. The
naturalist, for instance, uses a tiny piece at the bottom of
a stoppered bottle to kill specimens (large beetles, even)
without damaging their coloring, as spirits do. The
fumes, even in a well-aired store above ground, are very-
injurious to health ; and to vitiate the hot, badly-venti-
lated stopes in a deep mine with these reeking sands, is
nothing less than wholesale murder. The miners in such
places are worse off than the phosphorus or lead-workers,
and it will not take many months either to prove this
assertion. But no sane inspector of mines in a civilised
community would imagine such a practice possible out-
side of a nightmare.
• » * •
General-manager Hamilton, of the Boulder,
asked by the Adelaide board for his opinion of the syndi-
cate’s koneinann process for the treatment of sulphide
tellurides, reports it to be “ perfectly successful.” But it
is possible to pay over-much even for a success.
“Kink” from Kanowna : Over 90 percent, of
the local leads are washed out. New rushes at. Broad
Arrow and Bulong are taking everyone who can get away.
Father Long and nis precious nugget, followed by a pair of
Scotch pug-experts, have done a lot towards liusttng-np
this camp. The pug is still here, awaiting somebody able
to deal with it. Local speculators, however, fight shy of
anybody who says he can treat it.
••• • •
The tribute system gets a footing in Westralian
mines—about Menzies particularly.
• • • •
Melb. Exchange is engaged upon a small and
shaky-looking revival of last year’s boom in Tasmanian
silver stocks. Crown Lyells had got back as far as 14s. at
time of writing, and such doubtful outside shows as the
Central Lyells and Queen Lyells were again fashionable
in “penny rise and ‘ bob ’ foolish ” circles. “Bound to
last until Xmas,” is the fascinating bait to catch minnows.
Twelvemonths back the boom certainly did last until
Xmas and for a week or two after the “House” re-
assembled. This year the rush to get out is likely to
happen before the holidays.
* * * *
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Oollins-st., Melbourne.*
* • * •
Dear Bulletin.— Re par., 12/11/’9B, on Tas.
Smelting Co. A director certainly was present at half-
yearly meeting of Hercules shareholders, but his “ strong”
argument to induce sale of ore was the then high market-
rate of metals. This the shareholders evidently thought
too strong, as it would take them months to arrange for
regular output; moreover, the Tas. smelters were not
prepared to take delivery then, nor can they start
operations before February or March next, despite
the fact that the “ experts ” assured the Zeehan pro-
ducers that they would be smelting in October last.
The assertion that “ the co. (Tas. Smelting) will soon be
interested in most of the going mining concerns on the
West Coast, and with unlimited capital at its back can
make its own terms,” is erroneous. It certainly won’t
pay the Hercules people to smelt at Zeehan, with the Tas.
Copper Co.’s works close by, and, in fact, if No. 5 level
pans out to expectations, they will probably treat their
own stuff if capital can be raised. They, like most Zeehan
Cousin Jacks, don’t seem partial to Sauer Kraut.
Again, smelters cannot touch the low-grade ores concen-
trated by the mines, of which there is naturally a greater
quantity than firsts, and the local buyers, who aren’t
asleep, run each other and an.yone else who comes along
for the product. Those in the know smile a smile of evil
omen when they hear of the large quantities of low-grade
ore available in mines that were abandoned years ago and
are now full of water; consequently the “experts” had to
rely a good deal on hearsay. As this sometimes diverges
slightly from fact, the denouement will be interesting.—
Badger.
* * * *
.Taqnes Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Maohinerv.*
* * * *
Clermont (Q.) is the alluvial field of Australia.
Last year only about 400 diggers were on the ground ;
latest returns for the district put the number at 5000. All
said to be making tucker, and some a bit over.
* • • •
A member of the late Q. Mining Commission
recently amused the House vastly with a description of
Durham on the Etheridge—a good old smellful wild-cat
property of previous days. Company sent out most
elaborate machinery including ten managers, salaries
ranging from £l5OO to £7OO. These gentlemen bossed 60
men, a number afterwards reduced to eight— though the
ten managers still flourished as before. Lovely offices
rose as if by magic, and a brick banqueting-hall lent an
air of palatial grandeur to the property. After a while
miners’ wages were reduced and contract let to six men to
sink at a rate which enabled these heroes to make at the
rate of £2llos. per week apiece, and all was joy and
beery felicity. And now— not a single foot of the Durham
lease can be found without the inevitable glass-bottle.
* * * *
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
• * * •
A novelty is reported from Bundaberg, Q.
Through the suction pipe of the river dredge several
pieces of opal have been drawn from the bed of the River
Burnett —one or two pieces being reported as of fine
quality. Captain Almond, the Port Master, has taken
samples to Brisbane.
• • • •
To The Bulletin from Wandi gold-field,
Northern Territory :—Wandi gold-field, situated about : 0
miles east of Pine Creek, the railway terminus of Fort.
Darwin (N.T.) railway, is the only field in the N. Ter itory
with a European population, the Chinese being prohibited.
A large extent of country, plenty of reefs of a decent
size, but, generally low-grade (about loz.), and battery
charges 255. a ton. Since erection of lb-head battery, 18
months ago, 1610 tons stone have been crushed for the
puhlic ; yield, 180Coz. retorted gold, value £3 10s. per oz.
Climate healthy. A good opening for investment of
mining capital and energy.
© * * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont, gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feedert
without shovelling, arid the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
• • * •
South Australia has been pretty thoroughly
probed for copper ; and, though the present little boom
has not therefore induced much prospecting in new coun-
try, the old districts are being overhauled again. An
English co. has had a report made on the old New Corn-
wall, in Karlina district; the Moonta itself is doing more
prospecting, with results that come quite up to expecta-
tion ; and the Yelpa and Flinders, the latter in the long-
neglected Tumby district, have been revived.
* * * *
S. R. Wakefield, who died suddenly in Adelaide
lately, was the agent appointed by the Moonta Copper co.
to introduce competent miners to that province in order
to open up those mines. When they heard of this, the
few hands then employed promptly threw down their
tools and came to the surface ; and it took all the then-
newly-appointed Supt. Hancock’s eloquence to get them
to return. That was South Australia’s first mining strike.
• • • •
Now that Cap’n Hancock has left Moonta
mines, where he was manager for 31 years, probably
W. R. Williams, of Johnson’s No. 1, Bendigo, has been as
long at one property as any Australian manager ; his
period of service is 32 years.
• * * •
Mr. Robert Shand, sec. of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Ltd, Williamstown, and attorney for
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, engineer, etc., of Melbourne,
states that neither of these establishments has ever been
so busy as at present. Nearly every department is work-
ing day and night. Firstly, there is ihe patent machinery
now being made ready for shipment to W.A. for manu-
facturing the new rivetless or locking bar pipes required
in the Coolgardie water scheme. The spiral riveiting
machines are working on an order for about 15 miles of
10 and 12 inch pipes for the Maryborough Water Trust.
Also, the firm has in hand an order for 300 iron goods
waggons for the Vic. railways.*
© © © ©
Old Bendigo has made another of its marvellous
recoveHes this year. For all last year its calls exceeded
itsdivs. by £4207 (£148,822 and £153,090) ; to the end of
November this year divs. go £73,000 over calls (£212,000
and £139,000).
© * © ©
Certain Brokenhillionaires are goinginto the Vie.
deep-lead business, having taken up some miles of ground
on the west side of Pitfield, and formed a strong co. first
to bore and then to sink.
• • • *
At latest a big row was looming at Dawson and
other Klondyke centres over the Canadian Govt.’s de-
mand for alO per cent, gold royalty. The beginning of
another Uitlanders’ agitation ?


lx
■ d
ORIENT
" . CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WE AR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
. Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR - SAMPLES. l'_..
We pay. carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted. ■—
DAVID
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
JONES & COMPANY
v >•' GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
.Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
i-Plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Queensland Branch —- - .
64 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins St.
Of all the Pastimes we know, none afford
the interest or give the pleasure that is gained
by taking up
PHOTOGRAPHY.
The process of making PHOTOGRAPHS is
now simplicity itself, and the Cost is very
small. We can. equip you with an outfit at any
price you like, from
ss. to £5O.
The Latest and Best of Everything.
Harrington & Co., Xtcl.,
PHbTOGRAPHIO MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, Sydney.
New Illustrated Catalogue of all Photograph Materials
MAILED FREE.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Last week a young man (supposedly very
well-off)—after courting a girl for five years, fur-
nishing a house, ordering the wedding-breakfast,
and bringing all his friends and the girl’s relatives
to a Sydney church to see the wedding—suddenly
•bolted in his nuptial garments, without luggage
and without notice, by s.s. Alameda, leaving the
poor bride-elect to faint and hysterieise in church.
“Inexplicable!” says his friends. But it isn’t!
It was probably one of those fits of overwhelming
bashfulness in which a man would rather go to
Slieol direct than stand up in front of a gaping
crowd and promise to be fruitful and multiply,
and go through all the dreadful circumstance of
“ getting spliced.”
* • * *
On the day that George Waldron (the late
Sydney City Solicitor) died he was at Rosehill
races in bicycle costume. He and an acquaint-
ance were talking about a mutual friend who had
died lately, and Waldron said: “I never could
understand what caused that man’s sudden
death.” “ I can tell you,” said the acquaintance
—“ it was taking hard rides on a bicycle in hot
weather without being fit for it. He used to ride
up hills and strain and struggle and blow, and it
affected his heart.” “ That’s a nice thing to say,”
said Waldron, “ when I’ve gone in for cycling.
I suppose you think it will kill me.” “ Just as
likely as not,” said the other. Waldron laughed,
shook hands, got on his bicycle, and—dropped
dead'off it within half-an-hour. The man who
gave him that warning is the writer of this para-
graph.
* * • *
A Bulletin corespondent ;
The death of Harvey Hay at Ooolangatta last week by
a gun accident was another instance of the malignity of
chance. Hay was 22 years of age, a fine, healthy young
fellow, strong as a horse, a good rider, oarsman and
athlete generally. He was fully accustomed to firearms,
and yet, cantering along upon a ryuet horse on good
going, he managed to shoot himself through the head.
On the morning of the accident he woke a friend who
was staying with him, and asked him to come out to shoot,
a scrub bull which had been giving trouble. They rode
all. the morning without finding the bull. Then
the friend wanted to return to Sydney, hut Hay
persuaded him to stay, ran in two fresh horses,
and t.hev went out again. Late in the day they
saw the bull a long way off, and Hay took a speculative
shot at him at very long range, without result. Then
they cantered steadily on round some swampy ground to
meet the beast. While they were riding along the friend
(who >vas about 50yds. ahead) heard the rifle go off, and,
looking round, saw Hay on the ground. The ball had
gone right through his head, but he was conscious and
lived several hours. No one knows how the accident
happened. The stirrup-leather of his saddle was broken,
and that, giving way unexpectedly, may have caused him
to have overbalanced, and in the fall he may have let-off
the rifle; hut even then it was hideously bad luck
that it should have exploded at the very moment
it was pointing at him. There is no law of
probabilities in connection with gun-accidents. It
was a thousand to one against the stirrup-leather
breaking, ten to one that a rider as good as Hay would
not fall off when it did break, a hundred to one that the
rifle would not explode when falling, and a thousand to
one against its hitting the man who was holding it. And
yet a malign fate safely landed all these odds, and so
ended the career of a fine young fellow with all his
chances before him—while any drunken fool with a
double-barrelled shot-gun can race and rip and yell and
swish it about and yet get home unscathed. The man
who mounts a horse with a loaded gun should remind
himself of Hay’s fate and of the death of young Lord
Ancratn and unload that gun. It may seem safe enough
in all human probability; but gun-accidents have a pro-
bability of their own—an inhuman probability that no
man can reckon with.
• » * •
A humorous execution is a thing unknown
to the present generation, but Pastor Elliott, who
“saw off” Archer, the Ulupna murderer, at Melb.
last week, nearly turned the strangulation of that
particularly cold-blooded person into a howling
farce. Substituting verses from the New Testa-
ment for the usual burial-service, this pioneer
parson even subjected them to “ managerial cuts
and emendations,” and, as Archer was led on the
drop, he astounded everybody by observing that
“God so loved Alfred Archer that he gave His
only begotten son that Alfred Archer might be
saved.” Which brought the whole ghastly affair
perilously near anti-climax, and it was only “ the
dull, sickening thud ” that put things straight
again.
* * * *
As a matter of precaution, it would,
appear safer to be a penitent R.C. than a
penitent Protestant, while awaiting the advent of
the hangman. At least, such seems to be the
lesson of the Archer case. Although the devoted
clergyman who attended Archer cannot be said to
have blabbed a sacred secret, it is extremely doubt-
ful if a R.C. priest worth his salt, the wide-world
over, would have said as much as he did, even to
ease the consciences of a Cabinet. Who knows
what the reside of the deputation of 5000 persons
to Gov. Brassey, which had been arranged for the
eve of the execution, would have been had the
Government not been armed with the parson’s
assurance that prisoner had said that the sentence
was a just one? The mention of this prevented
the deputation from going on with its mission,
and the sheriff was able to perform his duties un-
disturbed. By the way, had Archer known that
the. mention of this admission would have utterly
obliterated all chance of a reprieve, would he have
told the parson ? And, if he wouldn't have told
him under such circumstances, was the parson,
however well-intentioned, within his moral rights
in making it known ?
THE RIGHT WORDS AT THE RIGHT
MOMENT.
PARTICULAR OLD MAID : “ Are you sure that
these fish are quite fresh? ”
PATSY THE FISH-HAWKER : “ Yes, as fresh as yer
are yerself, Miss.”
Max O’Rell says that the criminal is a
canting hypocrite, and that his exit from life per
medium of the scaffold is always a pose. The
English one invariably calls upon his God and the.
French invokes the memory of his mother.
Archer, the recently-hanged Strathmerton mur-
derer, concludes his confession of a cruel and cold-
blooded crime with, “This, then, is the reward
for my actions—betrayed by the woman I loved,
condemned by man, and abandoned by God.”
Archer should never have been hanged. He
should have been spared to write blood-curdling,
“syndicated ” fiction for the daily newspapers.
The Age, moralising comfortably on the
hanging of Archer, asks “ what are we to do with
such criminals if we abolish hanging?” What)
cannot be cured must be immured.
JRe the case of James Broadfoot, who went
mad (perhaps “madder” would he more correct)
after undergoing “ solitary ” at Pentridge prison,
and is now located at Kevv asylum. The authori-
ties, anxious to demonstrate that his prison treat-
ment had nothing to do with his insanity, explain
that although he was kept apart and given no
work to do, he “had access to religious books
which the chaplain of the denomination to which
he belonged set aside for his use.” That satisfac-
torily accounts for everything. The prisoner had
no option. The official explanation deserves to
stand with that of the Grand Inquisitor in “The
Gondoliers,” who says that the old woman on the
rack in the torture-chamber will not feel lonely as
she has all the illustrated papers.
* * ♦ *
The Presbyterian General Assembly de-
scribes the lotteries held in connection with the
R.C. church as “ prostitution of charity.” Better
any sort of charity than none at all. Curiously
enough, while the Presb. Assembly was denounc-
ing the R.C. style of raising funds for charitable
purposes, the Anglican Congress at Ballarat was
laying down the dictum that “ Puritan theology
failed to permanently impress the masses of man-
kind.” There is no bane without its antidote.
» * * •
Sydney G.P.O. is now to display a flag,
betokening the approach of a “southerly.”
White flags lettered J., K., W. (Jervis Bay,
Kiama, and Wollongong) will show tired Sydney
how far away the anxiously-expected “ buster ’’is.
Undertakers do push their trade, if late
cycling fatalities had anything to do with the ex-
posure in leading Sydney undertakers’ shops of
recent cycling-show advts.
* * * •
One of the most crying scandals con-
nected with the Polynesian labor - traffic is
the continual employment of “boys” at work
legally forbidden. To prevent this, Queensland
Govt, issued orders some years ago that the
Polynesian inspectors should visit the planta-
tions now and again to see that the Kanakas
*vere confined to field labor. This is how it
pans out in practice : Before making a visit,
the inspector always courteously wires the
planter, “ Intend to pay you a visit on Wed-
nesday next.” On Wednesday next the
boys are all duly cleared out of the mills
and off the drays into the cane, and the
official (who usually puts up at the planter’s
house) is able to report that all is right
with a clear conscience.
Another phase of the Polynesian
question. Tommy Tanna falls ill. By
rights, his employer should send him to
the Kanaka hospital (charge, 4s. 6d. a
day per head). But this is too expen-
sive. Wherefore employer (if he has a
number of “boys”) keeps a medicine-
man, often an ex-overseer, to doctor
them out of a drug-chest. Salts
and senna for all diseases.
* * * *
‘ * Trebless ” : On recent Syd-
ney holiday dropped on unique
game of kiss-in-the-ring. Eight
buxom girls, a lad of about
twelve, and a young fellow on
crutches. Pathetic, such a
meagre supply of “he”!
Watched until every girl had
had a kiss from the lad and the
cripple. The girls were very
considerate, when running from the latter. They
could have shown even a pony-owner how artis-
tically to “run a bye.’ One girl— she was plain
—had to trip and fail to allow of capture.
* * * *
Rumored that much-needed improvements
are to be made in the Anglo-Australian press
cable service. The personal reference to com-
parative nobodies is to be put down with a high
hand, so that when next Mr. Jones, of Sydney,
or Mr. MacSmiff, the Flinders-lane ragman,
visits England his doings will not be chronicled at
4s. lid. per word in Australian papers for the
mutual exasperation of a million profane male adult
citizens of the Commonwealth. The rock on
which the cable service chiefly seems to founder is
the practice of dispatching a uniform number of
words per diem irrespective of the importance of
the news. To the ordinary person the saner
arrangement would appear to be to limit the
length of the cables when news is unimportant,
and to draw on these verbal economies when a
“ sensation ” comes along.
ORNAMENTAL—AND USEFUL.
BROTHER: “Fine hat you're-wearing to-day,
Gertie."
GERTIE: “ Oh, indeed I something' new that YOU
should like anything I wear.”
BRUTALB.: “ Well, you see, there's a creditor of
mine on the other side of you.”
Brisbane’s Mayoress, following Southern
example, gave her initial reception at the local
Exhibition last week. Sundry strong “ Society ”
hints as to “class” went for naught; and the
local female simply swarmed all over the hall and
wolfed the provisions, what time some of the
Nicest mournfully stood apart, and finally went
home dry in the interior and bedraggled in the
skirt.
A GENTLE
HINT.
Wewatcked ~tKe' westerr\ radiar\ee die
Tke dark skadovvs disappear
I “turned “to ftjsie. ixestfiag ky.
| Tkaak Sod I said tlvvt<Spriag
yy <s Kere *
Slxe plaixced across "tko. rrvpktCT
l\ea irvto apace. -ai\d seen\ed to wo.iV;
pAad "tf\ei\ iix wkispered sky refrairv
VU * .w. o ' S'
, yes.tKe Opn. ixg -tke t,n\<?tb n\ate.
Yarr[?]
WHOM GOD DOTH JOIN.
O Rite, whose holy tale is done,
O Ring, thou tender token,
O Priest whose lips pronounce us one,
O Church whose vows are spoken—
What thunders fall in Sinai-call
From ev’ry echoing groin—
“ Let no man put asunder them
Whom God doth join ! ”
O Life that laughs in ruddy health,
O sturdy forms that bound me,
O Race robust whose vital wealth
In vigor beats around me—
What voices rise in thunder-wise
From ev’ry crest and coign—
“ Whom God hath put asunder—them
No man shall join I ”
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


You
FIRST
for
B efreshing,
Stimulating,
Strengthening,
Pleasing, and
Cooling YOU. THAT’S
Sydney [ayer j)ier
“BULLETIN” DEFINITIONS
Man —The rum in the milk.
Woman—The cushion on the chair.
The Bulletin’s brilliant and unique Xmas
number will be published on December Bth, and
agents who wish to make sure of their orders
being filled should send in early. Single copies
will be mailed from The Bulletin office to r.ny
Australian address (except in Queensland) for 7d.
in stamps; to any Queensland address, Bd. in
stamps. To any English address eightpenco in
stamps.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelsou (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
Soft Cai}v/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO - per -dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
ft
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. HI K K li ItO i'll HRS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
ELEGANT and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elffimst., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free l>/i post throughout
A astralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MO-NTCAST-E !s SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps. s
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirhane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Mkxboi rnk;
1L Pitt-strcet, Svdsky;
CS Cunle-st,, Adelaide ; 27 Easiest., Brisbane ;
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Lambton
Adelaide mayoralty furnishes a contest
this year between Aid. Ware, a wealthy brewer,
and Councillor Smeaton, democrat, teetotaller,
single taxer, and the elect of the party of .Gloom.
The Devil’s candidate will probably win in a
walk.
« * » *
An unmarried woman gave birth to trip-
lets at Marriekville, Sydney, last week. On these
interesting occasions the “ Queen’s Bounty, ’ £3,
is generally paid by His Ex. the Governor, but as
this mother is outside the pale, the money will
presumably not be granted in her case, although
she is in desperate need.
• * * *
To The Bulletin from the Far North :
The newly-arrived Jap. is working his little brown self
into the hearts of the ladies. At a Mossman (N.Q.)
recent “social” the Jap. interpreter (of “flesh of a,
female fowl ” fame) and several other cultivated
brownies were invited, and delighted the company
with Japanese dances in costume. After the local re-
citer had finished butchering “ Pardon, the Son of Re-
prieve,” the Jap. interpreter was asked how he liked it.
“ Really,” said brown man politely, “ I don’t thoroughly
understand what it was about.” By the way, a central
mill official, who is used to driving Fijian coolies, finding
some Japs, “spelling” in a cane-field jumped off his
horse and began flogging those nearest, but before he
could say Yokohama he had the little brown men dancing
round him with cane-knives. He took the hint promptly
and “ cleared ” However undesirable the Japs, are in Aus-
tralia, it must be admitted that, unlike kanakas and
coolies, they’re plucky and won’t stand knocking-about
from any one. The 30 or 40 white men who had three or
four months’ employment at firewood-cutting this year
for the mill will now' have to travel and cadge, because
the job is in future to be done by Japs. Where will this
Kanaka-Chow-Jap. business end?
* * * *
A deputation of teetotallers|asked Premier
Turner the other day to have the Licensing Law
altered “to give the police power to seize liquor
being carried from licensed premises on Sundays ”:
This scheme, proposed with pious zest,
Would give each constable the hump
’Twould make him pass the day of rest,
Encumbered with a stomach pump !
• • * *
To-morrow (Sunday, Dec. 4) will be the
44th anniversary of the Eureka Stockade fight.
* ♦ * *
Two questions now burning in Sydney
evangelical circles. Shall the newsboys be allowed
to hold their annual picnic
on Sundays? And shall
the Sunday evening dance,
attended by so many
people, be suppressed ?
The evangelical S. M.
Herard proprietary re-
fused, no doubt purely on
conscientious grounds, to
help the Sunday picnic
aforesaid; but the other
city papers all contri-
buted, most of them liber-
ally, and one very meanly
indeed. The Herald, to
show that there was no
animosity, presented
each female street-
newsvendor with a
print dress. As to
the dance ques-
tion (in one
hall on a re-
cent Sunday
evening 400
young people
were found
hopping), it is
quite certain
that if shut
out of the
dance - room
they won’t flock
•io the Little Beth-
els and Ebejjezers.
* *
“T.D.’\ Atßel-
more Markets, Syd-
ney, is a dingy break-
fast - room wherein the
market-workers masticate.
The place is mostly used by
drowsy Chows, and white men
fraternise with them over cups of
coffee and thick chunks of bread.
By the way, I have often wondered
whether the average Chinaman ever
washes himself. Have never observed a Chow
at his ablutions, and have only seen half-castes
in the swimming-baths. [The Bulletin has the
word of more than one eminent surgeon that the
Chinese patients are among the cleanest who come
to the hospitals.]
A parsonic letter in a Sydney daily reveals
the sad fact that while a man can lead his sister-
in-law to the altar, a woman may not under any
circumstances espouse her deceased husband’s
brother. Nobody quite knows the reason of this
distinction. One argument: let a woman marry
her brother-in-law and why not her father-in-law
also? The converse argument does not apply to
the other side, because no man ever does want to
marry his mother-in-law —except to the other fel-
low. The whole thing rests on a vague idea of
scriptural disapproval, which is funny enough,
seeing that in the days of the patriarchs a widow
was absolutely commanded to marry her brother-
in-law, and if he wouldn’t respond he was to be
smacked in the face with a shoe. The Bulletin
likewise is somewhat weary of the want of-delicacy
argument which is invariably brought up against
this sort of marriage, and against re-marriages,
and against various other marriages. As for that
matter, there is a certain want of delicacy in
getting married at all. [Barrister Ralston, who
should by now be a divorce-expert, avers that
marriage with a deceased husband’s brother is
legal in N.S.W.]
• • • *
At Newtown (Syd.) police-court recently a
man was gaoled with hard labor for having “ no
lawful occupation. ” But before a man could be
imprisoned it ought to be necessary to prove that
he has an unlawful occupation. Mere want of
exployment, according to this decision, is a statu-
tory offence.
Re the Parramatta girl whose purse was
snatched and herself knocked down and danced
upon, woman’s sartorial encouragements to the
art of thieving have been many and various.
First, the pocket at the back ; then the handbag,
generally gaping open ; now the long, leather
purse which won’t fit into her pocket. Present
writer saw in one cable-tram the other day seven-
teen women, thirteen of whom had each a purse in
her hand ; the other four, poor things, looked as
if they didn’t possess purses. Such is the force of
Fashion. And woman never learns by experi-
ence ; that Parramatta girl, as soon as she gets
rid of her black-eye, will reappear just as before,
smilingly holding out her money-bag for the
acceptance of the casual passer-by.
* * * *
The alleged boats of many N.S.W. coastal
steamers are never in the water; in case of acci-
dent they’d be as watertight as fowl-crates. Good
old Marine Board 1
NO WASHING UP THERE.
MRS. HOLIGAN-BROWNE: “Share, an’ it’s kil[?]
entoirely Oi am wid all this washin', an it’s
in hivin Oi'll he soon, Mrs. Smyth-Murphy.”
MRS. SMYTH-MURPHY: “ Thrue fer yeez, Mrs.
Hooligan-Browne; it’s in hivin we'd both
loike to he, fer divil an angel wears a stitch
av clothes.”
Professor Anderson Stuart before Sydney's
most fashionable ladies’ club :
Where a mother cannot suckle her baby I have little to
say, but where she will not, she is doing herself no good,
and she is possibly doing her offspring a deal of harm.
Part of the cycle of a mother’s life is to suckle her child ;
part of the cycle of the life of every individual is to be
suckled by the mother, and as surely as this order is
interfered with, so surely will Nemesis bringa penalty for
the crime against Nature—and the pity of it is that it is
not always the guilty party who suffers most.
Two touching instances of
maternal affection turned up in
Melb., the other day. A couple of
nine-year-old youngsters were ar-
rested as neglected children, and,
appearing respectively before the
(say) West and E. Melb. police-
courts, were remanded until the
same day pending enquiries. At the
West court, at the time fixed, the
lovin’ mother of one lad turned up,
and had a shock-headed urchin
shoved into her arms, with the
injunction to take him home, and
let him wander no more. The
woman gave a puzzled glance at
the boy, and then, turning to the
policeman at the door, whispered
timorously, “ But —sir—this isn’t
my little boy.” Incredulous and
busy, the constable had no time to
discuss such an idiotic remark.
“Nonsense, woman,” he said, with
a dramatic wave of his hand.
“ Clear out home. Don’t you know
your own child?” With feminine
respect for the divinity that hedges
a uniform the mother heaved a
sigh, and, trying hard to discover
the features of her offspring in the
discharged prisoner, she obeyed the
order—the word of a policeman was
something that could not be ques-
tioned. Certainly the boy seemed
to lack every characteristic of the
one she used to know, but she made
no demur until a friend arrived a
week later, and exclaimed “ But
that’s not your boy.” Delighted at
this unexpected testimony, the fond
mother replied, “ That’s what I
said; but the policeman said he
was.” The friend was of less com-
plaisant nature, and bullied the
mother into kicking up a row with
the authorities. The result was
that enquiries were started, and it
was found that while the first mother
had accepted the second’s son as her
own at West Melb., No. 2 had
taken the first’s without the slightest
question at East Melb., and had al-
most immediately handed over the
kid to the Scotchbyterian or some
other mission, which had given him
some clothes and sent him off to the
inaccessible selection of some cocky
in the wilds of the mallee. It
took three weeks to fetch him back,
sort the mixed youngsters out, and
hand them over to their proper mothers. It
was eventually found that they had been mixed
in the Department for Neglected Children during
the remand and sent to the wrong courts.
* * * *
“Bargo”: Quite agree with suggestion
that Federal capital should be in some torrid
region. Untempered by the gentle influence of
beer, our laws would be drawn on Hardshell-Bap-
tist lines, and in a hot climate Bung is an essen-
tial.
* * • *
Some people are capable of forgetting any-
thing. The Victorian man whose little daughter
had her scalp torn off recently by some machinery
hurried her off to a doctor four miles away—but
quite disremembered to bring the scalp with
him. So the pathetic little sufferer had to wait
while somebody rushed back for the missing article
and brought it along.
• * • *
“ Toll for the dead ” —Probate !
* * * •
A very silent funeral occurred recently in
W. Tamar (Tas.) district. An old female resident
was interred without the help of a parson or
Scriptural word, and the only remark uttered was
that of the defunct lady’s son, who observed,
“ Well, that’s the first time I ever saw a person
buried like a dog ! ”
* * * •
A Bulletin correspondent on the kilt
mania
Was recently in ’bus with two spectacled virgins when
a “ Sydney Scottish ” in uniform started to climb down
stairs from the top. One of the vestals was sitting in
the back corner when suddenly, in close proximity to her
cheek, appeared a muscular and hirsute calf. She
skipped back about a yard along the seat, but still kept
her eyes on the phenomenon, and when it was
duly joined by its fellow whipped off her
darkened glasses to get a better view. Then
when a kilt and a red head had duly accompanied
the legs, the pair found breath to ejaculate, “ Gracious
goodness I—how1 — how shook-ing ! ” All the same, I think the
local “ Highlanders ” are a bit shocking. There is no
offence to anyone’s eye in the spectacle of a pair of mus-
cular legs, tanned by the sun and wind. The tan is, as
it were, a guarantee of bona-fides—the man has evidently
been accustomed to wear kilts. But none of the Sydney
Scottish are brown-legged—their limbs, on the contrary,
are painfully pallid. The owners have evidently just
taken off their trousers in order that they may show
their legs to the public. It is downright indecent ex-
posure. Let the military authorities call tenders for a
coat of kalsotnine, or some dadoes, for Tonald’s shanks.
» • * *
Hobart boasts a rabid teetotaller as Mayor.
The other day when the one-armed athlete, G.
M. Schilling, who is walking round the world for
an alleged wager of 5000d01., reached Jamville,
the Mayor asked him what he drank when on the
road. “ Water,” replied the Yank. Then His
Worship delivered a homily to the crowd on the
wonderful effects of cold water. “If our visitor
“IT IS THE CAUSE, IT IS THE CAUSE, MY SOUL!"
“ Adelina Footlytes, what makes you so hard? ”
“ Years of dealing with theatrical managers, dear hoy."
can walk all around the world on water, surely
other people can walk the streets of Hobart with-
out any stronger beverage,” he brogued. Then
the Yank, who really likes a glass of good brown
ale between walks, realised that he had fallen in.
As, to win his wager, he must neither beg, borrow
nor spend, the Mayor’s proclamation of the pedes-
trian’s teetotalism had the effect of cutting off
from him the flow of free beer.
* * * *
A Sydney D.T. correspondent relates that
“ A young girl in her teens was engaged as cashier
and assistant at a city grocer’s. Her hours were
from 7.15 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. ; on Saturday till 11
and 11.15 p.m. She had no evenings off, and
was standing all that time, only a short interval
for dinner and tea ” 1 And the benevolent Miss
Rose Scott, speaking at N.S.W. National Council
of Women, told of a grocer’s assistant in a leading
city shop who started work at 8 a.m., and seldom
finished before 9.15 p.m., while on Fridays he
worked till 10.30 p.m., and on Saturdays till 11.15
p.m. That man got off two nights weekly—one
night at 6 o'clock and one at 7. Many
grocers worked 73J hours a week. A master-
butcher in the suburbs stated that he and his men
worked daily from 6.30 a.m. to 9 p.m.—on Satur-
day till 11 p.m. The lot of the men was hard ;
but the lot of the shop-girls was harder.
* * * *
That ghastly institution, the male beauty
show, prospers in Melbourne. The other day
Brighton Branch of the A.N.A. gave a prize for
the nicest man at. a local flare-up, and the pink
Johnnie with the large, China-blue eye appropria-
ted the prize, which was a pot of rouge, or a packet
of pearl powder, or something. The Bulletin is
not sorry for the man pursued through life by the
reputation of having taken a prize in a beauty
show. It is a dreadful fate, but probably he
merits it. Writer here recalls the honest pride
with which a man introduced himself in a Cres-
wick bar. “ What, dontcher know me ? Good
! Why, I’m the feller what took first prize
fer ugliness at the ’ibernian sports.” “Glad to
meet you,” said the barman, “you deserve')
it ! ”
WHAT PROFITS?
What profits all the wealth and fame
The applauding world can give,
The light of an illustrious name
When the heart has ceased to live ?
The heart that once has ceased to glow
With love’s consuming fire
Has perished with the long ago
That fueled its desire.
O gracious eyes so blue, so blue ;
O lips I oft have pressed—
The burning heart that worshipped you
Is dead within this breast.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.


PRESCOTT’S <&, CO’S
The most Wholesome and Refresh in;/ Summer
Bcveraije. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Solo Agents
for Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
01 Pirr Strbkt.
GLOBE TEAS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
“Our Teeth. 91
CatapboreSiS
in Connection with
DENTISTRY.
BY this PROCESS, TEETH can be Prepared
and Filled absolutely WITHOUT PA.IN,
even if the. nerve he exposed, thus
PREVENTING the
EXTRACTION
of TEETH. All Particulars published in Book
Form, a copy of which will be posted, Free of
Cost, upon application to
CHARLCSI. HARRIS,
DENTIST,
St. James’s Chambers, King St.
(Opposite the Queen’s Statue),
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
, r _ Sydney, November 23, 1533.
Mr Dear Myee—
Everyone is telling everyone else the “ real ”
reason of the Hampdens’ sudden Hitting. I glean
y<nt the following few, carefully omitting several
which have malice and absurdity written on their
very face. Sudden scare that one of the charming
Misses Lrand was going to wed a "colonial”
nobody.
(Some such reason is trotted out when any
magnate leaves Australia, and was duly set down
as the cause of the Jerseys’ departure.) The
rude remarks of the press. A municipal bicker
that refuses to be damped. And—but why should
people go such a long, long way for the motives of
this very simple action? Surely anyone can
believe that His Ex. is tired of the billot, and
wants a rest from his labors.
Labors? I should think so. Stone-breaking
isn't in it with sitting from eight till eleven
in the front row at dreary charity concerts, and
never even the mitigating circumstances of an
interlude. T have an idea on this subject.
There’s a beautiful butler at Government House
with an architectural nose and quite an ancestral
backbone, and if the coining Gov. will only
begin from the very beginning and send this
beauteous being everywhere he doesn't want to
go himself, the butler will soon come to be equal
to His Ex. As long as advts. read " Government
House will be present ” the draw will proceed as
usual. Then, too, think of the ease with which
Potts Point will converse with vice-regality !
Captain Sloans Stanley, who went olf to a
family wedding a few mouths back, is not likely
now to return. Serious little Capt. Eiolden, a
popular aide, who has never given himself any
airs whatever, likes Sydney, and will stay on here
if he can. Some people say th it Lady Hampden
is altogether as popular as Lady Carington, but
the matter can't be definitely settled" till the
Hampdens are out on the briny. At present Her
Ex.’s kind, restful manner, and her daughters’
habit of rustling in and out of tlm crowd, and
talking to everyone about them, are doing much
havoc with the affections of the Beautiful Harbor.
Two fetes came along last week, both for
charities. The first was given for the Industrial
School at Manly, an institution which cares for
little girl waifs, and teaches them to earn an
honest brown. Catholics run the institution, and
I must say the hundred and twenty little girls all
look as if they like being there. I saw some mar-
vellous stockings knitted by these little hands,
and the specimens of needlework for sale at the
stalls might have raised the blush of envy on any
grandmother's cheek. Another sort of blush
came into well-regulated faces when certain gaudy
purple, orange, and canary-silk garments turned
out to be nightgowns. In fact, one uncommonly
well regulated lady observed loudly that she
thought it was ’ighiy immoral to let the children
make’em in sich colors. "Wc did not think of
that, ” said a sister, sweetly.
Lady Hampden and Miss Dolly Brand jour-
neyed down by special launch to set the
fete going. A drizzling rain fell, but society
turned out bravely ; and the Cardinal-
wonder what the Cardinal thinks of orunyc
nightgowns, if he ever thinks of them ? —Major
Bryan, and a few other men, endured the usual
gentle afternoon persecution. Nobody wore any-
thing in particular. Lady Hampden's dark-blue
silk was a familiar friend, and Miss Brand wore a
Cup muslin. The biggest swarm of women
hovered round an exquisite hand-made trousseau,
the undergarments all of soft white silk, which
was being rattled at sixpence a head. I heard that
the tickets for this rai* into quite a sensational
number of thousands.
Mrs. Oliver, of Neutral Bay. lent her waterside
grounds for the second fete of the week. This was
opened rather sumptuously by. Lord Hampden,
with the Admiral and Julius Knight thrown in,
but did not draw the public to any great extent.
It was ail extra-attractive fete too, with pretty
girls abounding. Miss Maud Gollin in a flowing
muslin robe, - pretty Miss Oliver in a pink apron,
Miss Una Russell in a yello.w polonaise and white
skirt, those two Gibsonesque maidens, Hope and
Ada Mayne in white muslin arid poke bonnets,
and a dark beauty in a daring green hat, sold
buttonholes and cigars unceasingly. Ernest Hus-
king performed skillfully in a side tent, little
comediettas went on at intervals, and yet biz was
dolefully dull, and depression looked out from
every stall.
The canker in the rose was a church grievance.
It seenn that the local church people didn't smile
on the fete because its proceeds were to go toother
churches and hospitals. Somebody took it upon
herself to write to Lord Hampden and the
Admiral and warn them not to lend their patron-
age to a false, deceptive fete that would take money
from the starving parish’s own collection-plates.
His Ex. declined to be upset, and wrote a neat
note to the fete owners saying that any maii
could do as he liked in his own bick garden, and
that he would bring along his patronage all right.
The mitch-advertised J ulius Kn igh t contribution
turned out to be the pseudo-poem about Mary
Queen of Scots, and how the "scene was changed.”
There was also a witty prologue from the pen of
Mr. Alex. Oliver, which Julius wanted to spout to
His Ex. in the middle of the lawn. Also, a cer-
tain young hero wore a big black frown all after-
noon—allegedly because nobody received him on
his arrival, and because the crowd wasn't as big
as it ought to have been considering Who was
coming.
Mr. Laurence Campbell’s third Annual Exhibi-
tion drew the usual crowded “invitation ” mob to
the Y.M.C.A. on Monday night. The hall was
filled from floor to ceiling with an audience that
sat patiently through a programme of IS items
without an interval, and listened patiently to the
different little or big girls tell the same tale of
woe in half-a-dozen voices, and with half as main-
gestures among them all. The' night was too hot
for so much death and bloodshed, and it was with
a big sigh of relief that one followed Miss Gladys
Pockley to a school examination, where there was
no greater tragedy than the bishop’s distress at
being asked “ how many legs has a caterpillar
got?” In the scene from King John, Hubert
de Burgh appeared in the short frock and black
stockings of a little girl of eight, and Arthur was
a younger sister in socles. These two little girls,
Miss Vera and Gladys Rich, carried off all the
honors and flowers in their baby hands. But the
flower of the Hook was the lady who recited “The
Passions ” to a piano accompaniment by Ernest
Truman. The stereotyped style was here deserted
for a cleverly conceived sketch of different—not
too unladylike—emotions.
An ingenue, Miss Shadforth Ilooper, gave a
bright little pianoforte recital during the week to
a crowded roomful of musical people. A romantic
elegance of style, characteristic of Signor do Beau-
ptiis s pupils, took the place of any tiery slapping
and hitting, and the Wagner-Liszt Tannhauser
was a particularly admirable performance. Mr.
Sydney Hoben’s concert was also a successful mat-
ter, the programme being systematically encored.
Since Carrington got to London, it seems that
Australia lias turned green in the manner peculiar
to all far fields. If the Baron's flashy speech Inis
any effect in England, and the large-footed dam-
sel with a nose, and a theory, and a red, red
cheek, really swarms these regions in search of
husbands, there 11 be a sad side to the now humor-
ous episode. For Sydney and Melbourne certainly
can t supply the necessary. Every man with over
three pounds a week is ring-barked already. In fact,
“eligible ” is now applied to those three-hundred a-
year-young-men who used to be as dragons to the
dowagers in the good old days. As for the back-
blocks, it takes oven a cast iron acclimatised Aus-
tralian woman a lifetime to recover from the wilt-
ing scorch of an out-back summer. Imagine nice,
clean Englishwomen in a land where a bath was
a wicked luxury, if not an utter impossibility.
And, from an entirely Australian point of view,
think bow mosquitoes would wax and multiply on
all that good red blood ! And we don't want to
owe a new breed of giant skeeters to the nation
to which we are already indebted for rabbits.
How’s this for high ! A little girl, dragging
along a miserable dog at the end of a string,
called recently at a suburban bouse and poured
forth a well rehearsed tale about a dead father,
sick mother and seventeen half-starved brothers
an 1 sisters,.finishing up with a request for cash.
When this was refused, she added, “ I’lease,
mother said would you be so kind as to give some-
thing towards the registering of our little dorg ! ”
I hose delightful Pieyel concerts wound up their
Winter season last week with a strong, short pro-
gramme. In this city of two-paged programmes
and double encores the concert that lets you out
before ten cannot be too hotly encouraged, and as
these little Chamber-music feasts are always ex-
cellent, I hope next year will bring the Committee
a bigger financial harvest. Signor do Beaupuis
(de 80-puss, a fat lady behind me, would call him)
played the piano part in the Scliumum quintette,
an 1 also put a few touches to the well-worn Men-
delssohn's Rondo Capriccioso. But I was sorry
this delightful pianist didn’t play something not
known by heart of everybody in the hall. It may
be an evil emotion, but I own to a feeling of irrita-
tion when an audience suddenly looks round
with a smirk, then settles importantly in its seat
and nods a vague, eccentric sort of time to show it
knew that piece of music all of yore.
Ihe engagement of the son of a very fanciful
family and a youthful Sydney girl is now off. The
fanciful family doesn’t like anyone to know that
it was the lady who broke the chain, but the truth
is said to be that his attentions were not marked
enough, even after making all due allowance for
the fact that he did belong to a fanciful family.
Tt s funny, but a fact, that the largest percentage
of scratching, snarling an l hairpulling springs out
of charity-committees. In the cause of charity, it
seems as if even the most peaceful matrons will
hate each other. Mrs. Matt. Mayoress is the
latest to be dangerously wounded. The Con-
sumptive meeting at Govt. House forgot to ask
her to sit on its committee, which was certainly an
unwarrantable omission, and I hear the barb
rankles sorely.
The Slavey question—how many ill-used mis-
tresses pray their Lares and Penates it could be
written Slave without the question!—is growing
into a prickle of such proportions that women are
woefully declaring all over the city they can’t
endure their lives because of their domestics.
This month and next the prickle always gets its
nastiest point out, as the staidest Janes and
Eml.ilys begin to give themselves airs in anticipa-
tion of Xmas, when the stuffed goose and the
plum - pudding can’t do without them. The
registry-offices are swamped with “ladies,”, while
the servants’ rooms are, for the most part, empty.
A suburban bookseller sends me word that a
“general ” advertised through his shop last week,
and received 07 replies, many of them telegrams,
while a mere man h is been wasting his substance
for weeks in ad vertising for work, without a single
response. Ibis doesn t look so bad for poor,
oppressed woman.
Moreover, Embly Jane has her own decided
system of cataloguing the good and bad things of
life. Approaching her would-be mistress, she
starts off like a game little racer with, “ ’ow many
in faultily ?’’ And if the miscreant missus owns
up-to anything over three, up goes Embly’s nose
ami “ this place won't suit me,” she tells the
registry-keeper scornfully. What pangs of shame
must pierce the mothers of ten and twelve when
brought face to face with these pitiless inquisitors.
Iwo in fambly is Embly’s allowance, anything
over that having to be paid for by the inch. Then,
when that little matter is quite understander!, on
she goes with the slavey catechism. “ What’s the
hootin'? Uo yez keep much company ? Is there
many stairs?” and so on. After all, though,
there’ no ’arm in Embly; she only wants to have
a good time for her money, and, when you come to
think of it, wherdoesir t ?
Just now the servant-girl famine is being
availed over in public and private. Brisbane
missuses have determined to bring out domestics
made in Germany and Scandinavia, as the blue-
eyed Teuton maid holds a record for respectful
manners and honesty. Up North they are used
to all sorts of foreign and alien labor. And on a
certain small station in those low latitudes the
neighbors claim the missus thereof as the cham-
pion mean woman. She counts the oranges grow-
ing on the trees, and can tell to a single fruit how
many are cribbed. One day she interviewed her
Chinese gardener about five: missing oranges—her
piercing eye had noted five short in the daily
count. Of course, John didn’t savee anything,
but, after prying round, she found peelings outside
John’s hut. And, on owning up, the missus had
him booked for the fruit at the rate of a shilling a
dozen. If you think very hard you will find that
-the .above, storyotte—has a bearing on . the great
Servant-girl Trouble.
The barmaid is quite a prominent person to-day.
She is threatened with a sudden dissolution. A
Bill, on her own account only, may set Parliament
scuffling any day, and the blue ribbon of the
female suffragist is already unrolling itself for her
funeral. Any infant can tell you that men know
more about this subject than women. The
shielded feminine woman’s mental paint-brush
always daubs the same picture on her retina at
the mention of this particular human animal.
Wicked gold hair at so much a. bottle, dressed in
the height of a fashion just gone by, a pinched
an 1 steely waist that anyone’s arm could surround,
color heaped upon color in her raiment, and a
tinge that never varies in her cheeks —this is the
barmaid of every housewife’s dreams. This is the
minx with the oily tongue that calls everybody s
husband Charlie and Willie and Reggie. In a
word, this is the Woman’s Barmaid.
The Man’s Barmaid, who is the real thing, is
sometimes like, but a thousand times more often
is as unlike, this picture as the painters of it.
Several barmaids in this city teach Sunday-school
as religiously as if they were milkmaids, and even
if there’s a little diffidence at “Look not on the
wine when it is red,” well —where’s the Sunday-
school teacher who does not shy internally at some
text or other ? And another Australian barmaid
completely floored the editor of the but no
matter. He misquoted poetry, said Campbell
wrote “ The Pleasures of Hope,” and she cor-
rected him and said it was Rogers, and lie bet her
a new hat that she was wrong, and even brought
along a book of quotes to prove bis case. Where-
upon he pointed out to her that the book said
Campbell’s “ Pleasures of Memory,” and on the
next page mentioned the “Pleasures of Hope”
without naming the author, from which he de-
duced that they were both by the same. So she
called upon a veteran journalist to decide, an 1
won her bonnet. Of course no one supposes that
barmaids always win their bonnets that way, but
if mankind and hotels were reformed the objection
to barm aids would soon fizzle oat.
If the time ever comes when no fresh maid shall
be admitted to the bar, a curious vision may be.
realised. All the old bar belles will stick to their
posts till they curl up from sheer age. Then some
day will be seen the spectacle of the one remaining
Flossie serving long beers with a skinny claw,
while two teeth mock each other from opposite
sides of her mouth, and a wig that hasn’t even the
strength to keep straight flops over her withered
oar. And if that awful vision doesn't do some-
thing for the rights of barmaids, nothin ;/ will.
Writes mv Melbourne correspondent:—
“Lady Brassey is a regular woman’s woman,
who likes the support of a sister-skirt whenever
obtainable. Of old, whenever huffy Mrs. Free-
man Thomas dragged hubby off for a trip up
North or elsewhere, her stepmother promptly bor-
rowed a Brand girl. At present, one of Gov.
Hampden’s daughters helps to hold the fort of
feminine influence at Molb. Govt. House. By the
way, the juvenile Do La Warm are impatiently
expected by their small aunt, Helen Brassey, who
finds life on the banks of the Yarra lone and lorn
enough, minus the lively, if pugnacious, company
of Freoman-Thomas, junior.
“ The Metrop. Liedertafel concert drew a mighty
haul of suburban spinsters. The Brasseys were
there, too, uninteresting as to plumage, while Miss
Mary Clarke wore a delightful cover-all of bro-
caded pink satin.
“Besides her grown-up daughter, Janet Lady
Clarke has two younger girls. A dark-haired up-
standing school-miss, who seems to possess some
of her mother’s energy and vim, and a fragile nine-
year-old, the baby of the family. The whole
Cliveden clan start for Cairo almost immediately
to spend the rest of the northern Winter and
Spring there before going on to Europe.
“ Liedertafel subscribers get a man’s and two
ladies’ tickets for each concert. Enthusiasts like
the worth of their money, and the night before the
box-plan opens, camp out, so to speak, so as to get
first choice of seats. The laggard who breakfasts
at home on the eventful morning instead of pick-
ing a bit outside Allen’s must content himself
with chairs iu the baekblocks.
“Among the concert performers, Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson looked and sounded delightful in cream
brocade and crimson carnations. Melbournians
are declaring they never saw such a beautiful
woman as this daughter-of-tho-Cfesars-lookmg
Caraudini scion. Some ascribe her charm to her
mouth, others to her neck. Maybe it’s that
culinly-iiiditfereiit ‘like me or leave me, don’t care
tuppence ’ expression. Up in Brisbane, ’tis said,
the very potentates in the seats of the mighty have
sighed and looked, but sighed in vain. Ages ago,
in her girlish days, the then Miss Palmer sold
Chelsea' buns at a church ‘Okie Englyshe Fayro’
in Melb. Town Hall. Gilded youths besieged the
bun stall, and mince-pies went like wild-fire.
Nellie Melba told fortunes in a gipsy booth at the
same shivoo. Mrs. Palmer glories in the fact that
no one but herself has had a hand in the cultiva-
tion of her daughter’s effective voice. Mrs. Wilson,
one hears, regards teachers’ terms and prospects
as far less rosy in Melb. than in the Northern
capital.
“ At the Liedertafel, Irene Fletcher played
cleverly, but oh ! the airs ancl graces and general
jamfulness 1 When she sits down she winds'up
th * m isie-stool deliberately as if she were a self-
adjusting ‘La Poupee’ with her buttons screwed
on lower down. Next she seems to stroke the
keys with her nose, and brush her eyelashes with
her fingers. Such fuss over a hackneyed junk of
Schumann recalls the carrying-on of that cookery
lecturers, who prescribes for a middling jam-tart
‘ rose-water, ice, lemon-juice, marble-slab, thrice-
sifted flour, ’ &c.
“ Thursday night (Nov. 21th) Janet Lady Clarko
at-homed the Salon, French and Italian societies,
and many of the Naicest. The hostess brightened
up her bhack with diamonds; daughter Mary, in
white satin, tried to do her duty; and the two
boyish sons took after their mother in hospitality.
My favorite item on the programme was Gov.
Brassey’s French speech. It was that sort of nice,
homely-sounding French, so much like English
that you can’t help understanding it. Lots of
words like ‘introduct-iong,’ &c. And whenever
he jibbed for something to say, lie brought in
‘ensuite,’ and kind of leaned on it till his vocabu-
lary convalesced.
“A female cycling club is said to have gone in
for a somewhat giddy fancy-dress ball at a Vic.
town, the other week. Tickets were issued to
ladies only. Even when something resembling a
constable made an appearance on the threshold of
the orgie, the apparition turned out to be only a
tall girl sporting a police sergeant’s tunic and
etceteras. Some of the company turned up in
tights to play ‘gentleman’ to partners who wore
skirts, the sex selection bring governed, as a rule
by personal feeling ?\? limbs. It was really more
a nutter of measurement than modesty, but eon-
aid.wing that one slis-male faced the in isic in
* papa’s ’ suit the affair would seem to have had
parental sanction. It was respectable in its way.
All the same, this new variety of club dance sir'-
g;sts strange thoughts touching the influence of
bike-exercise on female! human nature.
“A picture now frequently met with in Mel-
bourne illustrateJs represents the bride of an
imminent ‘society’ wedding in the bosom of her
family. The bride has ’em all on, and sports her
bouquet, and pa, and ma, and all the brothers and
sisters —the lot in full fig for the projected cere-
mony-—are gathered around, decorated with ap-
propriate expressions. By no chance are these
pictures ever labelled ‘The Dress Rehearsal.’
“ The story goes that the wife of the director of
a certain art institution always speaks of her
husband’s pictures in the plural. ‘We were
to put in a grey background, but we decided on a
green, ’ &e. Just now she doesn't use the plural
re a somewhat startling study of a damsel mid
nodings on. lie, not we, painted Had lot.
“A pretty sight that 25-mile race at the Austral
meeting on Saturday—such a rainbow squad of
skimmers cleaving the sunshine! The smash tn
r inte, and the two ambulance loads carried off the
field, kept up the excitement, though dressy
ghouls apparently felt slightly defrauded that nary
a corpse and only a broken collar-bone emerged
from the struggle. A rider chewing the long ends
of his white neck-handkerchief was an ugly blot
on the pageant. He looked like that horrid
spitting llama at the Zoo when it’s masticatin'*
paper bags, given to it by small boys as an induce"
nient to expectorate.
“ Appearances are deceptive. The loveliest
pair of legs on the ground pedalled their owner
nowhere near the front.
“There were more Napoleon toques than Tre-
lawneys at the wheel-races. The former are like
the Little Corporal's cocked hat with the up-tilt
worn to the front. It’s hard to find novel devices
for these applique trimmings. Some frocks are
scrolled all over with fantastic versions of the
wearers’ initials in narrow white satin ribbon, &c.
Corn-flower blue is the favorite color for cloth
‘tailor-mades,’ and pockets at present are situated
in the placket-hole, the latter buttoning under-
neath so as to save loss of ’kerchief, &c.
“ Hospital-nurses are dreading the .yearly hot-
weather epidemics, with attendant horrors of over-
crowding and sich—for instance, diphtheria
patients packed so closely that the attendants can
hardly find standing-room to make the beds. No
wonder that the cap-and-pinny brigade sneer at
those outside ex-enthusiasts, who, after-all their
collecting and fuss, seem to have completely for-
gotten the projected Infectious-Diseases Hospital
“The Georgia Magnet says she has been at close
quarters with any number of Harem beauties. In
India she did her ‘force-resistance’ deeds in the
private theatres of various Maharajahs, where
bevies of morganatic Flossies viewed the perform-
ance from curtained cages. This didn’t quite
satisfy them, so the Magnet was brought into their
midst (by favor of the dusky rooster) that they
might pinch her arm;, and test her bona-fides to
the best of their limited intelligence. They didn't
try any muscular conclusion with her ‘force,’ for
harem charmers are not built that way. The
Magnet's' most notable opponent in a cue struggle
was the late Czar of Russia, who gave her an
audience at his bit. Petersburg palace and per-
spired freely in many attempts to lift the tricky
little woman from the floor against her will.
Previously she had allowed several picked athletes,
all of them smaller than their Sam soman despot,
to pick up her eight-stone figure with case, but
when the Czar came along she brought the trick
into play and forced his Nibs to relinquish her in
despair. Only a scientific ‘ fake,’apparently. All
the same, it isn't every woman who can retain her
presence of mind whilst an emperor is trying to
hoist her by her elbows.
“ Latter-day acquaintances describe Lady Hope-
ton n as ‘ reserved ’ re her Australian martyrdom—
unlike hubby, who winks the other eye compla-
cently while harping on ‘dear old Victoria.’ One
of his yarns tells of a walking-tour in the Western
district. The then Governor and chums, who had
lured a stray ‘ knock-about ’ on the'road to help
with the ‘ blueys,’ bolted for a day’s shooting at a
small homestead, placed at their disposal by its
absent owner. The rough-hewn factotum in
charge, mistaking the slim, chirpy, carelessly-
clad Ear! for the unwelcome ‘tramp,’ bullied
the surprised aristocrat from the start,
and kow-towed all he could, which wasn’t
much, to the most viceregal-looking of the party.
As soon as Lord H. scented the blunder he de-
cided to keep up the fun, though ‘bounced,’
1 bossed,’ and called to heel with the guns all day.
To flavor the joke, the impostor blundered through-
out like ‘Simple Simon’ or ‘Handy Andy,’and
was ostentatiously snubbed by those in the secret
for his ‘dunderheadedness,’ and brutally slang-
whanged and sworn at by the old ’un for his
‘ blanky cheek.’ At the bachelor homestead that
night, the supposed Governor and his friends
begged their host to make ‘ that fellow ’ useful, so
that his masquerading Ex., skipping around
with plates and things, had a rough time.
In retaliation, lie violently nudged the diners to
ask what they’d take, in defiance of the slave-
driver’s menacing glare, answered back when
reproved, fell down with the fried rabbit and
bacon, and finally was pelted out o£ the room with
potatoes by the infuriated Master of Ceremonies.
Next day, when the visitors had left, their dupe
heard the truth along with a friendly message from
his late victim, congratulating him on the wonders
of his vocabulary.
\ ours affectionately.
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
m
p
3
Sisa
CIGARETTE^
TIX£S TEST OF
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
1 or Dainty S imple Tin (a postcard will do) which will he sent
post tree, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cococ,, Limited, Sydney.
Tlie Famous Frencii
Chocolate.
CHOCOtIT-IDEIIIEit
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
IF. M. Cameron & Co.,
Wholesale
A^eni s :
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The latest about Guy Boothby is that he
has given J 6300 for a bull-pup.
Gavan Duffy to date has drawn about
,£36,000 from Vic. Govt, in pension.
Isidor Lissner, of Queensland, is in stature
the smallest man in any Australian Legislature.
His recorded height is sft. lin.
“ G. 8.” : Anybody know what became of
the Baron von S , anointed scoundrel and
Bismarck’s nephew ? Last heard of, he was
in Pentridge, where he had been “sent to
Coventry” by the other prisoners as a spy
and informer. When at liberty, this
nobleman used to live by faking tele-
grams from ’Ome announcing despatch
of colossal remittances. With these he
would work on simple folk who were
glad to accommodate a swell of such
high degree. Had a cabman in this
way for some hundreds of hoarded
earnings. When he was haled be-
fore Justice, some officers of a Ger-
man man-o’-war, then in Hobson’s
Bay, deposed that he really was
made in Germany and related to
the man of blood and iron, but that,
all the same, he was an infernal
rascal. Wonder has he benefited
by the decease of his great kinsman ?
Premier Seddon, of M.L., when
excited, has a difficulty with his “ aitches.”
On one occasion he was making an impas-
sioned appeal in Committee of Supply for more
’igh-schools on the West Coast, when Vincent
Pyke, with an air of the very deepest sympathy,
arose and said: “ I had no idea until the hon.
member spoke that things were so bad ; will the
hon. member kindly tell the committee how many
of these ophthalmic institutions will be required.”
Dr. Broyer, R.C. Bishop of Samoa, now
visiting Sydney, fought on the French side in the
Franco-German war of 30 years ago.
Brisbane Geological Museum possesses a
piece of gold-studded quartz originally presented
by Rougemont to the Maytown gold warden in
1879.
A press comment upon De Rougemont’s
lectures says that he is “a poor speaker, and
drops his H’s.’ Picks up his X’s all right,
though !
Mrs. Rrornett, who landed in Y.D.L. in
1832, and settled in Gippsland (Vie.) in ’42, died
at Stratford last week,-aged 93. Her husband,
who survives her, is 90 years of age.
Latest feat of the member noted in
N.S.W. Assembly for his skill in word-coining.
“I intend to vote as I consider right and in
accordance with my con-shoo-en-issity.”
The late James White’s famous Kirkham
estate is in the hands of the auctioneer. An
utter dissolution of everything White —the Hon.
James, his racers, his widow, and now his beauti-
ful country home.
A DREADFUL THREAT.
WALTER: “Emily, you ’ave betrayed me —I seen
yerkissin' the man I once called friend. I
leaves yer to yer conshunce; but for him —'e
shall know wot it is to be. the foe of the friend
of the caretaker of the football ground.
Enough! ”
James Stewart Grant, of Manly (N.S. W.),
dow in his 94th year, took part in a champion
game of draughts one day lately. He played the
“ Herd Laddie,” a champion player, in Belfast,
Ireland, in 1840, and it is claimed that he plays
now as clearly and rapidly as then.
Vic. Legislative Council always opens with
the Lord’s Prayer. President Zeal has been say-
ing this prayer every sitting-day for years past,
but he doesn’t know it yet. Whenever he tries
to say it without the aid of the inorocco-bound
copy in front of him he comes a cropper.
The only time on record when Austra-
lia’s champion swearing skipper was unequal to
the occasion, was once, when, as he was impa-
tiently pacing a Melb. wharf, wishing to get away
with his ship, an ill-favored Chow tapped him
familiarly on the shoulder, and asked, “ What
time you start, old man '! ” The skipper’s silence
was truly eloquent.
Mr. L. J. Harnett, the N.S.W. Sergeant-at-
Arms, is collecting subscriptions for the pur-
pose of placing a marble slab over the remains of
the Maoriland poet, Thomas Bracken, whose
“ Not Understood ’’has justly attained world-wide
fame. Its broad humanity and clear-eyed philo-
sophy, indeed, make it a poem that anyone, any-
where, might well be proud to write over his
name.
ET ME, BRUTE.
THE CUSTOMER: “ I’m contemplating a trip to the
old country. I’m not well; the mental strain
is too much, and I want a change.”
BABER: “ I’ve been here 14 years and had no
change, and mine is all head-work too.”
Printed recently that “ the poet does not
push himself like his brother the painter.” He is
learning, though. Thus, a Sydney Church notice :
“ Next Tuesday—Readings from the Poems of
by the author.”
There are some queer and more or less
authentic stories (for “the apparatus can’t lie ”)
about “ Dr.” Towle, who died the other day in
Sydney after a huge dose of chloral. The de-
ceased came to Australia via New York.
One cause of Alfred Deakin’s comparative
reticence in politics is a chronic weakness, which
makes it painful for him to remain on his feet to
deliver a long speech. Ex-Premier Shiels is simi-
larly affected, and so was ex-Gov. Hopetoun.
Dear Bulletin.—Curious, with regard to
the word “ Sufyerd ” —reversed spelling of
Dreyfus—that if you double the F ; make the Y
into I and change the R into L (because he had
such “ an L of a time ”) you.get “ Suffield.”
“Charley” Duffy, son of C. Gavan ditto,
the assistant clerk of Vic. Parlt. at £BOO a year,
aspires to the clerkship of the Federal Assembly,
confident that Mr. Blaekmore, clerk of the Con-
vention, will get a similar position in the Senate.
Two of Premier Kingston’s colleagues,
Holder and Jenkins, are credited with the ambi-
tion to study law in the event of the Law Reform
Bill passing. Treas. Holder, according to his
enemies, has all the qualities that make a success-
ful lawyer.
A Melb. vendor of Malthusian medicines
heads his advt. in one of the local papers with an
alleged portrait of himself. It is in reality a
picture of Lord Byron. This is probably the
worst indignity that has ever been put upon any
poet dead or alive.
Among the romances of the Australian
turf was the birth, on Patron’s Cup-day, in the
dressing-rooms, during the race, of the daughter
of a well-known society dame. The baby was
christened Patrona, in recognition of the circum-
stance of her birth.
“ Ewa ” : Such is fame ! Was in Pitt-
street, Sydney, t’other day, when Archbishop
Bob-cab Smith passed. A little girl, seeing
his tightly-clad “understandings,” clutched her
mother’s arm and yelled, “Look at the Quaker
Oats-inan, mother ! ”
One or two of Mortimer Menpes’ first
drawings are still preserved bv a fellow employe
of the painter in his early Adelaide days. Menpes
was office-boy in an Adelaide warehouse, and
finally lost his billet for doing an audacious cari-
cature of the head of the firm.
They were talking about the Draconian
impartiality of a Cabinet Minister, and the en-
thusiast said, “Why, he is so fair and impartial
that I believe, if it came within his duty, he would
hang his brother Jack!” “Humph,” growled
the pessimist, “ so he ought to ! ”
“ Banjo ” Paterson lately returned to
Sydney after a great time in the Northern Terri-
tory, buffalo-shooting. He brought with him
many spoils of the chase. Buffalo-hunting is quite
an industry in the Territory: the steamer by
which Mr. Paterson returned brought down 1000
hides.
Rowland Hassall, of Braidwood, old-time
squatter and still enthusiastic horse-breeder, was
one of the original founders of the Australian
Jockey Club. He is a member of the largely-
diffused Rouse family, but, unlike other members,
has all through his life maintained a profound
contempt for politic*. He is now nearing his 80th
year.
Lord Monkswell (never heard of him
before) is guessed for the N.S.W. Governorship—
apparently on the ground of his having been
nominated for S. Australia and only displaced by
Buxton at the last minute. Monkswell, it
appears, has been a Lord in Waiting to the
Queen and a general hand about the Treasury.
His family name is Collier, and he himself is a
barrister.
Superstitious people will grimly rejoice to
learn that a fortnight before her unexpected and
sudden death Mrs. T. P. Hudson (Miss May
Habgood) deliberately sat last at a table at which
attention had been drawn to the fact of the pre-
sence of 13 persons. By the way, a Bulletin
man made one of a festive dinner-party of 13 fully
three years ago. Scot Inglis was the first of that
party to go under.
Some birthdays for December : Education
Minister Butler (S.A.), 48 on 3rd ; President Zeal
(Vic.), 68, and Parson John Watsford (born at
Parramatta), 78 on sth ; Works Minister Piesse
(W.A.), 45 on 6th ; Federal-delegate Luton (W. A.),
59 on 14th ; Committee-chairman Catt (S.A.), 65
on the 19th ; J. H. Carruthers, 41 on 21st; Judge
Casey (Vic.), 67 on Xmas Day; and ex-Premier
Nelson, 63 on 31st.
Miss Catherine Hay Spence, of Adelaide,
whose name is carefully not alluded to in all Vio.
discussions on proportional representation, is the
daughter of the town clerk of Adelaide, who acted
as returning officer when Rowland Hill’s system
of quota-voting was put in practice in Adelaide, in
1840, in a municipal election. It was the first
official application of the principle, and Miss
Spence dates her interest in it from that.
The oldest identity of the Barwon and
Castlereagh died last week, aged 98. George
Hedger was one of the first whites on the Barwon,
and first settled on the Castlereagh 60 years ago.
He had many encounters with the blacks and was
speared several times. He was one of the first to
take advantage of the free-selection clauses of the
Robertson Land Act on the Castlereagh, and, un-
like most selectors, retained his holding till his
death.
At Watson’s Bay (N.S.W.), last Saturday,
as the steamer containing the military-Parlia-
ment party neared the Govt, wharf the launch
Premier was passed, with Premier Reid aboard
assiduously angling. At once there was an out-
burst of yells: “ Angling for a fresh policy,
hey ? ” “ (Daught a new tax yet ? ” “ What are
you fishing for, George ? ” To which taunts
George curtly and not inaptly replied, “ Flat-
head ! ”
The salary of the manager of a leading
Sydney hotel has been for years past £lO4l 13s.
4d. per annum, while his commission amounted on
an average to £350 per annum. Why, Dickson,
Kingston, Forrest, Braddon and Reid manage
each a whole province for less than the
total of the sums mentioned. A hotel-manager
enjoys another inestimable privilege. He can
always get from himself all the drinks he wants
on credit.
Old Jack Robertson and Parkes were
K.C.M.G.’d simultaneously. At the time they
were not on good terms—in fact, for long they had
not spoken —but Jack wanted to make friends
again. So, seeing the rival leader leaving the
House, he contrived to meet him behind the
Speaker’s chair. “ Ah, Parkes,” snuffled old Jack,
pulling out of his breast pocket the Imperial noti-
fication of bebaublement, “ I s’pose you’ve got one
of these blanky things too ? ’’
While Louis Becke has been making sar-
castic remarks about Rougemont, Captain Slocum,
of Spray fame, has been saying nasty tilings about
Louis. Tells a Yankee paper how, years ago,
Bully Hayes and a choice gang came aboard his
(S.’s) ship with a dark scheme of “ rushing it,”
and among them was a man whom Slocum verily
believes to have been Becke “because he had a
twinkle in his eye.” Becke certainly has a twinkle
in his eye. And so has Jo.siah Slocum.
IN SOUTHERN SEAS. —AT THE SUNDAY-
SCHOOL PICNIC.
“ Please, sir, may I join in the quick dressing
competition?”
RIGHT UP TO DATE.
HE : “ You know the Book saith ”
SHE: “ Pooh I The books 'll tell yer anything.
I’m going to wait for the Tote before I put my
bit on.”
Baron Yon Mueller’s share in the dis-
covery of the virtues of eucalyptus oil has been
mostly overlooked in the obituary notices of Jos.
Bosisto. Mueller it was who persuaded the other
to take up the extraction as a commercial matter ;
his own business, he said, ended when he found
out that the oil was there and was worth extract-
ing. Bosisto had been imported for an Adelaide
chemist’s business.
The late Joe Bosisto, the eucalyptus-oil
man, made one memorable speech in Vic. As-
sembly. He had just come back from the Colonial
and Indian Exhibition with a C.M.G. label on
him, and he told the House of his great joy when
he saw with his own eyes Our Gracious Queen,
and heard with his own ears “her silvery voice.”
At that time Joe was the most profoundly loyal
chemist under the sun.
Hermes : Newspaper pictures of murderer
Archer represent him as a rather good-looking
young man with a luxuriant moustache. Apropos,
“ Owen Blayney,” in the Humanitarian, de-
clares that though he has often read of handsome
criminals, in the course of 12 years’ intimate
experience of Courts of Justice, he has never seen
one. Of course, it all depends on what “O.B.”
would consider “good-looking.”
English Socialist Hyndman visited Aus-
tralia in the late sixties, and wrote leaders for the
Argus on free education, when the battle for the
Act was being fought. He was formerly a good
cricketer, and played with Sussex against Aus-
tralia. His father spent ,£150,000 on the erection
of churches in the East End of London. Hynd-
man himself is 56, and at latest was very dis-
satisfied at the slow progress of Socialism.
The Outlook on poor-devil Grien, Tich-
borne the Second :
St. James’s Hall was crowded on Monday night. The
much-advertised Re Rougeniont’s lecture had filled the
place with a curious assembly. The body of the hall was
crammed, and on the raised platform, before a skeleton
map of the Australian continent, were set out Mr. De
Rougemont and his backers. These last had evidently
spent the days preceding the lecture in taming their wild
man. For no more broken-spirited savage was ever
butchered to make a Heaven-knows-what than the op-
pressed and automatic individual who struggled through
his task under the eyes of his keepers. Mr. De
Rougemont’s lecture was painfully like the performance
of a carefully-trained animal. We mean no disrespect to
Mr. De Rougemont. Such greatness as was his on Mon-
day night was pa'pahly thrust upon him. It was evidently
so set forth in. the bond, .and the bondsmen were there
to claim their pound of flesh. We felt sorry for Mr.
De Rougemont. He floundered along ; his heart was
not in the task. But he had signed the bond.
The word “civilisation” was much in the air on Mon-
day night. Nor did the irony of its usage under such
circumstances seem to strike the audience. The meeting
was of course clol lied in a thin veneer of decency. There
was a chairman and a table with a decanter of water and
a glass. But beneath this veneer luxuriated a positive
carnival of savagery. We need not dwell on Mr. De
Rougemont’s performance. It was paid for, and there’s
an end to it. He mentioned the Wide World Magazine
as often as was required. He was rude to his critics, as
per instructions. He retold the adventures of M. Louis
De Rougemont as far as they have appeared, and hinted
at the concluding chapters. These were to be found in
future issues of the Wide World Magazine. He men-
tioned that he was to be paid by results, and that
therefore his policy was such and such. He alluded to
a New Testament which had been the prop of his exiled
years and to various shadowy wives and families who
had served a like purpose. It was all very depressing.
When the end was reached a person in the audience
evinced a desire to inspect Mr. De Rougemont’s arm.
The request was granted. The “lecturer” had so far
gone through his performance without remonstrance. He
had signed the bond. This crowning indignity made him
tremble from head to foot, but he came to heel and
obeyed his proprietors. A more degrading spectacle than
the one that ensued we have rarely witnessed. De
Rougemont was helped out of his coat and waistcoat.
The chairman seized one arm and rolled up the shirt
sleeve to the shoulder. “It’s just above the
shoulder,” he said, in allusion to a convict brand which
he seemed to entertain some hopes of finding. The mark
was absent. The crowd round De Rougemont at this
period resembled nothing so much as a company of evil
vermin. They pounced on the poor wretch with a cal-
lous indecency that would have shamed a costermonger.
They bared his arm, they would have stripped him to the
bone without overmuch hesitation. Modern journalism
has reached some strange depths, but nothing more en-
tirely sordid and offensive than the conduct of last
Monday’s “ lecture ” has been swallowed by the British
public. The Syndicate have had their pound of flesh,
De Rougemont has looked to his bond. Let. this be the
end of it.


1
fe°RCESTERSHIP|
2Sp7wssM»
I|||P
tm
f °R roast Bt£ ft i I
».i„,|C URRKS CBAy 1 *?,"" )
4u V;:'r ; -v: sra&iSflilcfl!
S^^cersm
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
WATSON’S WHISKY
Aboriginalities.
“ 0.K.” : Bourke district beats “ P.G.’s ”
W. A. heat-record. Two travellers towards Bourke,
one very hot day during ’BB drought, drove up to
a station. No sign of life ; no answer to repeated
oooees. At last one of them spotted man camped
under tree, so walked over and asked if the boss
was at home. No answer. Next enquired where
drinking-water was to be found. Man simply
pointed towards tank with toe. Mao (loq.) : “By
, do that again and I’ll give you five bob.”
Man took no notice—too hot !
* • • •
“Yarrum”: Last night found an old
fellow eel-fishing in the Minamurra. Sat down to
discuss Federation, and noticed that the “lone
fisherman ” didn’t articulate as distinctly as he
mostly did, but chopped his words considerably.
THE GRAFTER'S HEAD.—A sketch from. life.
Asked the old man what he had in his mouth, and
he. mumbled—“Nothin’, only a few worms for
bait. Yer see,” he explained, “if yer puts ’em in
a tin they dries up ter nothin’, and if yer puts ’em
on the ground they makes tracks.”
Also, t’other night dropped across another
“lone fisherman” on the Minamurra. He also
was after eels, and was using for bait live frog,
than which, he said, there was “nothing better.”
After yarning with him for almost an hour, he
complained about getting no bites couldn’t
understand it. Then he struck a match to light
his pipe, and discovered froggy sittinq on his knee.
Slung him out again and waited half-an-hour
without a bite. Got another light and found the
bait back on its old perch. Then he wound up,
cursed much, and made a bee-line for his humpy.
Eel-fishing, in the dark, is an interesting pastime.
• • • •
The Bulletin haa nad this argument
before, but a good sermon can hardly be preached
too often :
Dear Bulletin. — These prayer-for-rain people are posi-
tively sickening to a man who, like me, has passed the
last 4 >4 years in a district wherein stock have been dying-
in thousands from starvation. Their sufferings extend
over months, and their last moments are indescribably
horrible. Think : lambs, with entrails plucked from their
yet-breathing bodies, and their moaning mothers, with
eyes torn from their yet-blinking sockets ! Our old pet
milkers, too, and favorite hacks all alike smitten, and
their last throes intensified by tortures inflicted by those
other of “ God’s creatures,” the accursed crows. And if
all this, beneath His all-seeing eye, fails to awaken His
compassion, how shall the prayers of humans who are
only troubled about the money' ioss avail ?—L.M.
• * * *
White grubs as man’s food ? Rather !
Nolan, one of the brothers who found Mt.
Browne (may Heaven forgive them !), told the
writer that, during the worst of their awful time
—they struck that droughty part at its droughtiest
—their best tucker was running hog-weed and
white grubs. Both can be got on those sand-
patches where in season melons grow so luxuri-
antly. They stewed the hog-weed ; writer forgets
how the grubs were served. But, anyhow, Nolan
said they always, when eaten together, reminded
him of rhubarb and cream.
* * ♦ •
Dear Bulletin. — Be tree-grub eating.
When I was at school at Ross (Tas.) nearly every
boy had his tomahawk and grub-tin, and, on holi-
days, used to go out after wattle-grubs. Those
that were cut while being chopped out of the true
were eaten on the spot. The others were taken
home, cooked in hot ashes or on a piece of tin,
and eaten with much gusto. Some preferred them
raw though, and would always take care to bite
the head first, as, otherwise, the grub would nip
the tongue. These grubs are pink when young,
and ivory-white when old, but there is also a
blackish kind, which we wouldn’t eat.—G.S.
* * * *
“C.F.”: Be grub-eating by white men.
Have myself eaten the sago-palm grub, which is
considered such a delicacy by the Muruts of west
Borneo. The crawlers, about ljin. long and thick
as a man’s thumb, are spitted on a skewer and
toasted. Taste like high-quality sausages. Have
never seen even natives eat ’em raw, and seldom
heard of a white man tackling them at all. Only
did so myself first time when pushed for food, bub
afterwards ate them from choice—and enjoyed
them.
• • • •
“ Bargo ” : Re tree-grubs. Went to school
with orphan boy who was despatched daily with-
out any dinner—always dined on large, white
grubs. Preferred them even when bread-and-
treacle was offered by his mates. May have been
pride, though.
* * * m
“A.E.G.” : No man could make me be-
lieve he ever saw one jackass kill a snake bigger
than a blind-worm. I have seen half-a-dozen
“johnnies” worry to death a sft. black snake.
They tossed him about in mid-air from one to the
other; and, when he reached ground, he was as
dead as Csesar. Was talking, the other day, to
one of the oldest bushmen in Australia. He, too,
has seen many jackasses kill a snake, but never
one. Kept a tame goburra for three years. One
day a tiger snake came along, and I put Jack
down to “knock him out,” which he didn’t.
There was no fight, although the snake was
willing.
• * * •
“T.H.T.” : Re what cows will eat. Once
saw one munching a shin of beef that she had
nosed out of the open window of a butcher’s shop.
Struck me as very extraordinary, but I have since
learnt that the Faroe Islanders (midway ’tween
Scotland and Iceland) feed their cattle on boiled
whale-blubber. Have known an old cart-horse
that could chew tobacco like a shellback. Gave
him a fig one day for experiment and he scoffed it
in a jiffy. Then offered him a newspaper for
dessert, and he swallowed that.
* * * *
“Jinda”: Assertion (B. 12/11/’9B) that
cows won’t eat each other’s feed : have often seen
one moo turn from her own feed to tackle another’s,
and have had to separate two milkers because one,
being a quick feeder, would, after finishing her
own lot, drive other away and take remainder.
On other hand, have noticed that a horse is very
chary of touching another’s feed, especially if it
has been at all nosed about. Of course, am re-
ferring to stall-fed, city animals. Out back, where
they have to hustle for their tucker, they’ll eat
pretty well anything. That cattle will chew bones
of defunct relatives is true. Due to an abnormal
appetite, caused by the absence of natural salts in
the pasture. Rock-salt is the remedy. Have lost
more than one cow through choking with a bone.
* * • •
“Z.” : Other day, in Moree, saw middle-
aged woman on foot driving 12-horse team with
load of wool from Q. station, 80 miles away.
* » * •
Dear B, —At Warranga station, on the
Moonie, Q., in ’5O, then owned by the Crowders, the
term “brumby ” was applied to wild horses
by the blacks, denoting astonishment at their
wild starts. Also, the Condamine and
Balonne country was then spoken of as
the “Never Never.” Live authority
for this.—Steele Rudd.
“J. R. B.” : In answer to
“C.J.H.” Yes; the ’64 Darling
flood was higher than the ’9O. As
to the big block of gum perched
in a gidya-tree, Bft. above the ’9O
level, most probably, when the
gidya was young, the fork was
close to the ground, and some ga-
loots put the log where it still
rests. Or, if “C.J.H.” has mis-
taken the timber, and the log is
belar, coolabah, or other soft wood,
it possibly floated into its present
position during some ordinary
flood, and the gidya has kept ou
growing.
• * •
“Morg.”: Be tree-grubs as
human food. If M.L. hu-hu grub
(22/10/’9B) is no better than bar-
ceiona nut and cream he is very
small peaches compared with his
Australian brother the “tubberie.”
This delicacy grows to 4 or sin. ;
best specimens found in wattle
and acacia. When cooked tastes
like yolk of egg, but is better
eaten raw /
“Barwon ” : Can any stock-natu-
ralist explain use of orifice in front of
emu’s windpipe? or of the bugle-like twist
which the brolga’s wind-pipe takes in the
breast-bone ?—peculiarities which, so far as I am
aware, do not exist in any other bird.
* • * •
“C.H.S.” : Be rat exodus (8., 5/11/’9B).
Similar hegiras are known in Sweden and Norway.
Armies of bush rodents, mostly bucks, start on the
wallaby at irregular intervals, a couple of years
sometimes intervening between the rat-march.
No explanation has been discovered of the where-
fore of this journey, though the suggestion has
been ventured that —as the birth-rate of bucks
exceeds that of does, and as the “ hes ” in early
life absorb the “ shes ” by the simple process of
“ scoffing ” them—the consequent paucity of wives
drives the bachelors out in mobs to seek for matri-
mony elsewhere.
“E.S.S. : The common bush phea-
sant is the best imitator of the “swish-bump ” of
the pit-saw. Its cry is a slow “she-e-yew.”
Sometimes it’s plain “swish,” but you get the
bump all right after if you happen to be walking
along looking at it and don’t see the intervening
log till you’re spread-eagled (a common experience
with bush naturalists). Then there’s some
blanky after the bump, which doesn’t sound
like a pit-saw at all.
The other day, in Budda Lake
(N.S. W.), a monster cod (1451 b.),
about as ancient as the very lake
itself, was shot with a rifle-bullet.
This Noah’s-Ark fish was seen from
time to time, years ago, by the local
blacks, who were more inclined to
believe it a bunyip than a cod.
About the same time as this monster
was shot, another bunyip-cod weigh-
ing over 1001 b. was caught in Budda
with hook and line.
» * *
A Riverine man trucked a lot
of sheep to Melbourne, and when they
arrived in the early morning several
were, as usual, down, and smoth-
ered. For these a local butcher
offered a price, and when asked what
he wanted them for said, “Oh, they
make great sausages.” The sausage-
eater should be able to move moun-
tains, his faith is so abounding !
“ Tassy ’’ : Be pelicans’ nests. Have seen
plenty both in Westralia and on the B. coast of
Tasmania. They were built of reeds in every
case. Saw on Tas. E. coast a rug entirely of
felicans’ breast-skins (of course, with the feathers).
t was made by a fisherman, and sold by him to_a
Vic. tourist for .£20.
• * * •
“R.H.D.”: When “ J. Jingle” states
that Henry Lawson means “dust” when he
speaks of “ svvaggie’s ” bed of ashes, he only
shows, the limit of his experience. “ The ash-
heap ” in these parts (Q.) is as much an institu-
tion as the bush-shanty, and equally well patron-
ised. Every pub. hereabouts has its ash heap,
and when the “ topers ” are “ doing in their bit ”
at the bar they take their rest in ash-bed. Have
often seen 10 or 12 drunks more or less covered by
burnt “ gidgee,” and apparently quite com-
fortable.
* * • •
“D.L.” : Driving 600 fat bullocks from
Coolabah to Powell’s, on the last day we missed
four, and sent Busy back for them. Next morn-
ing she brought along two of the missing beasts,
and when the boss and myself went back for the
others, we found that Busy had had two
pups, and that they were
bringing the rest of
the bullocks along.
JONES OBJECTED.
“Good morning, Mr. Jones.”
FARMER JONRS: “Good morning, is it? If you
had a kid with the hellers all night, and got
up and found three cows gone, you wouldn’t
say it was a good morning! ”
Ed. B.—ln answer to “H.S.R.” Kanga-
roos, at all events, don’t breed three times a year;
rarely indeed more than once. The young, though
carried only five or six weeks “in womb,’’are
very small and undeveloped when born, and grow
very slowly. They are suckled for a considerable
time after leaving the pouch, and always use the
teat they were reared on ; the new joey being
attached to another. Have often taken twins
from pouch, and on two occasions two joeys of
different ages.
* * « *
* ‘ Trebless ” : Re fires started by broken
bottles. During the “big N.S.W. strike’’ out
West, many devastating fires on big runs were
deliberately so caused. At sundown, a bit of
clear glass would be fixed on top of a small heap
of dry grass ; then the incendiary would travel all
night, and be 20 or 30 miles away by noon of next
day, when fire w’as pretty certain to start.
NO USE.
UNCLE BALDY (playfully): “Now, I must have
just one of those lovely curls."
CYRIL JOHN: “One wouldn’t be no good to you,
uncle.”
Re swaggie and dead dog (12/11/98). Writer
met a shepherd in Carcoar once, with his dog
across saddle, dead. The animal had picked up a
poisoned bait in the street, “ and,” said its master,
almost in tears, “ I wouldn’t bury a dog in such a
—— hole. I’ll take him into the bush and bury
him.” And he did.
• • * *
“Raspberry”: A recent par. recalls a
Launceston (Tas.) incident. A friend of mine,
while working a moulding-machine in a timber-
mill, got his hand caught and chopped off at the
wrist. He came walking down street, and I, see-
ing him with his apron wrapped round his hand,
asked him what was up. “ Just cut off my hand.”
After having a brandy with me, he walked to the
hospital, two miles away.
» * * •
The Lutheran missioners to the Centralian
blacks have a hard row to hoe. One brother,
down south now from Kopperamanna, says they
have 1000 square miles of country on the Cooper
and 100 blacks to look after. The stock, apart
from the natives, consists of 10,000 sheep, 1000
cattle and 500 horses. Year before last they lost
20,000 sheep through drought, and this year three-
fourths of the lambs died. The blacks are dying,
too—some of consumption, but more of another
wasting disease.
* * . » *
Editor Bulletin. “ Maroogaline ” (8.,
5/11/’9B) makes “ braxie ” mean the mutton of
sheep “dead from diseased liver,” but the term
really applies to flesh of sheep smothered in the
snow on the Scotch hills in winter and recovered
during spring thaws. Have often as a boy eaten
braxie, from which fact I presume that it was not
regarded as “ diseased.” —W.H.
* ♦ * *
Into old Gills’s pub. at Croajingalong
came recently three strangers and ordered three
long beers ; but, when the liquor was planked, a
friendly argument ensued as to who was to pay.
No. 1 wanted to, because he had asked the others
in ; No. 2 because No. 1 had shouted last; and
No. 3 just to settle the matter. Decided at last
that old Gills be blindfolded, and the first man he
touched was to pay. G. agreed ; and while one
man blindfolded him, the other two silently
mopped up their swankey, and then, remarking
that the bandage was not tied pro erly, went
over and fumbled with it till their pal had also
sunk his beer, whereupon the trio quietly
“ cleared.” The old man meandered all over the
place, bumping himself grievously in his efforts to
clutch some of them, till at last he collided with
the door-screen and nearly stove in his jaw.
When he pulled off the handkerchief and found
the strangers gone and the glasses empty, his
blasphemy could be heard for chains around. A
week afterwards, however. Gills sighted one of
the strangers and bailed him up, when the man
explained that the whole thing was a joke ; but, as
he hadn’t the 18d. on him just then, would Gills
come with him and get it fixed up ? Took Gills
accordingly to the local news-agent (a great tem-
perance advocate), left G. outside, went in and
spun yarn about having “man waiting to sign the
pledge.” The cold-tea man brought Gills in,
stranger saying he would wait outside ; and then
the temperance-apostle got out his pledge-book
“ Surely,” said Gills, “ you are not going to write
a blanky cheque for it?” “Why, your friend
told me you wished to sign the pledge.” Of course
when Gills rushed out his friend was gone. And
now the old man keeps a loaded gun in the bar in
case anyone should propose another game of blind-
man’s buff.
• * * »
The recently-expected meteoric showers
were quite a godsend to publicans, also to thirsty
sinners. “ Shtayed out to shoe shower o’ shtars,
my (hie) dear.” Apropos, roundaboutly, writer
was shearing at a Q. shed in the eighties, and it
was fashionable in our hut to get up some hours
before daylight to see a very brilliant comet just
then on view. On day, in the shed, a hard case
from Monaro was “ setting ” the ringer, a “ blanky
Pig-Islander.” The latter was too good with the
tongs, so, in order to keep up with him, Monaro
had to float high in the wool. Eventually he


25/6
/
N
42/-
The Fx. & R. Watch.
The movements are on the Lever principle.
Have Brequet Hair Springs. Are jewelled
in 10 holes. Have Jewelled Pallets and
Ruby Roller Jewels. Have Expansion
Balances.
The Cases Screw Together. . . .
They are therefore Dust-proof and Water-
tight. They are Stem-Winders. They are
guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for two years. They
go with profound accuracy. They stand
HARD RIDING and knocking about.
In SOLID SILVER CASES, 42/- each.
In OXYDISED METAL, 25/6 each.
FIIIFIH * ROBERTS,
25 Hunter Street (only),
SYDNEY.
Sydney Lager Bier
. * . TOOK . * .
FIRST PRIZE & GOLD MEDAL
. . AGAINST . .
ALL COMPETITORS
. ■ . AT . ' "
The Sydney. Royal Agricultural
Society’s Show.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
WHITE LABEL LAGER
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.
floated so far from the skin that the boss shot
hin. with a peremptory “Close your shears!
“What for?” asked the Monaro man. What
for ? ” answered the boss ; “ do you call those sheep
shorn?” “’Struth ! ” exclaimed the unabashed
hard case, “ I was on’y gettin’ up to see the blanky
comet! ” Discharge cancelled.
* * * *
Related that a flock of emus——apparently
dying of thirst —recently came right into a N.S. W.
country town. Interesting to know how the un-
lucky birds, were served. Were they hospitably
entertained, or were they knocked on the head as
a reward for their pathetic trustfulness?
A Melb. paper has a story of a local artist
who painted a landscape with a calf and an adult
bovine in the foreground, and called the picture
“ The Mother.” An expert rural critic dis-
covered that the adult bovine was a bullock, and
the artist was overwhelmed. But when the pic-
ture was once more made visible, Dauber was
happy again. He had re-christened it “The
Father!”
• • • *
At Shepparton (Vic.), in the early fifties,
the then few inhabitants (amongst them present
Melb. P.M. Panton) were aroused one night by a
loud bellowing, and next morning saw a round,
black head bobbing up in the river at intervals.
Presently, in getting over the punt-rope, the crea-
ture showed itself entirely, and was pronounced
by an old blackfellow to be the veritable bunyip.
As sketched by a young artist present, however,
it so strongly resembled a seal that there are
grounds for supposing that it really was a phoca,
which had mistaken its way at Adelaide, got into
the Murray, and become completely bushed. [Here
endeth the bunyip-question.j
* » * *
“ Alcheringa ” : Some Vic. western dis-
trict ancients aver that when the summer-fly
perches in myriads on the sides of the grass spears
rain is only a few hours off and will come from the
direction opposite to that on which the flies are
clinging. Have we really “ barometer flies,” and
who told them all about it ?
• * * .- »
“Tin-Lip”: More scrub-furkey. After
first part of nidification is complete, the mother
watches nest, containing the eggs, continually
scratching further leaves and brush and earth
over it till the time of hatching arrives. Then she
hovers around till she hears sounds indicating that
the young have broken through the shell, when
she scratch 1 s the way clear for them. Iguanas
being on the increase through the present-day
blackfellow not being so much dependent on hunt-
ing for food, the turkeys are on the decrease. The
iguana burrows into the nest for the eggs.
“ a.Jj.C.” : You
are right about the
Q. bottle-tree, from
which, when an in-
cision is made, ex-
udes a thick, starchy
substance which will
not allay thirst. I
have been over a lot
of Queensland, but
the bottle-tree, as a
thirst-quencher, is a
distinct fraud. There
is far more water in
the bulbous roots of
the kurajong.
* •
*‘ Mottie War-
ns ”: Man, having
subdued Nature in
the Big Scrub, is now
endeavoring to con-
quer the amenities,
as witness following
invitation written on
a dirty leaf of small
pocket-book:—
The Bachelors of
Oreekpesentstheir Con-
piemens to Miss to
request heir Compay at
socil darce to be given
in the Hal on
Sined Secreatay.
• *
“ Cameron”: Re
trees leaning toN.E.
Have recently inves-
tigated in scrub and
in thickly and thinly
ti m bered country,
but don’t find them
lean in any particu-
lar direction. San-
dalwood (sometimes
called “ dogwood ”)
gives a good indi-
cation of compass-
points by its bark,
which is generally
rougher on the W.
to S.W. side. One
tree won’t give cer-
tainty, but if you ex-
amine half-a-dozen
or so you need have no doubt.
* • * »
The other day 862 store bullocks were
trucked from Dubbo to Wodonga. That was all
that was left of 2600 head which left Morney
Plains, in the Gulf country, over two years ago.
The rest had dropped along the devious ways
which were taken in the perplexing quest for feed
and water. The cost of the trip is put at <£2ooo.
* * • •
This season’s dust-storms out in the Never-
Never, like every other season’s, about put up a
record. Latest stories, certified by the backbloek
journalist, who at this time of year is too tired
even to lie, are that during the fury of one gale at
midday all was so dark that the time could not be
told by a watch held in the hand of a person in a
house whose builder had guaranteed it dust-proof,
and that this condition lasted for five solid hours
with breaks of only a few minutes ; that at Mt.
Sturt, where the homestead was partly wrecked, a
lady could not see her terrified children, though
she held them about her knees ; and that near
Cobham the horses had to be taken out of the
coach, not only because the track could not be
seen, but because the coach was in imminent
danger of being overturned—the wheels actually
left the ground two or three times. At the
Broken Hill mines most work at the surface has
been suspended several shifts ; and for the greater
part of many days every telegraph line to the
town has been broken ; while special gangs have
been kept on the railway lines shovelling off sand
drifts in order to allow trains to get through.
* * * *
Significant Indian advt.: —
-ixr ANTED, an experienced BUTLER, for a bachelor.
* * Must he clean and active, and, if possible, honest.
No CHRISTIAN need apply. Wages Rs. 15. Ad-
dress .
It is well known to every intelligent visitor to
India (comments London Sketch), and to every-
one here outside of the “ flocks ’’ who subscribe to
missionary societies, that no one would care to
employ a converted native, his conversion being
generally only a subterfuge for cheating his master.
The “ heathen in his blindness ” is indifferently
honest, but the “ lamp of life ” only serves to light
him to theretofore undreamt-of rascalities.
* * * *
“N. 8.”: Out west, 25 years ago, when
there was little money circulating, a kangaroo
scalp was worth Is., and a wallaby’s 6d. Have
often seen a scalp-hunter paying for liquor with
scalps ; would call for a beer, plank a kangaroo
scalp, and the publican, out of a box, would give
him a wallaby’s ditto in change.
* * * *
“ A.A.G.” : A unique fish haunts that
part of Admiralty Bay, M.L., where steamers
from Picton slack down before going through the
French Pass, a narrow channel across which you
can throw the proverbial biscuit. This fish is
about lift, long and of a greyish color. People
call it the Wainui fish, a white porpoise, an
albino. Naturalist Hector has given it a deca-
syllabic Latin name. Its most striking peculiarity
is that it is “soft” on steamers. When it sees
one coming it “goes” for it, gambols round it,
caresses its bow, rubs itself against it from stem
to ’midships, first on the port side and then on the
starboard. Maoris call it a white taniwha,
straight. But if a pakeha, who is sane and has
seen it, may make a suggestion, I would throw
out the belief that it is a “killer” that suffers
from a parasitic disease. Old Bay of Islands
whalers tell of a narrow rocky gut where whales
used to come for the purpose of rubbing the bar-
nacles off their sides, and be killed in the opera-
tion by said ancient mariners.
Mrs. MAESMORE MORRIS.
Photo., The Alba Studios.
Queensland woolshed. Cornstalk (getting
out match-box) to shed in general: “ Now then,
you Victorians, rally round. Here’s a New South
Walesman going to strike a match ! ”
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c., &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
The steamer that conveys the “ evening
loam ” outside Cape Moreton is named Normanby.
To what base uses may a Marquis come !
THOS. SUFFIELD.
Photo., Kerry & Co.
The Bulletin had never seen Thomas
Suffield, or even his photograph, until he called at
its office the other day after his release. He
proves to be a rather good-looking, thickset fellow
of very Saxon appearance and of the naval-officer
type—you couldn’t pick him as a civilian out of
any group of navy-men with clipped beards. His
manner and appearance are certainly not those
usually ascribed to a brutal assailant of women.
And in case there is anybody still unacquained
with Suffield’s story, The Bulletin repeats that
he was convicted at Maitland, N.S.W., in 1891,
of an attempt to assault a woman named Ann
Chambers. The notorious Judge Windeyer
conducted the trial, and sentenced Suffield
to ten years’ penal servitude. His sen-
tence was shortened by good-conduct remis-
sions to about seven and a-half years, and he
was released last October, having several times
refused offers of earlier release made by N.S. VV.
Justice Dept, if he would sue for mercy. The
woman on whose sole and uncorroborated and self-
contradicted evidence Suffield was convicted swore
to one story at the police-court enquiry and to
another story at the trial. She at first gave her
employer and his family and the doctor to under-
stand that she had been attacked by a bull, and
only next day declared she had been assailed
by a man, and later still alleged that the
man was Suffield. There was no conclusive medi-
cal testimony that a man had ever been near her,
and in Suffield’s favor were his best of characters,
all the circumstantial evidence (including the fact
that he was absolutely unscratched, after having,
as the woman alleged, gone through a long and
desperate struggle with her), and an alibi sworn
by two persons. Yet Judge Windeyer acted as
prosecutor instead of Judge, frowned down the
defence, and secured a verdict in the teeth of the
evidence and the probabilities. Enquiry into the
case has hitherto been persistently refused. The
Bulletin’s pamphlet on this subject may be had
by post to any address for seven stamps.
Zola at latest advices was in London, pre-
paring an even bigger bombshell than ‘‘ J’Accuse! ”
(the “open letter ” which raised the whole storm).
Sirdar Kitchener is alleged to be aeon-
firmed woman-hater, and this without any known
“ history ”of “ blighted hopes.” Possibly a mere
case of professional absorption. Kitchener’s pro-
motion, very slow at first, has of late years
galloped in a way that could only mean “ one
man, one idea.”
“Black Maria ” broke down in Melb., the
other morning, and 21 prisoner passengers were
violently upset and shaken. “The exceptionally
large load evidently was responsible for the mis-
hap,” said the Argus, but it didn’t go on to re-
mark that the 21 victims of departmental reck-
lessness are entitled to sue for damages. Prisoners
charged with theft or “drunk and dis.” deserve
quite as careful treatment as a criminal under sen-
tence of death.
A few years ago the Aucklanders built
themselves a huge dock (the Calliope), and when
it was completed scarcely knew what to do with
it. Mr. J. H. Witheford, of the Harbor Board,
saw a future for the dock if the Admiralty could
be persuaded to use it as an auxiliary repairing-
station to Garden Island. He proceeded to
London and did persuade the Admiralty. The
scheme is of much value to Australia. That
eminent military expert, Gov. Jervois, regarded
Maoriland as an advance shield over Australia—
it would probably bear the brunt of a descent on
these regions, and with its coal and other re-
sources in the hands of an enemy it would become
a formidable menace to us. Up to now this out-
post has been without means to repair any of the
local squadron damaged in repelling an invader.
If such a contingency arose, the injured vessel, if
she were able, would have to make for Sydney to
repair. Mr. Witheford has been instrumental in
remedying this, and the Admiralty has de-
cided to suitably equip the dock with repairing
machinery.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany
Mac. : It is about 40 to 1, judging from bis
face, that Hooley is of Jewish orisrin. Not purely Jewish
origin, mind you, or he’d have handled his figures better.
Buzzy : New items of general Australian interest are
welcome when deftly treated. Some of yours are British
chestnuts The Yid : An old story—“ I could tell you,
sir, that I wanted 6d. for food, hut I don’t, sir—l am
dying for a drink.”.. A.P.: Not good enough for illustra-
tion Anxious Inquirer : You are obviously a horrid
republican or some other kind of disloyalist, or dis-
grovelist I.R.F. : Haven’t time to go hack to “the
first dawn of the historic period and probably ages before
it.” Besides, it isn’t safe to go back into those old dry
ages unless you carry your own beer along with you
The Rip: Too steep —absolutely precipitous. W.L.
(Wellington): We hate the long, easy metre that dances
along with a cheerful, self-satisfied tumty-tuni, and the
small easy rhyme at the end of each “turn.” J.T.U. :
A whole page of fcap. to explain that it wasn’t a
snake in the bed but a cat .. . Oatniro : Springless poem
bumping horribly over the hush-track of a wasted fife—
Felix Hopper: Nicely written, but wants something
brighter and newer in the way of plot .. Belina : Sorry,
but “ Whirligig of Time ” isn’t good enough to whirl on
these premises Stroller : Will print Mech. S
Marion M. : Mush. .... Jep: Not bright enough
Eoro : When you kiss you should not tell. And when you
see another fellow kissing you shouldn’t tell, either
G.S.S. : Can’t quote a case. It was presumed by most
people that defendant having been allowed bail, he would
be fined, and not imprisoned A.O.C. : Some people
like to hedge and otherwise traffic in their consultation
tickets; others prefer sweeps drawn on day-of-race.
Tattersall can now cater for both classes, and neither has
any right to growl at the other being accommodated
Tassy : Will print Riding W. P.A. : A man is just as
eager to lie about his losses at racing as he is to boast of
his winnings. The man who wins or loses heavily
generally says very little about it J. Sloper : The
plesiosaurus might have laughed at it B.C. 159,873
Frying Pan : She might have kissed you for yourself; but
if she had any literary taste she didn’t kiss you for the
verses Helen B. : Very feeble flutter J.J.B. :As
uninspired as Brunker V.K. : “Experience” du11...
A.G.A. : Puppets aren’t alive M.M. : You bored us,
but the mischief ends there D.E. : Worthle-s
Dreamer Any show of me startling the world ? ” Yes
Buckley’s W.D.W. : One world at a time, please
Martin W. : No visible capacity' .... Imray: Some vigor
and ingenuity: want balance and restraint Oarini :
Perhaps one. Red Heart: You don’t beat strong
enough. Prospect G.: “Comparison,” will consider.
“ Assortment," too thin A.G.W. : Merit barely visible
to naked eye Jack S. : “Woman’s Reason,” flat as
a oancake DoraS. : “Jottings,” too faint a touch
Milky W. : “ Crosses ” may do. Other unequal, and endi
feebly Marie S.: “Loyal,” not point enough .... A.D.
“Life"—just what it lacks! Gulgai: Mildly pretty.
Quiro: Not worth while. That “religious” paper’s
animadversions mostly' due to what C. Gavan Duffy' called
“the black bile of personal malignity.” Wallaroo:
Dog-and-collar yarn antique. Other, clumsy invention.
L.L. :To hand. “Sovereign Remedy” idea already
used. ...Bushy: Will do what we can—on your merits.
...The Broker: No use for inferior fish-per-
juries. T.H.T. : Kumi gone the rounds already.
F.K. : Xmas No. completed ; but will consider. “ Fare-
well” somewhat weak and conventional Louis M. :
“ Surmised,” no ; “ Explained,” yes. Others to hand
6xB: If you don’t leave more line-space can’t pretend even
to read J.D.: Bunyip extremely dead F.T.A. :
Well, why shouldn’t literature have its light-armed
cruisers as well as its ponderous battle-ships? Vow
ordnance is obsolete, anyway E.C. : Hardly well
enough handled Alcha : Well-conceived and graceful,
but over-slight for “ B." Marietta : Ferocious as a
bull-mouse ! Laurence W.: Correct either way,
but “da fe” (Portuguese form) was the first used
in English . Max: Applied to the Devil, and
also to Herodotus —many of whose “ lies,” by-the-
way, have turned out to be cast-iron_ facts
A.O.S. : Empress - assassins generally don’t kill gaol-
warders... R.W.B. : Not enough in it Ewa: “Over-
board ” yarn is Marry at spoilt J.D.: Not worth
while Javseebee : Verse not up. Pars usable ; but
why append a silly invention to intertsting matter-of-
fact? George: “Well, lam a liar!” Quite so !
Jo Keith : Sorry not skill enough. Also, don’t care for
sex-stories, as such. Much promise, though Ovalau :
Material good, but not effectively used Perth: What
are vou giving us? Wootwell is a good dancer, a cheerful
humorist, and sufficiently musical to fix up some of his
own songs. Coleman has been successful in comic opera,
and Chirgwin is a clever instrumentalist, with a valuable
falsetto voice. Everv variety-performer of note can do
something to justify h'is or her success. The puhlic is not
quite stupid B' :No theatrical-manager could afford
to run the weather-risks attendant on open-air shows.
And where is there a suitable and beautiful pitch at a
manager s disposal ? Alfresco Shakespeare is a fad for the
wealthy few to indulge in. ... Min : The “Your children
—my children—and our children” yarn is very old. Those
kids must be bald and grey by now “Arty” : The
antics of a few female nobodies are not made important
by the fact that they ride bicycles. “ A young lady from
a'fashionable suburb filled to overflowing a flesh-colored,
comprehensive costume.” Ye gods! Did she overflow
much? .... D.B.G. : Spoilt by the exaggeration. A yarn
of that sort needs to be either made of curious facts or of
humorous lies, which are obviously lies, and intended to
deceive nobody Milky White : WiF print “ Rain-
crosses.” Supercargo: Story built on very old joke.
In the early days of Scotland two ancient Piets, Donal’
and Duncan, being full of liquor, forgot to pull up the
stone anchor before starting, and rowed their coracle all
night without getting anywhere, and the way they
cursed in ancient Piet in the morning was awful.
... Tassy: Roughly speaking, 12 noon at Sydney is
half-past one, afternoon, at Wellington (M.L.). .... Fancy
Free : Gets too free at the end—quite loose, in fact.
J.P.O.R. : Thanks F.H. : Explanation : The ladies
are sisters, and were married to brothers, both of whom
are dead ; a third brother is managing the business on
their behalf Blunderbuss (Tas.): Not in printable
form A.P. : According to Bulletin name superstition,
the girl who spells her name “ Edyth,” “ Alyce,” “ Yda,’
or “ Brydget ” is doomed to mediocrity, being on a level
with the Smythes, De Laneys, and O’Breeons. Sub-editor
had an idea of spelling his front name “ Jym,” but gave
it up 8.E.: Too late for this Xmas Yarrum :
Unprintable, but hair-raising The Hatter: Rather
ordin <ry nigger murder J. Munro : The Bulletin has
not been at all “ rough" on the theatre you mention, so
you needn't lose sleep over it. Also, the gentleman in
question isn’t an Australian actor ; moreover, this paper
was the first to persistently draw attention to his
abilities Bea : Small half-fraction of nothing John
C. : Rather dull romance about literary gent, who
couldn’t pay his board. And the big cheque which
always comes after the gent, has died with a smile on his
wasted face is stereotyped Dick :If Vic. Govt, fixes a
minimum and maximum rate of pay for each railway
billet, it must let somebody decide, within these limits,
what the pay of the present holder of the billet shall be.
Parliament can’t know the value of each individual em-
ployA And if the decision isn’t left with the Commis-
sioner, whom do you propose leaving it with ’


The Solicitor-General: ‘-The Council, it neemetC was in favor of the Bill,
Trat desired to impose restrictions. House had abandoned two proposals brought
forward to amend the Bfll. 'and now the matter of proportional representation was
sought to be imposed Even if the system of proportional representation were per-
fect, was it opportune to-iuehide it in this Bill and to dictate to the Assembly the
terms under which the Bill would be passed 1 His colleagues in another place were
against this amendment, and would advise their supporters to vote against it."
Sir Henry Wrixon replied to some of the objections raised by the Solicitor-
General, and pointed out that all through he had been actuated by a desire to see the
One-man-one-vote made an accomplished principle of legislation ; but, at the same
time, he reminded ht>n. members that, without some such scheme as that put forward
in his amendments, the One-man-one- vote would mean the permanent disfranchise-
ment of a large number of voters. All that he desired was the adoption of some
method that would give to each vote its effective value. They did not wish to dictate
to the Assembly. The other House could alter the proposal in any way ; it was only
the principle they desired to see affirmed not with the view of repealing the Bill,
but of accepting it. it .
THE WRIXON “COMPROMISE.”
WRIXON (to Premier Turner) : “ The noble animal, you observe, is waiting to receive the bolus from your hands.”


P/y ayQ/a 7/xz/zZy <pP
\ (feo. 7k/d Jv£/>kfoJ Sas-f
\ /fy jj
1 . /ft *tyuircS jfig
_ U//roo« fit) K Bm
a /' y fayfc
/; v S! y Pff ee /c o |ra|
\ dLoct Pa.fr ImlOx
\ y c/ttfr«.J. liK
l”’-'^^
2ro/ /fc °^
‘c.//,, C^-c.ry.C.C*.
a J -
/ f>/
< y w**
* y *
' /
1
Wol s £>arto(
7o /jt
0 /S a a
\ h^ r /o d a JP
ir'*J J
//\, nj ,
*1 V j
\ % y/\
v f v/
■% * & <*
>&>:/-
AJv v
} c l Cf p
' ,„fa cl Arstylt><.
d\d jj* 1 ’ ■f° r fj'j)’ iy
Vc>l~(> S' To c 5 \^
I \ r
IHc.i,;n s <,i k*. l||
duty hffick
at"' / J f> e'-'f d . 'X r J°
i y )' o sP^>.
Yft (*ref»arc<J Yo <Li> °JX) ,I }%
X
f;, f %
S( «r/
■'s,
<j> f£. ( ykPy g //p^c(<o c( o
<?TC!j>r M f'syfc %° -f 1
A WOBBLING POLICY.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
\Vhat has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market. *
A. Saunders.
8 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Br ooeh, 20*
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s fld.
A. Saunders.
150. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
£3 6s ; 6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, 6 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
£4 4s, very strong.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold brooch. Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
16c. Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2 15s.
New Style, Love Rird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
SBWfH
11.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
A. Saunders.
8 Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 10s 6d.
A- Sxuiiders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
'
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A, Saunders.
Ladies’ Long Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires ov
Kubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send tor
illustrations.
Send for Price List.
18e. Solid Gold Diamond,
2 Rubies and Sapphires,
£2 ; 15c. Gold, 20s & 30s.
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 30s; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 108.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamond, £5 ss; Larger,
£6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
9c. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s Gd and 3s.
A, Saunders.
New Design Gold-mounted Boar’s Tusk, Chain,
and Bell, 15s 6d; without Bell and Chain, 12s 6d.
Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold ~ „ 455.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s ; 15e., £2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
15c. Gold, las ; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
u . A * Saunders.
Solid 1 Gold R ‘ n *? n and Keepers, 9c.
16s ; extra' h 6 ea“:l 8 68 M isc o e oW ?°l d ’
heavy, 30s, 355, 40a. Send = 6Xtra
A. Saunders.
New Name Bracelet, 255. Any Name or Initials Free.
e&
20s.
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper ; strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, i 5, £6, £7, £B. 2,3, 4,6, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
A. Saunders’
15c. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Heart Brooch, £4 4s ; Rubies
and Diamonds, £3 ss.
r«
Of 5
15c. Gold, Pure White Pearls £8 Ss.
A beautiful, choice brooch.
Gold Bird and 2 Heart Amethyst, 15s.
t
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
f<, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
*B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call ana
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 G-eorge-street, Sydney
“Blue” Law.
The “blue law ” question will apparently be dis-
cussed in the near future as vigorously in Aus-
tralia as it has been in the States. There, a
“blue law” is one which, while in full vigor in
the statute-book, receives the cut direct from all
administrators of the law in actual life. The
principal samples there are laws connected with
licensing and prohibition in States, or parts of
States, where public opinion, though weak enough
to allow such laws to be passed, is strong enough
to successfully defy them. The coal-weighing
law has been up to date a “ blue ” law in N.S. W.,
and, if all the rumors one hears are true, intends
to continue wearing its azure robes.
» * • •
There are, of course, “blue laws” and “blue
laws.” Some can’t help themselves, their blue-
ness being the inevitable senile dementia that is
the fate of all things mundane. In this class may
be included the vast host of laws transported with
the early inhabitants to N.S. W., and confirmed by
an Act of George IV. Very many of them have
become, in the course of time, utterly unsuited to
their new surroundings, and are, as a rule, ignored
altogether, except when, as in the case of the Sun-
day Act, or the sorcery law, someone powerful
enough has an ecclesiastical axe to grind. The
bulk of them are marked “obsolete” in the
dictionary of law, and their bluemouldiness does
little harm. They only serve the useful pur-
pose of being a perpetual and powerful argument
for a regular codification of at least the statute
law of the country. With a code they and their
power for evil would disappear. But the other
class of “ blue law ” is a very different kind of cen-
tipede. No self-respecting Government can toler-
ate for long the existence of laws which are
not obeyed. This kind of “ blue law ”is a defiance
of Government, an insult to Democracy. It indi-
cates the existence of a class in the community
more powerful than the Government, and is thus
the symptom of a dry-rot which, in time, will in-
volve both Government and community. It is
somewhat singular that an English law directed
against “time-bargains” on the Stock Exchange
has been successfully defied for a number of years
by, perhaps, the most powerful class of men in
England, the stock-brokers. And it can hardly be
surprising that the coal-barons of Australia should
make similar attempts to prove their superiority to
an Australian Government. Whether they should
be allowed to succeed is, of course, another ques-
tion. Whatever may be said of obsolete laws,
there can be no question that, in a community
ruled under the principles contained in the Bill of
Rights, there should be no “ blue laws ” of the
coal-weighing type. A live Act should either be
enforced or repealed.
• » • •
It may not be amiss to remind those concerned
that there is an unrepealed principle of the British
Constitution in full force in this country, namely,
that no one, not even the Sovereign, has the right
or the power to suspend the operation of an Act of
Parliament; and, further, that the remedy of im-
peachment is open against Ministers guilty of
winking at the suspension of laws which they have
sworn to enforce.
Two Shots for the Prosecution.
“ Lex,” to The Bulletin
The point which has arisen in Victoria over the con-
viction of an accused person for perjured evidence
given at a previous trial for another offence on
which he was acquitted is most important. In the
old state of the law, when accused could not give evi-
dence on oath, such a state of things was impossible.
That, under the new law, such prosecutions for perjury
are possible after acquittal is, to say the least of it,
dangerous. In the present case, the accused was
charged with an offence at Carrurn. Evidence was
given by some witnesses tending to prove an alibi, and
accused on oath said that be was not at Carrurn at the
tune the offence was committed. The jury disagreed. A
second trial look place, exactly the same evidence was
given, and he was acquitted. Then the Crown proceeded
against him for perjury for saying he was not at Carrurn,
and he was convicted. In the first place, the possibility
of this sort of thing must tend to make the exercise of
the right to give evidence on his own behalf either a
dangerous one or a useless one to an accused. If he
asserts the right, then whether pronounced innocent or
guilty he may find himself up for perjury ; if he doesn’t
assert the right, most jurymen will assume that he is
afraid on account of his knowledge of his guilt. In
the second place, such a prosecution is really, though
perhaps not technically, a breach of the admirable
and ancient British legal rule that a man shall not be
prosecuted twice for the same offence or on the same
evidence when he has once been found innocent. This
rule serves the double purpose of preventing harassing
persecution, and of providing for finality in criminal pro-
ceedings ; and the introduction of accused’s right to give
evidence was certainly never intended to either directly
or indirectly abrogate this rule. And, finally, such a
prosecution really puts in the hands of the Crown in
every case in which accused gives evidence, and in which
there is an acquittal, a method of appeal from the decision
of the jury, which is denied the accused if he should be
convicted. It is monstrous that one may appeal to the
highest courts in trivial questions of property, and that
appeal should be denied, except on law points, in cases
involving liberty and even life. But it is still more mon-
strous that not only shall a prisoner be denied right of
appeal, but that the Crown should be given the right of
appeal if prisoner should be found innocent. A prosecu-
tion for perjury after an acquittal really amounts to an
appeal from one jury to another jury. Mr. Justice Wills,
m a recent address to an English grand-jury, said plainly
that such a prosecution was a breach of the doctrine of
autrefois acquit. I can only hope that Vic. Full' Court
will, when the point conies before it, take the same view
and preserve acquitted prisoners from the dangers which
any other decision will ensure for them at the hands of
perhaps chagrined policemen and detectives, the instiga-
tion of private enemies, or the relentlessness, or worse,
of Crown Law authorities.
More About the Betting Evil.
The Vic. Totalisator Bill being practically lost
for the present, Murray, M.L. A., has invited
the Assembly to appoint a Royal Commission
to take evidence concerning the “ social, moral,
and economic effect of horse-racing on the com-
munity, and to recommend what, in its opinion,
are the best legislative steps to be taken,” if
.State interference seems advisable. Sancti-
monious opponents of a legalised gambling
machine cannot raise objections to this proposal,
seeing that the term “ betting evil ” is con-
stantly on their lips. A Royal Commission
with the avowed object of diminishing the evil
must command the Church Party’s earnest
support, unless the Church Party has pinned
its faith to Ikey Mo, and is prepared to resist
any attempt to injure his betting business.
The question, then, for consideration is—what
witnesses should be called by this Board of
Moral Health ? Horse-owners, bookmakers, or
any other habitual “patrons of the turf” are
not the right people to consult in this matter.
They find no fault with the effect of
horse-racing on the community in general.
They are the sharps at the game, and the wel-
fare of the flats is not their concern. They
don’t ask for a measure of protection against
their own natural gambling tendencies, which is
exactly what the general community wishes to
obtain, somehow. Horse-racingseemsinevitable,
betting seems inevitable ; and any arrangement
whereby the craving for betting can be
satisfied with the least possible harm to the
young and foolish is a consummation devoutly
to be wished. We may safely say that every
man at 35 is a doctor or a hopeless fool as re-
gards the betting ailment. He cures himself if
he be not incurable. But for the perennial
army of boys and young men a partial delivery
from temptation is needed. An honestly-con-
ducted commission of enquiry into the betting
evil is bound to find it rooted in the book-
maker, therefore, unless the pietist who prays
to be led not into temptation on his own account
is utterly unconcerned about the temptations
of his “ deah young friends ” he will hence-
forth and for ever cease to work in the interests
of Ikey Mo against the totalisator. The tote
is the only present substitute for the human
bookmaker. It doesn’t wipe him out alto-
gether, but it abolishes him for general public
purposes. He ceases to exist in tobacco shops,
and at street corners. He is the temptation
which melts into air under the comparatively
benignant rays of the tote. It is argued that
the machine creates a taste for betting in
women and boys who didn’t deal with book-
makers. The absurdity of this parsouic fiction
is obvious. Boys cannot bet directly with the
machine, whereas the smallest urchin can
hand his coin to Ikey Mo. All women at
the races find a means of gambling if they
want to gamble. The tote doesn’t attract a
larger number of women or men to the course.
It merely takes the place of the bookmaker on
the course, and pays back to the general public
after each race a larger amount than the book-
maker paid, and exterminates the small town
betting man who was an accursed evil.
The population of Victoria increased 3219
for the quarter ended 30th Sept., ’9B. This makes
it one of the four best quarters Victoria has ex-
perienced since ’9l.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4 2/C
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other’colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. On]y
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney!*
Arthur Snowden, the onetime Mayor of
Melbourne who was howled down bv a public
meeting in his own Town Hall, popped up lately
as the Restless Spirit of Vic. Leg. Council.
Snowden is tired of rejecting progressive
measures, he says. It is time that the Assembly
ceased to send ’em along. The People are now
enjoying all the good they are entitled to, and
more, and the Assembly’s habit of directing new
legislation against Property is most unfair. To
put a stop to further scandals of this kind the
Council must, in its turn, become aggressive.
Snowden raised the aggression cry a fortnight
back, and last week he was at it again. The
Assembly has had a monopoly of aggression, and
Snowden will not sit quiet any longer. He’pro-
poses to retaliate presently in some vague and
awful manner. Meanwhile he mourns the fact
that the Council didn’t take a “ firm stand ” on
the Dual-Vote question, instead of condescending
to fool the country with Wrixon’s proportional-
voting amendment. —
Old Snowden rose and beat the air
And sang with animation :
“ I can't abide, I can’t abear
Progressive legislation.
My tall silk hat and thick frock coat
Are outward signs which do denote
That I regard One Man One Vote
With utter detestation,
Nothing more, nothing less,
D-e d-e, t-e-s-
t-a-t-a, testation.
“My Tory soul is full of fight,
And stern is m3' expression ;
I will maintain that Black is White
Both in and out of session.
Though hitherto our common sense
Has been restricted to defence,
Now, on behalf of Providence,
We ought to try aggression.
Bless the Queen and British Flag 1
Check the ‘ pro ' and make it ‘ ag’-
a-g, a-g, aggression.
The Lower House, ’tis very plain,
Is full of agitators
Who have ignoble ends to gain—
A lot of cursfed traitors.
'Tis not enough to say them ‘ Nay,’
And thwart their plots from day to day—
No, we must rush into the fray
And fight like legislators.
Hip-hooray ! legisla-
s-l-a-y slay tors.”


\
\
*v
&
bekhs
Bttx.
•o
WEAK
WEARY
WORN-
OUT
WOMEN
\
ft\V£
life
■* Al*
BILE BEANS AGAIN VICTORIOUS.
AN ADELAIDE LADY SPEAKS IN HIGH PRAISE OF THEM.
CURED OF LOSS OF APPETITE AND IRRITABILITY.
Mrs. Margaret Nelson, who lives in Phillip Street, Wolseley (near the Croydon Rail way Station),
Adelaide, is one of the latest beneficiaries through the curative properties of Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness. Hearing of the cure, a reporter from the Adelaide Advertiser went to Croydon on 1* riday
afternoon to inquire personally into the case. Mrs. Nelson at once expressed perfect willingness to tell
her story of suffering, which continued for thirteen long and
weary years, until arrested by the use of only three boxes of
the boon to thousands in Australia —Bile Beans.
“Tell me,” said the reporter, “ the facts connected with
your illness.”
“ Certainly,” said Mrs. Nelson, ‘ I will do so with
pleasure. Bile Beans have wrought a wonderful change in me.
Thirteen years ago 1 took ill with biliousness and indigestion.
I had pains in the head, a bad taste in the mouth ; a sickly
feeling would come over me, and if I did not pick my food I
would suffer great pain after eating. The doctors prescribed
all sorts of physic, but it did me no good.”
“ When did you first hear of Bile Beans ? ”
“About ten weeks ago. Although at first, like many
others, sceptical, I decided to give them a trial.”
“And with what result!’ . -
“ Well, look at me. I look healthy enough, don 11 ? And
I assure you 1 never felt better in my life than Ido now. My
husband knows how ill I was before I took Bile Beans.’
Mr. Nelson, who was listening to his wife’s^ narrative,
humorously assured the reporter that he “ just did.”
“ My temper,” continued Mrs. Nelson, “ was shorthand I
worried a great deal over trifles, and was also very irritable.
You know,” she said confidentially to the interviewer, that
the ordinary housewife has a lot to worry her, and when her
health is bad it does not make matters any the better.’
“ Bile Beans have been a blessing to you, then ? . T „ wJfh
“ Aye, that they have, and I shall always sing their praises. I now go about my
spirit. I never knew during my long illness what it was to be without pain, but during: the' J 6 ®
weeks I have been a new woman. The doctors told me that I would never be cured andnaturallyl
believed them. My appetite used to be wretched before I commenced using the Beans, but now I can
eat almost anything with relish, and do not dread to take my food. . tt
Mrs.Nels y on has resided in the Croydon district for 12 years, and » W widely known. Her
testimony was given with perfect candor and spontaneity, and her marvellous cure is y yp
case of the merits of Bile Beans.
!
vse&
KS
INDIGESTION.
The miseries of indigestion are confined to no age, sex, or condition of life ; and the reason people
who indulge in high living suffer more than others is too obvious to need an exp anation. The
symptoms f)f indigestion are a heavy feeling in the region of the stomach, a tight feeling across t
chest lesneciallv after eat in") pains in back and side, more or less constipation, loss of appetite, and
sleeplessness. These various’symptoms may all be felt in greater oi’
one or more of them signifies by no means a less serious attack of mdig .1 o . • ‘ j. u lar
common ailment are mainly over-indulgence, such as over-work, over-eating, over-dnnkin , or irregular
my kind. Tee cure lies in making the digestive organ, perl.™ the extra.work thus
before them, and putting them in a condition to do their work thoroughly and quickly. Ibi.E tfEAixs
flush out the whole digestive works, and give them a thorough “ cleaning and cling ; they aso
furnish a sufficiency of bile for all purposes, and, acting on the liver, cause that organ to move with
great exactitude, and thus regulate the whole course of digestion.
CONSTIPATION.
Everyone suffers at some time or other from this most distressing and rather dangerous ailment
It is an irregular and weak action of the bowels, and in extreme cases the applied
weeks. In a case of this sort the complaint is very dangerous and a proper remedy be
immediately Women suffer more from it than men, and the frequent headaches suffered by this sex
™Syalways“their origin ,o constipation It is caused in most , esses by careW.nv.. and
neglect, but in some cases it is brought about by a disordered condition pftbe liver It is,
less a fact that when regularity of habit is practised, constipation is seldom found. Ibe eliects ol
constipation on the system are many and varied, among the most common of which
piles, sick-headaches, debility, sour stomach, humors and intermittent fevers n'/of Bile
main thing to be observed in cases of constipation, and, m conjunction with la .short *
Beans, will prove very effective. The early morning immediately afterbreakfastisthebesttime
make a trial, which, if unsuccessful, should nevertheless be persevered in the next da>, and so on,
until the case is cured.
BILE BEANS
»re an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation,
PUes Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath Pimples, Bio ches. Doziness
all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Influenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation,.Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone Heartburn, and that Tired I eeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Storekeepers generally ; Australian Depot of the
Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney; Victorian Branch, Flinders_street, Melbourne ,
S.A. Branch, King William-street, Adelaide; W.A. Branch, Murray-street, Perth, Queensland
branch, Charlotte-street, Brisbane.
i I iiLVZT"
1 s
J* -iy
BLESS
BILE
BEANS
for
Biliousness
K
ft


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea ;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TEA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather” Blend.
JAMES mOKLIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE;
Agents for “White Heather’’ Whisky,
Qvanunia and Fodah Porridge Meals.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY •'# CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uvtioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held, at the Auction Jtoonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sals’,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltek Bkadley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
An estimate gives 83 per cent, of candidates
for seats in next Q. Parliament as editors, owners,
or mortgagees of newspapers.
In Yic. Assembly. Staughton, M.P. :
“Dead men sometimes vote.” Hancock, “Yes,
I cannot imagine any other kind voting for you.”
N.S. Wales Executive is going to hang
(on Dec. 13) Wong Ming, the Chinaman, sen-
tenced at Dubbo for slaying another Chinaman.
By the way, it is always safe in Australia to hang
a Chinaman.
S.A. Opposition has, by hard stonewalling,
practically scotched Kingston’s State fire-insur-
ance Bill and other leading items of his policy for
this session. But State fire-insurance, and life-
insurance, will come for all that.
At latest advices the protests of the various
Australian Governments against the stupendous
Papuan land-steal haven’t even evoked an answer
from Chamberlain, of Birmingham where
the bogus jewellery and the gas-pipe guns
come from.
Premierßeid’s sliding probate-tax, running
from 1 per cent, to 10 per cent., concurrent with
an ungraduated land and ungraduated income-tax,
is as good an illustration as any country can give
of quack as distinguished from scientific political
economy.
“ Sugar ” Perry, Opposition whip in N.S.
Wales Assembly, who voted with the Reid Govt,
on last censure-motion, affords the first instance
in any responsible Parliament in the British empire
of an Opposition or Govt, whip voting with the
opposite party on a censure-motion.
Kingston’s Law Reform Bill, despite per-
sistent Tory obstruction, passed its third reading
in S.A. Assembly by 27 to 13. The measure is
one of the few now before the Upper House with
any chance of adoption, as several members on
the Tory side have unexpectedly decided to vote
for it.
The Reid Government has again nominated
alleged Oppositionist “ Tom ” Ewing for the
Works Committee, and he has voted for it on
every division since. As Ewing has deserted the
Opposition it will try to knock him out of said
committee, and is running W. H. B. Pidding-
con, a Bartonian who stuck to his leader through-
out.
The idea of seizing upon Hyde Park,
Sydney, for a new central railway station has
been abandoned by the Reid Government, which
is one large sample of wisdom to the Reid Govern-
ment’s credit, anyhow. But the announcement
that the Ministry is “making inquiries” about
some other site looks as if. any definite move was
still a long way off.
The “disastrous effects
of Protection.” Bradstreets
recently collected statistics of
the U.S. tin-plate industry.
Up till about '9l Great Britain
held practically a monopoly
of tin-plate supply to the
U.S., which took annually
about 700,000,0001 b. none
being made locally. As soon
as the protective duty of a
little over 2 cents a lb. be-
came law, the Yankee began
to manufacture it for him-
self, turning out about
14,000,0001 b. the first year—
’92. Since then there has been
a steady increase in the local
output of about 50 per cent,
per annum, bringing the pre-
sent year’s production to
640,000,0001 b., and every year,
as Uncle Sam .makes more
himself, he buys less from
Britain, whose sales to him
now are hardly worth men-
tioning. So, by the institu-
tion of a protective duty, the
U.S. has found employment
for its own men working up
its own iron and tin ; has kept
a vast sum annually in its
own country ; and on top of
all has brought the price to
the consumer down 37 per
cent. The “ disastrous effects
of Protection on a country ”
are obvious—the other fel-
low’s country.
Westralia—which owns
in its south-west portion some
of the most fertile and most
regularly watered land in this
continent—is proud to report
that it had 133,000 acres un-
der crop in ’9B as compared
with 111,000 in ’97, an<l 98,000
in ’96. It is a notable im-
provement—for Westralia—
and is mainly owing to the
fact that the t’othersider, who
isn’t quite so aggressively
dead as the sandgroping agri-
culturist, has begun to go on the land. S.W.
Westralia, with its natural advantages, should
be a great agricultural country, when its weary
population rises from the grave and gets to work.
Sugar-members Ewing and M‘Pariane con-
veniently “ratted” to the N.S.W. Ministerial
fold on the eve of the last vote of censure. The
very next week, by a queer coincidence, sugar-
members Ewing and M‘Farlane were both Minis-
terially nominated to the Parliamentary Public
Works Committee. Are the sugar-constituencies
entitled to 50 per cent, of the Assembly’s share of
that committee ?
Freetraders in N.S.W. Assembly, seeking
to justify the tea-tax, found themselves in a hole
over the other proposed duties. Storey, M.L. A.,
said that the tea-tax would receive his support
because, he argued, it would raise the standard of
tea ; but he was altogether against the rice-duty.
“ But, ’’ objected Crick, “ why wouldn’t it get us
better rice ? ” “ Because it wouldn’t,” was Storey’s
best answer, and he gave it.
Among the measures left unfinished at the
end of the Maoriland session were the State acci-
dent insurance scheme, the compulsory eight
hours, the measure providing for a second ballot
where no candidate has received a majority of the
votes polled, and the municipal one-man-one-vote
idea. Still, the Old Age Pension law was passed
despite tremendous opposition, and that is a
good session’s work in itself.
When Premier Reid was laboriously ex-
plaining away the failure of the Jolly-and-Fat
as shown by his Budget, his supporters, who
could not believe their ears, kept interjecting all
through the speech. One of them interrupted his
peroration with: “Why are the duties neces-
sary ? ” Whereupon the enraged Premier, turn-
ing right round and facing his followers, de-
mand : “Am I addressing a timber-yard! ” The
rest was silence.
Melbourne Corporation is struggling hard
to get a Bill through Parliament this session
authorising it to raise .£250,000 and therewith
buy up the local electric-lighting companies and
illuminate the city “on its own.” The gas-ring,
and the Tory party which objects to municipal
Socialism because such things disturb it in its
sleep, will make a hard fight, however, and old
Dunky Gillies will say that the proposal is “too
thin,” so the chances of success this year are not
brilliant.
The recent victory of the Tory candidate
at Tuapeka (M.L.), whereby Seddon’s majority
was reduced to nine, was a very limited success
after all. The new Tory member was returned by
1118 votes, while the four Govt, supporters who
split the Democratic vote and wrecked the show
mustered 1658. The Absolute Majority Bill, pro-
viding for a second ballot in such cases, unfor-
tunately went overboard among the unfinished
business at the end of the session, but it will pro-
bably be revived next year.
The N.S.W. soap and candle industry is
starting a demand that it shall be included in
Premier Reid’s new protective tariff. Since the
duties began to be taken off N.S.W. soap and
candle factories have diminished from 50t040 ; pro-
duct of soap has declined from 299,000 to 187,000
cwt. per annum; product of candles from 4 632,000
lb. to 2,632,0001 b. ; number of employees from 476
to 310 ; wages have gone down 10 percent., and the
public pays the same for its soap and candles as
before. And the drop in the trade is even bigger
than it looks, for in the protective days a soap or
candle factory as reckoned in the official statistics
was a place employing 5 or more hands—all
smaller establishments were left out. Now places
employing 4 or more hands are included and their
product is reckoned in the total.
WHAT ARE WE TO DO?
“It is feared that the bubonic plague will be introduced here
through rats.” —DAILY PAPER.
For ten solid years Gippsland (Vic.) pro-
vince allowed Charles Sargeant and his three col-
leagues to stroll back to the House of Rich Land-
lords unopposed. Now, Sargeant has gone broke
and become a poor landlord and lost his seat, and,
as two candidates have arisen (God knows where
they got the second one), there is actually going
to be an election. But the machinery has got
rusty. The big constituency has quite forgotten
how to elect anybody, and a wail comes from
Yackandandah that the inhabitants can’t even re-
member where the regular polling-places are.
What a beautiful commentary on the alleged re-
presentative character of the 48 Earth-stealers !
The N.S.W. Labor-party is a sugar-party,
but not a tea-party.
POETRY.
NEW NURSE (with rather rough complexion):
“ What pretty dimples you have got, my
dear!"
TERRIBLE INFANT : “Yes, and what ugly pimples
you’ve got- and that's poetry.”
“Increases are provided for every civil
servant down to telegraph boys.” —Premier Reid,
in Assembly, 23 Nov. Yet on the printed esti-
mates there is hardly a single increase anywhere.
A lump sum of £15,000, however, is allowed,
which may or may not be spent. If it is spent it
has to be spread over the salaries of nearly 16,000
public servants, so if every one gets an increase
it will be about 4d. a week all round. What a
magnificent gift of inaccuracy is possessed by the
pachydermatous Premier Reid!
When Premier Reid retired Saul Samuel
from the Agency-General over a year ago he pub-
licly stated that the only allowance the Govt, had
granted the aged official was a full year’s salary
under the cover of twelve months’ leave of
absence. On the Estimates for ’9B-’99, to be dis-
cussed shortly in Parliament, .£2365 is set down
as a gratuity to the ex-Agent General, on the
basis of one month’s pay for each year of service.
Why on earth couldn’t the Reid Ministry tell the
whole truth about a small matter like that ?.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Carruthers curtly
declines to produce the official report on Norfolk
Island matters “unless moved for in the usual
way.” As the “usual way ”is for the Govt, whip
to “ object ” every time a formal motion to pro-
duce papers is made, this session wil} probably go
by without the report reaching the table. Minis-
ters therefore cannot complain if rumor hath it
that the report has been “burked” because it
advances charges of peculation in comparatively
high places, and that a well-known society leader
is mentioned as having expressly solicited the
burking.
There are people who wonder why the
N.S.W. Labor-party doesn’t jump at Crick’s
suggestion to ease-off food duties by collecting
postage on newspapers. But the fact is that
the bosses who run a good many of the Labor
members run also allegedly Labor papers, which
depend for their circulation on free postage. A
postal regulation has it that newspapers shall not
be delivered in the town in which they are pub-
lished ; but that little difficulty is got over by
carting a parcel out to a suburban office, and
dumping the lot in the box there.
Members of N.S.W. Labor-party complain
bitterly of being expected to “keep a House”
while highly-respectable Govt, supporters go home
to bed. It is a tradition among the ranks of the
M‘Gowenites to “see the thing out,” and the
attorneys and business men who make the rank
and file of the Reid crowd take advantage of this
amiable weakness of theirs by clearing out early
in order to be on duty fresh for “ important en-
gagements ” in the morning. Hot words were
exchanged about it between members of the allied
hosts on the evening of the last vote of censure.
One of these nights the same old George will find
himself suddenly and entirely dependent on his
own early-closing barrackers after eleven.
“ This House has never opposed the will of
the people, when constitutionally expressed,” was
the beautiful remark of Fitzgerald, of Yic. House
of Rich Landlords, when that body sent back the
One-Man-One-Vote Bill to the Assembly, the
other day. The House of Landlords has three
times rejected the Bill providing for one-man-one-
vote at Assembly elections after the People’s
Chamber had passed it by huge majorities. This
time it has passed it, after four months’ delay, and
after tagging on a scheme by which eight Mel-
bourne constituencies are to be combined in one
and put under the Hare system of “ proportional
voting.” There is no visible gain for Conservatism
in this idea, and it appears to be put in only to
show that the Council won’t take the plain,
straight,. clearly-expressed will of the people at
any price.
The rising wall of European Continental
Protection. Russia has ukased that, from the
beginning of 1900, A.D.,
all goods forwarded between
Russian ports, European
and Asiatic, shall be car-
ried in Russian ships.
Also, that no British are
to be employed in ships
under the Russian flag.
At present most of the
Russian coastal trade
is done by English-
owned ships, worked
by Russian crews,
commanded by a Brit-
ish captain and a
Scotch engineer—all
marine engineers are
Scotch registered
as Russian and called
by Russian names.
The British own-
ers will now have
to choose bet ween
giving up the
Russian trade,
or trusting their
ships entirely to
Russian officers
and agents.
Premier Reid’s
half-promise that
if N.S. W. Assembly
passed the tea-tax
now he would estab-
lish an Old Age Pen-
sion system with the
proceeds next year
was a miserably impro-
bable affair. The one
thing Reid never keeps
by any possible chance is
nis promise. The tea-
duty money is otherwise
required—we have Reid’s
own word for it. It wouldn’t
yield near enough for pension
purposes, anyhow. Also, the
only sure and business-like way
to get the Old Age Pensions is to
bring in a Bill formally establish-
ing the system and providing the
needful source' - of revenue for the purpose, said
revenue to be paid into a special fund and kept
entirely apart from the hungry Treasurer’s cash.
Unless Q. Parlt. sits right up to the day of
its dissolution, ll'th April, ’99, there does not
seem a hope of getting' through the proposed
measures. These include the Mining Bill of 246
clauses, 50 of which have been fought over line by
line; ten other Govt, measures and numerous
private Bills ; also, three-fourths of the Estimates-
in-Chief, to say nothing of the truly dreadful
Loan and Supplementary dittoes.
Quite a sufficient reason exists tor Premier
Reid to place himself in communication with the
Colonial Office about the appointment of the new
IN.S.W. Governor. If he believes Federation to
be as near as he says, he should inform the
Colonial Office that only a pro tem. Governor is
required. The Home authorities may otherwise
appoint a man for five years, and when so ap-
pointed N.'S.W. might have to foot his,bill for the
whole term.
The committee to which Victoria’s House
of 48 Rich Landlords has remitted the Exported
Products Bill isn’t getting by any means the sort
of evidence it expected. The idea is to extend to
other exports the same State supervision now
exercised over exported butter, and the Council
regards the idea with a baleful eye as an objec-
tionable interference with the liberty of the sub-
ject. But a whole multitude of solid business
men have rolled up to approve of the interference.
They say that the Govt, brand put on good pro-
duce, and the rigid rejection of inferior stuff, have
raised prices, improved the demand for Vic. goods,
and prevented the trade being damaged by small,
mean, ignorant people who would otherwise ex-
port rancid cow-fat, and bring down prices all
round. Most of these people howl for more State
interference, and the 48 Landlords don’t know
what to make of it.
The financial policy of N.S.W. Treasurer
Reid wobbled last week in a frightful manner. Its
various phases were : (1) He absolutely required
the .£175,000 a year estimated to be produced by
the proposed tea, rice, confectionery, coffee,
chicory, cocoa and chocolate duties. (2) He was
prepared to drop the duties on coffee, chicory,
cocoa and chocolate. (3) He was prepared to limit
the tax on tea to a period of 18 months or two
years. (4) He was prepared after this’year to set
aside the tea revenue, or most of it, as a provision
for Old Age Pensions. (5) He was prepared to-
sacrifice two-thirds of the tea duty, which con-
sequently stands at Id. per lb. instead of the pro-
posed 3d.—the Assembly looked after that matter-
and threw out the 3d. duty by a majority of 12.
(6) He was prepared to abandon the rice duty
altogether—the Assembly looked after that also,
and bounced the rice duty out by 46 majority.
(7) He was prepared to abandon anything, except
office.
“Violent Fains in, the Stomach
after eating, and pains under the shoulder-blades
for several years,” writes the pictorial and adver-
tising sign-writer, Mr. Frederick E. A. Dickson,
Stewart-street, Dunedin. “Warner’s Safe Cure
has restored me to health, after years of suffering
with disordered liver and kidneys. For several
years I was subject to violent pain in the stomach
after eating and pains under the shoulder blades,
and although I tried a variety of remedies I re-
ceived no benefit. At times I would vomit the
contents of the stomach quite undigested. I had
almost given up hopes of ever getting well again,
when I commenced the use of Warner’s Safe Cure
and Safe Pills. I soon found great relief, and
after the use of a few bottles I was quite restored
to health.”


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid C'eansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale hy all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
I
West Australian
International Mining'
and Industrial
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SIDNEY.
hoa ji
pajsjjQS 3/ven
for 20 years, VITADATIO will cure you. and don’t
forget it. VITADATIO will cure you (without opera-
tion) even when the eminent doctors of London, Melbourne, or any other part of the
world have failed. Be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Consumption, Biles, Gall
Stones, Liver or Kidney Complaint, Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Indigestion, &c.
>' %k
WmmPZ -ml -
-
■;: •
!■ I
MB. S. A. PALMER,
Clever investigators have discovered some remarkable remedies for “ the ills that the flesh is heir to,”
and amongst that*number Wr. \V. Webber’s VITADATIO may fairly rank as one of the best. What it has
done and what it is claimed to do are sufficiently demonstrated in a pamphlet by Mr. S. A. Palmer, the
aeent for the Australasian colonies. Mr. Palmer himself is a living illustration, as applied to Hydatids, of
the benefits of Vitadatio, prepared bv Mr. W. Webber, of Launceston, Tas. He went to Tasmania for the
benefit of his health, was given up as incurable by the doctors, and found “ deliverance from the disease ” in
the medicine he is now pushing. Mr. Palmer tells his story in these words “ After I felt sure I was getting
better, I called again to see Mr. Webber, and said, ‘ You ought to be prosecuted.’ ‘What for?’ he inquired,
* for making a medicine that is curing you ?' 1 said ‘ No, but you ought to be prosecuted for keeping this
remedy in this little comer of the earth, and not letting people know about it throughout the world.”’
People who have been cured of TUMORS, CANCERS, SCIATfCA, HYDATIDS, BRIGHT’S DISEASE and
other Blood Ailments all testify to the wonderful curative properties of VITADATIO, the Herbal Remedy. It is
also said to be an admirable specific for Indigestion and Debilitated Constitutions.
For Testimonials of those that have been cured, write or send to the Agent—
S. A. PALMER, 45 and 47 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PRICE OF MEDICINE is ss. Cd. and 3s. 6d. per Bottle. Ask your local Agent, Chemist, or Grocer for it.
If not obtainable locally, send to Head Office.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS j* :
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE ! IT IS INVALUABLE!
THE Wo. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN'
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
FOR—
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson*, pro-
prietor of Scon's Hotel,
Melbourne, writes:
“ l have much pleasure in
testifying to the efticacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which answer the purpose for
which . they are intended most
completely, andl can strong! y
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled."
This Registers
the Amount of
your Purchase
v>.
<2?
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser's class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
or to 364 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
XMAS PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
'thousands of Latest novelties.
REC 2
:
Us. Gil.
OUR LATEST ‘REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
“Solid Gold”
With Bell or Cent Heart
l’endant,
16 s. Gd.
REG®
Without Pendant,
13s. Gd.
Solid
Gold.
a
Xew Bird Heart
an d
Bell Brooch.
Remarkable
Value,
15s. each.*
a
o
L
I)
P
I
y
s
<&
c
H
A
I
N
P
E
N
n
A
jV
T
S
G
O
Jj
1)
p
j
N
5
6
c
ir
A
i
N
P
75
N
T>
A
N
T
S
With Lucky Bean, 7 6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/0
~ Heart, 76
„ Cross, 8/-
Smaller size, 6 6
» 4/6
„ „ 6/6
Larsrer size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3,6, 5,6, 7,6, 10/-
GoUl Xmas Bell Brooch, 10s. Gd.
Our A'civ Wild Hoar’s Tuslc
Jtrooch,
With Cliain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, ss. Od.
Gold-mounted, 14s.
v-’.-
LINKS TO MATCH.
Silver, 4s. 6d. ; Gold, 10s. 6d. pair.
Please send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free.
Real Amethyst
Hutton Ho''li.
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
Our Neiv
Twin
Jtird
Brooches.
Plain Gold,
7s Gd pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
NO!H-~Our OXT.F Australian■ Address —QQ KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Free from trouble
aptly describes
the condition
of all Cyclists
1888
.since
eve*
txA
pert®
who have their machines
fitted with
Dun iSP Tyres
DUNLOP-WELCH RIMS
The fastest and most
reliable combination
ever fitted to a Cycle.
Curious turn of the wheel ! The daughter
cf Lomhroso—a roll-priest of decadence, and boss
-criminologist—is to be tried for complicity in the
Km press of Austria’s murder. Wonder how Lorn-
broso explains this situation ?
“Molb.”: The burning of a woman in a
lighter on the Yarn gives a climax to some
romantic ideas 1 have put together about such
habitations. In past years Melbourne had a large
fleet of lighters, with women and families aboard.
Life was spent on the water, alternating between
river and bay. Some had pretty little flowerpot
gardens.
A very important point re the rights of
persons found not guilty of offences has been
raised in Kngland by Justice Wills. A man in-
dicted gave evidence in bis own behalf and was
acquitted. He was subsequently prosecuted for
perjury, and the Judge, in addressing the grand
jury,said that the proceedings practically amounted
to trying the man twice for the same offence. _ It
would certainly seem that such a prosecution is an
indirect means of interfering with the finality of
a jury’s verdict, and thus gives the Crown a right
to.appeal against the result of a criminal case,
which is denied to the accused person.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
S.UI. IDont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
CASTLEHEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
*74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
(STREETS).
JPawnbrokinr/ Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
FBFI 3VE OWTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
u
HEADOFPfCe
Intersection Hunter, Bligh AND
Castle reach
• SYDNEY•
fi/c . £stab l/smso ;>■ lo79. '
W* Office in AustrM-'* ’
Annual Income a h d Invested
Funds Exceed jgOO.QQO Sterling
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 251> PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TvEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date, of issue. Interest : 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company-
past, present, and future. Deposits-to limited-amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAI/LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence _ invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
THIS ASSOCIATION is noted for its PROMPT and
LIBERAL SETTLEMENTS, having paid away upwards
of £200,009 in Losses in Victoria and N.S.' Wales.
The United Australian jfjutual
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Established 1879.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. £5OO 000
CAPITAL PAID-UP 38 000
RESERVE LIABILITY .... ' 213’260
HEAD OFFICES:
79 PITT STREET
SYDNEY;
and 405 COLLINS ST., MKLJiO (JUNE.
The Capital of this Company is £38,000 Paid-up, with a
Reserve Liability of £213,260, which, in regard to its
liabilities to the public, is equal to that of the principal
Insurance Companies transacting business in Australia.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ... ... £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
• DIRECTORS 5'"',,...':
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; Gf. 'J. ‘ Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Don. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Richard Jones, Esq. ; T. A.
Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.'
Auditors :
Hon. F. J. Humphf.ry, M.L.C. ; E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J.' A'.' Youl; K.C.M.G; F. H,
Dangar, Esq. ; Deny Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Na,than.iel Cork. . - -
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales !
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe Tr6st€€s, CxccCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY / ... £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ...£6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BQRROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zeidand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. /£4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3.069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling; Robert
Hdi per, Esq., M.L A. ; Hon N. Thomlty. M.L.C.
General Manager; Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Niool,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers; Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liisliopsrjatc Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymai ket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
• Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A evident
arid
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Inabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; .Brisbane, J. O. Hass all ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Jflftsd iQSCiraixe Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Kisks
effected on all classes of
.Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Refits also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
J states very hotv ,
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Queensland Smelting Company, LtJ
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OEEICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.G. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shan assy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. VV. I. Wi n ter-Irving
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address—Kiemseil.
Code—Moueing & Neal, etc.
Tni,io[‘iio,\]•: No. (iij.').
Box No. 2.i7, (i. 1’.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarfee & oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
, —AND —
KALCOUIf
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always'
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ OUIDE ” invaluable (:r Investors,
free o i application.
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
J- Price Warung. Is. 3d.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINL
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE"! !
GEELONG I :
PORTLAND 11
WARRNAMBOOL J .
Peregrine, Saturday, Dee. 3,12 Noon.
Buninyong, Wed., Dec. 7, 12 Noon.
"Gabo, Friday, Dec. 9, 5 p.m.
Leura, Friday, Dec. 9, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine, Saturday, Dee. 3,12 Noon.
Gabo, Friday, Dec. 9, 6 p.m.
ALBANY.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Friday, Dec. 9, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
I Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 3, 2 p.m.
► Bunvah, Tues., Dec. 6, 5 p.m.
I Peregrine, Saturday, Deo. 10, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tj'rian, Saturday, Dec. 3, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat’day, Dec. 10, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
lOHEST CIIItICHNT FA It ICS TO ALL FOISTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian El American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
&
4/\,
C
VIA
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
T\ESPATCH the following- FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
kfkin
The Great Australian Cure.
LiGM.OLLiENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skiny Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness, "
Surprising cures after years
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir. —For years past (about ten), I have been
trouble.with “Acne” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A-Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene ”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same Cum Grano Salis " and was in-
clined not to use it; eventually I tried your ointment
-with truly marvellons results,.and .ani now entirely cured ;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shail
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
•Wishing “Ligmolliene- 1 ’ all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE BOCTOHS SAY:—
...... Doveton -street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered-; notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Oall Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists,. with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept ray hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, TIIOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
• MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat* Vic.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD lIM METAL BOXES.
5s and 7s 6d each.
S 3?" Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Shipping. ■
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bulimba, Friday, December 9.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, December 6.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Bulimba, Friday,
December 9.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, December 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wollovvra, Saturday-,
December 3.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUiLL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
India
Australia
Arcadia ..
Rome
Himalaya
Commander, ney ’
Noon
8000 W. Worcester
6901 1. Reeves
6603 A. C. Loggin
5546 J. Cowie
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
6898 W. L. Broun’.lan.
3 Dec.
17 Dec.
31 j Jan.
14 Jan.
28 Jan.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
Dec. 8
Dec. 22
Jan. 5
Jan. 19
Feb. 2
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money: LONDON, Return Tickets, f 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sj'dney.
amsssassmammmsmm
Huddart, Parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITiMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Raihvaj r Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
IDiluiraith, flTEacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street,
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, ~ SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
A. U. S. N. C,
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and a America.
Passages front Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
oy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI -Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenr/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Strw
MELBOURNE —A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agent
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,


(Registered)
(Original)
nVCIGrHTTT .A.LOE
and.
FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC
(Palatable)
(Bitter)
Freshly prepared from the celebrated African Kola Nuts (Cola Acuminata). Gold Medal at the Royal Agricultural Show,
riestuy piepaie j Sydney. First Prize Medals at all other Exhibitions.
IN THE MORNlNG—
before taking
Fisher and Go’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Madame A LBAJVJ,
THE QUEEN OF SONG, AND
THE FRIEND OF HER
MAJESTY THE QUEEN
OF GREAT BRITAIN,
WRITES UNSOLICITED
THE FOLLOWING TESTI-
MONY
the “Australia” (Hotel),
Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs.—l shall be much obliged
if you will send me two bottles of
your preparation “ALOK.” I am
very glad to tell you that this Tonic
was of great service to me on the
sea, and in helping me to recover
from the effects of my long voyage
IT IS OF GREAT BENEFIT
IN STOPPING SEASICKNESS
AND OF GREAT ASSISTANCE
TO ANYONE WHO HAS FATI-
GUING WORK TO DO.
I am, yours very truly,
E. ALBANI GYE.
There is no greater believer in
Mighty “ALOK” than Madame
Albani. It is her constant com-
panion.
MIGHTY “ AlaOK ”
Leaves a Good Impression.
Scientific
Examination of
Mighty “Aloh.”
By the most Eminent Authority in
Australia, and for many years of
Sydney University, Dr. HELMS,
M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and
Analytical Chemist.
6 Bridge-street, Sydney,
February 1, 1898.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Gentlemen. I have examined
your preparation, Mighty “ALOK, ”
and find that it contains, besides
Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs,
having well-known Tonic properties.
—Yours faithfully,
A. HELMS.
GUARANTEED NOT TO CON-
TAIN QUININE OR IRON,
OR ANY INJURIOUS IN-
GREDIENT.
IN THE AFTERNOON—
after taking
Fisher and Co’s
MIGHTY “ ALOK.”
SPECIAL WARNING TO COUNTRY RESIDENTS
When ordering through Wine and Spirit Merchants, ttfo^n^'Beware™ thel^nprincSS'SS^SdtaSt FISHER not
and send these to their country, clients, charging them fullmce andstating that ?
Fisher’s /nighty and benefim,l drildc in the morning Cleansing the Palate, Clearing the
Brain, doing the Liver good, and strengthening the whole nervous system. •
To he obtained at all Hotels throughout Australia, with Sodawater, 6d per glass. 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle. All Chemists.
When the bottle is placed before yon, be sure that the name FISHER 4 CO. is on the same. ABSOLUTELY REFUSE any other, for they are base umtat.ons of the genome art.de.
Pharmacy: 337 George-street
(nearly opposite\
G.P.O. )
Sydney.
PILLS
ROOT
INDIAN
CURE PERMANENTLY. LIVING WITNESSES SPEAK
A Woman’s Message.
CONVEYING WORDS OF HOPE TO THE
AFFLICTED. BETWEEN LIFE AND
DEATH. BUT NOW CURED.
Truth, it is said, is sometimes stranger than
fiction, and in no way has this phrase been better
exemplified than in the plain, unvarnished state-
ment given a reporter by Mrs. E. Morey, a lady
who resides at 125 Jones-street, Ultimo, N.S.W.
The story she related is here given in her own
words. She said: “I had not been well for
several weeks, suffering terribly from severe pains
in my right side, in fact, the pains at times vvere
so severe I could neither sleep or rest on mv right
side, and drawing my breath was accompanied by
a sharp pain in the side and back. My liver was
in a very bad condition, food I could' take but
very little of, because of the distress it caused after
eating. I tried many treatments and medicines,
but all failed, and my condition was so bad I fully
made up my mind death was the only release from
my illness. A few weel<s ago I heard of the re-
markable cures being effected by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I was persuaded to
try them. The first few doses gave me immediate
relief, the pains leaving like magic. I continued
using them for a time, and to-day am entirely
cured. I firmly believe Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have been the means of saving my life. I
have recommended them to many of my friends,
and it gives me great pleasure to make this state
ment public, as my faith in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills is very strong. If persons reading my
words are sufferers, a remedy is at hand that will
cure them, viz., Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Slipping up Death.
AN ACCOUNT OF HOW A MAN
WRESTLED WITH DEATH AND
SECURED FIRST FALL.
We do not know if Mr. W. J. O’Brien, Junee
Reefs, is an athlete, but we do know that he
has performed a phenomenal feat with a little
assistance —assistance we might say, small enough
to swallow. He writes: “I have much pleasure
in testifying to the quality of Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills. -I was working in the mines and got.
leaded and went to the doctor, who could give
me no relief. I also tried many patent remedies
-whTohralso failed, and made sure my trme to go
would soon come, and gave myself up as com-
pletely done for. . At last a mate of mine said,
‘ Here is something that will cure you, and if they
don’t,, nothing will do you any good.’ He gave
me a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. 1
took one dose that night and one next day, and
the result was wonderful. I am happy to say
that I am now quite well and able to work again,
thanks to Indian Root Pills, only for which I do
not think I’d be alive to-day.”
What He Lost,
AND WAS GLAD TO GET KID OF.
There was no need for Mr. S. G. Goulson, tailor,
of Muswellbrook, to scratch his head and look
round for what he had lost, or make inquiries
about the neighbors. He just took his pen in
hand and wrote to us. He says: “It is with
pleasure that I acknowledge the wonderful efficacy
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills in curing indi-
gestion. They are, indeed, in my estimation, the
best pill in the market. I have tried a good many
patent medicines, but yours I shall always recom-
mend to my friends as a reliable medicine for indi-
gestion, biliousness, pains in the back and stomach.
They are unsurpassed.” Many of you who read
this yearn for such a disappearance which Mr.
Coulson has experienced, so"now you know how
to make it.
A Brisbane Marvel.
WELL KNOWN LADY SUFFERED
TORTURES FOR 15 YEARS, APPAR-
ENTLY NIGH UNTO DEATH, BUT
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOTS PILLS
EFFECT A COMPLETE CURE.
Mrs Elizabeth Smith, whose home is in Surrey-
street, Red Hill, Brisbane, Q., has every reason
to be a thankful woman, as she has been actually
rescued at the brink of the grave. Having heard
such reports, it was decided to fully investigate, so
a reporter was sent to obtain the facts, which are
given in Mrs. Smith’s words : “ For the past 14
or 15 years I have suffered severely from my liver
and indigestion, and two months ago I had a very
bad turn ; the sensation was as though there had
been an iron band around my stomach, and I had
great trouble in breathing. In fact, I thought I
was going to die, and was about-to make my will.
It was about this time that I read about Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, but having tried so
many medicines without any good result, I hardly
thought they were worth trying, but thinking . if
they did not cure they would do no harm, I decided
to give the Pills a trial. I was too ill to go for them
myself, but sent one of my neighbors to Mr.
Vaughan, the chemist, where they were purchased,
and I can truthfully say that they have made a
new woman of me, and I feel better than I have
been for years. I never miss an opportunity to
recommend them to everyone suffering from any
complaint, for they have done more for me than
all the medicines I have ever tried. Since I have
been cured, my daughter-and-son-in=law have dis-
carded all other medicines, and swear by Dr.
Morse’s .Indian Root Pills. While the ..reporter
was interviewing Mrs. Smith, her married daugh-
ter, Mrs. Brierly, came in, and she not only fully
corroborated her mother’s statement, but spoke
in the highest praise of the Pills. She said that
after seeing the marvellous result in her mother’s
case, both she and her husband feel quite certain
that Dr. Morse's Indian Root .Pills have been the
means of saving her mother’s life.”
Suffered Since Girlhood.
MEDICAL MEN FAILED BUT DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
FAILED NOT.
Mrs. A. Everingham, living on the Nana-road,
Grafton, N.S.W., tells her story in a few words.
“Since girlhood I have been a victim to severe m-
digestion and pains in the back, chest and sides,
which at times was almost unendurable, and
caused me to think I could not live an hour. I
tried many remedies and consulted several medical
men, but they did not cure me. lam now forty-
nine years of age, and suffered for many years. A
few weeks ago I started to use Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. The first bottle caused me to feel m
good health. I continued their use for a short time,
and can now say they are the best remedy I have
taken. I recommend them to my friends, and
they appear to do good to all.”
A Timely Rescue-
MEDICAL SKILL AVAILED HIM NOT.
Mr. Abel White, of Olinda, Rylstone, writes
“ I have been suffering from an enlarged liver and
indigestion for five or six years. I was treated by
several doctors, but only obtained relief for the
time, and had to be continually taking medicine.
I commenced the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and, since taking a few bottles of them, the
pain I used to feel in my right side has disap-
peared. I can now eat my food without suffering,
and I cheerfully recommend these Pills to anyone
suffering from the liver or indigestion, as they
have cured me. You are at liberty to use this
letter if you wish to do so.”
Scratched for Ten Years.
TERRIBLE ECZEMA CURED.
Job had patience, we are told, but there is no
need to go back four thousand years to exemplify
patience, for there is a storekeeper named Mr. W,
J, May, at Tabulam, N.S.W., who has had eczema
for ten years, and who has probably out-Jobed Job
for patience. He writesit is with great
pleasure that I testify to the excellent quality of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I have suffered
for ten years from a skin disease called eczema,
and have tried doctors, herbalists, and chemists,
without deriving the least benefit. I was under
the treatment of one herbalist for twenty months,
and another for eighteen months, I tried every
remedy that I could hear of, but only met with
disappointment. I can assure you my complaint
was a most troublesome one, so troublesome chat
at night I bound the parts up to prevent scratch-
ing when asleep, and I used to take the bandages
off in my sleep, and would scratch until it was
quite raw. I saw several testimonials of cures
effected by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
though there were none that would apply to my
case, I decided to give the Pills atrial. After
half-a-dozen doses all the itch and irritation had
gone, and though after taking about a bottle of
the Pills my skin was just the same, I persevered
with the remedy, and after a few more doses could
plainly see an improvement; and now, after taking
five bottles, I am glad to say that I am completely
cured, and my skin whole. You are at liberty to
publish this letter. It is the truth, and the most
respectable and reliable people in this district can
certify to the same.”
♦
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have Cured Thousands, and
Will Cure You.
One of the roots from which these Pills are
made is a Sudorific, which opens the pores of the
skin, and assists nature in throwing out the finer
parts of the corruption within. The second is a
plant which is an Expectorant, that opens and
unclogs the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a
soothing manner, performs its duty by throwing
off the phlegm and other humors from the lungs
by copious spitting. The third is a Diuretic,
which gives ease and double strength to the kid-
neys ; thus encouraged, they draw large amounts
of impurity from the blood, which is then thrown
out bountifully by the urinary or water passage,,
and which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a Cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pills while
engaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser par-
ticles of impurities, which cannot pass by other
outlets, are thus taken up and conveyed off in
great quart ft ties by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a Perfect
BLOOD PURIFIER, CURING BOILS,
BLOTCHES, PIMPLES, SALLOW COM-
PLEXION, JAUNDICE, ECZEMA, and all
SKIN DISEASES, and a positive cure for SICK
HEADACHE, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGES-
TION, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION,
SHORTNESS OF BREATH, FLATU-
LENCY, LIVER COMPLAINT, KIDNEY
and FEMALE TROUBLES. Sold by all
CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS, PRICE
Is. lid. per bottle, or six bottles 6s.
If not obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keeper, same will be forwarded upon receipt of
price. - - -
Sole Proprietors—
THE W. H. COMSTOCK CO., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —58 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUATD'S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/C ; Drab, 25/C each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropica] Australia.
£. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Ihe cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet
‘‘Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depot, 257 George-street
Sydney.* ’
The 1898 edition of “The Wealth of New
South Wales,” issued from the Daily Shipping
News Office, Sydney, and edited by L. R. Mac-
leod, is an uncommonly interesting- product of
local brains and energy. It reviews the principal
industries of the province and gives many por-
tiaits of the men who direct them. The compila-
tion is so very well printed that it is a pleasure to
read and preserve it.
Dear Bulletin. Re paragraph (26/11/’9S)
concerning Warwick (Q.) electorate. There is
quite 25 per cent, of fiction in the alleged fact
that “ exactly two-thirds of the voters are R.C. ’s ”
and just 100 per cent, of fiction in the further
statement that “Arthur Morgan (present mem-
ber) boasts that he can beat any man in Queens-
land for Warwick seat.” Permit me to say that
no such boast has ever been made by—Yours
Arthur Morgan. ’
Australia s oldest attorney, the venerable
Mr. B. C. Rodd, died the other day, not a month
short of his i-Oth birthday. He was for 05 years
on the roll of N.S. W. solicitors, and was im-
mensely proud of his record. A hale, lively old
gentleman, he told a Bulletin man some time
since that he started life with no education worth
mentioning, and came to Australia in 1822, when
13 years old. He was at once en i> -a fr ed as
overseer to proceed to Patrick’s Plants in
charge of six convicts. He learned to reap
drive bullocks, and build huts; and in '2s’
for a change of occupation, went to Parra-
matta .And apprenticed himself to Dr. Montgomery
Martin, who had some local celebrity as an author
of books on Australia. From Dr. Martin he learned
how to blister and bleed, and draw teeth—at 10s
Gd. per wrench. When Martin left for India
young Rodd went to Sydney, and articled
himself to E. J. Keith, a well - known
attorney who represented George Smith Hall in
certain famous Govt, prosecutions. In three
years Rodd was at the head of the office • and
shortly afterwards he left Keith and started busi-
ness for himself. . In his first year he made £93,
and paid £52 for living expenses. In his second
year he took in lodgers—Ranclolph Want was one
of them ; and Want and Rodd, eager for fame
and fortune, studied regularly from 7 to 10 every
e Y J ' l,n «- By ’37 Rodd was making over
=61200 a year. In ’39 he married Miss Janet
Robertson (sister to “old Jack.”) In ’O2 he re-
tired from business ,£BOOO in debt (“or rather ”
said the old man, “ business retired from me ”) •
but he paid his debts and made money by the
sale of accumulated land. The old gentleman
had been living at Five Dock since 1850, and
leaves many children and grandchildren to per-
petuate the memory of a fine old fellow with a
line old record.
,P®,, we brade tinny gintleinen in Aus-
r;,ila • as * cs Sydney Cathouc Press, and
He said lie had a horror of the prospect
? would rather shoot himself than
t)rUSh hIS own boots.” "KviYlpnrv* orivmi of
j , * * namo uuuui, uuu
who have energy enough to remain alive and tight
against work. The person who won’t even scram-
b e actively for the right to remain idle is the com-
plete weary person of Australasia.
Hugh Hart Lusk’s “ School History ” has
now undergone the scrutiny of four N.S.W.
Ministers of Education and the erasures and
amplifications of a score of revisers—with the
very natural result that, whatever it was worth at
the beginning, it is worth little or nothing now.
-Lusk got <£4so for the MS., and <£545 extra has
been spent on putting it into its present state.
When the MS was originally accented, Mr. Lusk
professed hnnself willing to bring certain figures
up to date, and otherwise tit the work for publica-
tion, but the Education Department took so long
to make up its mind that he had to leave the book
to its fate. Now the £1)05 will almost certainly be
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
us advertising D.C.L. Scotch Whisky so largely
unless we were prepared to convince the public of
its absolute purity, by supplying only an article
which they will ask for again and again and refuse
all others.
T- P. O’Connor, in liis journal, “ M.A.P.,”
publishes what he describes as a “ startling story ”
regarding the estrangement between Hori Grey
ami his wife. O’Connor says that Grey’s sus-
picions concerning his wife were, aroused bv the
discovery of a compromising letier written to
D une Grey by the captain of the war ship which
was conveying the Pro-Consul and his fortunes to
the Cape. Grey, it is alleged, subsequently dis-
covered that his wife knew nothing of the letter,
and this paved the way to a reconciliation. This
* startling story "’ is, in all probability, an inven-
tion. Some years ago Lord Stamford, Grey’s
relative, who brought ab mb the reconciliation,
minutely detailed to a friend of The BulT-ETIN
(who was also deeply in Grey’s confidence) the
facts of the painful estrangement, and there was
no reference to the alleged letter.
W. T. Stead’s penny extracts from popular
books have at last found their true use in life.
The patent-medicine man claims them for his
own Now wo have a “ Vitadatio” series of stan-
dard novels (condensed), with a portrait of the
author on the wrapper. Not the author of the
novel, but the author of Vitadatio.*
Missing Friends.
N AUSTRALIAN AGENCY. -HOLDS-
/V WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices : 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
Legal Notices-
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.—In-Equity.—ln the matter of THE COM-
PANIES ACT and in the Matter of THE AUSTRA-
LASIAN TIMBER COMPANY, Limited.—The Creditors
of the abovenamed Company are required, on or before
the fifteenth day of February, one thousand eight hun-
dred and ninety-nine, to send their names and addresses
and the particulars of their debts and claims, and the
nanie and address of their solicitors (if any), to LANCE-
LOT TIIRELKELD LLOYD, of Philip-street, Sydney, the
official Liquidator of the said Company, and, if so re-
quired, by notice in writing from the said Official Liqui-
dator, are by t.lieir Solicitors to come iri and prove their
said debts or claims at the Chambers of the Master in
Equity, at Chancery-square, Sydney, at such time as
shall he specified in such notice, or in default thereof they
will be excluded from the benefit of any distribution
made before such debts are proved. Wednesday, the first
day of March, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-
nine, at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, at the said Cham-
bers, is appointed for the hearing and adjudicating upon
the debts and claims. Dal ed this fifteenth day of Novem-
ber, A. D. IS9S. W. H. PIGOTT, Solicitor' for Official
Liquidator, 28 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
*
Mr. Charles R. Wood,
LATE OP THE CYCLE FIRJI OF
Beooett $ Wood, Sydo?y,
purchased a RED BIRD Cycle, and, after testing it for two years,
says it is the best and strongest cycle on the market.
Mr. WOOD, who is one of our past Amateur Champions, knows
something about Bicycles, having sold them for years.
•. Those Cyclists who understand Bicycle-quality, and are not paid to
ride other heels, most invariably choose the “RED BIRD” as their
mount.
Drop us a post-card for our Catalogue, or call at
The Gooid Bicycle Co. limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES!
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
Factories-BRANTFORD, Canada. AGENTS Every when
Af/ents in Town and Country.
USE THE
Sunlig’Jit in Your Homes.
New sunlight lucancleseent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s. Gel.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The best-look in" youngster seen nt Rand wick
on Saturday was Cameron, Tom Pay ten's big black
Locltiel colt, which had his first public run in the Nursery
Stakes. Although unplaced, he finished well up, and
will probably turn out well. Pavten has a l>i" striiv in
hand—somethin" over 20-and as they include such as
Cocos, Clarion, Sweet Marie, War God, Phillips, and Miss
West, besides a dozen or so youngsters by Locltiel and
Carbine, his stable should be worth watching. Co»*os is
none the worse for his Melbourne ifruellimr but War God
is very sore.
* * • •
Tim attendance at Rand wick on Saturday was
not what might be expected at. the province’s premier
course on a tine afternoon. Auditor was made favorite
for the Hurdle Race, but could not get belter than a bad
second to Aboriginal, the previous Saturday’s winner at
Warwick Farm. Lady Trident ami Sunflower started
equal favorites for the Course Handicap, but both failed
to run into a place, and Telegraph, well backed by the
public at 7to 1, won from Wakawatea. Nineteen young-
sters started for the Nursery Stakes, Nightlight being
most fancied. Lowland Chief, a chestnut son of Anticus,
at Bto 1, won comfortably from Cornquist. Corrie Roy
was picked upon by the crowd for the Club Handicap,
but again they pulled the wrong pea, as Linda, still
another Bto 1 show, won from Shaughraun. The High-
weight Handicap was a good betting race, lint the winner,
Satanelte, a brown mare by St. Swithan, Merlooloo's sire,
was the only one of the heavily-backed division who
showed prominently.
* * * *
Sixty-nine horses have been weighted for Tatt’s
Cup, to be run at Newcastle (N.S.W.) to-day (Sat.), and it
is quite on the cards that over 31) will appear at the post
for a “cut” at. the sweep money. Should matters
financial be satisfactorily seitlcd, ’tis likely winner will
spring from Feu-de-Joie, Kallatina, Wuliine, Auda, or
Bona-I ide, and of the quintet W’ahine looks quite as good
as anything else.
* • • •
For jumping from his mount to pick up his
whip. Trainor, rider of a winner at Jloonee Valiev, was
fined £5. Vet had he gone to scale without the whip he
might have weighed-in short, and had an outsider handed
it up lo him he would have undoubtedly been disqualified
on the spot. The jock who drops his whip has a hard
problem to solve, and Trainor evidently chose the least
evil.
* * * *
The artless \ ietor ”: With till due deference
to the historic words of “ F. s’’ [key Mo, the blankv
owner has got ever thing to do with it. For instance in
The Skipper case, trainerand jock, were doubtless williii"
enough, but owner said No and scratched. In England"
more especially, the man who pays the training bill calls
the lime. Here, where jockeys are underpaid and more
petal able, ’tis well to know that their own little bit is on
or that they have not received a retainer from t’other
snip Fred. Gretton was quite capable, with Tom Rad-
mall s assistance, of looking after his own horses and
getting the l> \s{ of trainers. If by Dick Porter “F”
means John Porter, ’tis notorious that he has had to grin
and hear the scratching of many favorites by Sir p. John-
stons and many other of bis aristocratic patrons Did
not owner Cartwright, scratch Derby winner. George
Frederick, for St. Leger at eleventh hour? Custanoe
the jock., and Tom Leader, the trainer, were confident
enough, hut the Welsh mining magnate said “No
money ’’ ami scratched. Now abide lhese three -’owner
jock., trainer; but the greatest of these is owner—jock'
second. J
• * * *
Tito leading Adelaide sly-tote man now runs a
stylish suburban villa and drives a spanking pair into the
citv, whereas the few remaining bookmakers, who in the
old days turned tip their noses at fivc-shilliii" wafers
now rush the chance of a shilling bet. The irony of it 1 ’
••* • "
A Broken Hill Benoit ruled in a tote case that
horse-racing was not a game of chance 1 Seemingly they
have it all cut and dried at Broken Hill ' J
* • • »
.. A J?„ A V- ck i , . a,nr ?- r - L -) recently Canongato won
he KII Tslie Handicap, and, out of a field of seven, paid
the handsome div. of iBl 4s. 1
* * • •
The law. having tried all it knew to escalade the
famous Co! ling wood tote-shop, and been beaten in the
attempt, is going to try again in a very low-down fashion
Part of the success of the “defence” hitherto has been
the alleged fact that neighbors permit of escape through
then premises, which, not being gaming-houses, cannot
he either watched or entered hv the police. To th rart
this, Govt, is submitting a Bill to Amend the Police
Offences Act, enabling warrants to he issued to enter
neighboring houses, and to apprehend persons and seize
moneys and gaming paraphernalia found there. Some of
the phraseology of the Bill and the warrant under it
savors of watch house justice and it will be a matter of
surprise and regret if even the indolent Vic. public allow
it to get on the statute-book. Grave infringements of
the rights of liberty are possible under a provision giving
power to a policeman to enter a house “ reported to be a
common gaming-house,” and arrest persons and seize
moneys found therein. In fact, it is only the cool cheek
of impunity that could have tempted the authorities to
even suggest such a law in a free community. The things
that the most harmless people and harmless hou-es are
reported ” to be by the average constable would astound
even an afternoon-tea society-woman.
• * * •
Alfred Detikin states that a Melb, Cup gather-
ing, apart from the horrors of the odds, is “simply
frivolous,” and although he doesn’t clamor for the
abolition of the national carnival, he urges the necessity
for “moralising anti rationalising” it. If Premier
Turner appoints a royal commission to report on the
“social, moral, and economic effects of horse-racing on
the community ” (vide Jack Murray’s proposal), he may
as well get Deakin to draw up a rational Cup scheme.
Mould a Sturdy Cob race, with clergymen riders, he
Rational, or does Alfred desire to devote the V.R.C meet-
ing to prayer ?
* * * •
Editor Bulletin.—Re unclaimed prize-money
held by “Tattersall” since his arrival in Tasmania
Some years ago it was stated that “Tatt.” held in trust
upwards of i 50,000 unclaimed prize-money. Whatever
the actual amount, it would be interesting to know how
it was disposed of and what has become, or is to become
of subsequent accumulations—for the money cannot pos-
sibly belong to “Tattersall,” who, I am sure, would be
the last to claim it. Also, re distribution of result-slips,
I have more than once had occasion to send a second
stamped envelope before I got my slip, and, considerin''
how promptly holders of tickets which draw a horse are
notified, it should be just as easy to notify holders of
tickets which draw a money-prize only. “Tail..” has the
address of every subscriber, so there can be no difficulty
in doing this. State audit has shown the large sums of
unclaimed prize-money left in “Tatt.’s” possession for
a half-year s operations during what is practically the
“off-season” for racing, and the public are justified in
demanding some such concession as that the winners of
money-prizes should he apprised of their luck in the same
way as are drawers of horses, it being well known that
from a variety of causes tnanv subscribers never see a
result-slip. “Tatt.” can easily afford to hunt up nil
prize-winners, as hitherto-unciaimed prize-money must
be the source of a verv large income to him in the shape
of interest.—A.J.B., Westralia. 1
The story told of Forrester’s first Molb. Cup
win ought to commend him to womankind in general.
Things were looking blue for the much-disappointed
sport when he took Gaulus and The Grafter down to Vic-
toria for the Spring Carnival, leaving his anxious wife in
Sydney. If he didn’t win the Cup the outlook would be
much bluer. When the eventful moment arrived, and
the two nays that carried his hopes came tearing down
the straight beyond all possibility of defeat, Forrester ran
to the telegraph-office and wired the ylad tidinys home—
“All’s well, ’ or words to that effect.
* * * *
The trotting mare, Fair Girl, so well-known on
Australian tracks, was “ rung-in ” recently in Maoriland
as larawera, under which name she secured three races
ere being recognised. Mare and owner were disqualified
for life.
* * • •
Some pood form was shown at the recent trot-
tiny meetinys at Lancaster Park, M.L. Monte Carlo
trotted a mile in close to 2.20, and 2 miles in 4.53. Several
Australian horses chanyed hands—Kola for 51ys. and
Polly Huon for lOlys. Harold B. was passed in at 126y5.,
but remains in M.L. with his speedy stable companion,
little Satan.
• • • »
That fearless jumper, Nilus, has emulated the
feats of Goulhurn and Redleap bv winniny tlie last Open
Steeple at Caulfield with the huge impost of 13st. 121 b.
♦ * * *
Lyons is a strong candidate for next Australian
Eleven. Worrall, who is a candidate with hiy chances
himself, reckons Lyons’ first innings ayainst Vic. a beau-
tiful display of hard, sound hittiny.
• * • Si
In Sydney senior cricket on Saturday, Syd.
Gregorys ins, playing for Waverley against Glebe, was
the only century scored, the team losing 4 wickets for 3 )()
runs. E. Sydney, playiny Paddington, scored but II!) ;
Padd my ton scoring 141 for the loss of a wicket. Youny
Trumper made his first stand this season, 6!) not out, which,
with a bit of luck, he should run into three fiyures next
Saturday. Bill-wood v. Central Cumberland totalled 273,
H. flonnan topping with 05 ; and then C.C. made 13
without the loss of a wicket. Leichhardt, playiny N.
Sydney, stayed in the whole afternoon, losiny 8 wickets
for 2U5 ; and Redfern, ayainst South Sydney, lost 7
wickets for 291 runs.
* • * *
I. n the Burwood - Central Cumberland match
Bdlv ” Howell, in addition to takiny five wickets with
tile hall, saved his side no end of runs bv his fine fieldiuy
111 the slips. He took three catches, tlie one dismissing
loin Garrett beiny exceptionally fine. It is too often
forgotten that 100 runs saved hv yood fielding counts
better for one s side than 99 made off the hat.
+ * m 0
\V. G. Grace lias celebrated his silver wedding
and again front English cricket-maniacs comes a demand
for his eiinohhlement. When this matter was last on the
tap's it was humorously suggested that a suitable title
Earl?'• L ° ltJ ° f Suggestion—“ The Wicket
• * • •
Another record. At Warwick (Q.) two cricket
hi second' 1 "" made 74 each in first innings, and 89 each
• * * •
Johnston’s Bay (Sydney) Sailing Club brought
off a general handicap last Saturday, when Effie and
timer, the rival 22ft. cracks, met off scratch, the Effie
finishing 2ii.hi. /sec. ahead of her rival. Stella, off Bmin
sailed by Georye Ellis, made a fairly easy win from VMI-
- Imm. Georye Holmes started his new IS-fooler The
Honnedv. named after her builder, hut. she sailed without
life, and may do better when lie yets the trim of her. and
in a breeze.
* • • *
The attendance was not in keeping with the
high class of the sport provided at Sydney Harriers’
annual sports meeting at Clifton Garden’s last Saturday.
M. M. Koseiiigrave put up an Australasian amateur re-
cord, 4ft. Sin. in the standing high-jump. Stan. Rowley
was in great form, and won his heat and the final of the
100 yd. handicap in even time.
* • • »
So much for the strong men.*’ When the row
was on in Sydney Referee office between the rival Sam-
son and Lucifer strong tins the Referee fightiti" editor
held one man down with the right hand whilst he shin"
the other out- of the room with the left. At the Tiv. that
night Samson said he was afraid 10 hit a man as his fist
would go right through. “ Lay to vour book,” strong
man. Samson might know how to hit, hut the odds are
that Larry Foley’s right hand could hit a harder punch
than the w-eight-lifter's.
* • • *
Sampson’s very small wrist-measurement (4iin.)
and his wonderful chest-expansion (from 39in. to sSin.)
take a lot of swallowing, and have been much discussed
hut they are nevertheless correct.
• * * *
Larry Foley, re the ball-punching boom in
fistic circles: “Punching the ball may make a man
quick with his head, but. God gave a man his right arm to
stop with.” Another example of Design !
• * • •
Re the Corbett-Sharkey set-to, last week which
ended in a wrangle over a foul, all bets being declared
off, according to the cable the referee states that Cor-
betts second was bribed to go into the ring, thereby
causing a breach of the rules which turned to Sharkey’s
account. Writer will not be surprised to hear that Cor-
bett was looking for a soft board to fall on when the
wrangle began. In his fight with Fitzsimmons Corbett
seemed to nave had enough rounds before he received
the alleged knock-out.
* * * *
The large attendance and enthusiasm shown at
East Sydney Swimming Club’s Carnival, on Satur-
urday last, is another instance of the hold this
fine sport is faking upon the public. Lane won the
220yds. N.S.VV. amateur championship in 2.40 1-5, and
“Tunis Cavill won the 100yds. prof, championship in
1.8 ; the pity being in each case that the field could not
extend them.
* * • ,
“Sid.” Cavill returned to Sydney last Sunday
from the land of the wooden ham, a sadly disappointed
man. All the Yankee swimmers adopted a'“ ware-hawk”
attitude, and whatever matches he got on, by dint of
wheedling or coaxing, were for paltry wagers or o- a te
only. Cavill departed an amateur and has returned a
pro., a state of affairs which he much deplores, for while
little or nothing has been gained by the change in status
the opportunity to compete in Australia and win further
laurels has been irretrievably lost. He holds a poor
opinion of “God’s own country” and reckons that
Australia is good enough for him in future. The
cute \ ankce, says Cavill, looks askance at any
Australian athlete hearing the hall-mark of genuine-
ness, and straightway buttons up under the impres-
sion that the visitor will take him down unless he
is extremely careful. Cavill went to Boston, to New
York and to Chicago, but beyond making a little out of
exhibitions did nothing worth mentioning. He created a
sensation in 'Frisco by swimming to Seal Rocks and
landing among hundreds of the bellowing amphibians,
while the spectators ashore held their breaths expectin''
to see the foolhardy Australian torn to hits; but rat HI
found Hie monsters as harmless as doves and cowardly as
dingoes.
* * * *
The Austral wheel-battle begins this Saturday
on Melb. Cricket-ground. The races last Saturday re-
sulted in one or two good spins and a splendid show of
oronk running by the crowd of riders who didn’t want to
be penalised for the big event. But for the heavy rain in
the morning there would have been many smashes in-
stead of only two-bolh in the 25-mile event. The only
man seriously hurt was the plucky Alf. Middleton, who
broke his collar-bone, and so rubbed himself out of the
Austral. However, before doing this, he won the Vic.
Mile (£5O) in great style from Tairie and Berry.
The mile scratch proved deadly-dull. Walne
was beaten by Mutton in the sprint of his heat, the
champion being apparently unable to gain aii inch on the
Sydneyite, yet in the final Mutton was dead meat to the
other starters. In his heat Beauchamp ran a bad third,
and was awarded a disqualification for the day, which de-
barred him from the final of the Vic. Mile—wherein New-
haven Jackson and L. Barker rode head to head for the
last 100yds., with Don Walker, Forbes and Mutton
battling in that order in the rear.
The 25-mile race showed up Forbes in the light
of a splendid stayer. The big-little man stayed in the
middle of the Held throughout, dodged the falls, waited
until the right time, and then whisked past Parsons—
who expected to win and who had public sympathy—as
if he were a novice. Forbes won by 20yds., Carpenter
and L. M. Jackson second and third.
Apart from the actual obvious cronlc running,
several men, not suspected, performed so erratically as to
make it a very tough job to pick the best of the Aus-
tralists. Corbett, on his St. Kilda trim, seemed to hold
'Value safe, yet he was a bad failure on Saturday, and
Walne himself went down before a man considered im-
measurably his inferior. Beauchamps is, or was, an Austral
“good thing”; but, if Saturday’s form be true, he can’tsee
the front crowd in the big race. Little Gordon escaped
notice the whole afternoon, Gargurevich faded
to nothing, nobody saw M‘Gibbon ride, and the onlv
dangerous Austral men to do anything were Berry, New-
haven Jackson, his namesake, and the Barkers and
Sharp. Sharp, however, fell in his race, and his form
could not be gauged. Still, he is in decent nick, can
sprint and stay, and possesses a head worth those of
hundreds of smart young men who can turn off far faster
miles. Sharp looks a sweet thing for the Austral, but
amid the multitude of Saturday’s crocks, the spectator is
likely to regard any average rider who tries as a cham-
pion.
• ♦ • *
The “ top ” prize-takers in the 25-miles Inter-
national Scratch Race made the pace a scorcher from
start, to finish. Twenty miles were cover* d in 52min.
30sec., and the full distance was run in 66min. 13 4-osec.j
both times bein<£ world’s records for a t*rass track.


HISTORY REPEATS,
Poor Old Diogenes
searched high and low
foran honest man, and
there are many of his
followers looking for
an honest bicycle. To
all such seekers after
Cycle truth we are
pleased to say that we
can bring their search
to a happy termination
by sending them acopy
of the Massey - Harris
Catalogue, which tells
all about our easy-run-
ing wheel. If you want
more truth, call at one
of our depots and ex-
amine the parts we
build from.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Hiao Quarters: VVili iam Street, Melbourn*.
BhanCUKS : Jhmediii-Svriney—Brisbane
Adfl lido—Hobart— Nortlmm.
DJSPOrs and Agencies almost every where.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMP S,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS.
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
.. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
‘ Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
203-205 Clarence-street,
SYDN EY.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Bank of Dorth Queensland
LIMIT HD.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,003
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
IVE are one of Lite Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ' We know a «*ood wheel when we see it, and stork
only machines tliat are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
&3j’ Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for tlie supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(TIII3 GO-LTGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to anv part, of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels iitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. J<\ McDermott,
General Ajrent- for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘fiarden City’
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.
Frank Grimley
I Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 2015-205 Clarence-st reet,
SYDNEY
ST. PAULI
MARK
TRADE
GIRL \\ BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
(i «BEMODERMA," the Great Freckle CURE.
Removes Freckles, Pimples, &e. Cures Eczema,
and all Skill Diseases ; Beautifies the Complexion ; and is
the Creme des Cremes for the Skin. Price Is., all chemists.
Post free all parts, Is. 3d., from Mr. KING, Chemist, No. 2
Gurner-street, Paddington, Sydney. Wholesale Agents.
Elliott Brothers.
QU I REEL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
J ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE « Itl'X 15.V1’,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell s’ < offer Talsicc.” situated 59
KING STREET, and near the General Post Oltice.
Proprietor - * - GEO. W. ELLIS.
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s :
or with 11 Records and ini) Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
H E . TalkiQS MacbiOe Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from 17. Graphophones fr >m £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematojrraphes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Salande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDFSOE ELECTRIC
COM EAST, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” Gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Gaslight Company hy payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If <ras is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
f ive per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
j FREE [COOKERY LECTURES
I
I
IX TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
BOOK-KCCPINC
by Double Entry.
PR A CTICA L INSTRUCTION.
F. Bender, Accountant, 21 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
N.S W. Government Railways.
Special Cheap ExcGrSioo
TO AXD FROM
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
Tickets at specially low fares
will be issued at .Sydney and intermediate
Suburban Stations to all Main Line Stations,
Menangle to A 1 bury inclusive, by the undermen-
tioned Special Train available for return from
stations distant 300 miles and upwards up to and
and including sth JANUARY, 1890, and from
stations distant under 300 miles up to and includ-
ing 29th DECEMBER; but passengers can only
return by the train- specified, viz.: I* roni all
stations beyond Goulburn, by the up Mail lrain.
Passengers from stations Harden to Yarra in-
clusive may also travel by the 4.20 a.m. Mixed
Train from Harden on Mondays, Wednesdays,
Fridays, and Saturdays. From all stations, Goul-
burn to Menangle inclusive, by any train except
the Up Mail and Up Melbourne Express Trains.
THURSDAY, Bth DECEMBER, 1898.
RETURN TICKETS at Specially Low Fares
will also be issued TO SYDNEY from All Main
Line Stations, Albur.y to Demondrille Junction
inclusive, by Special Train leaving Albury at 5.30
a.m., and from stations Murrumburrah to Men-
angle inclusive by Special Train leaving Murrum-
burrah at 10.50 a.m. on FRIDAY, 9th DE-
CEMBER.
RETURN TICKETS at l£d. per mile First-
class (minimum 7s. fid.), and Id. per mile Second-
class (minimum 55.), will be issued from Stations
on the Main Southern Line to stations Goulburn
to Mittagong inclusive by the Special Trains from
Albury and Murrumburrah.
These tickets will be available for return to
stations distant 300 miles and upwards up to and
including fith JANUARY, 1899, and to stations
distant under 300 miles up to and including 30th
DECEMBER; but passengers can only return by
the trains specified, viz. To stations Menangle
to Goulburn inclusive, by any train except the
Melbourne Express and 9.0 p.m. Mail; to stations
south of Goulburn, by Special Train leaving
Sydney at 8.50 p.m. on MONDAYS, WEDNES-
DAYS, and FRIDAYS ONLY. Passengers for
stations between Goulburn and Harden may also
travel by the 9.30 a.m. train from Sydney on
MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, FRIDAYS, and
SATURDAYS.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. MLACIILAN, Secretary.
MEVER
tol
£2
:
D 4&
\
PRICE LIST
‘Swift’ No. 1 Lady’s - - £2B
Club ‘Swift’ Lady’s - - £25
Road Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Path Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Austral ‘Swift’ Roadster - £22
Austral ‘Swift’ Road Racer £2O
SOLE AGENTS
JOB
CYCLES
Pitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency [td.,
391 George Street, Sydney.
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Bendigo,
"Warrnambool, Hamilton, Hobart, Launceston,
Christchurch, etc.


DIP YOU EVER
SEE A SNOWSTORM
IN SUMMER?
We never did : but we have
seen the clothing at this time
of the year so covered with
dandruff that it looked as if
it had been out in a regular
snowstorm.
No need of this snowstorm.
As the summer sun would melt the
falling snow, so will
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
melt these flakes of dandruff in the scalp.
It goes further than this : it prevents their
formation.
It has still other properties: it will restore
color to gray hair in just ten out of every
ten cases.
And it does even more: it feeds and nour-
ishes the roots of the hair. Thin hair be-
comes thick hair; and short hair becomes
long hair.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
D.S .MAI R
GO
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2 6 ; Hairspring, 2,6, Jewels,
26; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
return! Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lone, f/fl. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COM LINGS
worhcd up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.’Wigzell,
110 William Sthbet,
corner of Palmer-street,
- SYDNEY.
Cable Train" will stop at Door.
Send stamps for dull Price List.
Prompt attention y yen to Country o. a.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 txeorge Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites for Hafr^orki s n g nd
Agents for the “ROYAL LOUNGE”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/-each. Newest. Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A Engaged for, the Country.
Melb. Evenin' 'Erald points out that it
“ said as much ” a week before Salisbury delivered
his Mansion House speech. Good thing to have
an editor at once a warrior, diplomat, prophet, and
first-class humorist. Any paper ought to hum
under such direction.
“Economy” of some kinds is a crime.
At an Adelaide inquest, Dr. Cleland, of Parkside
Lunatic Asylum, deposed that he was the only
medical officer attached to the institution —which
contained 700 patients. In addition to the over-
sight of all these, he was S.A. Chief Medical
Officer, necessitating the inspection of country
hospitals and attendance at North Terrace Luna-
tic Asylum ! Now, they hanged a man at Mel-
bourne the other day for murder ; but what is one
straightforward murder to the countless murders
caused by this unspeakably uncivilised neglect!
If only for the mere sake of having in the com-
munity experts in mental disease, there should be
attached to a 700-inmate lunatic asylum at least
four doctors.
Harry Stockdale to The Bulletin ?
“E.F.” (B. 12/11/’9B), in his Rougeniont comments,
says:—“Why dir] Carr-Boyd not point out that Grien
could not possibly go overland from Cambridge Gulf to
Carpentaria without blundering on the telegraph line or
coming across cattle stations nearly all the way ? ” Now,
Alex. Forrest traversed in 1879 about 400 miles of this
country, and never came across a single station. I also
traversed it (much upon route Rougeniont would pro-
bably have taken) in 1884, and only met with three
stations between the telegraph-line and the Gulf, a dis-
tance, allowing for having to head big-waters, of 400
miles ; two of these stations had only been formed a few
months, and at the time Rougeniont writes of,
before the existence of the telegraph-line, there
wasn’t one station to a thousand miles. “E.F.” also
takes Hogan, M.P., to task for saying that the
N.W. corner (scene of the alleged adventures) is the
one large tract of the Great Southern Continent that is
still, in the main, a terra incognita to the white man ;
and adds that, though the N. VV. corner may not be as
well known as the S.E., it is no more a terra incognita to
white men than Hyde Park, Sydney. Upon which my
comment is, like “E.F.’s” own—“ Rot! ” There is at
present an enormous extent of N.W. country practically
unknown to white men, to which I have been nearest
(always excepting Rougeniont), and should know. “ E.F.”
writes from hearsay, and does therefore exactly' what he
rates Hogan for doing—writes about places he was never
n>a : ith the difference that Hogan is right and “E.F.”
quite wrong.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
A Novelty for a Christmas Present.
The Calendar jjjatcli.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
To purchasers of this Watch we will present, Free of
Charge, a solid Silver H.M. Gent’s Single or Double Chain.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH CO-. LTD-,
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS DROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me,., as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
MICE SIMMONS
*
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
• ♦ —-
All Sporting Materials at Lowest COt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s 6d
~ ■F. IL Ayres’ ditto (International) ... ... 16s 6d
„ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s 6d
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) . ... 14s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s dit to (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WIT 11 IlAlLS. —Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod ... 7s, 7s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
~ Full Size 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ss, 6s 6d
~ Men’s 6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s6d
BA LLS. —Duke’s Six-seant, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 5s Od
~ Duke's P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best 6s 9d
~ Wisden’s Match ... 4s Od
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney) .. 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
~ With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS.—Qobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
„ Feltlfam's ditto 6s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
~ Lily white’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ...6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lcrd’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons' Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s Od
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full sue, ventilated, pair 6sOd
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, lOsOd
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORI NG BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
~ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse 2s Od
~ ,> Match, 5*40z., Is ; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, &Sl umps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Mewtown (Sydney).
AsJs: for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
H
2
T>OOK OF INATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WOES FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illv.s. , is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art op Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor4. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BY
RDYA.L •W-A.RUA.aXTT
OF A-PBOiarTMEKrT TO “THE QUEEKT.”
Ask for
Whisky aijd
SCHWEPPES
&OPAWATER, &c.
( 9dd9AvCps,
pOe ApOejg
JOJ >|stt
1 APgPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J'tic.XT ‘CBaa^ivx« TTl OidVCI
‘((lajjiv i'j)
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
n
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAVARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchase*- ,>f nil classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HlGaajldT PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS
For ,11 Hot™, ete., apply to E. A. Manage,, The Smeltiog Oompahy of Ao.tr.lU, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W,


N crr ßaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfalifye Herbal Remedies.
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
-A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of.a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving' of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint.as I had, which led roe to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the etficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through inretnperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on ‘ray complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours.gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, w'hich his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rasstnussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Troth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.— “It may not be out of
place to mention, that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington. “We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Files.
To Herr Rassmusse.v.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express mv thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day Was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
Mission in the Herbal HJorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Paiisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Kennedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
sereral unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr l.'assmus-
sen , or llerr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Reurd'es,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs any where.
- -
.. . •
Herr Rassmussen, Uji-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies ccm only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which-
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealer's for the genuine
AUaline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
| Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans T?,assmnssftn
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUS3EFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and arc
unequalled as a Permanent and Confplete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing-.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435..6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Slood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMITSSEH’S
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets —An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds; consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey .
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
| Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and •
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
4s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars. '
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking- Herr Rassmussen’s ■\7"X*X*-A.l_.X*X’'sT FILLS (Registered), -which, is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequa'led for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Eassmnssen’s Head Office: - 547 Georg*e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 180 Cueen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)


" DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Amusements.
Hmt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mnssrrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45; Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
The Famous Nautical Drama,
THC • HARBOR • LIGHTS.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGIIT as DAVID KINGSLEY.
Miss ADA FERRAIi as LINA NELSON.
Tlan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 2a, and la.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction M. B. Curtis.
EVERY EVENING! and Matinee Saturday.
DANTE, The Great Juggling Genius.
THE GREAT DANTE BOOM.
OVER 57 PERFORMANCES IN SYDNEY !
PHENOMENA L ! UNPREC EDEN TED!
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. ... Box Plan at Palinjr’s.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
ALFRED ID AMPIER.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING !
... Grand Revival of ...
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
PRlCES—Private Boxes, Jtl Is;Dress Circle, 3s; Stalls,
2s ; Family Circle, Is ; Gallery, Sixpence.
ALHAMBRA. The Contest Theatre in Sylney.
Sole Lessees, Percy St. John and W. J. Wilson.
Every Evening, at 8!
Alhambra Minstrel & Burlesque Co.
Triumphant Success of
DELOIIERY, CRAY DON and HOLLAND,
PAT MELTON (Coster Impersonator and Step Dancer),
and our COLOSSAL ALHAMBRA COMPANY.
First Part, Olio, and the Sparkling Burlesque, ALADDIN.
Prices—2s, Is, (id. Children Half-price to Chairs & Stalls.
IJ1 H EATRE HO YA L, S YDNEY.
Under Vice Regal and Distinguished Patronage.
Monday Evening, Dec. 5.
- - Complimentary Benefit to - -
TStExr. JOHCKT BE PJPUETT
GRAND COMBINATION PROGRAMME.
Full Particulars, see Daily Papers.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is. ... Plan, ELVY and CO.
OWN lIA LU SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o’clock.
I/- TN€ “POPS.” I/-
... A MAGNETIC PROGRAMME . . .
DOROTHY MUCIO, the wonderful infant pianoforte
prodifrv, MADAME SPADA, Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY,
Dora Ranclaud, Mr. 11. Walton, Miss Mabel Hastings,
Miss Maud Dalmnple, Mr. E. R. Gooud, Mr. Rodd i Perrv.
Plan at Palings. Manasrer, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Tl V()I, 1 tTf~H ATIt E, SYI)N U Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Marry Rick a tins.
TO-DAY (Saturday, December 3) First Appearance in
Australia of The
Sisters Phillips ...and .. Bros- Lorenzi-
Pronounced Phenomenal Success of C. A. SAMPSON.
FGORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLE If).
Miss CORA CAS EL LI, I‘OPE and SAYLES,
The BO VIS BROTHERS, SISTERS TERRY, DELROY
and LYNNE, FAKING and DEYOE, and our Grand
Double Co. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Lieutenant Frank Travis- Ugo Biondi-
NELLIE WILSON. CHAS. W. COGILL.
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
Miss ETHEL YORKE.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Mr. SYD DEANE.
WALLACE KING.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
| • “ TH€ MIKnPO.”~
Interpreted bv the Full Strength of
TIIE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT, Dee. 3—“ THE GONDOLIERS.’’
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
fjOU THEATRE, MEL l») IT If NK.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
Tbe BroCigb Conjcdy Coy.
First Production in Australia of
‘‘Lord, and Lady Algy.”
An original light comedy, in 4 acts, by IJ. C. Carton.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
T
lIEATHE HOY AL,
Lessee and Manager
MELBOURNE.
Mr. Bland llolt.
LIFB^V
sth WEEK sth and LAST NIGHTS!
And continued Cyclonic Enthusiasm of this newest narra-
tive of Sport and Sensation, illumined by Scenic Splendor.
Interpreted by dir. and Mrs. HOLT and their
Brilliant Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
JjXIIIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
£<YCLORAMA, ADELAIDE.
The Management are now prepared to make
Arrangements with VARIETY ARTISTS and
NOVELTY PROPRIETORS.
THE MANAGEMENT,
Cyelorama,
Hindly-street, Adelaide.
LI ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
, Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
GRAPHOPHONE.
UP
7^?
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
TALKS
LAGGHS!
SINGS ! AMUSES ! and
ENTERTAINS !
PRICE (including Repro-
ducer, Horn, .ond Record),
£2 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
US King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Importing Representa-
lives for Australia. Agents wanted where we are not
already represented. Send for Catalogues of Grapho-
phones, Records, Portable Vapor Rath Cabinets, Musical
Instruments and Music; also for the best Mouth Orjran in
tlie world—“ The BOOMERANG,” price 2s. Cd. Trade
supplied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
6/6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
To every purchaser
of one of our 2 6
“ B irmese ’ Silver
Chains (either
Ladies' Fob or
Gents' Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4 -
extra an Open-
Face Keyl e s s
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessinsr about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for Gs. Gd. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Pencil to hail"; on the watch-chain.
Mention Bullutix.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Aggregate Balance-Sheet of the Bank of New South Wales,
SEPTE.M UEU 30, 1898.
LIABILITIES.
. £ s. d.
?>ote* in Circulation ... 757,015 0 0
Deposit* and Accrued
Interest 18,067,200 13 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for doubtful
debts ami amount at credit of Ottieers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident
Fund)
Paid-up Capital 1,050,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1, 200,000 o o
Profit and Loss 111,730 7 5
£ s. d.
18,824,275 13 8
2,975,068 3 4
3,261,730 7 5
Contingent Liabilities -
Outstanding Credits and
uteiits, as per Contra...
£25,061,05D U 5
endorse-
261,935 18 11
£25,323,016 8 4
£ 8. d.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
ASSETS.
£
8. d.
Balances
British and Colonial Go-
vernment Securities ..
llnniri|>al and other Se-
curities
Queensland Govt. Notes
Notes o( other Banks ...
Due by other Banks
5,010,073 8 3
917,443 11 3
135.124 7 11
120,513 0 0
11,102 0 0
274,053 13 10
Bills receivable. Bills discounted, and
Beniiitanees in transit
Loans and Advances to Customers
Bank Treatises
0,474,320 1 8
2,453,901 14 3
15,499,853 13 0
033,000 0 0
£25,001,030 9 5
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra 201,935 IS II
£25 323,010 8 4
Dr.
PROFIT -AND LO.<S, SEPTEMBER 30, IS9B.
Cr.
£ s. d.
IS9B.
Sep. 30.—T0 Rebate (at current, rates) on
Bills discounted not due at
this date
„ Dividend at the rate of 9 per
cent. per. annum
„ Balance carried to “ Profit ami
Boss,” .New Account
(1,751 0 4
57.750 0 0
17,235 1 1
£111,730 7 5
IS9S.
Mar. 31.-7-
Scp. 30.
£ s. d..
B t v Amount from last Account... 10,942 11 5
~ Balance of Half-year s Profits
after providing for liad and
doubtful delits, reducing the
valuation of hank premises,
and including recoveries from
debts previously written off
as bad 94,793 13 0
All 1,730 7 5
Da.
It'ESELtVE EUNI), SEPTEMBER 30, 1593.
Cu.
IS9B.
Sep. 30.—T0 Halnnee
(of which £OOO,OOO is invested
in British Government Secu-
rities, and the balance is em-
ployed in the business of the
Bank)
£ s. d
,200,000 0 0
£1,200,000 0 0
1398. £ s. cl.
Sep. 30. fly Balance £1,200,000 0 0
J. HUSSKI.L FIIEXCII, Ceneral Manager.
iiNUM nox sxooa
cTO will
111 ANDRADE
linjfifp UB LIS H E R
& IMPORTER
CHEAP BOOKS
WILL. ANDRADE!
Wife's Guide and Friend;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2(1.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limilation, but tlie
publishers eventually won
the rieht to sell it.
Fruits ok Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlatiß-h, prose-
cuted work, Is ; post free,
Is -2d.
I.aw of Population*. Annie
Besant's famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mau-
niAGF. Guide, 3s Cd; post free,
4s. Full description. Sent
post free.
Plain’ Home Talk about
tub Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
jtravinjts and colored plates,
7s 6d.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Tokology, illustrated—a book for every w<
post tree, 11s.
lan, 10s 6d ; 1
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s Cd ; post, 4s.
Every Man ll is Own Schoolmaster ; or, Ilow 10 Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is Cd.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d.
Gustave and llis Lovks, by raul de Kock ; post free,
Is 3d.
Sexual Pnvsior.oov, FOR ROYS, Is Cd, post free. THE
SAME FOR GIRLS, Is Cd, post free.
How to Dance. Is, post free.
Dr. Bea.nky’s Boor for Men. 2s Cd, post free.
Don Juan. Is, post free.
The Kelly Cano (illustrated), post free, Is Cd.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is Cd, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1593 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Rosario, the Female Monk. Post free, 2s.
Best Way to Get On : Guide to Money-making. Is Cd,
post free.
Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2tL
How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is Cd.
Maria Monk. Post, Is 9d.
Our List of SPECIAL LOOKS post free anywhere.
WILL
opp. the Waxworks.
ANDRADE,
201 B.ourke Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
Australasian Mortgragre anrl Agency C
John Bridire and Co., Limited.
Daljrety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbroujfh, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Monday
Tuesday
Tuesday
Wednesday
>., Limited.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - - - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Uadsrery, Limited.
Winchconilte, Carson and Co.
Wvly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Yount;- and Co.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i THE MOST DBIJCIOVS SAUCE IN THE WOUU),
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPSEOEOENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors
txuock &
■ /J 3
Sold in Bottles, 6d., x'-, and a- each.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, a. CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
CO., and UVEKPOOI. tiIKEETS, BVDNEY.
tmm
INEIHEH
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
. . FOR SUMMER . .
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
xwr CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post Iree.
' Sole Agents :
David graham I* Co.,
73 & 73
King -st.,
Sydney
(between Georjre and York streets).
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
.OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. agents : Msssrs. ELLIOTT-BEOT, L + d.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Ei cAi.vrn s On. Co. Ltd., Hobart.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of cite.
BOOMS 2s. to 10s.
ME.M.S Is; and 2s. Gd.
IitIAUHEKS ... ... ... Hus. to UN Us.
Gent's Kid-leg Calf Goloshed I<V6
~ ~ Patent ~ ... ... 18/ 1 *
~ Giaep-leg and Golosh, patent *?ai>s ... 10/C
~ All Russia Tan Calf 10/0
~ All Ooze Tan Calf ... ... ... 10/6
By Bail, Pott, or Steamer throughout Australia,
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
aro Famous
. . SENT) ECU!
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VAR LET V
. . OF . .
Ladies\ Gentlemcn %
ami
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Hoad Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
AI.SO,
liOUJI KB ST., MELBOURNE[
Get'lonrj and Ballarat.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for ss. ; worth 12s. Od. Post Free, securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. JMiss Dare, Waverley, writes: “ 1 was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.*’
MILLERS FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel Street, Prahrax, Melbourne.
QUIBF.LL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the lialdhead, and is
superior to Permanganate ol Potash. Sold everyw here.


TERMS
A. H. MOORE & 00.
416, 418, 420
George-at., SYD NEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERPOT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- ~
Repairs, (i<l. String .
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
Pro'ii fls,
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen,
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tehrtis
Ball, per doz, 0/0
Regulation Grey Uncovered... 5/6
Red Enanielled, per doz. 7/6
r
mROFICAL HELMET, with Special Air
* Space ;in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Smith * soi,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
I3T" Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
MoSTtb Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Publications, etc.
Mrs. macclurcan’s
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
%
m
m
•zay
The!
Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
Barmaid.
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS
Books
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Chambers’ Encyclopaedia, last edition,
10v015.,1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 0
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vois 16 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator. 6 vols 400 100
The Home Physician 2 6 0 017 6
Large Family Bibles, colored plates ... 4. 0 0 16 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 255, very suitable for a Christmas
present. NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS . . .
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free ls6d ; The Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard,Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
R. W. SKINNER,
Telephone, 3043.
New and Second-hand Book
Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Sydney.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme*
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, Bs.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
sContinental Supply Agency,
f Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
dSTSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & 00.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
Nanango, a little sun-baked Q. village, has
put itself in running for the Federal capital, on
the ground of the salubrity of its climate. In
proof, it points to one John Toohey, born in 1814,
who has lived at Nanango most of his life, and is
still hale and fit for work. But who wants poli-
ticians, Federal or provincial, to live to 85 ?
realistic battle-pictures, a man shot
dead ihstahterinvariably falls oh his face. In the
huinah there is such a slight projection behind,
that a man naturally throws his weight forward to
avoid going over backwards; and thus, when
death is sudden and the support of the foot is
instantaneously withdrawn, the body must fall
forwards. Also, a wounded man generally turns
on his face to die.
In a Sydney photographer's
window recently saw a mouse dart out of ambush,
catch a fly, eat it; therj hide again and repeat
performance. Mentioned this tb shopman; who
said, “Oh, he’s tame; we keep him tb catch
flies ! ” Wouldn't have believed this if I hadn’t
myself, when a boy, ,tamed a common rhouse.
Caught him young, and had him so that he would
sct-amble all over me, sit on my head, and take
refuge up my sleeve.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“ Yangan ’’ : Be woman workers. China’s
the place to see ’em. Females of the boat popula-
tion live with husband, family, and often two or
three other relations on board the sampan, and,
with the children, do all the work, rowing included.
When an addition to the family is expected, the
prospective mother puts down her oar and retires
for an hour or two, at end of which time she takes
her place again at the oar with the little stranger
strapped to her back.
Copy of letter received by N.S. Wales
M.P.
-’s Flat, 3 Nov. ’fl
_ OX Jdl', O iIUV, VO.
Dear Sir, —We have formed a cricket club here, and I
have been asked to write to j-ou for a subscription. We
have 20 members, and I am sure, if you send us a sub-
scription and something towards getting- matting, it will
be the means of getting all the boys to vote for you at
next election, and giving j-ou a substantial majority here.
Yours truly, .
“ Subscription and something ” sent, of course;
but what is bribery and corruption ?
“ Dominie ”: Be bush-morality. When
pedagoguing on a northern N.S.W. river I was
considered a bit “ratty ” because I would never
remain, or allow a male pupil-teacher to remain,
alone in school with a female pupil. Also, I used
to impress upon every young male teacher, when
leaving to take charge of some tiny bush school,
the imperative necessity for this course. I was
laughed at, but—l know what I know! Many
of the big scrub cockiesand butter-splashers have
no more idea of common decency than a pig. In-
discriminate bunking is the root of the evil.
Handsome Nickel Puzzle Matchbox*
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
a
9
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMCSING. Post Paid, Is. Id. ;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is, 7d.
OtJR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL,
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil paintings; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber; 0 Ball-pointed Pens;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion —a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S
UIDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains ,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward vou gratis and post free a descriptive book and
conies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
vour address to S COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide. , .
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price m Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 55.-per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. V ales.
The jjatest Insect pouider.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT. POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS
KILLS FLIES, THE (CARRIERS OF. DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS M-OSQ LTITGES, AN, D ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
THE UNWELCOME GUEST-
WHERE HE COMES. HOW HE COMES.
WHY HE COMES.
Death
comes a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
conscious-
ly invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, be-
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overtakes
them, and
death that
is prema -
tui*e be-
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman :
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic —something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night..
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes :—“ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable. ”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes : —“lt is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure.”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Presby-
terian, Sydney, writes : —-“It is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate. ”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr. Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Feldheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st„ Sydney
am
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. I n visible. _ Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A, M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOOO Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
ourSPECIAL BELTforLADIESis
REALLY a MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They orl.v stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
i" end never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man - Electricity.
'”>m- E'eetric Bt-lts will cure
II NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES ih ali stages, and
(store the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Out* Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, soOth-
ng- current that can be felt
v the Wearer through all
A'EAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
t lie Beit that it Will per-
cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. W.e mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA. and Price List, (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address *
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLTANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
mm,
The CELEBRATED and only SAFE.
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatessoquietl.v and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WM HAVE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’^^
•sms
jro/f
MM MJEASE£_
d?ro’berts
AND WOU/VDS
or £ V£R Y
Descrip tioiF
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL £>/S ORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/srs ///£ & 2/?EACH
BEACH &BAR)VICOTT L°. BR| DPO R^T.
ffllUE?
FHEEv^
\lwCHES'Clocks-JEvVELLERY-BißiriDAY*
WeddiNc z CrißisTEriirJG Presents
fIJNIEV/MArJ' 1755177-ELIZABETH ST‘
OPPOSITE C:RQ.
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
WEAK BACKS.
A X/'v o
LAME BACK,
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
, PAIN in the BACK,
whether the result of ;
strain, cold, exposure
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism, stooping,
hard work, or dissipa
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and perman enth
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.’
It sends a soothing,
warming, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes RIGHT TO THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation of blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
remedy for weak back. Read all about it in the little
“ Book No. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
1.” Address:— Magnetic Elast c Truss Co.
San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL & CO, lfis
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGIN AD letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CipbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As _ unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)hrocatioi)-


1 SILVER tllim FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. . If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized, wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we.shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Publishers’ Notices.
4*
Just Published. Price, 5/-; posted, 5/6.
With Rabbit Map of Queensland and
Numerous Plates.
—THE—
N
By C. L. MOBGA .V, Clerk Maranoa Rabbit Board.
Watson, Ferguson & 00., Brisbane,
and all booksellers.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. Y u can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the pate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance,, cure for bashful ness., and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
lettersand FI FT KEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find dailv use for. 2s. 6d. f stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring yon the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness \Vith one you love. Anglo-American Publishing
« 0.. Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention thl*
paper when writing.
illustrate;) Australian theatrical
1 ANNUAL and GALLERY OF CELEBRITIES.
Price, One Shilling;, postage, 4d. extra. Contents: 86
pictures by Falk, Talma, Newman, Johnstone O’Shannesy
and Co., etc. Three New Theatrical Stories : “An Aus-
tralian Flirt,” by Emily Soldene ; “Quiet Lodgings,” by
Bert Royle ; “ The Prompter’s Revenge,” E. Lewis Scott;
and a New Song, full music size, “She Was True,” by
A. W. Juncker, the celebrated composer of “I Was
Dreaming.” Wholesale Agents : ROBT. A. THOMPSON
and CO., 180 Pitt-street, Sydney; and Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Capetown, and London.
M aodolii}! Maodolii)!
Vivacite, Scherzo Spagnolo, Passione, and many
other fa vorite compositions, by Marchisio, Venanzi,
and other eminent composers for this Popular
Instrument.
W. Paxtoi) & Co.,
203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE ;
And 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
T| ENRY FARMER S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-*. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Clarkson’s
He-Inviff orator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 28; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1 - ; St. Jacobs Oii, 1 11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6. - -h-, —- : • ' . ■ >
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting: all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
- 1 - which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
PoiRR OR •
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
GRAP
SMB
GRAB
JUST THE THING FOR^-
—. A CHRISTMAS BOX
The GRAPHOPHONE
A marvellous instrument, reproducing the music of
great military bands, the voices of famous opera
singers, and celebrated comedians in laughter-making
monologues, on the stages of the world’s chief cities.
It is simple to operate, and will not get out of order.
Unequalled for home amusement or exhibition pur-
poses. If you have no agent in your town or district,
write us at once. The trade supplied.
United Importing Co.,
117 Clabenoe Steeet, SYDNEY.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent m the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each,
Dr. TARRANT
E.E.C.S.E., L.R.C.P E„ L.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
ft a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
ana is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing,
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant's Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint. ’
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo Mian. or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced their deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose eases prove to be over strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated bv advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of vour letter renlv cour
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memorv Weak Sore Sunken
or Dark-circled Eyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation' or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subiec’ts Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr’
TARRANT makes
-A-lbsolutely KTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost anv com
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat Eve and Far
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever. Diseases of Women Constina
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Luna- Troubles Coughs'
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequentlv ensuring immediate attention Should Dr
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessarv exnense he
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT. nurses > un «er
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration and in-mart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language. ’ " "
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 ElizaDeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THJE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
Rnd '‘lmv, to BEST > CHEAPEST, and most
k-TYLISH Clothing; in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15/9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/C. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
| T*E T*M* F-R E*E*V’Q*Y 1
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with Jthe object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
" Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
-A. Solid Silver Watcb.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
W*A * S j T* E
T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions : —That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
(SECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Cramps}
\ Colie,
\ Colds,
Croup
Coughs
Tooth-
ache,
Cats, \
Burns, \
\ Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"PounKiUev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
■WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
3ETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
1 Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is;
100, 2s 6d ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH.’
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
ON€ NONCST MAN.
T)EAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
1 written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.


Arnott’s Living Pictures.
m
m
TESTIMONIAL.
Mr. ARNOTT.
Dear Sir.
May Street, St. Peters.
I have much pleasure in recommending your famous
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits. I have reared my little girl on
them since she has been born, and I can assure you that I
would not be without them in the house. My little girl has
derived great benefit from them, and she has grown quite fat
and rosy, and I am sure you will be satisfied when you see
her likeness. She has just turned two years old, and her
name is Elsie Irene Doherty. I must conclude, hoping you
will agree with same. I enclose the photo, and I hope you
reply as soon as possible.
I remain, yours faithfully,
ELSIE DOHERTY.
ELSIE IRENE DOHERTY—Fed since her birth on
ARNorrs nnk
The Children's Food of Health,
Arrowroot Biscuits!
Always ash for ArnotVs when purchasing,
The Lodge-Doctor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS putting in an afternoon waiting for a train
in a far-back Australian town, and a bilious man
with pig’s-eheek whiskers took pity on my loneli-
ness. He related his victories in love and war
during two beers, and just as I was on the point
of ordering a third in the hope of getting drunk
enough to bear the strain, the buggy of the local
medico passed down the dusty street and directed
his reminiscences into a new channel.
“ He’s a stuck-up bloke, that,” said he viciously.
“Looks it,” I replied, with mendacious hearti-
ness. The medico was a friend of mine, and had
spent an hour that morning relating his local
lodge-troubles.
“My oath ! We had hard work with him at
first. He was that uppish the missus wouldn’t
call him in for the kids unless there was some-
thing real bad. I told him about it one day, and
he said he’d chuck me out.”
“Chuck you out?” I echoed. “I wouldn’t
have stood that.”
“Yes you would ! ” snorted my bilious friend ;
“he’s a big bloke, and knows how to use ’is
’ands ! ” He fingered the back of his head in a
reminiscent way, and went on hastily.
“ Well, I was going to tell you. When he come
first, all the women went to call on his wife —-
Joe’s missis at the pub, old Mrs. Bulldog, and
the ’ole lot. They left cards, and when they’d
all been, his missis wanted to call on them. Then
he up and said no, she wouldn’t; and started
arguin’ that they were all in lodges, and weren’t
no better than his groom. Why, there’s members
in that lodge could buy and sell him. One bloke
gets 15 quid a week out of mining shares alone,
and old Bulldog owns half the town.
I sniffed as one who marvels at the presumption
of an inferior, and the champion of plutocracy
went on.
“ Old Bulldog got narked at it, and after a bit
he got his knife into the doctor proper. He owns
the doctor’s house, and was just joinin’ our lodge
when he found out that the doctor wouldn’t pass
him. So he went to the bloke and had a bit of a
yarn with him, and the bloke says that a man of
his position ought to be above joinin’ a lodge.
Such lip I never heard ! So old Bull, waited a
week, and back he went again.
“ I’m all right now,” says he.
“ No, you ain’t,” says the doctor, quite sharp,
“Well, I hope I am for your sake,” says
Bulldog. “For if I ain’t, out you go from this
house, and you won’t get ’nother in the town.”
“ Go to ! ” says the doctor, “ I’ll stay at
the pub.”
“No you won’t,” says old Bulldog. “ Because
I’ve bought it.”
“ So the bloke had to give it best and pass him.
The doctor’s missis was down with this here
typhoid, so they knew he had him under the
whip. He tried to get on to Mulroon a few days
after with some rot about keepin’ pigs and not
cleanin’ drains, but he shut him up pretty quick
by sayin’ he was Bull’s nephew,”
“ Got many members ? ” I queried.
“ O, every bloke in the town went in after that.
We made him shove on an extra mile, so he goes
out to the mines at the Four-mile. Then lie made
a row about comm* out at night ; but we had the
doctor from Johnny town, and ,made this bloke
pay, so he soon knocked that, off. ’
“ What do you give him ? ” .
“He gets fourteen bob a year from us—medicine
chucked in, of course. The ’Sociation gives eighteen,
but they’re going to cut it down. He goes four
miles out for that, and provides his own splints
and bandages, and things. 'Fre’s luck again. . . .
You’d better hurry up ; she’s comm’ round the
bend. So long.”
Vic.
PUYYAKA.
Business, Robbery, etc-
The carriage was full of experts, and there was
501bs. pressure of mining knowledge to the cubic men of
atmosphere. A man produced a dark, hard substance.
“ Any gold in that ? ” It went from hand to hand. One
man said “ telluride,” decidedly. Another said oxidized
talcous silicate.” The next pronounced it ferruginous
cyanide,” or something which sounded equally clever. All
agreed that it contained gold and wanted to know where
the claim was. The man said : “ I dunno—l ve had the
specimen in my pocket for months. It was soft at first
and I used to nibble it, but it’s got so hard lately I think
I must fhave struck the lode. It s a bit of Turkey
rhubarb.” „ .
* * * *
A Sydney publican lately promised certain
Sabbatarians that he would not sell on following Sunday
Went out accordingly at 6.30 a.m. on that day, and did
not return till 9.30 p.m. Knocking and whistling had
been going on unheeded all day. Next week s returns
dropped £25, and it took him months to work his old cus-
tomers back. The Sabbatarians had told the publican
oDiiosite that Mr. , in the hotel across the way, had
signed. But not much ! After that, he kept side-door,
front-door, and back-gate going all Sunday long.
* * *
The North Coast Co. (writes a traveller) has a
soft thing on with its steamer-bars. It pays £lO license,
as against £3O for a shore pub. The barman is compelled
to buy everything from the co., and sell at same rate to
passengers, and is allowed 5 per cent, on sales. He retails
large bottle ale or stout at Is. 6d. (shore price, Is.);
whisky, rum, gin, port, or sherry, 6s. per bottle (same
Quality procurable in town at 3s. to 4s. 6d) , spirits and
soda 9d.; cigars—well, not the best brand of sixpenny in
the market. If anyone asks for a glass of beer, the steward
will say, pathetically, “ ev a small bottle, sir. If you
don’t, the balance of the bottle, for which he has to pay
the co. full price, may be left on his hands.
* * * *
“ Has anyone ever seen a conscious consumer of
margarine?” asks Sydney D.T. funnyman. Well, has
anyone ever seen a conscious consumer of Australian
whisky ? Consumers thereof must nevertheless exist by
the thousand, else what becomes of the annual scores of
thousands of gallons of whisky annually distilled—say in
Victoria? Who ever saw a bottle in a public-house
labelled “ Warrenheip whisky ’’—though it is by no means
bad whisky ?
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. — Medical bamboozle ! A pre-
scription was recently handed to me to dispense, signed
by a well-known city specialist and bearing the stamp of
an equally well-known Sydney chemist. It was in cipher !
—a neat little arrangement between doctor and chemist
whereby the patient is debarred from having his pre-
scription made up where he pleases and at same time is
compelled to pay an exorbitant price for what is probably
a very simple remedy One could better understand this
sort of thing being done by second or third-raters, but
with alleged tip-toppers it is playing the thing very low
down indeed !—Country Chemist.
« » * *
A unique “colonial industry” is the penguin-
oil factory at Macquarie Island, Antarctic Ocean, run by a
resident 'of Invercargill (M.L.). He has a number of
hands employed there catching penguins and boiling
them down—the product when refined is a first-class
machine-oil. The raw material is periodically shipped to
Invercargill in a vessel that takes down supplies for the
workmen, who sign-on for 12 months at a time. The
penguins are driven like sheep along narrow tracks and
through small gates to the digesters, where each gets a
blow from a club and is knocked into the boiling water in
one act.
• * * *
The Victorian Presbyterian Assembly has just
dropped to a certain financial matter, and considering
that the church is mostly Scotch the fact that it didn’t
drop earlier is amazing. The Assembly is in charge of
£247,000 of church funds. It invested £lB,OOO in the
blighted and reconstructed Australian Deposit and Mort-
gage Bank, which wasn’t at all a Scotch proceeding ; and
it put the rest out on mortgage so carefully that £45,000
is represented by foreclosed properties on which there
will be a heavy loss, and the whole fund only brings in
about £3 7s. per cent. Meanwhile, the various churches
under the Assembly's supervision are mortgaged for
£127,000 which has been borrowed at rates v arying from
4J to 7 per cent. Therefore, the Assembly has wakened •
to three facts : (1) It would have been much more profit-
able to invest its pile in State securities all along ; the in-
terest would actually be more and there would be no
depreciation. (2) It would have paid better to lend the
money to its own churches ; to lend money on bad
security for £3 7s. per cent, and borrow other money
at £4 10s. to £7 per cent, is just as satisfactory as paying
a man to run after you and kick you. (3) At present the
church is paying almost as much for the use of somebody
else’s £127,000 as it is getting for its own £247,000, and, so
far as income is concerned, it might almost as well have
paid off all mortgages and then drunk the other £120,000.
And yet the Vic. Presbyterian Assembly is mostly Scotch.
• * . * »
Since banking first began in Australasia 81
years ago, 32 banks have gone smash—not land banks,
but the alleged genuine article—and only 23 remain alive.
But the private banker goes on remarking just the same
that State banks are bound to be a failure, and that the
privately managed institution, by reason of its eminent
success in the past, is the only kind that can be trusted.
• * * *
The most recent Auckland (M.L.) mining ven-
ture is located on the Hen-and-Chickens, a group of rocky
islands some 80 miles north of the city. A party char-
tered a steamer to go down and investigate, and came
back reporting a copper lode 400 ft. thick, and yielding 2
to 3 per cent, of the metal. The very oysters on the
beach, it was said, were so impregnated with verdigris as
to be uneatable. An American medico is at the head of
the syndicate. The chief difficulty would be in getting the
product away, as there is absolutely no harbor, and the
ocean swell makes landing even in small boats dangerous.
Up to date the islands have been remarkable chiefly as
the last stronghold of the tuatara, a big lizard forming a
connecting link between the lizards of the present and
the gigantic saurians of old. They chum up with the
mutton-birds and penguins, occupying their burrows, and
share in the fish the birds catch. Specimens kept in con-
finement often remain motionless for weeks together, but,
on occasion, can burrow into the soil as fast as their
would-be captors can dig after them.
* * * *
How are the mighty fallen ! Melb. Y.M.C.A.
now has its headquarters in a wooden shed in the back
yard of a Russell-street establishment divided between a
Hebrew pawnbrokery and an Assyrian old clo’ shop. Time
was when the Y.M.O.A. bought (on bills) a big Bourke-
street block and erected the £20,000 building now occu-
pied by the Salvarmy. But those were the days when
Matt. Davies and McLean had the Mercantile and Federal
Banks to assist in the “ Cawse,” and, with the collapse of
those smellful institutions, the Y.M.O.A. had to put its
palatial edifice ignominiously up the spout.
* * * *
“Face” : A “swell sharper” lately unbosomed
himself to me. “ The easiest way to make a rise is ‘ ring-
ing the change,’ but, although not worked-out yet, it is
getting risky, and I only tackle it when dead-broke. Bor-
row a five and a pound note and take a friend in for a
drink, slinging down the fiver to pay for it. Barmaid
picks it up, looks at it, and turns for change. You say
suddenly, ‘ Oh, never mind, I won’t trouble you to change
the fiver. I have a pound-note somewhere ’; and, holding
out left hand with single note ‘ palmed,’ you take the
fiver and quickly change it with single note, holding your
hand ahove the counter meanwhile and feeling in your
pocket with the right hand. After an unsuccessful
search, you sling down the pound-note, saying : ‘ Afraid
I’ll have to trouble you, after all. Blessed if I know where
that pound’s got to.’ It is 100 to I‘on ’ her throwing it
into the till and giving you change for a fiver without
again examining it. Have had a few narrow shaves,
though. Tried it once,on a woman at Wagga and she
spotted it but didn’t let on, though I could see she knew.
‘ That’s £4 19s. I have to give you,’ she said, so inno-
cently. 1 Oh, no ; you’re making a mistake—l9s.,’ said I.”
* * * *
A Queensland squatter, not long since dead,
„ se d to boast that in the old davs (before branch banks
got scattered all over the country) he cleared over £lO,OOO
b y having the oiders his superintendents drew upon him
for wages ‘ ‘ printed on white blotting-paper. ”
* * » *
« Auriferous ! ” said the promoter gentleman,
»i mi * , r , .
Y ou absolutelv 7 ' wh""*? "V, W °
*°u absolutely cant go wrong. Why, when the missus
° r
’ rv .v,™.;,,,,. in the grounds of my tea
Z ■ A , 7 r ‘ ' T . ''7 oZZ fi tly
a lon « tlnie . but I discovered at last that the ras-
Cally e ' rocer . waS sandln jT hls sugar with local grit.”
» r ,, mT „ T . a . ~
BULLETIN correspondent contrasting the
enormous rates charged by local popshoppery with the 7
per cent, of the Parisian municipal Mont f.e Pi6t6—aug-
£es k s that, as Sydney Municipal Council has such wilder-
!l esse . s of spare space in its colossal new Market Buildings,
might utilise a portion thereof for a big municipal
t* s h ou ‘'> an( * thus become the City Uncles as well as
* aUltrs - r
„ *
, Goolgardie gives further small symptoms that it
mt e P (ls to cal i l T , Tbe Westrafian International
Mining and Industrial Exhibition,” by issuing a pamphlet
showing how things are to be conducted. There are com-
mittees of every sort, and (eloquent fact) the general
manager is Jules Joubert. The plan accompanying the
P ar npmet indicates a gorgeous affair. In the centre there
are half-a-dozen gardens and four ferneries, several kiosks,
a lake and fountain, and only one bar ! Surely some mis-
takehere.
<« » rx m , '
Hoko : On las. west coast was once camped
nea r two men who were in charge of a mineral section-
?Z e g et tmg 10s. and the other Bs. a day. When I asked
<J 1 S n ll w^,^f^. never dld , a stroke of work, one said :
, Well, its this way, mister ; we just get paid not to
burs * U P a blanky good surface-show,
The illuminating of the ruins of Baalbec
(the ancient City of the Sun) for the delectation
of the German Kaiser and his 200 Lutheran par-
sons is a vandalism akin to rigging-up the Venus
of Milo with a skirt and blouse. Wonder there
wasn’t a German band tootling nightly in the
Garden of Gethsemane, lit up with Chinese lan-
terns. The Kaiser’s trip, however, was all busi-
ness. Simply went to Constantinople to convert
the Sultan to the “ Me and God ” religion and ex-
ploit the Porte for trade purposes; also, his
alleged sudden friendship for the Sultan has
“ Made in Germany ” stamped all over it.
The recall of the British Channel squadron
from Gibraltar, just after the Pashoda affair was
settled, showed that the warships had not been
sent to the Mediterranean for a six months’
cruise, although the Admiralty people said so—
and the despatch of five reserve battleships to re-
place them at the Rock indicated it still more
clearly. Five or six years ago the naval manoeu-
vres were directed towards finding out what would
happen in the event of war with France. Selecting
two home ports, geographically suitable, the
squadron demonstrated on paper that the
French fleets at Brest and Toulon, by effecting a
conjunction, w'ould be strong enough to quash the
British Mediterranean force—and then to “deal
with ” the Channel squadron. But the two
British squadrons, acting together, could over-
whelm the Frenchmen.


V
GOOD SERVANTS
Are wanted everywhere. The best helper
in every household is HUDSON’S Soap. It
saves drudgery, and removes dirt with
| Ease, Speed, and Safety.
Hudson’s Soap
is a Pure, Sweet Soap, in Fine Powder,
for Washing Clothes, China, Glass, and
Plate-ware. HUDSON’S softens water,
is full of lather, and leaves no smell.
Quarter Pound Packets.
Esther-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Esther was a frail little girl, with a face so thin
and wan that the freckles seemed to have fallen
like a merciful veil upon it. She was not pretty.
Her hair was too short to plait, not long enough
to hang gracefully loose, and its grain was alto-
gether too contrary for curls. So it hung miser-
ably about her ears, ragged and tattered like the
remnant of a flag that might have issued from the
nre and smoke of battle.
She was a friendless orphan, which fact made
her a born servant to somebody. Old Mrs.
Mac Smith had secured her services from the State
when she first began to toddle on two legs—two
legs that soon became bowed under the pots and
pans she had to carry in her small arms—and
next to her heart.
1 henceforth the Mac Smith household was per-
petually in a state of war. Her mistress beat her.
Esther screamed, and fought fiercely. But Mrs.
Mac Smith had a duty to perform. So she would
grip the little rebel by the windpipe, and call for
“ Mac.” He always came, swift and sure, and
the enemy was routed.
Thus, for all the eight years of her life Esther’s
existence had been one of screams and pain. She
was such a bold, bad girl, a mere handful, but
with a stubborn heart, primed so full of foolish
courage that it must surely have burst, were it
not for the vent-pipes that relieved the pressure
when Esther called people names, and wouldn’t
work, and scratched the collective face of the
Mac Smith family, with finger-nails kept sharp for
that purpose. And she had two other safety-
valves to her feelings. One was to laugh hysteri-
cally when, for exhibition purposes, she was ex-
pected to cry, and the other was to sob heart-
breakingly when someone tried to cheer her with a
kind word. Mr. Giles, the parson, once said of
her :
“ A regular passion-flower, my dear; but not
quite so pretty.”
A simile so vague that Esther resentfully poked
out her tongue.
The Mac Smith family had only one greeting to
bestow “You little wretch ! ”
• * * *
The canker grew in Esther’s heart. At times
she stole in through the window of the empty eot-
tage next door, and, alone and unobserved, began
talking to herself. It was the one little sociable
break in her martyrdom.
“Why don’t I die ? ” she asked hersen once.
She was eating a green apple. She took another
bite, and swallowed it.
That’s why,” she said. “ Because I’m a greedy
guts.” ° J
And then after a pause, and looking wistfully
at the cold fireplace, she added :
“ Oh, I do wish I didn’t eat.”
Why don 11 run away ?” was the next ques-
tion.
She waxed violent at this.
“Because I’m a looney; and here goes for
squashing old Mother Mac Smith, anyway.” She
brought down the heel of her boot on a large black
spider, creeping on the floor!
“ That’s 43 times I’ve killed her now! ” she com-
Rented, surveying the remains with satisfaction,
au i was twice a frpg, and once a Maori-bug.”
She laughed keenly. “ Oh, I’ll kill her yet,” she
added.
The helpless buzzing of a fly, caught in a spider’s
web, came from a corner. Esther investigated.
She killed the spider, and threw the rescued fly
out of the window.
* * * *
Soon after this the cottage found a tenant. Mr.
and Mrs. Mullampy, a pair newly wed, brought in
their furniture.
Their honeymoon had been a very nice luminary
while it lasted. The cheers of their friends, and
the rice, and the proverbial old shoe, had given
them a send-off into married life with quite a vio-
lent propulsion. But the law of gravitation told,
and they slowed down. Then the rainbow lost
the glory of its tints; the mantle of chimney-
smoke fell on their air-castles ; and they themselves
wi. 16 rl f ht down to the bed-rock of the prosaic.
When they couldn’t get down any further they
commenced to argue. Then the price of meat
went up considerably ; the milkman began to call
regularly; and married life on a solid basis had
begun.
Esther took a great interest in their arguments,
tiptoeing her way on to the very threshold of the
Mullampys’ kitchen at meal-time, she would listen
attentively. And she learnt many things. She
found that she was not the only unhappy person
in the world. Once she saw the husband lift his
hand to strike his wife. “Don’t!” Esther
screamed. The hand was arrested. Esther ran
away.
After that, the child’s presence came to be one
of the unconscious details of their domestic dramas.
Nor did they resent it. In their inmost hearts
they felt that Esther’s shadow, falling athwart the
doorway, was to them Love’s decoy-bird, a crea-
ture swaying them with such a strange influence
that more than once the man was tempted to
crush his pride and call the child in to plead with
the woman he really loved for a kiss. And the
woman, being weaker, could not keep the pain out
of her eyes. Yet she, too, was very proud.
Often, in the midst of bitter recrimination the
husband would suddenly stop shore and glance
fearfully at the door. Esther’s ragged head would
pop quickly back, and the man, with increased
color, would get up awkwardly from the table
and vanish through the opposite doorway.
* * * •
On one of these occasions, when the husband had
left the room Esther dropped something heavily
on the floor. Mrs. Mullampy looked up from the
table, and her visitor, looking very red and guilty,
advanced towards her. In one hand, which hung
limp and lifeless by her side, a large horse-shoe
dangled.
“ Whatever do .”
“ Please, don’t; 1 know I’m wicked.”
“ What’s that for ? ” Mrs. Mullampy pointed
at the horseshoe.
Cos if I .don’t tell no lies I won’t go to
heaven, said Esther, a little mixed, and trying to
nerve herself, in a roundabout way, for a moment-
ous admission. She drew a long breath.
“ To brain him with, please,” she said.
“Who?”
“Him. ’Cos he wanted to hit you.”
Mrs. Mullampy looked at her in silence for a
while. Esther hated to be pitied. She gave her
head a proud toss, calculated to change the com-
passionate expression of the woman’s eyes.
“ I hate him,” she said, spitefully. She tossed
her head again. This time two gum-leaves and a
twig dropped from her tangled hair to the floor.
" My dear child ! ” the woman said, softly.
Esther’s lips quivered. Then she thought of
the spider she had killed on the very spot where
she now stood. The recollection made her more
cheerful. Mrs. Mullampy picked up the horse-
shoe.
“ Would you hit me with this, Esther?” she
asked.
The child shook her head.
“ Well, then, don’t hit him. If you do, you’ll
hit rue.”
Esther’s mouth opened wide.
" Eli n’t a boomerang,” she said, sharply.
Mrs. Mullampy made an impatient gesture.
She bit her lip, as though restraining an exclama-
tion.
“ You don’t understand,” she said.
A sweet temptation came over her, and she
lifted the child on to her knees, and with all the
patience of a loving teacher commenced to ex-
plain. She outpoured the long pent-up secrets of
her heart to Esther. Anon, a querulous note
crept into her voice—a compromise of sweet and
bitter— a woman’s sense of being wronged
struggling with the unreasoning vagaries of a
forgiving heart.
Esther was not listening. Once or twice she
fancied she heard Mrs. MacSinith’s voice calling
her from the next yard. She was tired of sitting
on Mrs. Mullamp.y’s knee. The shrill cry of her
mistress rang out unmistakably now. She felt
uneasy.
“ Let me down, please.”
''Don’t go yet, Esther,” the woman pleaded.
I want to say something.”
But Esther had reached the door.
* * * *
Mrs. Mullampy, after all, was little more than
a girl herself. The romantic story and the coy
admissions seemed to linger about every ornament
in the room when the child had gone. A china
peacock over the mantel-piece, with tail outspread,
repeated distinctly, she thought, her own words :
“ I love him, Esther ! ”
And the voice of that peacock overwhelmed
her. She sat aghast. Then, slowly, like an apple
ripening in an hour, her cheeks grew red. She
snatched at the tablecloth and buried her face in
it Hite a school-girl trying to hide her blushes.
Esther had notgone. Shecautiously peeped round
the doorway. The horse-shoe was dangling, with
one end poked through a tear in her skirt. She
couldn’t keep her thoughts off that spider. She
was tracing with tier eyes the different routes it
might have taken if she had not intercepted it.
Her conjectures brought her glance to the corner-
door. It was ajar, and she saw Mr. Mullampy
looking at his wife through the opening. And she
saw Mrs. Mullampy start and cry out when she
uncovered her head and found her husband stand-
ing beside her.
Jane, he said, softly, “ I heard all. Forgive
me.
The woman was too happy to trust herself yet.
With the blind philosophy of her sex, which
always makes a show of flying in the face of fate,
however friendly it may be, she pretended to be
angry at being found out.
, l , oh ’o, she said > P ettis hly, “it’s all Esther’s
fault. She made me say it.”
" Then God bless Esther!” said the man.
* * * *
The girl had run round the back way, and was
peeping through the window. She saw them kiss.
The woman’s arms were round the man’s neck.
Then Esther began to cry. She felt that she
alone was miserable and unhappy.
“ I’ve a good mind to throw it,” she said, rais-
in# the horseshoe threateningly. “Only I can’t
hit him without hitting her.” ‘
Anyway, for luck,” she added, throwing it
over her left shoulder. It fell heavily on a stray
fowl belonging to Mrs. MacSinith. Esther clapped
her hands in glee.
I hen she took a farewell peep through the
window, and what she saw, whatever it was, made
her say : “ Crikey ! ”
Sydney.
J. J. O’M.
The Guile of Dad M'Ginnis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When M‘Ginnis struck the mining camp at Jam-
beroora Creek
His behaviour was appreciated highly ;
I or, although he was a quiet man, in manner
mild and meek,
Nor like ordinary swagmen with a monumental
cheek, . ..
He became the admiration of the camp along the
creek
Cause he showed a point to Kangaroobie Riley !
Both the pubs, on Jamberoora had some grog that
stood the test.
(Not to speak of what was manufactured slily !)
And the hostel of O’Gorman, which was called
“ The Diggers’ Rest,”
Was, O’Gorman said, the finest house of any in
the west;
But it was a burning question if it really was the
best,
Or the “ Miners ” —kept by Kangaroobie Riley.
Dad M'Ginnis called at Riley’s. Said he “ felt a
trifle queer,”
And, with something like a wan and weary smile,
he
Said he “ thought he’d try a whisky.’ Pushed it
back and said, “ I fear
I had better, take a brandy.” Passed that back
and said : “ Look here,
Take the brandy; after all, I think I’ll have a
pint of beer ! ”
And he drank the health of Kangaroobie Riley !
“Where’s the money?” asked the publican;
“ you’ll have to pay, begad!”
“Gave the brandy for the beer ! ” said Dad the
wily,
“ And I handed you the whisky when I took the
brandy, lad ! ”
“But you paid not for the whisky!” answered
Riley. “ No,” said Dad,
“And you don’t expect a man to pay for what he
never had!”
—’Twas the logic flattened Kangaroobie Riley !
“See,” said Kangaroobie Riley, “you have had
me, that is clear !
But I never mind a joke,” he added, drily.
“Just you work it on O’Gorman and I’ll shout
another beer! ”
“ I’d be happy to oblige yer,” said M‘Ginnis with
a leer,
“ But the fact about the matter is— O’Gorman sent
me here !
So, good morning, Mr. Kangaroobie Riley ! ”
W. T. GOODGR.


SALT RHEUM CURED,
Blood Purified.
Mrs. Mary Thomson, of Carlton (Melbourne), Tells the
Story of Her Daughter’s Sufferings, and of the Great
Blessing Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Was to Her.
lii
9WW
mm
m
; S
S 3
m
a
m
\v«.i
&
s,
su&c
“For three years my daughter Edith suffered terribly with Salt-Rheum,
which affected chiefly her hands, and for nearly six months at a time she
was constantly compelled to wear gloves. Her hands were covered with
blisters, full of a watery substance ; the skin would often peel off, and the
itching and burning were intense. I paid doctors’ bills - without number
and bought medicines of all kind; but all failed to give relief until I tried
AYER’S SARSAPARILLA. After using this medicine a short time an
improvement was manifest, and my daughter took in all ten bottles,—
& iitinuing it even after all signs of her affliction had disappeared. The
irsaparilla purified her blood, radically curing the disease, and we are
nost thafgkful for this great blessing.”
Be sure that you get the genuine
dyer’s Sarsaparilla.
The wonderful success of this great blood purifier has led to numerous
imitations. The name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla —is prominent on the wrapper
and is blown in the glass of each bottle. Refuse all substitutes.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
9a
m
\
\ i ®i
V
'
% \\m\
r.
-,1
■*
n
i
i*3>
v#\
/ v :
i
%
/?c
5^
\N
H
X
SI
Ss 2
1/
•>.
/r
7i
<-~3
A BOX OF SWEETS.
Tales of the System.
——
Price, Is; ... per Post, Is 3d.
THE LAST OF SIX.
— ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«—
PlilCE, Is. Per 1-QST, Is. 3d.
To Colon
it may
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
A
The first night I had slept a little from sheer exhaustion. The
next was terrible. I vomited incessantly; I was chilled to the bone, and
could not warm myself. I suffered horrible pain in the head, and through-
out my whole body. Next day, of course, I was a wreck. They told me I
had been delirious half the night I remember nothing of the day ; but
next night I got a couple of hours’ sleep, and Was rather better in conse-
But vomiting went on steadily, and the fourth night I was a<*ain
delirious. The next day I was as bad as ever; but, thanks to a good
dose of Beecliam’s Fills, i had an excellent
night, and I truly believe that they saved my life. I knew well where I
picked up this fever—in the marshes of Mwenzo, and near Ivituta—and the
killing thing was being unable to stop to cure it; the ten days on the lake
especially—often without food for twenty-four hours—nearly finished me.
I felt certain at the time that X was done for; and X very nearly was.” See
“ Three Years in Savage Africa," by Lionel Decle—Methuen <Sc Co., London.
Mr. Lionel Decle covered a distance of over 7000 miles at one
stretch, between Capetown on the South and Mombassa on the East coast of
Africa. It is worth noting that this “unique journey” would probably
have been cut short; and, to quote the introduction by Mr. 11. M. Stanley,
M.P., “ its vivid record ” would never have been penned had not Mr.
Lionel Decle provided himself with a supply of
PILLS.
M’
one
if EXTRACT.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Fries - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Boitins
s u mss
xestimoktial.
Adamstown, September 11th ISOfi
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c., ’
179 Harris Street, Sydney. ’
Dear Sirs,—Being- a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis I de
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anythin*
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily avvav and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONFINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills


HE LARGE;
tn <
W hJ
UJ 3=
* ~
c
m
txec
U. o
o =»
ESTABLISHES
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Bead Office and Factories • Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-s t. Uclb.
New Sauth Wales Address 3
3E Broadway, Georgs St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue Tree, on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to “procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
PCirppipg Eijgioe Conjpapy.
Simpson Krotliers.
(Australasian Branch.)
(Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, \.S. \Y.
Agencies :
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand; E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
FOR THE LADIES.
What is Health?
Jfheum at ism, Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free'
Six penny stamps.
J3T" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtoesof these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factored only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
15 LAST
Discovered by Christopher
Mndd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
ECZEMA
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10 < <
Self Applied.
Stdnrt—M. H. Hobwitz, 34 Pitt St.
Adelaide—Harris & Kemp, 6 Rnndle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J E, Phillips, 317 Collins St,
George and
Market-Sts.
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is.
per Post, 1
s. 3d.
&
ill m
flBHH
GO.
LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
only the Very Best Articles,
all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in
the W ORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
1, Manager.
•f
oO Clarence
ney
$
a
&
*
&
Ropp Straight Line Furnace.
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills.
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Boot Blowers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, &c.
Batho’s
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D. B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge.machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£8 reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; ’ 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £14, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £21, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
THE LON DON SMALL PANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
8 3 -toss. S3P" SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other bouse in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
Base £7 t'B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SHUTTLE.
KORTING’S INJECTOR.
Unrivalled.
HAVE FOR SALE
Korting’s Boiler Teed Injectors
Mason s Steam and Water Bedueing
Valves
“ Pickering” Steam Engine Governors
“ Midget” Steam Traps
“Ludlow” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Valves
Bichards and other Steam Indicators
Bevolution Counters, Jenkin’s Valves
description of Engine and Boiler Fittings, Mounting's and
