

’S ALE.
Hi®
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
107 Kent
Street,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers” **
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Syaney,
and
NEW
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LO V E & C?
ĥ
\vt
y
WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES! SYDNE
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIROIJI AR Mil I S cod amv°oi-»c <->r- . V
BAND OR
TXjp-tio-ilDa.te
CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS.
Milling Machinery, Engines & Boilers,’ Steel Windmills
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
ħ
THE JLbT^
V^NDTCK
CIGARS
v£itr
/LD vFff/IGftAfl/r
3MOX£
®P 8
Is
h
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss wtt street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
BROADBEIMT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
-E
machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods Sugar
Chemicals, the l reduction of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
■ ' ‘jC ' ■ ** - '' X • ~ '• N ;s '' ' • ' s ' X'Xy
full particulars.
mm
mm
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
the Pacific Ocean at
[ANLT BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
OF
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
Jm&OLTO GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Latest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBA.HT.
— -m*
Radley s Orient Hotel.
cM.
4L
-V-tQsf.
CO
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. c. ludowigT sc son, ltd.,
IX7
York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
<<
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament-War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
IXigneßt Awards wherever Elaclxibited.
WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Li
ħ
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON S SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
Vi<*oria.n Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Voi. 19.—N0. 984 j
[Saturday, December 24, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaoer,


fair Girls and Gray Worses
UJifD OtDer Uerses,
By WILL H. OGILYIE.
Reprinted from the Australasian ; the Sydney Mail ;
the Border Watch, S.A. ; the Western Champion,
Parkes, N.S.W. ; the Independent, Parkes,
N.S.W. ; and The Bulletin, With
several hitherto unpublished
pieces.
Handsomely bound m cloth, gilt-top, with 3 vignette
illustrations by G. W. Lambert. Post free
4s. 6d. from Bulletin office.
JDY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
The Public are invited to inspect our large and varied
assortment of CHRISTMAS CARDS, Booklets, Calendars,
Annuals, Children's Picture Books, Fine Art Volumes,
and novelties of every description, suitable for presenta-
tion during- the coming- season.
Christmas and New Year Cards.
ARTISTIC DESIGNS in LANDSCAPES, MARINE VIEWS,
FLORAL, FIGURES, ETC.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND GO’S STANDAR©
PACKETS:
University Packet, 50 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 4d. The
Special Packet, 100 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 7d. The Aus-
tralia Packet, 36 Cards, 9d; Post Free Is. Antipodean,
25 Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 4d. Atalanta, 12 Choice Cards,
3d ; Post Ftee sd. The Federal Packet, 24 Cards, 6d ;
Post Free 9d. The Waratah Packet, 18 Special Cards,
2s ; Post Free 2s 3d. The Holly Packet, 18 Special Choice
Cards, Is 6d ; Bpst Free Is 9d. The Sydneian Packet, 12
Choice Cards, Is ; Post Free Is 3d. The Wattle Packet,
12 Extra Choice Cards, ss. The Actinotus Packet, 25
Selected Cards, 2s 6d ; Post Free 2s 9d. -
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO’S AUSTRALIAN
EMU SERIES.
Is Each ; Post Free Is 2d.
Fort Denison, Sydney Heads, The Emu Hunt, Katoomba
Falls, The Buckjnmpcr, Bushman's Friend, Aboriginals’
Camp, An Artesian Spray, The Kangaroo Hunt, Round-
ing up a Stray. The" Btishn/ian’s Camp, Home of the
Kangaroo,'The Lyre Bird’s Retreat., Australian Bush
Favorites, Sydney Heads by Moonlight.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Compliments of the Season
... to You!
And may you never
know the want of a Box of
CAMEO CIGARETTES
THE RED PAGE.
Far in the Eastern passage-way a sudden light ;
The stone that blocked the sepulchre is backward
rolled ;
And down into the foetid, stifling vault of Night
The naked corse of Dawn is lowered, grey and
cold.
A.H.A.
Tiib twelfth of May, 1796, in North Italy, at Tavazzano,
on the road from Lodi to Milan. . . . Two days before,
at Lodi, the Austrians tried to ‘prevent the French from
crossing the river by the narrow bridg'd there ; but the
French, commanded by a general aged 21, Napoleon
Bonaparte, who does not understand the art of war,
rushed the fire-swept bridge, supported by a tremendous
cannonade in which the young general assisted with his
own hands. Cannonading is his technical speciality : he
has been trained in the artillery under the old regime, and
made perfect in the military arts of shirking his duties,
swindling the paymaster over travelling expenses, and
dignifying war with the noise and smoke of cannon, as
depicted in all military portraits. He is, however, an
original observer, and has perceived, for the first time
since the invention of gunpowder, that a cannon ball, if it
strikes a man, will kill him. To a thorough grasp of this
remarkable discovery, he adds a highly evolved faculty for
physical geography and for the calculation of times and
distances. He- has prodigious powers of work, and a clear,
realistic knowledge of human nature in public affairs,
having seen it exhaustively tested in that department
during the French Revolution. He is imaginative with-
illusions, and creative without religion', loyalty,
patriotism, or any of the common ideals. Not that he is
incapable of these ideals ; on f,lie contrary, he has swal-
lowed them all in his boyhood, and now, having a keen
dramatic faculty, is extremely clever at playing upon
them by the arts of the actor and stage-manager. Withal,
he is no spoiled child. Poverty, ill-luck, the shifts of im-
pecunious shabbv-geritility, repeated failure as a would-
be author, humiliation as a rebuffed time-server, reproof
and punishment as an incompetent and dishonest officer,
an escape from dismissal from the service so narrow that
if the emigration of the nobles had not raised the value of
even the most rascally lieutenant to the famine price of a
general, he would have been swept contemptuously from
the army ; these trials have ground the conceit out of
hiin'l and forced him to be self sufficient and to understand
that to such men as he is the world will give nothing that
he cannot take from it by force. In this the world is not
free from cowardice and folly ; for Napoleon, as a merci-
less cannonader of political rubbish, is making himself
useful; indeed, it is even now impossible to live in Eng-
land without,sometimes feeling how much that country
lost in not being conquered by him as well as by Julius
Caesar.
* * » *
However, on this May afternoon in 1796, it is early days
with him. He is only 26, and has but recently become a
general, partly by using his wife to seduce the Directory
(then governing France); partly bv the scarcity of officers
caused by the emigration as aforesaid ; partly by his
faculty of knowing a country, with all its roads, rivers,
hills and valleys, as he knows the palm of his hand ; and
largely by that new faith of his in the efficacy of firing
cannons at, people. His army is, as to discipline, in a
state which has so greatly shocked some modern writers
before whom the following story has been enacted, that
they, impressed with the later glory of “ L’Empereur,”
have altogether refused to credit, it. But Napoleon is
not “ L’Empereur” yet; he has only just been dubbed
“Le Petit Oaporal,” and is in the stage of gaining influ-
ence over his men by display of pluck. He is not in a
position to force his will on them, in orthodox military
fashion, by the cat o’ nine tails. The French Revolution,
which has escaped suppression solely through the
monarchy’s habit of being at least four years in arrear
with its soldiers in the matter of pay, has substituted for
that habit, as far as possible, the habit of not paying at
all, except in promises and patriotic flatteries 'which are
not compatible with martial law of the Prussian type.
Napoleon has therefore approached the- Alps in command
of men without money, in rags, and consequently indis-
posed to stand much discipline, especially from upstart
generals. This circumstance, which would have embar-
rassed an idealist soldier, has been worth a thousand
cannon to Napoleon. He has said to his army, “You
have patriotism and courage ; but, you have no money, no
clothes, and hardly anything to eat. In Italy there are
all these things, and glory as well, to be gained by a
devoted army led by a general who regards loot as the
natural right of the soldier. I am such a general. En
avant, m es enfants!" The result has entirely justified
him. The army conquers Italy as the locusts conquered
Cyprus. They fight all day and march all night, covering
impossible distances and appearing in incredible places,
not because every soldier carries a field marshal’s baton
in his knapsack, but because he hopes to carry at least
half-a-dozen silver forks there next day.
« * * *
It must be understood, by the way, that the French
army does not make war on the Italians. It is there to
rescue them from the tyranny of their Austrian con-
querors, and confer republican institutions on them ; so
that in incidentally looting them it merely makes free
with the properiy of its friends, who ought t.o be grateful
to it, anil perhaps would be if ingratitude were not the
proverbial failing of their country. The Austrians, whom
it fights, are a thoroughly respectable regular army, well-
disciplined, commanded by gentlemen versed in orthodox
campaigning at the head of them Beaulieu, practising
the classic art of. war under orders from Vienna, and
getting horribly beaten bj r Napoleon, who acts on his own
responsibility in defiance of professional precedents or
orders from Paris. Even when the Austrians ,win a bat-
tle, all that is necessary is to wait until their routine
obliges them to return to their quarters for afternoon tea,
so to speak, and win it back again from them ; a course
pursued later on with brilliant success at Marengo.
On the‘whole, with his foe handicapped by Austrian
statesmanship, classic generalship, and the exigencies of
the aristocratic social structure of Viennese society,
Napoleon finds it possible to be irresistible without work-
ing heroic miracles. The world, however, likes miracles
and heroes, and is quite incapable of conceiving the action
of such forces as academic militarism or Viennese draw-
iugmomism. Hence it has already begun to manufacture
“ L’Empereur.”
— •».
is a passage from “ The Man of Destiny,”
a one-ar;t play by Bernard Shaw. It is quoted to
show | Shaw’s breadth and strength at his best
period, his rare suggestive force of mind and
phrase. No journalist in our time has. sown his
work more thickly with original ideas ; none has
, expressed his ideas in 'more luminous language.
Men like Stead and Steevens have described
people and envirhnments as well or better ; but
neither Stead nor Steevens has Shaw’s fundamen-
tal brain-power, or his peculiar instinct for gener-
alisation, his talent for squeezing from evanes-
cent facts the juice of the essential law.
Steevens’s “With Kitchener to Khartum,”
considered as a piece of literature, has no
perspective. It is a brilliant account of
a military episode of 1898; discussed separ-
ately and superficially. Shaw’s description
of the episode would probably have been less
picturesque, less vivid, but far more vital. He
would have created thoughts where Steevens, has
been content to image tilings. Steevens takes for
granted England and the Soudan, the English and
the Soudanese, the status quo and its results
possible and actual. Shaw would have asked why
these countries, men, events, should develop in
this way, and asked justification of the develop-
ment by ethical and aesthetic standards. Steevens
considers Kitchener as a cardinal fact : to
Shaw he is a cipher in the sum of human
destiny. Steevens sees trees; Shaw, the whole
landscape. Behind Steevens’s picture there is
nothing; behind Shaw’s would be the back-
ground of Life and Art, and Kitchener’s campaign
would appear in due relation and proportion to its
significance in Life and Art. The men’s methods
are a consequence of their minds, and there can
be no question that the generalising mind is the
more valuable factor in human progress.
* * * *
As Shaw’s mental sight subtends a wider angle
than most men’s, he is necessarily heterodox. That
is his special merit: his judgments are illuminated
by a light from beyond the common horizon.
It seems partly a freakish exultation in Lis
strength which carries him past heterodox into
paradox ;. yet the paradox of to-day is the
orthodox of to-morrow, and Shaw’s controver-
sions of accepted theories may prove to hold his
best titles to esteem. For illustration : R. G-.
Ingersoil has done splendid work as an advo-
cate of free thought and free speech ; but he is rhe-
torician rather than thinker: he readily accepts con-
ventional views and standpqints. (The conventions
of atheism and agnosticism are nowadays almost
as well-marked as those of deism and fetichism.)
So, in discussing Napoleon in a passage often bor-
rowed by , predatory ‘ ‘ orators, ” he reviews in
imagination the incidents of Napoleon's career,
compares N’s life with that of a peasant living in a
hut with a vine growing over the door and the
grapes growing purple in the amorous kisses of the
autumn sun, and declares that ‘ ‘ I would rather
have, been that poor peasant, with my loving wife
by my side, knitting as the day died out of the sky
—with my children upon my knees and their arms
about me—l would rather have been that man,
and gone down to the tongueless silence of the
dreamless dust, than to have been that imperial
impersonation of force and murder, known as
Napoleon the Great.” Ingersoil, though Ameri-
can, has adopted the. conventional British idea
of the Corsican bogey, the monster who deluged
Europe with futile blood. Shaw, an Irishman,
hints in the above-quoted excerpt some com-
prehension of Fyffe’s contrary view (History
of Modern Europe, chap, xi.) that Napoleon con-
tinued and concentrated the social regenerative
force of the French Revolution; that the ele-
ments of violence, and disturbance in the
Napoleonic age will come to fill less space
in the eyes of mankind, its permanent crea-
tions more ; and that “it is not now easy to
suppress the doubt whether the permanent interest
of mankind would not have been best served by
Napoleon’s success in 1812.” That is, Shaw has
clutched the skirts of the historical paradox
—which next century will accept as a histori-
cal truth —that Napoleon was the greatest social
regenerator of modern times, one of the greatest
forces ever devoted to the welfare and progress of
humanity, while the league against him was a
league of stagnating barbarism and hereditary
tyranny whose additions to the sum of human
misery infinitely outweighed the bloodshed caused
in the accomplishment of Napoleon’s enlightened
ambitions.
« • * • ■
Shaw’s seven plays, divided into four “pleas-
ant ” and three “unpleasant,” are clever in them-
selves and interesting as manifestations of the
man. In a sense, they are the weightiest plays
which the England of Shaw’s generation has pro-
duced : their force and earnestness approxi-
mate them to Ibsen’s. The method and results of
Shaw, in fact, might be roughly held to place him
midway between Ibsen and Pinero, while H. A.
Jones stands midway between Shaw and Pinero.
There are so many exceptions and reservations,
however, that the comparison is given only for its
suggestion. Wilde has affinities with both Pinero
and Shaw, but he moves on a different plane.
Shaw’s method is as clearly literary as Pinero’s
is dramatic. While Pinero puts stage representa-
tion first, Shaw is first concerned with the repre-
sentation of his idea. He seems grudging every
concession made to the inadequacy of the stage to
develop and display ideas in the literary way.
The result is that while Pinero’s plays double or
treble their force when acted, Shaw’s seem to a
reader so built that acting would aid them but
little. Here again passages and whole plays must
be . excepted from the dictum. But it may stand
to indicate the totality of comparative effect.
* * * *
Shaw prefaces his plays with introductions
containing, observations on the drama; Some-
times he is amusing ; often his conclusions are
debatable. The printed plays are much more
fully annotated with stage directions than is
usual; and for the most part the notes help more
than they hinder, Shaw gives in words, in fact,
the impression one would receive through sis eyes
if se saw the characters on a stage. A minor
novelty is the dropping of apostrophes in words
like “dont,” “youll,” “isnt”; but Shaw does not
venture to write “ Im ” for “I’m,” or “111” for
“ I’ll, ” though he passes “itll” —which does not
look seducing.
The author calls his first three plays “ unplea-
sant ” because “their dramatic power is used to
force the spectator to face unpleasant facts.. . . .
In ‘Widowers’ Houses,’ I have shown middle-
class respectability and younger-son gentility
fattening on the poverty of the slums as flies fatten
on filth.” It is a strong play, very well written,
but the moral is too obvious—the writer lias too
much the air of an advocate arguing from a client’s
brief. Instead of suggesting the climax he would
bring you to, he takes you by the scruff cj>f the
neck and throws you at the climax. His art is
too downright, provoking revulsion. So you
admire the play as a clever play, irrespective of
purport; and the moral goes hang.
“The Philanderer” attacks current marriage
compacts and customs ; but just as ineffectively as
“Widowers’ Houses” attacks slum landlords, and
—strangely enough—for the very opposite reason :
the moral'is not obvious enough. “ The Philan-
derer ” leaves the impression of an amusing
extravaganza.
In “Mrs. Warren’s Profession,” the third “un-
pleasant ” play, Shaw comes nearer his desired
effect. - Mrs. Warren belongs to a very ancient
woman’s profession, and undertakes to justify her
profession. Her daughter, well brought-up out .of
the profession’s profits, to a certain extent admits
the justification ; but, being a particularly hard-
headed and self-reliant girl, -she decides that she
can do without the mother and the profession and
an ineffectual young man who hankers after her,
and is left at the close of the play immersed in her
own insurance-calculations and tobacco-smoke.
“Mrs. Warren’s Profession” looks like the best
stage-play of the three ; and ’tis pity there doesn’t
seem the remotest chance of seeing it staged.
* * *
What Sfiaw calls the “four pleasant plays”
seem much better suited for acting. “ Candida,’’the
best of all his plays, resolves itself into a struggle
for a keen-brained, fine-emotioned, self-respecting
woman between her husband —a cheery Christian
socialist of the Charles Kingsley type, a little sel-
fish, a little pompous, a little spotted, with cant—-
and a stray poet, physically weak, flawed in char-
acter, but with high ideals, unsatisfied yearnings,
and despairing self-knowledge in strong contrast
to the other man’s smug satisfaction with himself
and liis spiritually-iriean formulas. Husband and
poet bid against each other; and the woman
cleaves to her husband. The play closes with a
dash of mystery—
CandidA. Good-bye. [S/ie takes Marchbanks’ face in
hir hands; and as he divines her intention and bends his
knee, she kisses liis forehead. 'Then he flies out into the
night. She turns to MoreU, holding out her arms to him.]
All. .tunes ! [They embrace:. But they do not know the
se r t in the poet s heart. ]
“ The secret in the poet’s heart.” That Candida
loves him, if unconsciously ; that the best of her
clings to him ; and that if she does not go to him
it is only because her weaker husband, whom she
thinks she loves, appeals to her pity—he needs her
more; or because she is a woman—a, creature
moulded by a thousand centuries of habit and
tradition, who sees the dawn, but whose dawn is
not yet day ?
“Arms and the Man ” is really fitted for the
stage; it is as “brilliant” as its reputation ; and
its American performance by Richard Mansfield
has brought Shaw some thousands of pounds.
“You Never Can Tell ” is even more sparkling:
its effervescence sends one back to Sheridan for
comparisons. If that is playable, and could be
added to the Brough repertoire, and were played
with gusto and gay spirits, Australia would have
reason to be and would be grateful. “The Man
of Destiny ” is an uncommonly clever glimpse of
Napoleon. The dramatic effect is frequently
dominated by jfche literary effect—almost sub-
merged. A speech like the following is a dramatic
excrescence, yet Shaw cannot find it in his heart
to cut it off -
Napoleon : There are three sorts of people in the
world, the low people, the middle people, and the high
people. The low people and the high people are alike in
one thing: they have no scruples, no morality. The low
are beneath morality, the high above it. I am not afraid
of either of them ; for the low are unscrupulous without
knowledge, so that they make an idol of rne ; whilst the
high are unscrupulous without purpose, so that they go
down before my will. Look you : I shall go overall the
mobs and all the courts of Europe as a plough goes over
a field. It is the middle people who are dangerous : they
have both knowledge and purpose. But they, toh, have
their weak point. They are full of scruples—chained
hand and foot by their morality and respectability.
Lady : Then you will beat the English ; for all shop-
keepers are middle people.
Napoleon : No, because the English are a race apart.
No Englishman is too low to have scruples : no English-
man is high enough to be free from their tyranny. But.
every Englishman is born with a certain miraculous
power that makes him master of the world. When he
wants a tiling, he never tells himself that he wants it. He
waits patiently until there comes into his mind, no one
knows how, a burning conviction that it is his moral and
religious duty to conquer those who have got the thing
he wants. Then he becomes, irresistible. Like the
aristocrat, he does what pleases him and grabs what
he covets : like the shopkeeper, he pursues his
purpose with the industry and steadfastness
that come from strong religious conviction and deep
sense of moral responsibility. H ft is never at a
loss for an effective moral attitude. As the great cham-
pion of-freedom and national independence, he bouquet's
and annexes half the world, and calls it Colonization.
When he wants anew market for his adulterated Man-
chester goods, he sends a missionary to teach the natives
the Gospel of Peace. The natives kill the missionary : he
flit;, to arms in defence of--Christianity; fights for it;
conquers for it ; and takes the market as a reward from
heaven. In defence of his island shores, he puts a chap-
lain on board his ship; nails a flag with a cross on it to
his top-gallant mast; and sails to the end of the earth,
sinking, burning and destroying all who dispute the
empire of the seas with him. He boasts that a slave is
free Lite moment his foot touches British soil,; and ho
sells the children of his poor at six years of age to work
under the lash in his factories for sixteen hours a day.
He makes two revolutions, and then declares war on our
one in the name of law and order. There is nothing so
bad or so good that you will not find Englishmen doing’
it; but you will never find an Englishman in the wrong.
He does everything on principle. He fights you on pat-
riotic principles ; he robs you on business principles ; he
enslaves you on imperial principles ; he bullies you on
manly principles; he supports his king on loyal principles
and cuts off his king’s head on republican principles.
His watchword is always Duty ; and he never forgets that
the nation which lets its duty get on the opposite side to
its interest is lost.
» * * *
Bernard Shaw’s plays are his most important
published work : he has been content to stimulate
rather than accomplish. In week-to-week journal-
ism, in socialist essays and lectures, in practical
municipal work, he has spent the energy which
might have permanently signalised his name.
Oliver Holmes has. a story of a rebuke ad-
ministered by a brilliant talker to one who
wondered at his wasting in society the jewels
of phrase and thought which could be
hoarded for fame and a book. The clever man
pointed out o’ window to a water-cart scattering
largesse in dusty paths, and intimated that it
would be a poor world if good things were not
occasionally showered round freely. Shaw has
been a wonderfully refreshing' water-cart in the
arid highway of his time. Asa critic of art,
mu.siq, and drama, he is one of the best-equipped
in England: and though his seeds sown through
twenty years' of newspapers have perished, the
crop is harvested in thousands of illumined heads.
His work is no less real because it is not collected
in a dozen stout volumes of consecutive philosophy.
Now, Shaw says' he finds that' the water is
getting lower in his mental well ; he has to pump
harder, and gets drops instead of. bucketsful.
Life is such; and Shaw is 42. So he is capitu-
lating to Fortune. Max Beerbohm doesjiis articles
in the Saturday Review ; he has married ; he is
even said to have eaten meat. Unluckily, his
present health is not good, and he is advertised
as waiting a second operation on account of his
bicycle-fractured bone, which obstinately refuses
to kuit on artichoke soup. But he bears his
troubles brightly.
O’er the Eastern hills of light,
While the dim world slept,
Dawn the sculptor stepped ;
And the shapeless block of Night-
• Chiselled into form
Morning-lit and warm.
A.H.A.


tzm
'■* i
m
, : :C\
m
me
mm
( *.
>V4s-
j ?*f
fc*T- ? *
fj -*fV*
1353&
1 - fv=; *;V
$Mx
!-'
<:?v
>v«
•■/• <
*4§iT>
*S3
n«
SSR
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOCNft MEN.
Symptoms
of Dreaded Diseases which
'destroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men. young men, middle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less serums nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“ Stop—be sad ! ” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmarrned man,
“ Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSofy-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious m its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest qight, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected, and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without one moment s delay. Don twait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this terrible
affliction. We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
speedily and permanently. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
ing when in the last stages. We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and IERUA-
NENTLY, every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
pHshing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
call personally, write to 11s. Remedies can be prepared and sent you, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
h
60 Engravings.
16 colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
Debility, Loss of Vitality.
«JTS E 2, SECTS?
natural affliction. In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount,of^ v d f v ™^ no {^!
affliction that begins as a mole-hill and ends as a mountain At first, the. only
is a feeling of unrest attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at ni o ht is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupid ness, bashfulness
and loss of enemy You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless, you tind
Httle life, andTust at this stage your thoughts run more - You
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath 1( ' i J Y row d^l an
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become trouWed with an aching back and it you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimple.. . . Don’t
road to PREMATURE DECAY, Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don t
desrnir Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Commit us^either at our office or b, moil! and learn the extent of your™ e'y”' Ed
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost hopes-bnng back the lustre to
make of you a perfect man—with an object in life-ambitious-successful. Don t delay, immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. _ Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken. _
"lake time by the forelock —nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting.
iSfCr;
4E l
mmmm
■ wm
-r
mm
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure in every case. No matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
eqUl WRITE your afflictions. Don’t be afraid to state your case fully Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
CURED, we are ready to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
—ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO
i
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1350.
ĥ
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
i is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
iSurgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, an<
Who :
and Surgeon,
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study o f pRIVATE NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature ape, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, foe., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
ħ
If, in writing, you do nob feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case tinder-
taken by Dr. GIBI'ONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none bub the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
presort lx s Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
dtiring the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDKTEY.
Or if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTI v Gr HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
h
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENT lit EL, Y
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH.
Young and
Old Men ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain sa.ne easily
and permanently Pl’Ol.
Read’s LIFE SYRUP cures the most obsfnate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, <sc. _ A Written
Guarantee given mall cases Ihe Life Syrup stim-
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by rostoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdram of vital fluid, which so weak
ensand destroys If discouraged, send f> stamps fot my
book, “ From Bondage to Freedom, showing how al.
nervous disorders are cured-, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TKADE
sm
MARK.
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Bicord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remaika >ly snort time, oiteii a tevv days only,
removes ad dischargt s ironi the urinary organs,
superseding injections the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of Uie blood, scut vy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewholc system through ihe blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, watte of vitalitjr ,naitiding’
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, See. It possesses suipri-ing power in
restoring strength and vigour 10 the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemist's ami Meta Hauls througnout the World.
Price ill England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ab ve Trade Mark, which is a tac-simile of word
“ Therahon ” as it appear* on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’* Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Therapion— FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., »nd ROCKE, TOMPB/TT & Co.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Hollauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
•Jil
JL!
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Address—
Tiie Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NOTE -
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NSW;
or Box 775 G.P.0., Sydney.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
EXHAUSTION
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pills.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ;no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
Atrophy
, , IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED ani DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the ve;y first hour of its use. Strength,
ĥ
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at once. Send six stamps for descriptive
, book containing undoubted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO.,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Ligtit axxdL Life.’"
Tms valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamp*.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
< • • Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Ilobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 at 5.
When Full, will be Drawn on the Advertised Day of the
Next Principal Race.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
CARRINGTON S. December 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address .
JZ : :
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5>
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
shares in the above.
Address.
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
COOTAMUNDRA C. C.P.C. February 8.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
BALLARAT C. C.P.C. March 24.
50,000 Subsori'bers at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
s
s
NOTE. The SPECIAL, when full, will be drawn on the advertised day of the next Principal Race.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


be Glass
of FaSbioo
QNTHONV • HORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
13 NOW READY
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Coeds
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, «o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post tree
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
Remember it's
Which means ,
/tS the pure article
Its the best mild
laxative /CnoWn
Rs recommended by
your family Doctor.
USB
ooocrs
HRQYALNAVYDREMC
IP BROWN LEATHER
i BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DR€SSIN<3,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.o. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melfc> o urne.
fTHEI
DEAF
“Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
i Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
[comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
'ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Atrent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Where the Dead Men Lie, and Other
Poems, by Barcroft Boake ; with memoir,
portrait, and 32 illustrations, 6s.
ħ
h
GS-O TO HELL-
I GOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought,, price-
lists gratis.
ACiStraliaij MGtfial p ro yidcot Society.
Established 1849.
JUBILEE YEAR.
With the close of the year IS9B, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out polices themselv^ and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICILb ISS» oeiore
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made a f a t Deceniber next. amone-s*
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus dst l
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £445,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS 1 EAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors :-The Horn SirJ.P. ABBOTT, K,0.M.0., M.L. A.,
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;J.T. WALKER. Esq ; JOSEPH ABBO
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.h.A., r.S.S.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON,. Secretary.
ĥ
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3r Send for Price List. TEJI
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
. \
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOUBNE-ST., CONCOBD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Bepaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ffARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
}
— ——
MEM
;
’telephone, 26 KOGARAII connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On tub Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties oare-
tully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand 1
Water Baths (
also, splendid
viall tviU accommodate 800 person*. Large Swimming_ Baths also
'a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one min ute B waTk fiom hotel.
Stabling Accommodation. TLEMS MODEKAiK
Electric and Hot Salt
Fishing and Boating;
YORKSHIRE RELISH
4 THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
sold ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and a/- eacli.
Proprietors! GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &. CO,, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TTl t f nr.K & CO., KENT and J.IVEKI’OOE STREETS, SYDNEY.
IV.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address :
& Saddlery Manf.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
C o uapauy,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you wantfa SULKY,
RTTOGY WHEELS, or any description of SADULi-K* (
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent.
«I Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies £7 j 3-Spring
Sulkies t'7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£OO Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies Pheatons
Single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order. .... ..
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price Lwt,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do eo, and
I you pay 16 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redferu Railway Station
OUR SPECIAL
No. 2.
ħ
Including Splash
hoards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£818.6.
Various Verses.
At Onawe.
Peaceful it is : the long light glows and glistens
On English grass;
There falls no sound upon the ear that listens
But winds that pass,
Bustling the tussock, and the sea-birds’ calling,
And far below
The murmur of a calm sea rising, falling,
Soft, soft, and slow.
All undisturbed the Pakeha’s herds are creeping
Along the hill;
On lazy tides the Pakeha’s sails are sleeping,
And all is still.
There once in state the Atua had his dwelling,
“Te Nui o Ra,”
And thence mysterious sounds were heard at
night-time swelling,
And borne afar.
Here once the haka sounded, and din of battle
Shook the grey crags,
Triumphant shout and agonised death-rattle
Startled the shags.
And now ? such peace upon this isthmus narrow,
With Maori blood
Once red 1 These heaps of stones—a greenstone
arrow —
An adze, rough, rude.
Gone is the Atua, and his dwelling lonely,
His glory dead,
No sense, no sound ! The weird, wild wailing only
Of gull instead.
Come not the Rangatiras hither roaming
As once of yore,
To dance a ghostly haka in the gloaming,
And feast once more ?
Tenakoe Pakeha! within this fortification
Grows English grass;
Tenakoe! subtler conqueror of a nation
Doomed, doomed to pass.
Doka Wilcox..
“B”: Thebeauty and talentof Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson, as described in The Bulletin (Dec.. 3},
suggests memory of her grandfather, Carandluni.
Writer remembers him in Hobart, where he used
to teach dancing. Nobody would have dreamed
that the little, bewigged man, whose smooth
cheeks often bore a touch of rouge, and who looked
a type of the Neapolitan or Florentine dude—had
ever earned a halter for high treason. So it was,
however. Carandini, the dancing-master, had
been one of the most prominent and dangerous
eonsoirators against King Bomba’s Government.
He married Maria Burgess, a Tasmanian beauty
with a voice. I have seen Carandini caper on the
ul^o-p—not a pleasant sight. On one occasion his
wig fell off, and revealed that he was as bald as a
pumpkin. And he a conspirator, under sentence
of death—so close is tragedy to farce.
Atra Cura.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black Care behind the horseman sits,
Her hand in his the while,
Not all the joy of jangling bits
Can charm her to a smile ;
She wraps him in her mantle grim,
And when the pace is slow
She leans across and kisses him
With colder lips than snow.
But when the mountain brumbies take
The tracks no man can trust,
Or when the restless scrubbers break
In roaring clouds of dust,
Or when hard-held below the stand
A good horse leads them all,
Care has been known to lose her hand,
Sway in her seat, and fall.
Ride fast! Ride fast! A reckless race,
All ye who carry Care,
And let the plain winds lash her face,
The hill winds lift her hair !
Let greenhide curl and rowel sting,
No speed can be amiss
That makes those arms too numb to cling,
Those lips too cold to kiss !
N.S.W.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
When Eden Groves.
When Eden groves are gulfed in fire abysmal
And one-time smiling lands are black and bare ;
Soon, soon it fades, the fury cataelysmal,
And Nature weaves again her garment fair;
On fierce volcano falls her evening calm —
Her riven islands breathe again in balm.
When spirits proud are rent in storm asunder,
When all our dreams are draped with awful
dread,
When Heav’n hath smit us with her vengeful
thunder
And hurled her flashing bolts about our head,
What healing hath she when her hand is stayed,
What balsam gives she for the wound she made ?
What Voice shall bid, from yonder blue environ,
The broken hero-heart again “ Be whole 1 ”
What hand shall clear the moody brow of Byron,
Or pour the cooling dews on Dante’s soul ?
What potent touch shall ban the prophet s pain
Or quench the deathless fire in Bruno s brain ?
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


WASHINCTON H SOUL & c?
Ernsts
ing Chemists
DAEy
Mis
EVERY NOVELTY
■ &Kail'
Brushes
rl *; i‘c&s ; Modei-a tz
' ■ ?< Q.l;2iJi|y Uuexcelied
10IL^>
K 6« TES
pERFOprof
Ill '$$&± a * UFAc ture
- A p^RAH TEE TWt Of-v
lIIIIrs baking
The Australian Widows’ Fond £ife Assurance Society £td.
Established 1871.
DIETY, i in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
issues Special Policies granting—
E A e^ SB i on proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IJ * A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
rFHIS SOI
which
Board of Directors :
_ , „ Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
•JLSSIHM.
H3HIV3H 3IIHAV
JOJ 3[SV
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., St 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
. Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveita trial
_ , . . Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
PsB
Euberoid Roofing.
Albury,
Dec. 10th, 1898.
(Copy.)
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD.
Merchants,
O’Connell St.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs.—We have built an office of your Ruberoid, and find it is from 25
to 27 degrees cooler than our old office, built of iron and wood lining, under
similar conditions.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) HAYES BROS.
Millers,
Albury.
-FOR SALE BY-
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Saspsord & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Boss & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M'Phbrson, Ltd.,Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
h
THE MARBLE BAR
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading Theatres and G.P.O.
ĥ
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Every Visitor says: “Do not miss The Marble Bar.”
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.]
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
Jondon Dental
Institute.
ħ
>li. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mb. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
JP 1- Modern Dentistry in, all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
low difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
md without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
only —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-only.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
MPAN
UMIf
UADC
. _ CM/ m
%DISIIUERS COMEANU
EDINBURGH.
BJfly-jjv... on >i,,,./i4irAfi
. a,a Mwm*Jj!cvr
So £****** *U4J* 1 —tHj
\a»'Z‘*) JJ'to A*.
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
[ you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L/
PURIRI
The most wonderful Mineral Water in the world.
Bottled direct from the famous New Zealand springs.
Cures Gout, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism.
Supreme as a Table Water^-*a.
Can be obtained at
All Clubs and Leading Hotels.
Retail from
The Civil Service Co-Operative Stores.
Agents for N.S.W. and Q’land: E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Agents for Victoria: E. SAMUEL & CO., 376 Little Elinders-st., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HISTORY of
YANKEE DOODLE
'v see:
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
ID America.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
arose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
10 Australia.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY FOR HIMSELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at Vie General Post Office , Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Ifeiospaper*
Vol. 19.—N0. 984.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1898.
Peick 6d.
CHRISTMAS MORNING.-WHAT THE LITTLE BOY AT MANLY FOUND IN HIS STOCKING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
<» Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleop, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Go.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... ••• 0 H R
Quarterly... 000
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin- Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Thf. Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressea j. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining <t good idea , but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture ivhich lias to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
ivhich such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — It- A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Eout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. M. Smith & Co.
'Fm.—Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added .for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne•
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
JT^^xxlleZzTi.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1898.
The New Federal Situation.
Now and then, in a small, accidental way,
the Nominee Council of New South Wales
gets an immortal truth off its chest. It con-
tributed one during the recent debate on the
Federal resolutions, the particular contri-
butor being H. C. Dangar. That gentleman
thus defined the present Federal situation :
I also thank the Attorney-General, the hon. and learned
member Dr. MacLaurin, and the patriots who put us in
our present position, that we are not in the same position
as we were in before in consequence of the blunder made
in the Federal Enabling Act. Whatever Constitution
may be recommended to ms by the impending conference
will be subject to the approval of the Parliament of this
colony. We are to that extent in a better position than
we were formerly, for according to the dreadful Enabling
Act we were to be deprived of the power of saying either
yes or no to the constitution. It would not have been
submitted to US, but we should have had to swallow it
whether we liked it or not.
Which is a very complete and carefully
boiled-down statement of the present Federal
situation, as distinguished from the one which
perished a few months ago.
Under the original Federal Enabling Act,
the people elected the delegates who con-
structed the Bill, and the power of saying
yes or no was left to the people. The
common, beastly nation was the last court of
appeal, and its destiny was in its own hands,
barring certain limitations. The community’s
servants in Parliament intimated to their
alleged master that the majority could decide
provided it mustered 50,000 votes—if there
were 49,999 votes for Federation and one
against it the minority was to win. But,
barring that small trifle, the people practi-
cally held the power of final decision. Then
the community’s servants in Parliament fur-
ther disfranchised their alleged master by de-
creeing that not only must there be a majority
before Federation could be carried, but it must
consist of at least 80,000 votes. If there
were 79,999 votes for Federation and only
one against it the one was to carry the day.
Still, even with this further restriction, the
people had still some direct voice in the
matter. But when they accepted the Feder-
ation Bill by a majority of over 5300, and
Parliament and the Reid Government
jumped on their decision with all its feet,
and Attorney-General Jack Want delivered
his famous oration in which Tie told the
people how the accepted measure had been
rejected, that aspect of the situation came to
an end. The disfranchised nation that had
just had its ukase thrown back at its head
by its own servants, went meekly home to
bed, and a new procession of things started.
* * * *
In the first place, it is a noteworthy cir-
cumstance that there is now no N.S.W.
Federal Enabling Act existing. It was care-
fully provided by law that if the enormous
number of 80,000 affirmative votes was not
forthcoming, “no further action shall be
taken pursuant to this Act.” The Enabling
Act simply dropped out of existence
on the spot. The right of the people
to elect their own Federal constitution-
makers, or to have any direct voice in the
acceptance or rejection of the next Constitu-
tion, went out of existence also, and the law
authorising the creation of a Commonwealth
disappeared from the statute-book. And
the New South Wales Council was so very
sorry indeed that it ever gave the people the
right to decide anything concerning the Con-
stitution that it isn’t at all likely to concede
any such right again. Some other Legisla-
tive Councils feel much the same way.
■ * • ■ •
When the next Federal Constitution comes
along the people will be allowed to vote
upon it if both Houses of New South Wales
Parliament pass a law to that effect, and the
Council isn’t at all likely to pass any such
law. And if the people-are allowed to vote
at all they wfill be allowed to vote, as they
were last time, in the way, and under such
limitations, as their servants in Parliament
may allow, but in no other way whatsoever.
If the next Bill is sufficiently Tory to please
the Upper House, it may let the people have
a voice in the matter and enact that a simple
majority will suffice to carry it. If it is too
democratic to please that institution it will
probably enact (supposing it lets the people
have any vote at all) that the affirmative
votes must reach an impossible minimum
(perhaps 100,000 or 150,000) before the
measure shall be accepted. If the people
are allowed a vote in the matter, a,nd
they accept the next sample Constitution
despite all Parliamentary obstacles, even
that doesn’t necessarily bring union any
nearer. This time Parliament keeps the
power of acceptance or rejection absolutely
in its own hands, and Parliament consists of
two Houses, only one of which is respon-
sible to the people. Therefore the next
Constitution won’t be submitted to the
people at all, and they won’t have any voice
whatever in the matter —unless the Council
consents. If they have a voice they will
only have as much as the Council likes to
give them. They will only be allowed to
vote on the Bill which the Council likes to
present to them—it may alter the new Con-
stitution into any shape it darned w'ell
pleases before it is submitted to the people
at all. And if they do get a vote and do
accept the Constitution offered them it seems
that after that they won’t get it unless the
Council pleases.
* * * •
This is no exaggerated statement of the
case. Where the assent of two Houses is
required before anything can be done the
one which doesn’t care a straw' whether any-
thing is done or not is master of the situa-
tion. The New South Wales Assembly
wants Federation a little—a very little ; the
Upper House is indifferent, or worse. If
the Assembly tries to pass a law enacting
that the new Bill shall be submitted to the
people, the Council can simply say, “Submit
the Bill with our amendments or not at all.”
If it wants to load the dice it can say, “ Sub-
mit the Bill with a 150,000 minimum, or let
it drop right here.” It can also reject the
Bill bodily and unconditionally ; under the
present position it must be accepted by both
Houses before anything can be done, and in
that case one Chamber is as much boss of the
situation as another. The fact that the
Council’ has cast out of its amended resolu-
tions with contumely every mention of the
Referendum makes it eminently probable
that the idea of having any popular vote on
the subject will meet with its enthusiastic
disapproval.
« * * »
It is a notable circumstance that the alleged
democratic party in the Assembly has never
once asked for a new Federal Enabling Bill
to provide definitely for giving the people a
voice in the acceptance or rejection of the
next draft Constitution. Not a single voice
has been raised to demand from the Reid-
Want Government a legal provision that the
next scheme shall be submitted to the
people ; that it shall be fairly submitted this
time, and that the Referendum shall not be
again faked with a minimum provision ; that
the Bill shall be submitted -as it comes from
the Conference, and not after being mangled
out of all democratic shape by the Legisla-
tive Council ; or that the popular vote shall
be decisive—in other words, that the national
decision shall not be thrown overboard after-
wards, at the caprice of the nominee bigots of
J. Want’s Upper House. And nobody has
even seriously demanded that the Council
shall be uromptly reformed so that the House
which has the last word in the matter of
Federation shall be responsible to the people
and reasonably in touch with the popular
sentiment. Even the crowd which hollers so
loudly for the Referendum in theory has
kept absolute silence.
• • • •
Last time the people’s representatives
drafted the Federal Constitution, and the
people accepted or rejected it. There was
one judge and one final court of appeal ;
and the arrangement was plain and work-
able—until the brutish ' treachery of the
Reid Government in assenting to the propo-
sal that the majority should not decide un-
less it was an anti-Federal majority, upset
everything. This time the people who draft
the Constitution will elect themselves. The
Assembly demands one set of amendments
and the Council demands a different set.
That part of the Reid Government which is
in the Assembly says it wants the Referen-
dum included in the Bill, and that part (J.
Want) which is in the Council says it doesn’t.
The other provinces can’t agree to both sets
of amendments, for they are contradictory,
and each House can reject the Bill if Its own
amendments are not included. There is no
one final court of appeal—the people —as
there was on June 3 ; the undemocratic Reid
Government has so fooled things that the
last decision is left to two hostile judges with
no referee or bottle-holder to arbitrate be-
tween them. And when it is considered that
all this chaos arose mainly through the gross
treachery of Reid and some of his colleagues
in insisting on the insertion of the fatal and
undemocratic three-fifths majority idea in
the original Constitution ; and rejecting the
Referendum idea proposed by Kingston ;
and afterwards appealing to the people of
New South Wales to throw out the Bill
because of the undemocratic clauses they
had done their best to put in it ; and can-
celling the popular acceptance of the Federal
Constitution on June 3 —considering aH
these things, the Reid Ministry deserves to
live in Australian history as a thing of shame
and disgrace and execration for all time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Turner on the Federal Situation.
The straightforward explanation of his Federal
policy which the Victorian Premier gave the
other day was in strong contrast to the dead
silence of the New South Wales Govern-
ment on the same subject. Up to time of
waiting no one had succeeded in extract-
ing any definite information from the Reid-
Want Ministry as to whether it intends
submitting the new Bill (if there is one) to the
people, and, if so, on what basis, whether with
a possible or impossible minimum, or with no
minimum at all, or whether the people’s elected
delegates will be consulted in any way, or
whether Parliament will simply decide the
matter on its own responsibility, or what will
happen. George Turner was clear and definite
on all these points. He is prepared to meet the
Premiers of the other provinces in conference as
soon as the other Premiers are ready, and con-
sider the proposed amendments of the N.S.W.
Parliament. At the same time, he claims for
himself and for S.A., Westralia, and Tasmania
the same right to submit amendments as
is claimed by N.S. Wales, and the same
right to demand concessions. N.S. Wales,
Victoria, S.A., and Tasmania all gave a
majority for the old Bill as it stood, and
Turner very reasonably maintains that no one
Government has any more right to demand
special concessions than another. He proposes
to act only with the advice of the other nine
popularly elected Victorian delegates, so that
the Victorian people will have the same voice
in framing the new Bill as they had with regard
to the old one. If the Conference agrees upon
a new Bill it is to be submitted to Parliament
as a matter of necessity, and the Legislature is
to be asked to authorise its further submission
to a popular vote, as was done with the original
draft Constitution.. But this time, Turner
says with emphasis, he will only move after
N.S.W. has passed its Referendum Act. Vic-
toria is not going to spend a large sum on
holding another national vote unless it is assured
that N.S.W. will not again go back on the
agreement, and insert a second impossible mini-
mum at the last moment. If there is again a
practically impossible minimum in the N.S.W.
Act, the Victorian Premier intends to wait
until the people of N.S.W. have actually
accepted the new scheme before he goes to the
cost of another Referendum. Last time pro-
ceedings started with an Enabling Act which
provided that the Draft Constitution should be
sent direct to the people whether Parliament
approved of it or not. This time there is
nothing of the sort, and it will be necessary to
submit the new Bill to all the Parliaments and
ask them to accept it and to authorise its
reference to the people. If any of the Parlia-
ments object, the only process, as Turner
explains, is to hold another Conference
of Premiers, and perhaps a dozen more Con-
ferences, and try to arrive at some compromise
on the points in dispute. Turner’s own atti-
tude is straight and honest enough, but his ex-
position of the case shows the hopelessness of
the situation which the mean treachery of the
Reid Govt, has brought about. The collapse of
tlieEnabling Act through thedefection of N.S.W.
has dropped the matter back into the hands of
Parliament, and, unless some Constitution can
be devised which will suit equally the demo-
cratic Assembly of S.A. and the bigoted House
of Landlords in Victoria, there is nothing in
view save deadlock. And, on top of every-
thing else, by reason of the delays and evasions
and shufflings that have filled the long interim,
the enthusiasm of last June is as dead and flat
now as the ditch where the late lamented cat
takes its rest, awaiting the day of resurrection.
Concessions in Return for Support.
The new Industrial Disputes Arbitration Bill,
introduced by N.S.W. Premier Reid, is merely
Dibbs’s old futile law, with an unimportant
difference. Dibbs’s law provided a court of
arbitration which could deal with industrial
disputes—if both employers and employes were
agreeable. They hardly ever were both agree-
able at the same time, and Dibbs’s court of con-
ciliation is now a lone skeleton perished in the
wilderness. Reid provides that his court may
deal with a dispute on the application of only
one party, and give a decision —and neither
party need take the least notice of the decision
if it doesn’t want to. To all intents and pur-
poses the decision might as well be given by
the washerwoman. Reid’s conciliation scheme
is pure sham. His device has already had a
long trial in Maoriland, and the result of ,that
trial is that a court whose verdict needn’t be
attended to by any body whodoesn’t feel that way
isn’t very much more useful than a law which pro-
vides for the arrest of criminals if they don’t ob-
ject. So Maoriland is taking the logical course of
giving the Conciliation Court power to enforce
its awards. And N.S. VV., under Reid’s guid-
ance, is leaving things practically as they are.
The present Cornstalk statute provides that
the disputing parties needn’t arbitrate unless
they are both willing. The proposed new law
is that they needn’t take any notice of the
award of the Arbitration Court unless they
are both willing—which distinction shows the
subtlety of the legal intelligence.
North. Queensland’s Grievance.
Twenty-one North and Central Queensland
members have sent a memorial to the local
Excellency, praying him to be so kind as to
pray the British Government to grant them
Separation. And his Excellency has under-
taken to pray as requested—in a purely formal
fashion. For all practical purposes these 21
members might as well have saved themselves a
grievous waste of good ink. According to the
unlucky and iniquitous Colonial Boundaries
Act no authority whatever has power to sub-
divide any province, except with the con-
sent of the local Legislature, and the Queens-
land Legislature isn’t taking any. Neither is
any other Legislature. The only party that
ever wants Separation is the minority, which
reckons that its interests are being sacrificed to
those of the majority in and around the capital.
If that minority was a majority, or if it com-
manded a majority in Parliament, it wouldn’t
want Separation, for then its interests wouldn’t
be sacrificed —it would take all manner of care of
that. And under the Colonial Boundaries Act it
can’t get Separation till it becomes a political
majority and doesn’t want it. Therefore the
only prayer that is worth praying at present is
that the Imperial Government will kindly see
its way to repeal that very foolish piece of
legislation. As things are, if Central Queens-
land lands are being sold wholesale and the
money spent in the South, and it and the
North are compelled to pay extravagant rail-
way freights to cover the loss incurred by
giving cheap freights to the South, and they
don’t get their fair share of the loan swindle,
the remedy, under the present system, is to
wait till they own the biggest share of the
population and the Parliamentary representa-
tion, and then they can settle the Separation
matter for themselves. But then Separation
will probably be the very last thing that the
proposed new province will want. What it
will desire then will be to shift the capital of
all Queensland to Townsville, or Cairns, or
somewhere thereabouts; and to have cheap
freights itself and raise the Southern freights
to cover the loss ; and to spend all the loan
money in the North while the South pays its
share of the interest. In short, if that time
ever comes, the North will be Pharaoh
and the South will be Pharaoh’s Israelite, and
Pharaoh won’t see the philosophy of letting his
Israelite go by any means. At present, of
course, things are reversed, and North Queens-
land is the Israelite. The Colonial Boundaries
Act is a cul de sac. Its chief result is that,
when any district has been hitched on without
its consent to a province to which it doesn’t
naturally belong, and with which it has no
interests in common, it must simply remain
there, and let the animosities accumulate till it
finds its own way out. It can’t settle the
matter by insurrection, because then the British
Government is bound to interfere in the in-
terests of injustice and the majority. In the
geographical order of things, the Barrier and
western and central Riverina don’t naturally
go with Sydney, nor Eastern Gippsland and the
two or three far western Vic. counties with
Melbourne, nor the Northern Territory with
Adelaide, nor Northern Westralia with Perth,
nor North Queensland with Brisbane—in fact,
all the boundaries are drawn practically any-
how. And one of Premier Reid’s Federal
amendments is that this unprofitable and curse-
ful state of things shall be maintained in-
definitely.
• * ♦
Rofe and Suffield.
The public of N.S.W. will, or ought to be,
much interested in hearing that ex-attorney
Rofe’s case is being, or has just been, inquired
into. Roee was convicted, in 1895, of con-
spiracy in connection with the infamous
Butler divorce-case. The principal in that
case, Butler, a gentleman whose character is
best deposited in the ash-lieap, wanted to get
rid of his wife, of whom he had grown weary,
and having no case against her he manufactured
one with such elaborate perjury that the
divorce was granted, and Mrs. Butler had
severe remarks made about her character by
the all-seeing and infallible Judge YVindeyer.
Mrs. Butler’s brother, who had given evidence
on her behalf, got three years for perjury.
Later on, however, solely through the persist-
ent exertions of Mrs. Butler, the case was un-
ravelled, and the law decided that it was built
solely on premeditated Ananias. It decided
this point so strongly that Butler and certain
of his accomplices were sent to a well-earned
gaol. Further, the law was (rightly or wrongly)
so definitely convinced that Rofe, solici-
tor in the case, conspired to help Butler
that it sentenced him -to five years in the same
valuable public institution. Nobody seemed to
notice any conspicuous doubt in Rofe’s case,
and his legal representative, Heydon, asked for
mercy partly on the ground that Rofe had been
“led astray,” which looked like a tolerably
definite throwing up of the sponge, and partly
on the ground that he belonged to a “good


family,” and partly on the ground that
Attorney-General Want would be glad if he
got off. Thereupon Judge Backhouse a
subordinate Judge dependent for promotion
upon the good opinion of the Ministry—released
Rofe under the First Offenders’ Act, and he
didn’t serve even a single day of his purely
nominal sentence, though his fellow-prisoners
ajl went to gaol in the usual way. And now
Rofe, the influential ex-solicitor, is allowed
to have a new trial (that is what an inquiry
practically amounts to), while the uninfluential
.Suffield, convicted on no evidence worth call-
ing such, and forced to serve out his sentence
to the bitter end has always been per-
sistently denied one. Rofe gets his new trial
under the same clause in the Act which the
N.S.W. Government emphatically declined to
let Suffield avail himself of. The clause in
question states that any convicted person may
get a re-hearing “ whenever any doubt or ques-
tion arises as to his guilt,” but the N.S.W,
Government persistently broke this law in
Suffield’s case by refusing him a rehearing,
no matter how many doubts existed as to his
guilt, unless he produced new evidence.
Whether the same ruling was applied in Rofe’s
case is a mystery, for Rofe got his inquiry
with no publicity or conspicuous fuss ; and the
reason why he got it is unknown to the public;
and hardly anyone knew that lie had got it;
and how it progressed has been a strict
secret up to time of writing, no evi-
dence whatever having been allowed to
appear in print. Also, it isn’t known whether
the Reid-Want Government (Attorney-General
Want being the gentleman who was quoted in
court as a person who would be very glad if
the Judge could see his way clear to deal with
Rofe under the First Offenders’ Act) was con-
nected in any way with Rofe getting his new
trial ; it was at least very much connected
with Suffield not getting his. In the absence
of all published evidence there is, of course,
nothing to show that Rofe may not have been
wrongly convicted. But there seems abundant
evidence to show that a possibly wrongly-con-
victed solicitor finds it very easy to get his case
re-opened in N.S.W. while a mere laborer in
the same circumstances, even if his case is a lot
better than the solicitor’s, doesn’t.
+
More of the 48 Rich Landlords.
By 23 votes to 17 Victoria’s precious Leg. Coun-
cil has rejected the One Man One Vote Bill, and
this for the third time. On the two previous
occasions the Bill was frankly and honestly
thrown out in much the same style as a dis-
orderly person is removed from a pub. The
Assembly’s third attempt to abolish plural
voting was defeated by strategy. In the first
place, Sargood, the uncrowned king of the
Council, fooled with the Bill from week t o week,
and, when his fooling finally collapsed under
the weight of its own absurdity, Henry
Wrixon came along with a proposal which pro-
fessed a desire to put an end to plural voting,
but was quite certain not to do it. The Coun-
cil, at Wrixon’s suggestion, “approved” of
the one - man - one - vote principle (as re-
gards elections for the Assembly only), but
sent the Bill back to Premier Turner with an
impossible amendment attached. The amend-
ment would allow 85 members of the Assembly
to be elected on the 0. M.O.V. system pure and
simple, with the proviso that the other 10
members, representing the districts where the
Labor-party has been all - powerful of late,
should be chosen on the discredited “Hare
system ” of proportional voting. The Wrixon
proposal was to merge the eight radical consti-
tuencies into one with the hope that the pro-
portional representation system would wipe
the Labor-party right out of the Assembly,
and put the Tory minority on top. And
the 48 Rich Landlords accepted this proposal
because they had just enough brains to
understand that the Lower House would re-
fuse to entertain it. As a matter of fact,
the Govt, didn’t ask the Lower House to enter-
tain it. The idea of changing the Parlia-
mentary constitution in this casual way, at the
suggestion of Fatman, and without reference
to public opinion, was not worth discussing.
The One-man-one-vote was promptly returned
to the Council in its original form. Last week
the landlords had to say what they would do
in the matter, and the majority coolly decided
to insist upon Wrixon’s impossible amend-
ment, notwithstanding that Wrixon himself
voted in favor of its withdrawal, after Sargood
had asked him, in a pained tone of voice,
whether he would not prefer to “ leave things
as they are.” Wrixon was one of the 17 who
recommended cutting his fatal amendment off
the bill, whilst Sargood and the others, who
had all along been anxious to leave plural
voting where it is, decided to leave Wrixon’s
amendment where it is, which amounts to the
same thing. There are more ways than one
of killing a Democratic measure.
Slavery in New South Wales.
It is about time that agreements under which
Asiatics come to N.S. Wales to work were
overhauled. The other day, in the Far North-
West (N.S.W.), two Afghans, who had been
working for a reputedly wealthy carrying co.,
waited till their camel-train had got well into
the desert, and then silently stole away.
They were arrested after doing a “perish”;
but then the beak, to the apparent consterna-
tion of the “ boss,” insisted on seeing the agree-
ment under which it was alleged that the ac-
cused had bound themselves for six years, at
£24 a-j'ear. The “ boss ” swore he hadn’t gone
outside the bond; the accused swore that,
though they didn’t know what was in the bond
(they had put their marks to something), they
had certainly been beaten and cuffed and half-
starved, living mostly on flour and tea, and
rarely seeing meat. Further, one of them
showed scars on his body, and stated that
that was where a pannikin of boiling water
had been thrown at him. Adjournments
were granted for the production of the agree-
ment, which was promised ; but it didn’t put
in an appearance, and at length the poor
wretches, who could not speak a word of Eng-
lish, were discharged. (The Court here ad-
journs for two hours to admire the cheek of a
person who prosecutes for breach of agreement
and apparently expects to get a conviction on
his own bare word that there is an agreement
and his own nude assertion as to the contents
thereof). Further, apropos of Afghans and
their kind : Some time ago a couple of aliens
belonging to a camel train in the same district
deserted. They were passing through country
strewn with stones, and made away as soon as
ever they had prevailed on the “ boss ” to pro-
vide them with a pair of boots apiece to bolt
in—their own were worn clean through ! After-
wards a third Afghan sought a pair of boots,
too. He had to have them in order to do his
work ; but on camping every evening they had
to be handed over to the boss till morning, as a
guarantee of good faith. All this in a free coun-
try ! The long drought in most of the country
back from the Paroo and the Darling has given
the camel-owning go’s a big lift; they have been
getting the cream of the carrying biz, owing to
their comparative swiftness and the certainty
of delivery whether tanks fail suddenly along
the route or not. They don’t do much wool-
carrying, though; it rarely pays to send any
but scoured fleeces that way. And as all the
camels have to be loaded each morning and un-
loaded every night, some idea of the labor
imposed on the poor dusty devils who
tramp alongside all day (only the “ boss,” as a
rule, rides) may be formed. The “ boss ” on
the dry tracks spends a good deal of time
reconnoitring; and for “sneaking” drinks
from private tanks he often beats the craftiest
Saltbush Bill “ Banjo” ever pictured.
+
The Sugar Members’ Stampede.
N.S.W. sugar-members’ vote on the famous
want-of-confidence motion, when Reid dished
Barton with the help of Barton’s own men, is
still the subject of frenzied disputation. The
Bulletin has culled from the tangle of gratui-
tous information on the above subject what ap-
pear to be the facts of the case, to wit—
Under the Rf.id tariff of diminishing' duties the sugar
industry was bleeding to death. The sugar representa-
tives, seeing no probability of a change of Government
before the industry collapsed, came to the throne of
Tiberius. Reid promised to do “ something.” The
sugar members, knowing he must make some sacrifice of
principle if his “something” was to be effective, pro-
mised to see him through the difficulty. How far this
promise really went it is now impossible to say. Some of
the sugar members construed it into the support of the
budget, of which sugar was the main item. Others, that
the obligation was simply to take what their electorates
wanted and to obstruct him in the residue. Reid and
his followers made it clear that any trifling meant the
abandonment of the sugar portion of his budget. Some
of the sugar members, believing they were bound by their
promises to aid him, and that it was dangerous to help
themselves and leave him in the lurch, determined to see
the budget through, especially as it did not raise
a dispute on the fiscal policy, unless indeed the
Government followers quarrelled among themselves. The
Opposition called a meeting—business not stated. Perry
approved of a vote of censure, and pledged himself to
vote for it. M'Farlane explained that his duty to his
constituents and his pledged word must force him to vote
against it. Pyers followed in a similar strain. Meagher
always has voted for Reid. Ewing was not present, but
was known to be adverse to any motion that might en-
danger the sugar industry. It should have been apparent
that any vote of censure must fail, and fail dismally.
Barton was not well, and could not bring his usual
discernment to bear upon the question. When the vote
was taken, M’Farlane, Pyers, Ewing and Meagher stood
their ground and voted as they had stated. Perry, after
helping to lead Barton into the trap, voted against the
motion to which he had given his adherence. See washed
his hands of the whole transaction.
♦
The Small Girl’s Romance.
It seems to be getting quite fashionable for any
lone, unprotected female, from the age of 12
away up to the seventies and eighties, who may
have strayed from her mother or her home, or
been lost, or stayed out late, or got herself
viewed with suspicion in any way, to straight-
way charge the first man convenient with hav-
ing assaulted her. The latest case occurred in
Fitzroy (Melb.). On Dec. 6 Mary Ann Ehlers,
an innocent damsel of 12, told a very interest-
ing and circumstantial story —on oath —at the
local court. She left her mother’s house at
Eltham, some dozen or so miles away, on the
previous Wednesday, and after getting a lift in
a cart, and wandering round promiscuously,
and attending an alleged circus, she found her-
self late at night in Gertrude-street. Here she
was met by a plain-clothes constable, who de-
manded the why and the wherefore of this
thusness of the little lost lamb. Her answers
not being satisfactory, and she having appar-
ently no home, the constable proceeded to
take her to the local watch-house —about
300 yards away —as a neglected child. So
far, the story was quite plausible and
probable. Then she proceeded to charge the
constable with having, during the course of
this perambulation of 300 yards of a narrow,
closely-built, thickly-populated street, crimin-
ally assaulted her. A strict cross-examination
considerably damaged this pretty tale, and
medical evidence was given showing the
absurdity of the whole story, whereupon the
constable was discharged without being asked
for any defence. Apparently it’s going to be a
very risky thing for any man to so. much as
look at the unprotected female. And, as usual,
no attempt was made to run in the small per-
jurer. The really amazing feature of Austra-
lian law is that any female can charge any man
with a most serious offence of one particular
kind, and put him to great expense in defend-
ing himself, and bring him very close indeed to
the gallows ; and then when she is proved to
be a gross perjurer can walk away without any
one thinking of detaining her. In fact, the per-
jury law is entirely abrogated for the benefit of
the dirty-minded female who wants to ruin a
man for the mere fun of the thing. And it is
by reason of this amazing impunity that the
dirty-minded female is so much in evidence in
Australia.
Prisoners’ Families.
When on the plea of the public good the State
deprives a man of a piece of land or a house,
compensation is paid him—the more liberally,
it would appear, in proportion as he has other
wealth. When, allegedly for the public good,
it deprives a wife and children of their bread-
winner, all the consideration they receive is the
cynical remark of a judge or magistrate to the
distressed husband and father, “ You should
have thought of them before committing your
offence.” Two incidents have lately happened
that should set people thinking hard on the
iniquity of this state of things. The first is
the appeal of the man convicted of something
up-country in N.S.W. a little while back, to be
punished with flogging instead of imprisonment,
in order that his wife and children might not be
left destitute —an appeal that could not be
acceded to. The public was treated to the
cruelly grotesque spectacle of a prisoner plead-
ing to be allowed literally to take his punish-
ment upon his own shoulders, and J ustice
insisting, instead, upon caring for him and sen-
tencing his innocent family to starvation. On
the heels of that case follows the tragic one of
Mrs. Winspear, who committed suicide at
Sydney, a few days ago, because her husband
had been sentenced to a term of imprisonment,
and she was left without the means of support-
ing her five children. And this woman has
been as truly the victim of judicial murder as
anyone who has been wrongfully choked to
death under the gallows; because her fatal
despair was visited upon her in penalty for
another person’s offence against the law. There
is occasion—is there not? —for us to regard the
Chinese as barbarous on account of their prac-
tice of punishing the parents of an offender ?
There is at least a chance that the parents
may be to some extent responsible for the bad
conduct of their progeny ! No doubt one
objection would be raised to any proposal to
provide for the dependents of a man whom the
State, for its own purposes, puts out of a posi-
tion to provide for them —namely, that it would
place temptation in the way of wicked wives,
and perhaps of impecunious husbands and
fathers ; but the answer is obvious. Life-
insurance has tempted unprincipled women to
procure their husband’s deaths, and despairing
men to quit the world prematurely, in the one
case for selfish gain, and in the other to bring
sustenance to those dear to them ; but nobody
proposes that life insurance should be abolished
on that account. Here the matter stands:
the public are responsible for the social system
under which a wife and children are made
dependent on the individual fortunes of one
man ; the public, also, are responsible for taking
that one man away, in what they or their
accredited representatives deem the public in-
terest ; and the public duty is clear.
The Elusive Coffin-Ship.
Premier Reid’s N.S.W. Navigation Act
Amendment Bill is a fine specimen of the lazy,
brainless legislation to which his Ministry has
habituated the public. The N.S.W. navigation
law yells for reform and consolidation ; Reid
adds a large number of ill-fitting patches which
leave the abuses almost as bad as they were.
The drafting of the monster is enough to make
Griffith shriek with agony. And, though
a number of useful regulations respecting
boats and appliances are tacked on from the
British Act, "the well-insured coffin-ship, for all
that is said to the contrary, may sail from New-
castle to Eternity as gladly as ever. If a com-
plaint is made to the newly-established Court
of Marine Enquiry—which consists of apy
D.C. Judge with the assistance of experts—an
unseaworthy vessel may be stopped ; but it is
no more any responsible official’s business to
stop rotten ships without complaint than it is
under the present Marine Board system. The
sailors, as a rule, don’t complain because they
don’t know that there is much wrong with
the ship till they get to sea and the bottom
of the vessel begins to drop out, and no one else
complains because no one else knows and it is
no one else’s business. The Marine Board in-
spectors allege that they have no power to stop
any coffin-ship, however dreadful, from going
to sea. And the new Superintendent of Navi-
gation, who is to replace the Marine Board
president, has in this particular matter no more
definite power than the old Marine Board
official. The Bulletin therefore moves this
new clause in committee :
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the De-
pari ment of Navigation, and of any of his delegates or
representatives, to see that no vessel, whether ship or
steamer or other, and whether carrying passengers or
not, leaves any port in N.S.W. in an unseaworthy condi-
tion ; and it shall be the duty of such Superintendent,
either personally or by his qualified representatives, to
examine every vessel leaving any port in N.S.W., and to
certify in writing that such vessel is, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, seaworthy in respect of the parti-
cular voyage then to be undertaken ; and such certificate
shall be immediately forwarded to the Colonial Treasurer,
and no vessel shall receive a clearance from any port in
N.S.W. before her captain has obtained from the Superin-
tendent of Navigation a duplicate of such certificate in
writing.
If Premier Reid doesn’t like the wording of
that amendment, he can word it as he pleases,
so long as he secures the object: the placing
upon a definite official of the definite responsi-
bility of preventing unseaworthy ships from going
to sea. That wasn’t in the old Acts ; it isn’t in
the new Bill; and it ought to be. Apart from
these little matters, Premier Reid’s uew Bill
appears to be a considerable fake. The Marine
Board is nominally abolished ; but a superin-
tendent and nine assessors pop up in its stead ;
and no doubt the old barnacles will get the new
offices and perpetuate the bad old traditions.
A promising series of complications seem to lie
in the redistribution of authority between the
Colonial Treasurer, the Court of Marine Euquiry,
and the superintendent and assessors ; but the
whole Bill is such a muddle that no one can say
exactly what will happen. The Bulletin
pleads only for certainty that one thing will
not happen—that coffin-ships won’t go to sea.
+
The Whitewashing of Potato Young.
Judge Owen, the gentleman appointed by the
Government of Reid and Potato Young to
decide whether Potato Young did or did not
endeavor to procure the election of Pumpkin
Smith by inferentially promising that the con-
stituency would get more public works if it
elected Pumpkin Smith than if it elected Bar-
ton, has presented his report:
I accept Mr. Young’s denial of having used the ex-
pressions attributed to him, as his denial is supported by
the evidence of all his witnesses. I also accept his dis-
claimer of any intention to induce the electors to believe
that he would favor Mr. Smith more than Mr. Barton In
dealing with the requirements of the electorate.
Nevertheless, I consider that the expressions which he
admits having used were such as might reasonably have
the effect of inducing such a belief in the minds of the
electors. Although his remarks were directed to the
position of Mr. Clarkf., yet it was in connection with the
alleged arrangement that if Mr. Barton were elected Mr.
Clarkb was to look after the local requirements of the
electorate, and, therefore, in gaying that he would eon-
sider Mr. Clarke as a mere stranger, and that it would
give him greater pleasure to work with the member of
the adjoining constituency, with whom he had been so
friendly, as he had been with Mr. Smith, and that if he
continued to be Secretary for Public Works he would be
better pleased to receive communications from the con-
stituency through Mr. Smith, it might not unreasonably
have been supposed that that referred to Mr. Barton'
himself, or, at any rate, to the position of the constitu-
ency if Mr. Barton were elected and Mr. Clarke were to
look after the local requirements.
This inference is not mere conjecture, for I am satisfied
that all the witnesses called hy me in the first instance so
understood the language used by Mr. Yodng.
I am not called on to express, nor do I venture to ex-
press, any opinion as to whether Mr. Young, while hold-
ing office as Secretary for Public Works, was within his
constitutional right in taking an active part in supporting
the candidature of Mr. Sydney Smith ; but, assuming that
he was within his right, I consider that he was guilty of a
grave indiscretion, in view of his official position, in ex-
pressing himself in the way in which, by his own admis-
sion, he did.
Mr. Young, as member for an adjoining electorate,
must have known that in such a constituency the choice
of a candidate might be determined not merely by his
views as to Federation or fiscal questions, but also by the
probability of success in the Department of Public Works
of his representations as to local wants. It was, there-
fore, the more incumbent on Mr. Young, as Secretary for
Public Works, when urging the claims of Mr. Sydney
Smith, to avoid any expressions that might lead (however
unintentionally on his part) to the inference that he would
favor the representations of Mr. Sydney Smith more than
those of Mr. Barton or of Mr. Clarke, if deputed by Mr.
Barton and the constituency to make those representa-
tions.
Upon a careful review of all the evidence, I find that
the Honorable James Henry Young, whilst in the elector-
ate of the Hastings and Macleay during the recent elec-
tion, did not abuse the powers of his office, or corruptly
endeavor to influence the electors to record their votes in
favor of Mr. Sydney Smith.
In other words, the finding of Potato Young’s
own commission of inquiry is that Potato
Young used language which he shouldn’t have
used, and that he did create the impression
that if the constituency elected Barton instead
of Pumpkin Smith it would be punished by
the loss of public works, and that the con-
stitutional aspect of his conduct is best not
mentioned. But he says he had no corrupt
motive, and it is impossible to prove what any
man’s motive is, so he gets the benefit of the
doubt and is acquitted of wilful corruption,
and discharged with a scorching reprimand. It
is claimed on behalf of Potato Young that his
political character has been wholly cleared by
the very unpleasant language which Judge
Owen used about him. And it is to be remem-
bered that the Barton party sent nobody along
to prosecute or to call witnesses against Young,
while Young had a legal representative to
conduct his defence and bring in evidence from
all parts. If Young comes off so badly as this
when the other side didn’t push its case against
him, what kind of remarks might have been
made under other circumstances.
♦
In Melbourne, the other day, a clothing manu-
facturer was heavily fined for paying an out-
side worker 7s. per dozen for making vests, the
minimum wage fixed by law being 11s. 6£d.
According to a recent statement made in the
Chamber of Manufactures the price for making
trousers in Sydney goes as low as 4s. per
dozen pairs—and there is no minimum wage
law in N.S.W. to give redress. It is the old,
old trouble. You can’t pay a living wage of
for making an article without it
being a little dearer than if a wretched
human skeleton constructed it for 4d. And
under Freetrade the difference might re-
sult in the imported article, made by the cheap
human skeleton in some other country, cutting
out the local article. Cheapness, unless it is
caused by improved machinery or improved
methods, must be gained at the expense of
somebody. In the old days of 3d. ’bus-fares in
Sydney, the drivers worked long hours for low
wages, and two moderately-thin horses hauled a
vehicle that usually carried about 14. Now there
are 2d. fares. The drivers work longer hours
for less wages. Seats have been put on top of all
the ’buses, and two spectral horses drag about
24 passengers. These remarks now conclude
with three pheers for Freetrade, and fourpenny
pants, and skeleton horses, and 2d. ’bus-fares,
and cheapness generally.
*
Somebody, who affects to regard Australian
gambling as a new disease, writes to suggest
that the tote is an undeserving institution
because “ the public must lose whilst the horse-
racing game lasts, and surely that method is
best which soonest reduces it to the state when
gambling is impossible, unless in matches, thus
saving time tfiid trouble.” The serious inanity,
or ponderous satire, of the man “who never
bets” is bound to be favorable to Ikey Mo.
For the non-speculative mind there is comfort
and joy in the contemplation of a future when
everybody who has backed ’osses will be stone-
broke, and the total abstainer from gambling
will be able to gaze complacently upon the
destitution of the large majority. A nori-bettor
hates the moderate punter with the hatred that
teetotallers cherish towards moderate drinkers
who don’t point an alcoholic moral or adorn a
shocking tale. What the teetotaller specially
objects to is liquor legislation for the benefit of
moderate-drinking stomachs and pockets. He
doesn’t want his enemy to get reasonable plea-
sure at a reduced figure, hence his attitude to
the Australian wine industry. And for the
same reason the other sort of abstainer is
antagonistic to the tote.
M.L. Parliament, for one year, partially
adopted the sensible practice of allowing last
session’s unfinished Bills to be taken up where
they left off, instead of starting them again
from the beginning. It was only a small ex-
periment, applying merely to Bills which had
passed second reading, and even these had to
be revived by formal resolution. Now Premier
Seddon abandons this valuable reform on the
ground that it “ failed in its purpose of saving
time.” This is foolish retrogression. One
session isn’t a fair trial. Moreover, the scheme
didn’t get a decent show ; it ought to provide
that every Bill unfinished at the end of one
session shall revive automatically without any
formal resolution (the resolution being mere
waste of time) next session, and that unfinished
business shall only go overboard when Par-
liament dissolves. That would probably save a
vast amount of time. Anyhow, if the old
practice is as protracted as the new one,
what is the good of reverting: to it ? Seddon
is a reformer in many things, but in the matter
of Parliamentary forms and precedents he is a
bitter Conservative.


The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the Most
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
was established in ttie year 1843 as a purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having neither stockholders nor pro
ferential policy-holders' In this respect it is the sole noble exemplar of mutuality in life insurance transacting
business in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1597, this Company has paid to its Policy-
Holders or their representatives over Ninety-five Million Pounds Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
to insure in is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit, perhaps, of its
stock-holders—but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOR ITS POLICY-HOLDERS.
By the report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the year 1898 it is
certified that the MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business on December
31st, 1897, held
Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,4=37.66.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,1X2,225 7s. lOd.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with the
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
Don’t confuse the name of this Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
magnitude.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company's Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
IP YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY. DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tuoker & 00.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
9.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, to.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers*
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PRESCOTT’S
& CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE.
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents {
or Sydney: I
PRESCOTT, DUFTELL & CO.,
01 Pitt Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’* “ Forty Thieves.”
Lyceum “Carmen.'*
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Geisha.”
Bliou 1.... “ Madame Sans-Gene.”
Theatre Royal “ New Babylon.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Exhibition Building.... The Aquarium.
Flinders st. & Spring st. Corner—Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
The return of the Jubilee Singers brought
a groat collection of the unco guid to Sydney Palace
Theatre on Saturday. If first nights mean any-
thing, things look as if they are going to hum.
All the plaintive darky melodies, tinged always
with a hope of grace and a suspicion of salvation,
were trotted out again, and sung with the nod-
ding, rocking, lulling movements that characterise
this co. Mattie Allan is still the star. She looks
a very womanly little body, and makes faces
that might conquer an anchorite, but her voice
seems to come from the dark gentleman on
her left or right, and when she begins to sing,
you look at all the male Jubilee mouths to
see which is doing the deed. The voice is billed
as a female tenor, which means a contralto putting
on a man’s airs. They still sing, “ Steal away to
Jesus,” and “ Roll Jordan Roll,” but somehow the
Jubilees don’t seem to be quite as holy as they
used to be. A clever darkey juggler took the
stage on Saturday, and juggled in a way that
would have been smart at a first-class circus. Also
there was a blackie who put all the chairs on top
of each other and stood on the summit as if it had
been the ground floor. Any country cousin who
misses this cheerful show will certainly go home
the loser.
** * *
Her Majesty’s is closed this week, but
Williamson’s great Xmas spectacle, the “ Forty
Thieves,” will blaze there on Monday (20th).
And The Bulletin has good authority for report-
ing that it will be a great and memorable blaze,
and that Bagdad will be resurrected in a manner
worthy of its bygone traditions. For Bagdad is a-
city which has smelled through a vast procession
of centuries, and, in the day of its greatness, any
inquiring person could have found 40,000 thieves
there with very little difficulty—let alone 40.
Williamson has the Sydney pantomime biz all to
himself this year. The only excuse for that foolish
kind of entertainment is the glare of magnificence
that surrounds it, and painful experience has
shown that only the most bloated kind of manager
finds it worth his while to go in for it at all.
** * *
The opera season at the Lyceum starts on
Xmas Eve—everything in Sydney is starting on
Xmas Eve more or less—with “Carmen.” The
great voice of Edward Earley, which has been lost
to the stage for most of the last ten years, will be
uplifted in the baritone section of the show, and
Leumane, Miss Lilian Tree, and other singers will
fill the other parts. The company numbers 100 all
told—in the advertisement, anyhow—and the Mao-
Mahon firm intends to stage the show with great
finish and magnificence or burst—physically, not
financially—in the attempt. If it unfortunately
bursts its fragments will be published in next
issue. In the meantime “ His Natural Life ”is
filling in the last remnant of the dramatic season.
As the old Vandemonian woe has already been
running for over a week, and has only two more
nights to go, it is hereby dismissed with a caution.
It has been as good as many other versions of the
same cheerless, flogging, cursing, man-eating
tragedy, but at the best “His Natural Life ” is a
play which has always made this paper feel a
dislike to its vittles somehow.
** « *
The redoubtable Charles Holloway, brother
of Billolloway of that ilk, opens Sydney Royal on
Saturday with “When London Sleeps.”
** * *
Peggy Pryde has come back to Sydney
Tivoli; and Mr. Ajax, the man who is made of
india-rubber garden-hose boiled soft, still writhes
there on his stomach like the original serpent of
Genesis. Sometimes he swallows himself, and
then spits himself out again, and, at other times,
Ajax folds himself up and puts himself in his own
waistcoat-pocket. When he has a holiday he
spends it crawling down the stem of his pipe to
clean it. There have been times when he has
stowed himself away in the drawer of his desk and
quite forgotten where he had left himself ; he folds
and squashes and doubles up into such a small
parcel that he is as often mislaid as not. Ajax is
amazingly clever in his own line, but he is a crawl-
ing, unnatural, wrigglesome spectacle, like a
jumpy serpent with a human head apd the rest of
him man-constrictor. Sampson isn’t at the Tivoli
now. In the middle of the discussion as to whether
he was really a strong man or only a weak but
wily fragment, he quitted Sydney with his nose
bleeding badly. He had been breaking chains
with it, The Bulletin understands.
** « *
“ Robbery Under Arms,” when this paper
went to press, was doing its 28th night at the Cri-
terion, and the management’s spirits have been so
uplifted by prosperity that it has begun to publish
large slabs of poetry m its advertisement. “ His
Natural Life ” is still mentioned vaguely as the
next production, but otherwise there is no sign of
change.
“The Geisha,” produced at Melb. Prin-
cess’s last Saturday, is a more foolish narrative
than even “ Morocco Bound,” or “ The Gay Pari-
sienne,” but as a spectacle, with pleasant melodies
meandering through a meadow of slushy talk, it
amounts to something considerable. “ The
Geisha ” had to be produced here, anyhow. The
Firm io bound, by all rules of business, to import
the most popular London goods in the comic opera
line, and this trumpery vehicle for pretty music,
scenery and dresses got a two years’ run in the
Big Smoke. Granting that “The Geisha’’was
biult by an experienced stage craftsman, the
wonder is that the London manager who under-
took the show didn’t stipulate for the option of
getting the “book ” decently edited. A deplorable
book as it stands now. Yet the well-known
“ Geisha ” music (by Sydney Jones), although not
strikingly original, is always gay and festive,
despite the burden of its puerile descriptive
“lyrics.”
• » • *
The two scenes of “The Geisha” are
laid in Japan, the opera denying most of its
effects from “The Mikado,” and a good many
others from “The Gaiety Girl.” There are Jap.
firls and men in very gorgeous raiment, and
toward Vernon as a despotic form of Ko-Ko,
and Lauri as a Chinese lessee of the local tea-
shop ; also the French Maid appears again—as a
tea-shop waitress. Strangers arrive from Eng-
land ; four or five sassiety damsels who line-up
under the wing of a chaperon and some men in
uniform, just as in “The Gaiety Girl.” Only the
uniform this time is naval instead of military.
The chief Jap. girl, and naval officer William
Pauli, together with the principal English
firl and the French Maid and Chinaman
iauri, work out a lame story that falls flat and
exhausted at the finish. In point of fact, the plot
lays itself out for dead two or three minutes
before the curtain drops. And the trouble starts
dispiritingly. The first act gets left at the post,
but bustles along after a while; the second act
introduces a series of sudden exits and entrances
by the company in general, and some of the exits
are sufficiently unaccountable to be humorous, in
a sad way of speaking.
* * • •
“The Geisha,” taking the good with the
bad of it, looks likely to prove a fairly strong
attraction these times. The time when Melbourne
(or London, for that matter) would have rejected
such a scraggy yarn is not the present period. In
the light of wayback years—not so far back, either
—“The Geisha” performance doesn’t shine bril-
liantly. The new soprano, Miss Florence Perry,
is a, nice enough little warbler, with an eloquent
pair of dark eyes and an earnest expression—very
like a Miss Appleton in appearance and speech.
Her singing lacks force and roundness, and as an
actress she doesn’t fill the stage. Miss Rosa Mus-
grove is a promising young French Maid, but she
is not now appearing among amateurs, and the
crudeness of her attempts to imitate Ada Reeve’s
foreign accent and mannerisms was very obvious
on Saturday. Miss Vane, as the romping society
girl, has a showy part, and she gets vigorous ap-
plause ; all the same, little Miss Vane is not rich
in soubrette arts and graces. And her descriptive
ballad, or whatever it is!
Seems the notice sour and snarly ?
Don’t we all remember Varley,
And the graceful dancing Nellie, with her warble
high and clear,
And the golden note which Florrie
Flung to Elton and to Lauri
In the “Old Guard ” days departed—days so very,
very dear ?
’Tis because our soul rejoices
In its dream of bygone voices
That the songs of newer sirens are less pleasing to
the ear
Turn our mind to thoughts unpleasant
Touching singers past and present,
And (the balance of the po@in is a simple,
silent tear).
• * * *
Lauri and Howard Vernon are strong and
happy in their parts. William Pauli, making his
first opera appearance before a Melbourne crowd,
has recovered sufficient of his lost baritone to score
a vocal success, also his uniform suits him nicely.
The rest of the principals can share a big lump of
compliment with the chorus; and the scene-
painter, dress-designer, and orchestral-conductor
can consider themselves called before the curtain
to receive a blessing.
* * * *
The dead body of Brown intends to welter
in its gore at Melb. Royal until Friday night, on
which occasion Walter Baker and Albert Norman
will turn up the two greasy halves of their “Fatal
Card,” and a rather excellent melodrama will
make room for “ New Babylon.” The Bulletin
can’t remember exactly how many times Bland
Holt has erected “ New Babylon ” on the Royal
stage, but it understands that this time is to bo
the absolutely greatest up to date. Comic songs
and coster ballets are mentioned in the bill, and
many other extras of a Xmas season character are
to happen previous to the arrest of manager Holt
aforesaid, who gets overtaken by the Law in this
massive show, and is led away to be hanged with-
out the option of a fine.
* * * *
“ The Happy Life,” a conspicuously stagey
play in its sentimental places, but a fresh, young,
human comedy elsewhere, was to retire from the
Bijou last Wednesday. The comedy portions
grew breezier on acquaintance, and perhaps when
the fainted heroine is introduced to tne notice of a
Sydney audience the stage-manager will make
better arrangements for the disposal of her limp
form in the hero’s arm-chair. The mistake at the
Bijou was in letting her head hang over the back
of the chair, so that the public, naturally anxious
to note the lady’s face, could see little of it ex-
cept the chin. To-night (Thursday) and to-morrow
the Bijou closes for rehearsals of “Madame Sans-
Gene.” Mrs. Brough, in the name-part, will
make her first appearance at the gilded court of
Napoleon Brough Buonaparte, and confront the
Emperor with his overdue washing-bill on Xmas
Eve. The secenery for this expensive show was
built from Irving’s models, and the historical cos-
tumes were made in Germany ; and if Melbourne
doesn’t roll up to appreciate Brough as the Little
Corporal—well, the history of Europe will feel
grossly insulted.
*# # *
Strong-man Sampson has started to bulge
his biceps and break chains, and lift a lengthy
dumb-bell from the floor, at Melb. Opera House.
Also, he appears to bear the weight of a large
amount of wood and live girl upon his chest, but
the absolute genuineness of this feat is not made
clear to everybody. In any case, Sampson is so
strong that one would like him to do something
more useful or funny for a living. The only
amusing feature of Sampson’s engagement is the
allegation that he pulls £250 from Rickards every
treasury-day with one hand. The ventriloquist
and other people are appearing at the Opera House
as usual, also Miss Elorrie West, the “ Dazzler,”
burst forth there on Monday, unless something
happened to delay her dazzle.
** * *
Concerning Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus, at
the corner of Spring and Flinders streets, this
family journal will express some feelings next
week, and meantime it doesn’t think its views
towards the lion and the elephant, &c., have
grown less tender since the Fitz Bros, were in
Sydney. Melbourne is preparing for a rush of
Xmas productions. The Aquarium, at the Exhi-
bition Building, which was always a beautiful
shady retreat, has been made larger and more
dreamy of late. Visitors in search of a happy
afternoon are herewith advised to try the
Aquarium immediately and repeat the dose once a
quarter or so. Phil Newbury’s concert co. will
be making music for the multitude at the Exhibi-
tion Building on holiday dates.
** * *
And glad tidings comes from the vasty
Alexandra Theatre. The Haleck is to open again
on Boxing Night with a pantomime of consider-
able pretensions. The advt. talks about “ Great
Splendour ” in a reckless tone of voice, several
promising names appear in the cast, and George
Leopold, who is full of pantomime tradition, and
a past-master of red-hot poker business, will stage-
manage the sudden venture. The Alexandra
panto, has no direct opposition to its claims upon
the infant understanding, so the Beanstalk which
Jack built may take root and flourish.
*- * *
Melb. Argus seized the opportunity of
Henry Irving’s illness to make some solemn mis-
statements concerning the actor’s career. —“Old
London playgoers remember about the time of the
Franco-German war a certain comedian named
Irving, who amused in the part of Digby Grand.”
. . . . “ Possibly Irving would be comedian still
had it not occurred to him—always ambitious —to
beguile an interval by reciting ‘ Eugene Aram ’
before the curtain. . . . He fascinated his hearers.
It was a case of grasping the skirts of a happy
chance. But for ‘Eugene Aram,’ Irving might
not have troubled to buy a manuscript play which
contains the most gruesome of all his characters.
Then playgoers would not have witnessed the spec-
tacle of the comedian suddenly metamorphosed
into the tragedian, and making them shudder with
his portrait of the haunted burgomaster in ‘The
Bells.’” One of the most pretentious absurdities
in daily journalism is the “historical ” leader by a
man who is talking from foolish hearsay, or from
his own bad memory. The character which Irving
Elayed about the Franco-German war time was
>igby Grant (not Grand) in “ The Two Roses.”
Digby Grand was the name of a novel, also of a
horse that won the City and Sub. Handicap about
that time. Long before 1870 the picturesque in-
tensity of Irving’s acting had been noted by
Charles Dickens. It is on record that Dickens,
witnessing Irving’s performance in “Dearer than
Life,” said to his son who was with him : “Mark
me, that young man will make a great name.”
Remembering which prophecy, the Dickens
family presented Irving in after years with
a souvenir of the dead author. Again there
is the fact that Irving had scored a big
success at the Gaiety Theatre, as the gloomy
Mr. Chevenix in “Uncle Dick’s Darling,” pre-
vious to appearing as Digby Grant. As for the
“ Eugene Aram ” recitation aforesaid it was first
fiven at a Dramatic Fund benefit mating, at
)rury Lane, after Irving had become famous.
He was then acting in either “The Bells” or
“Charles the First.” “The Bells” manuscript
was sold to Bateman, who, against the advice of
his friends, decided to give the play and Irving a
chance to draw all London to the Lyceum, a
notoriously unlucky theatre up to then. All
London came, and Bateman soon found himself
rich for the first time in his life. He raised
Irving’s salary by leaps and bounds, and secured
him on a long lease, so that when he died, in the
middle of the first “ Hamlet ” boom, Irving went
with the theatre under the management of widow
Bateman. When her lease of the theatre expired
Irving took possession.
At Poverty Point.
Widdy O’Brien Sheridan and the awful Teddy Lonnen
are running a Recital Company around the small towns
of Hingland. Business is said to be gloomy. Alice
Lethbridge and Gracie Whiteford figure in the co., and
they all talk about dear old Australia, and the days
when they achieved great receptions and treble encores.
This country gets a splendid character from departed
“stars” who are playing to an audience of about 40
souls in an ill-lighted hall at the other end of the world.
Charles Cartwright was wanted for the part of
Richelieu in one of the London productions of “ Three
Musketeers,” but was said to be too ill to accept the en-
gagement.
“ F.” : In defence of the recent “ Mikado ” perform-
ance, more “comic” and less liked than any previous
treatment of the same opera in Melbourne, manager Wil-
liamson revived an old Yimkee-Australian story to the
effect that “ Pinafore ” didn’t begin to catch-on in London
until it had been played with enormous success in New
York, by a manager who enlarged the effects and made
“a number of important innovations.” The writer of
this par. remembers “ Pinafore” as a London boom from
the very first. “ The Sorcerer,” which preceded it, had
been reckoned a revelation in operatic humor, and “ Pina-
fore ” was everywhere said to be much better than even
that. “ Pinafore ” jokes and “ Pinafore ” music travelled
around the town like wildfire. The story about American
excitement “finding its echo in England” must have
been founded on the mistaken notion, that “ Pinafore ”
was the first of the Gilbert and Sullivan successes.
George Rignold assures a Sydney paper that his future
arrangements are “in the hands of the Almighty.” Was
George dissatisfied with his former business manager?
“ N.” : Battle of Omdurman at Melt). Exhibition. Bing,
bang, boom. Supposed killed, seven —at the Sick Chil-
dren’s Hospital opposite.
“ S.” : Ugo Biondi gave rather startling proof of his
limitations before leaving Melbourne, when he added a
new feature to his entertainment. This was an attempt
to represent about a dozen of the world’s celebrities, and
there is only one word to describe the show —bad. The
work was bad in detail and in the lump, and Ugo’s cele-
brities looked like a procession of debilitated nonde-
scripts escaped from a cheap waxworks. The Prince of
Wales, as represented by Biondi, was a shocking carica-
ture. This impersonation was sedition and treason of
the most reckless description.
Dear Bulletin.— The man who assures you that he saw
James Milburn do the “ Scarecrow Dance ” 25 years ago
can’t be proved to be a romancer. I can only tell you that
Milburn never danced the “Scarecrow ” to the knowledge
of men who knew him well and performed at the same
halls with him.— Unbeliever.
Melb. OperallouseProprietaryhasdetermined torehuild
in half a year. It is open for any responsible party to
come forward for a very long lease, and prescribe the
architecture of the theatre. Otherwise the Proprietary
will follow its own views.
“S.S.” offers his opinion: “Most satisfactory of the
Brough importations, judged by their work in ‘The Liars’
and ‘ Lord and Lady Algy,’ is Dartrey, whose two old
men have been the neatest, cleanest kind of comedy.
His Duke of Droneborough is intelligent and decisive
caricature, in sharp lines. By the way, * Lord and Lady
Algy ’ is a most callous comedy, and stubbornly disregard-
ful of histrionic conventions in leaving everybody morally
exactly where it found them. One feels that the reunion
of Lord and Lady Algy is merely pro. tem. Carton con-
verts nobody and improves none, and does not even take
the trouble to clear up many of the misunderstandings
between his stage relations. Reconciliations on the
boards are always rash and palpably unsubstantial.
Carton’s trick gives the idea that he has caught a bit of
1 sassiety ’ on the move, and has left it moving in active
pursuit of all its favorite sins.”
When lately heard from, Alfred Rolfe and Mrs. Rolfe
(Miss Lily Dampier) were in England, playing in a huge
sensation called “ Honor Bright.” The two authors of
“Honor Bright” have struck a rather novel horror.
Their heroine is tied at night to the great bell of St.
Paul’s, so that the big iron clapper will strike the hour
on her head and drop her brains into the sleeping city
below. So she hangs there, taking a deeper interest in
the time than she ever took before.
A wizard’s reputation takes long to grow, seemingly.
Dante, at 27, is only beginning to make a name for him-
self. Fifteen years hence he will be living on his name
(if he hasn’t died meanwhile), and younger rivals will have
to beat him hollow as an illusionist before they can hope
to prosper.
“ Blister”: Rebottle-and-rag collectors’entertainments.
There’s a 10-year-old youngster in Carlton (Melb.) who
has been giving Saturday afternoon performances in a
shed for over two years. Admission, front row (no chairs)
a bottle ; back rows, batch of rags or bones ; very back
row, o bone. The best house he has had was 2s. 3d. A
Is. 3d. house he calls fair, and a 9d. poor. Performers,
himself (song and dance artist) and two younger aspir-
ants ; sometimes three when a “ grand double bill ” is on.
Eminent music-man on his rival: “ Vat is dees Meestair
Trottaire ? He say he is a moozishun, bot who effer hear
him plai ? At some consair you vill see de naime on de
pro-grom. He vill plai de Liszt Rhapsodie nommer fife.
On de night of de consair comes a man on de steeje out
an zay he sorry dat Meestair Trottaire have influenza in
hees leetal fingair and can not possible plai. Ze rapporta
of ze pepper he not at de consair, bot he write good
nottice an’ say, ‘Mr. Trottaire plai Liszt Rhapsodie
“ byootafull." ’ Desem ting happen to me one time. De
rapporta say I plai ‘ MotoPerpetua,’ splandeed, an’ l am
not at de consair at all. lam blin' dronk chez moi. Some
people who have hear it say dat Mr. Trottair can imitate
lovely de dicky herd ‘ peeweet’ on de fifteent position oop
behint de britch of de feeddle—bot he starfe all de sera.
Vot do you tink he ees by birth ? He is a tailor! An’l
zay it is bettair to mek monai as a goot tailor dan to
starfe as a bad moozishun. Hein ?
An Ophelia at the Johannesburg theatre insisted on
being carried on instead of the dummy for the burial
scene. She died two days after.
Apropos of his success with the farcical comedy, “ What
Happened to Jones,” our old friend Charles Arnold has
been interviewed in London Echo. Arnold, in the course
of a ver.y readable yarn, said that his most useful experi-
ences were gained during a two years’season in Montreal,
with a stock co., when a new show—comic opera, comedy
or drama—was produced every Monday, to run for one
week. He played all sorts of dialect parts, in addition to
acting as manager for the front of the house, looking
after the ads. and newspaper paragraphs. In England,
and nowhere else, he has played the character of de-
fendant in a police-court case, brought against him by
the Society for the Protection of Children. The society
objected to his little baby-girl romping with him in
“ Hans the Boatman,” but the Bench dismissed the sum-
mons, with costs.
“ Melb.” : About 30 people connected with the stage
would come in here for old age pensions.
A clergyman mentioned to actor Irving that Sheridan
Knowles got converted. Irving: “Yes, but he wefit on
taking the royalties of his plays.”
Charlotte Cushman, unknown in London, waited on
manager Maddox for an engagement. He held out no
hope. She knelt down, burst into tears, and imprecated
a curse on her enemies. “Hallo!” says he, “there’s
stuff in you 1 ’’ and engaged her.
Advance Australia 1 Tasmania’s premier danseuse,
aged about 13, is called Olive Nie Tom. Father, Chinese ;
mother, half-caste.
Aqe advt. : “ Wanted, board and lodgingwhere theatri-
cal supernumeraries and other lively company are in the
habit of roosting.”
Dan Fitzgerald, of Fitzgerald Bros.’ circus, is the
original Daniel who went into the lion’s den.
It would seem that Henry Irving has a kind of back-of-
the-head idea of visiting Australia some day. Robert
Brough, when in London, wanted to buy the rights of
•‘ Olivia ” (the beautiful play which Wills wrote out of
Goldsmith’s “ Vicar of Wakefield ”) and “ Nance Oldfield.”
Irving owns these two pieces, and one would have thought
that he could have no objection to selling the Australian
rights of them. But he wouldn’t. “ Olivia ” would fit
Mrs. Brough like a glove.
A female opinion picked up in a Melbourne theatre:
“Do you know, I think he is an atheist. He never rises
when the orchestra plays 'God Save the Queen.’ ”


ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Alining-, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLI.NER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining 1 Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNO & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tb€ R€AL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison &; Attwood, Solo Proprietors.
JJ
BLEACHING POWDER, 35 3?.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, LitHarue,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
93/103/ o
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny- Markwald,
178 William Sir -t,
Mklbuiihnk ;
lli'tit-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. : 27 Krai -*tr,el,
Uriel. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, H.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Even among the many muddled Bills which the
present N.S.W. Government has thrown together with a
hay-fork and then shied at the head of Parliament the
new Land and Income Tax (Declaratory) Bill is notable.
Its first clause reads: “1. Any person, wheresoever
residing or domiciled, who, either before or after the
commencement of this Act, extracts ft'oin the soil, wins,
produces, or manufactures in New South Wales any pro-
duct, commodity, or substance, and exports the same,
shall be deemed to have carried on and to carry on in New
South Wales the trade of extracting from the soil, win-
ning, producing, or manufacturing such product, com-
modity, or substance ; and the value of such product,
commodity, or substance when exported shall be deemed
to have been and to be the ‘ taxable amount ’ within the
meaning of the Land and Income Tax Assessment Act of
1895.”
The most glaringly foolish Government should
be able to see where this clause leads to. A man
may export £IO,OOO worth of wool, and, after paying
wages, interest on mortgage or bank overdraft, freight,
and all other expenses, he may have only £3OO clear in-
come. Yet, because he exports his wool, the taxable
value is to he taken at the whole £IO,OOO, conse-
quently his income-tax will be £250. Last balance-
sheet of the British Broken Hill Cos. showed that
it had exported minerals to an immense value, and yet
it had no income—instead, there was a heavy loss. Yet,
under this amazing clause, it would have to pay Cd. in
the £on the whole value of the ore exported. And, sup-
posing a bank exports £2,000,000 of gold in a year—gold
produced in N.S.W.—would there be £50,000 income-tax
to pay on it? According to the wording of the clause, it
looks as if there would be.
» * * *
Premier G. Reid, of N.S.W., spends much of
the country’s good ink and stationery in publishing,
through the Government Printing Office, more or less
unreliable “ fakes ” about the imaginary misdeeds of his
predecessors in office. He lately issued, at the country’s
expense, a statement which purported to show that the
cost of running N.S.W. under his own beautiful adminis-
tration, and under the awful administration of the other
fellows, was:—
1886—Jennings.. .. £9 7 4 per inhabitant
1890 —Parkes .. ... 813 5 „ „
1894—Dibbs .. .. 714 10 „ „
IS9B—Reid . ..7 32,, ~
A notable circumstance is that every one of these figures,
except his own, is a great deal higher than the amount
stated by Coghlan in his State Statistics. That official
charges Jennings, in 1886, with £9 2s. lOd. ; Parkes, in
1890, with £8 7s. 3d.; and Dibbs with £7 Bs. 4d. He also
specifies that a great part of Parkes’s extra expenditure
arose through the fact that he paid much more of the
public works expenditure out of revenue than the present
man does. Same Old George’s figures always have an
ancient and fish-like suspicion about them somehow.
* • * *
The Australasian Temperance and General Life
Assurance Society concluded a moderate year on 30th
September, 1898, so far as its Ordinary Department is con-
cerned. Some of the figures for the last few years are as
follows:
Income. Working Expenses.
1892 ... £37,399 £BB9B
1893 ... 33,367 8240
1894 38,304 7907
1895 .. 38,120 8134
1896 ... 39,707 10,885
1897 42,787 11,888
1893 .. 46,647 13,816
These figures show, among other things, that the working
expenses, instead of diminishing as the society grows
larger, have increased till they now reach the tremendous
figure of over 29J per cent, on the total income, or
over 38 per cent, on premiums—about the worst record
in Australasia. Since 1892 the income has increased
by £9248 and the expenses by £4918, and an increase
that is bought so dearly is hardly worth having. The
receipts from interest and rents (equal to 5 per cent,
per annum on the average funds) look very satisfactory.
Also, the balance-sheet is a very clear and definite docu-
ment which supplies full information about the society’s
situation. In fact, the only thing that looks very much
wrong, so far as the ordinary department is concerned, is
the dreadful expense account. There are too many life-
assurance societies in these provinces, and one that is
small and little known and not too prosperous has to
spend so much money to get business that the business
is hardly worth getting. The 38 per cent, of premiums
that goes in expenses makes a fearful hole in the bonuses.
For the five years ended 30th September, 1895, the society
had only £4365 to divide among its policy-holders, and the
bonus prospects at the next investigation in 1900 are an
interesting problem.
The Industrial Department of the Temperance
and General is also, so far as expenses are concerned, one
of the most remarkable things of its kind in the Seven
Provinces. Its record of late years is as follows :
Income. Ex P ense3 ’ Claims ’ Outgoings.
1892 11,790 £4,297 £1,349 £5,646
1893 10,792 3,485 2,078 5,563
1894 10,224 3,342 2,494 5,836
1895 9,592 3,301 6,057 8,358
1896 9,501 4,490 7,192 11,682
1897 . 13,067 14,741 6,892 20,633
1898 17,879 16,744 6,680 22,424
This shows some curious results. Up to 1895 the Temper-
ance and General’s industrial business was steadily
diminishing, though every year it added from £IOOO to
£6OOO to its funds. Then in 1897 and 1898, the society
started to hustle furiously for new business, which is a
woefully expensive affair in the industrial line, and it got
it with such success that the expenses alone more
than swallowed up the total income. At the end of
1895 the industrial department of the T. and G. had
an accumulated fund of £40,012. Now, with larger
liabilities, the fund is only £20,756, a sum of £4061
having been written off for depreciation. If the expan-
sion of business continues on the same glorious principle
for a few years more the liabilities will be a good deal
larger still, and there will be no fund at all. The T. and
G. is becoming an interesting study in both departments.
• * * *
That small concern, the People’s Prudential
Benefit Society (Limited), of Sydney (which is really a
proprietary company doing a mixed industrial life, acci-
dent and sick benefit business, so that the term “ society ”
is a trifle misleading), sends along its report for the
second year of its existence, to 31st August, 1898. The
two years compare as follows
Total
Income. Expenses. Claims. Outgoings.
1897 .. £8,611 £7,228 £534 £7,762
1893 .. 11,670 4,646 6,173 10,819
£20,281 £18,581
The difference (£1700) represents the accumulated assur-
ance fund. The institution has also a paid-up capital of
£4043, but there is nothing to show for £3500 of it except
the goodwill of the business—that amount having been
paid, The Bulletin believes, to one Mulligan, who for-
merly owned the concern all by himself; therefore the
cash security w'hich the shareholders offer for the due
fulfilment of the society’s obligations is really only £542.
Anyhow, the institution doesn’t look quite so bad as it
did last year in one respect, expenses being only 40 per
cent, of receipts, whereas last year they were over 80 per
cent. Forty per cent, is reckoned very cheap in the
industrial business.
* * * •
The bulk of the claims (£5600) are compensation
for sickness or accident, and as these are matters which
go by no definite rule, it is difficult to say whether the
society, with £2200 of visible assets, is sound or not.
Presumably it will some day have a valuation of its life
and endowment liabilities, and thereby throw some light
on its position. In view of the multitude of small in-
dustrial institutions doing business in Australasia, the
present one doesn’t appear to be needed, but presumably
it affords a decent maintenance for the people who
live on it, and it certainly appears to spend less of
the premiums on expenses than do most institutions
of its kind. Still if it can’t save more than £BSO out of an
income of £11,670, the prospects of the shareholders
getting an honestly-earned dividend don’t look up to
much, and it certainly seems wildly ridiculous to value
the goodwill at £3500. Still, that is the shareholders’
private funeral. At all events, the People’s Prudential
has abstained from declaring dividends so far, which con-
trasts favorably with the record of another new office—
the Australian Metropolitan of Brisbane—where the pro-
prietary helps itself to 10 per cent, annually without wait-
ing to discover, by a formal actuarial valuation, whether
there is any surplus to pay it out of. Barring the good-
will item, there is nothing particular to complain about
in the P.P. this year save its superfluousness.
» * * •
Announced that the Cornwall Fire and Marine
Insurance Cos. (Launceston) has sold its fire business to
the Sun Cos. (of England). Presumably the marine busi-
ness goes somewhere else, as it would hardly pay to keep
that precarious line of industry going by itself, and the
Cornwall is making a general retirement. This makes the
sixth Australian insurance co. which has sold out to Bull
this year, the other five being the City Mutual (Sydney),
Southern and Indemnity (Melbourne), Queensland
Mutual (Brisbane), and S. A. Insurance Cos. (Adelaide). The
Cornwall was a reasonably-prosperous concern fors7 years,
but one bad year incidental upon the great Melbourne
fire made it lose heart. Both it and the S.A. Cos. got
into trouble through not sticking to one province, as a
State insurance department would do—in other words,
through adhesion to that maxim of private fire-insurance
management which advocates spreading the risk over a
wide area. It was that same spreading of the risk which
brought them into the Melbourne conflagration.
* * * »
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and Build-
ing Cos. (Sydney) for the year ended 31st October, shows a
profit of £4916. A dividend at the rate of 84 per cent, per
annum absorbs £2786 ; £IOOO is added to reserve-fund,
making it £10,200 ; £SOO is added to reserve for equalisa-
tion of dividends, which now stands at, £2250 ; and the
remaining £630, added to previous balance, leaves £2492
at credit of profit and loss. The co.’s profits for the last
seven years has been something as follows :
Profits. Dividends.
1592 .. £IOO6 nil.
1893 .. 831 „
1894 .. 1822
1895 .. 2651 „
1896 .. 6085 lO per cent=£3l99
1897 .. 5123 lO „ = 3295
1898 .. 4916 Bs „ = 2786
22,434 9280
The Intercolonial was a rather dilapidated concern in
1891, hut since then it has added £5200 to its reserve, set
aside £4500 to cover depreciation of assets, and created a
dividend equalisation fund of 12250; and increased its
profit balance by £1204. Its present position looks re-
markably strong, though the bulky overdraft of £4568 is
a rather lamentable item.
* * * *
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne) reports a profit for the year ended
20th September, 1898, of £2472. The last seven years’
profits of this institution have been :
1892 .. £8265 1896 .. £1917
1893 .. 5148 1897 .. 2254
1894 .. 3378 1898 .. 2472
1895 .. 3046
The Langridge has been a remarkable survivor of the
general boom-wreck, and, after touching bottom in 1896,
it is apparently well on the up-grade again. In the seven
years its capital has diminished from £123,038 to £86,025,
mainly through repayments to investing shareholders, so
the fall in earnings is partly owing to the reduced size of
thebusiness. In the same period deposits have been reduced
from £57,874 to £15,370, and reserves have increased
from £16,120 to over £30,000. The only dubious point is
that £129,836 of assets are put in at book-value, the
Langridge following the foolish practice of keeping the
old inflated values standing among the assets with a big
paper-reserve on the other side. Still, as the reserves
are large enough to cover a drop of nearly 24 per cent, in
the book-value of the assets, the capital is probably intact,
and possibly there is a margin to the good.
* * * *
The little Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association reports a profit, for the half-year
ended 30th September, 1898, of £405, and pays a 5 per
cent, dividend (£250 and £l2 10s. dividend-tax). This is
(with the exception of the first half of 1896) the best
record the institution has put up since September, 1593.
In March, 1893, it paid 6 per cent. ; in September, ’93, 7
per cent. ; then it paid five dividends of 6 per cent, up to
March, ’96, since when the div. has been 5 per cent.
Between March, ’94, and March, ’97, it five times paid
away more than its entire earnings in dividends, and the
net result of six years’ work is an addition of only £4OB
to the funds. There is no reserve-fund, unless the £673
accumulated profit can he called one, and this isn’t much
to show after an existence of 11 years.
» * • •
The man who is dead is a great institution in the
land of the Q.N. Bank. There was quite a corpsey flavor
about Somerset’s defalcations and sentence. Prisoner
pleaded that in the boom-days he went ’Ome rich, leav-
ing his affairs in the hands of a Q.N.B. official ; on return
found himself a ruined man ; and, later on, the aforesaid
official died. The present Auditor-General excused the
non-audit of the Pensions Account (where Somerset’s de-
falcations came in) because his predecessor (dead) had
not had them audited. The Under-Secretary of the
Treasury says his predecessor (dead) didn’t trouble much
about them, so it was mainly an accident that brought
the game to light.
* * * *
For the first time since the reconstruction there
have been enquiries for Commercial Bank ord :iary
shares in Melh. Sales at 6s. The £lO preference shares
are saleable at something near to £5 and look like a rising
investment.
* • * *
The N.S.W. Govt, purchase of Tarrawingee
line, out from Broken. Hill, has stirred again the Far
West agitation for a line between the Barrier and the
River Darling, tapping the latter at Menindie. The dis-
tance would be about 65 miles. Three main arguments
are used in favor of the undertaking, which has already
been favored by the Public Works Committee : It would
open up an alternative route from the silver-fields to the
ocean, via Darling and Murray ; it would give irrigation
and agriculture somewhere near the Menindie lakes a
lift, for Broken Hill cannot grow as much as a cabbage for
its own consumption ; and it would put Broken Hill, town
and mines, which now pay 255. a ton for firewood, within
handy distance of the almost inexhaustible supplies of
box on the river flats.
The route suggested for the proposed Govt, lino
to connect Broken Hill with the South Australian railway
svstem at Oockburn is by way of Pinnacles and Thacka-
ringa. At both of these places a few small mines still
struggle on, and, as they are essentially lead mines, they
would certainly do better if a through line were built.
The route was proposed almost as early as that now roi-
lowed by the Silverton Tramway—the fattest monopoly
in all Australia—and was engineered m the Barriers
early days by G. M‘L. Matheson, one-time M.P. for Glen
Innes, who lately died in Westralia. South Australia, of
course, approves cordially of the idea that N.S.W. should
either build a line to compete with the Silverton Tramway
or take over the latter ; for if it does either of those two
things, it is all the less likely that N.S.W. will afterwards
build a competing line to connect Broken Hill with the
Sydney system.
• * * *
The British B.H. Co.’s cabled loss of .£3552 on
the half-year’s operations covers everything, including
depreciation. Apart from outlay on rearranging the
machinery, the accounts about squared. The co. has a
zinc process—the Cowper-Ooles—in hand ; zinc oxide,
suitable for paint manufacture, has been produced direct
from the ore ; hut other things have yet to be reported
on. This, of course, isn’t necessarily much of an advance.
The Carmichael and other Australian processes can get
out the zinc all right in the laboratory, hut unfortunately,
in practice, the appliances so far devised will not stand
the necessary acids and the intense heat sufficiently to
allow of economic success. That, too, was what was the
matter with the Ashcroft electrolytic system.
* * * *
North Nymagee : “ Improvement, in bottom
crosscut; zinc, quartz and sulphide showing in face.”
And at this the Sabbath tipster expresses great satis-
faction 1
* « * •
Booth’s United, a mine in the Gundagai dis-
trict, N.S.W., on which big money from Vic. and London
has been spent. “ Passed through horizontal seam Bin.
thick, carrying gold. Started to clean up Mt. Morgan
shaft; lode at bottom split into several stringers, which
show nice gold and give excellent prospects by dish.
Assays taken from same average 4oz. per ton.” The
writer has heard a horrible story of this show, and, from
his youth up, he has been suspicious of all mines having
“seams and stringers,” where any reliance is placed on
“assays,” and which have anything about them called
“ Mt. Morgan.” Therefore, he is sorry for Booth’s United.
* * * *
Two more dishes of rich rubble got from Rice’s
claim, at Gundagai, N.S.W., these returning 720 z. And
probably most of the value of the last lot has gone in
finding this.
« » * *
Who-Can-Tell, Vic. : “Crushed 24 loads for 4oz.
12d»vt.” The battery tells.
* * • *
New Chum Railway (Bendigo) looks like doing
some pioneering of the right sort At 95ft. below the
3000 ft. level a reef has been struck which, at time of
writing, had opened out to 2ft., and was of a very pro-
mising composition.
• * * *
The quietude of all and sundry in the locality
of Mt. Deddick has passed away. Some say there are
even signs that “Tiie Bulletin will yet have to eat its
words.” Last report from Central Mt. Deddick: “ Making
a truck and laying a truck-line. Will resume work in the
face of tunnel on Monday.” Gordelpit!
• * • •
Dear Bulletin. —Your correspondent “Dun-
can ” touches a Vic. Govt, scandal when he asks : “ What
has become of the promised report on the Mount Ded-
dick alleged mines?” A year ago Melbourne Argus and
Age were publishing Deddickskite pars, at the rate of
about three a week. When Minister Foster and the Govt,
geologists were inspecting the God-forsaken Deddick dis-
trict, last May, they were accompanied by reporters who
wrote yards of vague description, treating the visit as a
matter of vast public interest. Also, from that time
until now there has been a sustained effort to boom
Mount Deddick as a mining “ field ” for Govt, railway
enterprise, and it was even said, by the Argus and Age,
that the Cabinet would hold a special meeting to consider
the great Deddick question. All this time the truth about
the alleged mines was a matter of common knowledge on
Melb. Stock Exchange. If the Govt, geologists’ reports
had been published long ago according to promise, the
mere suggestion of a Deddick railway at the expense of
the State would have looked ridiculous. But the reports
didn’t appear, and the Deddickskiting went on unchecked
until last week, when “ a deputation of gentlemen in-
terested in the silver field ” waited on Premier Turner
and was definitely told that the precious “field” had
done nothing whatever to deserve a railway.— Conrad.
* • * •
Miles of Campbell’s and other creeks in the
Castlemaine (Vic.) district have been taken up for dredg-
ing, and the results will be of great interest, particularly
to N.S.W. The bulk of the dirt to be worked is not only
tailings, but tailings that have been turned over several
times. If it still remains good enough to pay by dredg-
ing, then there are millions of tons of old wash as well as
new on the old alluvial camps of N.S. W. that should pay
much better. A little dredging is about to be started in
N.S.W., and a great deal is talked about. Talk is even
cheaper than dredging.
• • * •
Vic. Mt. Morgan : —“Driven 37ft. on new lode,
splendid ore all throughout face.” Not a word as to the
number of ounces on the plate 3 or in the boxes, but an-
other call is modestly announced. A more modest act
still if the mine changed its name.
• • ■ *
Announced in London that Staples has arrived
there with an option on the New Moon mine (paid-up capi-
tal, £3600; dividends to date, about £57,000), Bendigo.
It has had a longer div.-paying run than most Bendigo
mines, though the average is under 7dwts. per ton. The
value represented, by the option in cash and shares is
about double that of the market, and it will be interesting
to know how much above the option the public will be
asked to pay in London.
* * * *
Koch’s Pioneer, Bendigo, div. 6d.— the 43rd ;
stone running about sdwt. ; worked for years at a profit.
Last week 2040 z. got from cleaning plates. There is much
satisfaction in cleaning plates when you happen to run a
big battery largely for the public. For some years this
mine was run on the battery profits, and an occasional
div. was paid therefrom.
• • * •
Central Lady Brassey, Castlemaine: 12 months’
record, gold won £20,081, divs. £15,000. Started with
£375, and called nothing more. “ The co. has a reserve-
fund of £480.” Much more sensible to have ten times the
amount. No doubt a case of grabbing divs. out of one
mine to pay calls in others, and in Castlemaine £4BO is
considered a big reserve.
• • * •
Long Tunnel: Month, 21880 z., average over an
oz. Opening up on lode at 2022 ft, level, and stopes above
looking right for a good time. Long Tunnel Extended :
1058 tons, 2120 oz.—much above usual average. Going
down for another lift, and not rushed for the want of
stone. Still, most holders will be glad to hear of the sale
of the mine in good old London.——South Long Tunnel:
Another disappointment in a 2dwt. crushing. North
Long Tunnel: “ Still sinking”—howexpressivethephra.se?
“ Hopes are entertained that the next crushing,” &c.
They generally are. New Loch Fyne : Declares its 66th
div., has better prospects ahead, and another start made
with the cyanide plant, which has not been a success up
to date.
The Maoriland Mines Trust Co. puts up £500
deposit and undertakes to find £10,000 to work some
mines on the Black Hill, near Ballarat.
• • • •
Bull’s boom in Maoriland mines having gone the
way of all booms, some have {rone into liquidation, others
into reconstruction. Hauraki South having exhausted
its £25,000 working capital, which was pronounced
“ ample for all requirements,” now asks the shareholders
to put up more money, and the shareholders refuse until
a committee has examined accounts to see where all
the cash has gone.
• • * •
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* • • •
Some Chillagoe syndicates and co.’s have
entered the horribly long list of call-paying mines which
appear in Melbourne Monday papers. “ Many are called,
few,” &c.
• * * *
Croydon Consols recently landed on its property
about 100 tons new pumping machinery. Operations will
be commenced early in year to remove the sea of water
from the workings and further prospect the mine, which
has in the past given over £50,000 to Bull in divs.
m * * *
At No. 7 North Golden Gate, Croydon, Goz. per
ton stone struck in No. 2 underlie in air shaft. Mine
looking well.
A Croydon miner recently returned from a tour
round Chillagoe and Hodgkinson fields paints a deplorable
picture of the state of affairs from a working miner’s point
of view. Country mostly locked up and under exemp-
tion waiting for boom to come for floating purposes. At
the Hodgkinson there is not room left by the syndicators
and shepherds for a working miner to crawl in sideways.
• • * •
Sinking recommenced at Ophir Block, Croydon
(Q.), 1st Dec., to further test the “slide” theory. At
250ft. the co. is sinking on the face and grade of the
slide which is carrying a vein of quartz. In the No. 7
North Golden Gate the reef was picked up in increased
richness below the slide. At the Ophir it is fondly hoped
that a similar result will follow.
• * • •
Jaques Bros., engineers, Conpin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
* * * * '
A well-known mining man, who was enthusias-
tic over the richness of Hannan’s long before other mining
men saw it, is now just as bad concerning what he de-
clares to be a similar formation found by him in Northern
Queensland. He has secured a large area, had several
bulk crushings for upwards of an ounce to the ton, cya-
nided the tailings for over half an oz., has taken the ore
for a great width, and is otherwise assuring himself of
its value. It is in the vicinity of a long-neglected gold-
field, and would probably have continued to be passed by
unnoticed but for his experience at Kalgoorlie.
• * * •
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
• * * •
Dear Bulletin. —N.Q. papers are printing an
attractive yarn about a big gold discovery (unproved) on
the Hodgkinson by R. B. Pettigrew, “ the first man to
discover payable gold at Kalgoorlie.” 1 always thought
it was Dave O’Neill, of the Lake View, who found payable
gold at Kal.; but let that pass. The point is the effort to
resuscitate a dead boom on the Hodgkinson by saying
the formations there appealed to the trained eye of R. B.
Pettigrew as similar to those at Kalgoorlie. Q. Govt,
geologist, in his report on the Hodgkinson in ’83, says : —
“ I found that the gold dies out in depth. Miners sink
block shafts in front so as to pick up the gold chute in
greater depth, and in this way they are disappointed, and
I would advise them to drive on the reef horizontally both
sides of the shaft as there is more chance to pick up a
new chute.” Doesn’t this go to show that the gold runs
are not permanent ? The field has had a fair trial. For
instance, the Tyrconnel Company spent £12,000, paid one
dividend of £750 and abandoned the show ; the Home-
ward Bound spent £5000 and failed ; the Home Rule
spent £2000 and failed; the Caledonia spent £1600 and
failed ; the Homeward Bound taken up again by a new
company spent £1400 without success ; ditto the Union,
which erected a mill and winding plant and sold the lot
for £75. The Reconstruction mine crushed from 1893
to Aug., ’97 548 tons of stone, and when the yield was less
than 2oz. to the ton it would not pay working expenses.
The Sunday claim crushed 6£ tons for 66oz., and it took
two men seven months to raise the 6) tons. They worked
for two months after that crushing, but never got a color,
and the mine was abandoned. The gold chutes are too
small; that is the secret of the failures. So as not to do
too much work in the blank ground, shafts have been
sunk on the same mine almost within a stone’s throw of
one another. On the Caledonia, five shafts have been
sunk in this fashion. On the Vulcan, six shafts are down
on a strip of ground 560ft. long. The blocks of reef left
between the shafts will not yield 4dwt. A trial crushing
from the General Grant—the stone being taken between
the shafts—yielded 5dwt. If you read the tables of yields
from the old field you will see that the last crushing of a
number of mines was 2oz. and over. If there had been
any more of that tack, would those mines be idle now f—
Hodgkinson.
• • * . *
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinder*
17" and 38" by 60" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably th®
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
* • • •
Now that the Mount Lyell Co. has had its
“ burst ” on the rich ore and has to settle down in earnest
to make a living out of plain average rock, it should be
time to cut down the staff and make the balance do a
day’s graft like any other workmen. There is no cash
now to waste on finding fancy billets for anybody* uncle
or other relative.
* * •
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
6cwt. of ice per day has been reduced to £100 each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system ha8
been adopted by the Victorian and other Australian
Governments; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, ana butchers of the
world.*
• • • •
Cabled that the Privy Council dismissed the
appeal Croudace v. Zobel, referring to the old Cadia
copper-mine, in the Orange district. Zobel seeks to get a
lease to work for gold, and it looks as if he would now get
it. The Mining on Private Property Act specially ex-
cludes copper, and how Zobel is going to work gold with-
out copper will be the next trouble. The Cadia was a
good mine 30 years ago.
• • « *
Bayley’s, W. A. “ With every mine truth comes
in time”: “No gold seen during the fortnight. Few
bunches and stringers of quartz been met with, Imt
nothing of value.” Tailings running through by cyan' t-
now average about 5dwt., and they still manage to pud
out monthly from 500 to 600 tons of quartz averaging
about 15dwts. *


9
d
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
JONES &
COMPANY,
TSS'a')
.GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
. SYDNEY.
To Enjoy your Christmas Dinner
FREMO V.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &a, 258.
a Good Appetite is Necessary-
NOTHING BETTER FOR THE PUR-
POSE than a couple of hours in the open
air with a CAMERA.
The Latest in . . .
Hand and Pocket Apparatus,
combining Light Weight, Convenient
Size, and Perfect Workmanship, from
HARRINGTON & Co. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 King Street, Sydney.
Queensland Branch —64 Queen St., Brisbane.
Melbourne Agents — Craven & Co., 179 Collins bt.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
[?]
The latest yarn going the Melb. rounds is
that Gov. Brassey is in the habit of meeting
Premier Turner down at St. Hilda baths every
morning, and competing with him in diving for
threepenny-bits. As Turner always provides the
coins (which looks eminently improbable), and
invariably lets Brassey win (which looks still
more improbable, for it is Turner’s capacity for
pursuing the threepenny to the bitter end which
is the secret of his success as Treasurer), his Ex.
revels in the sport. Fancy Brassey revelling !
He also swims Turner to the fence and back “fpr
fun” because Turner always licks him at that.
.The Bulletin has doubts about this yarn all
round.
“Does a man abandon his hair in the
barber’s shop ? ” was the question put to Judge
Real by a leading solicitor in Brisbane, the other
day. Judge Real thought he did—of necessity.
“But,” continued the legal querist, “if a girl
has a nice head of hair cut off in a barber’s shop,
she still owns it when it is removed, and she takes
it away with her. ” The Judge looked puzzled.
“ Further,” continued learned counsel, “ a man
had his leg cut off in hospital. On the leg vvas
an interesting tumor coveted by the operating
Sawbones. But the man claimed his leg, collared
his limb and his tumor and departed.” And the
court groaned, held its head in its hand, and
thought hard.
* * • *
A spectacle of great tonnage is that of an
upright magistrate'wrestling with a desire to be
lenient to a first offender providing he refunds.
Some little time ago a Sydney youth passed him-
self off in Melbourne as Toby Barton’s son, and
obtained goods by false representations from sun-
dry warehousemen. At the City Court his
brother stated that most of the ill-gotten property
had been returned, and that he (the brother) was
struggling hard to make refunds for the remain-
der. On the understanding that he would make
all the losses good, the case was adjourned, and
the brother kept on struggling with an idea that
his relative would get off. At next appearance,
P.M. Pan ton was informed that he had faithfully
fulfilled his promise, and that it was hoped the
week’s imprisonment and the fright would be a
warning to the offender. Then Panton passed
sentence of six months’ hard—which was probably
about as much as the prisoner would have got in
any case. If the brother who nearly busted his
immortal soul raising the means to refund the
stolen goods had known what was going to happen
he would probably have saved his money. Only
then the importing firms wouldn’t have got their
property back.
«. • * •
Over in Maoriland a young wife wants to
be divorced from her artist husband because he
paints from models in the altogether. He was an
artist before she married him—quite naturally—
and he then painted the nude hired female in his
studio. Presumably his best girl saw his pictures
or heard of them, but either she didn’t quite
realise the situation, or she assumed, in her bliss-
ful ignorance, that nude pictures were painted
wholly from imagination. After they were
married he pursued his art at home, and, naturally,
the nude subjects called there in their business
capacity. (This isn’t meant to imply that they
were nude when they called.) The bride solemnly
avers that she took them for wealthy ladies who
called to get their portraits painted, till the inter-
fering woman in an adjacent house told her they
were models. She asked what models were, and
learned that they were shocking people in various
stages of undress. Then she bored a hole through
the studio partition, saw her shattered idol pursu-
ing his profession, and fled home to her ma, and
now the “ nood ” in art is at a discount in the
Scotchbyterian land of the Moa. Yet even Moa-
land will probably admit that an artist can’t live
solely by painting bony kirk elders in black coats
THE CURSE OF TRUE
LOVE.
HE : “ And what did your father say when you
told him I was going to commit suicide?”
SHE: “He said ‘ Thank God!’”
and blucher boots. The most pious country wants
an occasional picture of an angel at least; and it de-
mands, even in its most rigid moods, that the angel
shall have her boots and stockings off.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Recently tracked the
city boarding-house fowl to its lair—in a wood-
and-coal yard, and have since noted that every
other coal-yard notifies young fat poultry for sale.
Fancy the succulent Xmas duck dieted on coal-
dust and wood-chips.—D.
• * * *
“ S.S.” : Fly-paper is an excellent medium
for a gamble in the fly season, provided you are
located Out Back, and beyond the reach of the
usual allurements. I have been told of a club
that has Sunday afternoon sittings in a dull
stretch in an auriferous area in Croagingolong
(Vic.), where flies are the most active emissaries
of the enemy of man. Each member of the school
arrives with a virgin sheet; these are spread
fairly, and for every fly he entangles the owner of
the sheet draws a copper from the other com-
petitors. Another plan is to mark a sheet of fly-
paper into numbered squares, players to back the
square that pleases them to catch the largest
number of flies in a given time. The winner
scoop 3 the pool, less a percentage for expenses and
refreshments and fly-paper.
* * * *
N.S.W. Public Service Commissioners,
after shying off Broken Hill for a couple of years,
got that far the other day. The local oflicers had
torn a leaf out of the book of the God-fearing
Ministry, and had made prayers—not for rain,
though, but for scorching sun, and blistering
wind, and blinding dust. And once more things
went wrong ; the bad days came along before the
board did, though a bit of dust was left over. The
disgusted servants had prepared eloquent pleas for
special allowances, by reason of the awful climate,
and the climate wouldn’t turn up when it was
most required.
• • • •
John Blyth, a hairy Scotch person who
was a prominent figure in the late demented
land-boom, stated the other day, at a Harbor
Trust meeting, that 225. a week was a good wage
for a working-man. In fact, the hairy one thought
it was more than good. “Ah believe,” he said,
“ that 22 shullings is a vera excellent wage fur a
worrking-mon—a vera excellent wage.” And the
useless old boomster charges about twice that sum
for talking a few minutes’ Scotch at Harbor
Board meetings once a fortnight.
• • • *
Some time last year a crowd of influential
Melbourne citizens resolved to present a gold
watch to that weary humorist Zox, M.L.A., his
previous watch having been snatched from his
copious white weskit by parties who are still at
large. They had a great festivity over the pre-
sentation ; 24 bottles of champagne were drunk,
and 50 cigars were smoked, and vittles were
assimilated, and Zox’s happy red countenance
could hardly be seen for smoke when he returned
thanks in a deep, fruity voice. For nearly 12
months since then it appears that the miserable
caterer has been pursuing the committee with the
bill for refreshments provided the night Zox got
his watch, and, by way of a squalid end to the
proceedings, Judge Gaunt lately ordered the com-
mittee’s secretary to pay up the balance or go to
gaol for seven days. Apparently, the hat has
been passed round in vain among the influential
citizens and the miserable secretary is left.
“ T.D.” : Listened, at a Sydney holiday-
resort, to a picnic crowd singing the latest ditties
from the ’alls. One seemed to be about a “ suddin
messige” delivered “after bus’niss ”to my
schoolmite in the villige far awye.” And, alas,
we have to listen to the same thing in the alls
themselves.
* * •
“ Onlooker ” : Be our cable-
service. What in Hades does it
matter to the average Australian
sojourning in sin, sand, sorrow, or
solitariness whether Gwendoline
May or Augustus John “ pass a
fourth-class exam, in music, or
muffin - making, or anything else ?
The Australian cable- 11 service ” is
the most ridiculously lop-sided, jerky,
and unreliable arrangement that ever
disgraced the press. One day we get
the first instalment of a really inter-
esting bit of news : next day it has
been discontinued, or strays off into a
tangle that takes the month-old files
of the TiMiiS to put straight—when
they arrive. Or some absolutely in-
significant occurrence or person receives
ten words (extended, of course, by the local
cable-liar as desired), and he, she, or it is
then mixed up with the “latest develop-
ment ” or “scare ”of the European situa-
tion, or gets sandwiched in between a big
battle and the Chinese question. The sooner
the improvement you speak of comes along,
the better everyone—bar, perhaps, Gwen-
doline May’s and Augustus John’s “people”
—will be pleased, and the Recording Angel
will get a spell.
About the meanest thing recorded this
year is the agitation of S.A. ultraqjietists to
deprive the poor wretches in gaol—some for life—
of their supply of Xmas beer. The meanness of
the proceeding is manifest when it is considered
that a large number of S.A. gaol-birds consist of
people who were local-preachers and piety-mon-
gers before they were found out, and who enjoyed
their little brown drink on the quiet just as much
as their more fortunate brethren who haven’t been
found out yet.
At Wellington (M.L.), Mrs. M‘William
has just been gaoled 'for seven years for shooting
promiscuously at Mrs. Dick, an in a
fashionable drapery shop. The cause of the
trouble isn’t very clear, but the manner of it was
full of miscalculation, and shows how lovely
woman rushes at a conclusion without due evi-
dence. When Mrs. M‘William fired at Mrs.
Dick the latter bolted through a door, and sat
down on the floor behind it to keep it shut. Mrs.
M‘William reckoned that her antagonist was
standing up on the other side of the door, and
emptied her revolver through the upper part of it
with a view of plugging her in the head; so,
naturally, she missed. A more logical person
would have aimed low, with a view to blowing
Mrs Dick’s legs from under her if she was stand-
ing up, or hitting her promiscuously if she was
crouching down. As the enemy couldn’t be sitting
on the ceiling, there were two chances in firing
low and only one in firing high. But the unreason-
ing shootist fired high, and the result is that Mrs.
Dick is uninjured, while Mrs. M'Williain is doing
seven years.
* * * *
People in Victoria still remember a
J.P. who, not so very long ago, issued the cruel,
creepy order that the body of a suicide should be
taken out and buried with obloquy at dead of
night after the manner of the olden time. His
own wife committed suicide a few days ago. Thus
does hardshell piety come home to roost.
* * • *
One recent hot day, the other week, there
were awful explosions in a well-known Melbourne
pub. Four bottles of alleged whisky burst on one
of the shelves behind the bar. Now, what the
blazes could have been in these bottles ! '
* * * *
A person of the hair-dressing persuasion,
at present under a cloud down South, is the sub-
ject of a quaint story. At the time of the present
trouble he was leading a comparatively blameless
life in a boarding-house. The worst things alleged
against him there were that -he was in arrear with
his board, which may happen to anybody ; and
that he borrowed £3 from another boarder, a sort
of thing that the other boarder is always liable to.
He seems also to have alleged that he was coming
into a fortune left him by an uncle in America,
but there was nothing criminal in that. In almost
every boarding-house there is a harmlessly-inflated
individual who is coming into a fortune shortly,
and generally he gets twice as much gravy and a
much less skinny chop than any other boarder.
Anyhow, accused became engaged to a nice girl
who also boarded at the emporium, and 250 people
were invited to a dance by way of celebration be-
fore she heard of certain alleged past doings of
his and threw him over. He had to seek a new
hash-turret, but a night or two later a message
came to the old establishment that Mr. Blank
MASHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We meet and we pass—not a word—
At the turn of the street;
The beat of my heart she has heard,
’Mid the patter of feet,
And I’ll swear that her own heart has stirred ;
But the red lips are firm—not a word
As we pass in the street.
Nine o’clock every morn, she is there
At the turn of the street,
A halo of bonny brown hair,
Such dainty wee feet,
With a figure of shapeliness rare ;
And I smile and I nod—or I stare
As we pass in the street.
Some morn—should I speak to her there
At the turn of the street ?
(There are days when all things I would dare
For a treasure so sweet:
To fondle that bonny bright hair,
To kiss those two rich lips and rare,
Far away from the street.)
She would pass as before—that I know—
At the turn of the street,
And her eyes with contempt for me glow,
Who would mash—in the street.
And I think if she didn’t mean “ No,”
I might not be mashed on her —so
Let us pass in the street.
’io.
L. M. D.
Aroma
Amoris
<3
11 mecff ®ft . Awaf
sl)& um>
R H o&w§>€o wffliat 3 wi|)fflTro
■Otr?®VDiroO’ cnJttTf,
Wlu&el), of I taif6<niiHj)ll®Sj«i ?
wjll t® TO6
jA. fe.Gfewf’ <MO fIT®OT3) <raflUw&Tf
<ann>dl fccaflo® .
A.G. Wood.
DREAMS AND SHADOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
N.S.W.
In the clear air the blue-plains raise
Their branches meeting never.
In the dim path below them dark
Dream-shadows clasp for ever.
Our waking lives stand far apart,
Ne’er touching, scarcely greeting—
In shadowy dreams ’tis heart to heart,
One long, sweet, endless meeting.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


1
JZ
IvgiJ.oo'ao^i
h
rtOA 3AV
b
PLENTY OF
It puts new life into you.
It is the best tonic going.
SNAP
THAT IB
SYDNEY
LAGER
BIER
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
EIEGANT and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk mbsm
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shire.->
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, ft'land.
X
SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per J4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
*
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. BIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-sti, Melbourns
11 Pittr-street, Sydney;
aBourrle-»ti., Adelaide; 27 Eaglest., Brisbane; Latubtqn
Quay, Wellihoton, N.2t
ATHLETICS.
MELITA : “ How are you getting on, dear, at
learning golf?”
LUCRETIA : “Oh, grand! Eve got my new shoes
home, and the loveliest dress imaginable, with
stockings to match.”
was outside, and would poison himself in ten
minutes, and perish miserably on the edge of the
pavement, if his late betrothed didn’t come out.
Two boarders went to watch the suicide, and
found their late companion a terrifying spectacle,
“with flames issuing from his mouth” —appar-
ently he had got up a harmless display by means
of chemicals. Then one of them swore an inform-
ation against the blazing gentleman for borrowing
JCo under pretence of having a rich uncle—which
was a lame end to a romance that had no definite
beginning. But the romance of a hash-house
mostly begins in a room with a greasy table-cloth,
and ends anyhow.
* * * •
“Vinegar” writes:—
One mm and a-half attended the last woman’s-franchise
meeting, Brisbane. The half was a fine specimen of the
inconstant sex, but tucked his feet under his chair when
cockroaches were about and wore a large buttonhole of
bleeding heart. The attendance of cockroaches was
encouraging. “The brute!” members whispered when
the man planked his foot on an insect. “Silly ass!”
they murmured when the half gathered his feet up on
the chair to dodge a beetle of unusual dimensions. There
were delightful possibilities in the scramble down the
dark Trades Hall stairs, but the nasty one and a-half fled
like frightened deer, and none of the suffragists overtook
them in time to get hugged on the stairway and then
scream for help.
* * « *
“ Malle ” : Walking through Hyde Park,
Sydney, this morning I took stock of Reid’s
Christmas-dinner hustlers. At one tree-enclosure
there were two 20-year-olds, one squatting down
with paint-brush poised against the railings ready
to paint in frantic haste if an inspector happened
along; the other lying on his side admiring the
painting he hadn’t done—both yarning in a dull
kind of way about a dog or a bloke. Further on,
a grey-haired, palsied ancient was cutting grass
with an adze, dead earnestness and frenzied
endeavor to faithfully earn his ss. in every line of
his wrinkled face and every motion of his worn-
out limbs. At a seat near; a strong-built, middle-
aged man was smoking a briar and working
stolidly; he’d calculated how much work ss. is
worth, and intended to do it.
* • * •
A firm at Toronto (Canada) sends out a
circular announcing that the gospel of St. Matthew
in broad Scotch is now ready and that orders
are being received for the broad Scotch New
Testament. A few verses from the gospel of St.
Matthew in broad Scotch :
“ Whan ye wad do a gude wark, lat yere left haun no
jalouse what yere richt haun is thrang wi’.”
“ Rhyme-na things ower and ower, incontinent, like the
heathen folk : for they trow that gin they speak eneuch,
they sal be heard.”
“ But ye, whan ye fast, snod yere heid, and freshen
yere face, that ye be-na seen by men to be fastin.”
“ And anent cleedin; why soud ye hae sic cark and
care ? Look weel at the lilies o' the lea, how they growe.;
they toil-na nor spin ; yet say I, that Solomon, in a’ his
glorie, wasna buskit braw like ane o’ thae.”
“ Melos ” : The Pres-
byterian Mission people are
talking of yet another
“ Dayspring ’’ for the Gaws-
pil-trade; coin of course
to be dragged out of unwil-
ling Sunday-school kids at
“ ’Ome. Previous “ Day-
springs ” have fared ill. No.
1 was lost; No. 2 was sold,
probably because she cost too
much to keep going ; and
No. 3 piled herself up on a
New Guinea reef, second voy-
age. At present the mission
stations are attended to by an
ordinary mercantile hooker,
but the missionaries complain
that this involves insufficient
accommodation for female
native passengers. True it is
that all native passengers, male
and female, are berthed toge-
ther, but no instance of resuit-
ant impropriety has ever come
within the writer’s ken, which
is more than could be said
were so-called Christians in
same circumstances. In fact,
the average South Sea Islander
is honest arid straight until he
gets Christianity and civilisation
pumped into him, though then,
if he doesn’t beat the white
man on his own ground
\at thieving and lying,
it’s not for want of
effort.
* •
Some members of a
travelling show com-
pany were staying at
a M.L. hotel where
the comely Scotch
waitress was of a
morose disposition and
wholly devoid of mirth.
Many unavailing attempts
were made to bring a smile
to her face. But one day,
when at table, one of the
company made a slip with
the carving knife while saw-
ing the big loaf, and the hitherto
smileless one exploded into fits of laughter.
When sufficiently recovered, she explained that
she “ thocht the mon had cut his thoomb aff ! ”
Scawtch humor with a vengeance 1
* * * *
The Adelaide Chows came out in philan-
thropic guise recently, but they didn’t fill the
character any too well. To help along a charity
carnival prominent Celestials undertook to pro-
vide a Chinese procession in costume, the charity
committee paying all expenses. The “procesh”
was .a most painful and humorless affair, but
John’s little bill was a distinct success. The great
aggregate John demanded =6150 for the costs and
expenses of his procession. Nearly every heathen
connected with the affair was down for a rotund
salary, and there were also items like: “Cabs,
<£l3 155.,” and “dinners and refreshments,
.£33 10s.” A huge dragon was imported from
Ballarat, and the committee nearly burst with
indignation upon discovering that each of the
numerous legs of that monster was drawing a
bloated salary of <£2 a week. But John said “no
savee ” to all protests, and after much wrangling
he got <£loo for proceshing with his dragon in the
alleged interests of charity.
* * * *
“S.”: The grand jury that sat to consider
the case against the Melb. detectives charged
with conspiring to commit a crime looked like a
selection of choice specimens from a Benevolent
Asylum. The grand jurymen were nearly all old
and mostly deaf and lame and otherwise afflicted,
and one or two, when asked their names and dates,
replied that it was, indeed, and one said “Yes,
so long as the rain keeps off. ” This is the third
grand jury that has sat in Melbourne, and there is
a local impression that a grand juryman must be a
grandfather.
“ School-ma’am ” writes :
Re “Dominie’s” careful avoidance of being alone with
a female pupil. What sort of an influence would “ Domi-
nie ” exercise over the girls of his school, he regarding
each of them as a modern Messalina, Delilah, or Potiphar’s
wife ? The usual bush-girl of a school-age has such an
abundance of reverence for “the schoolmaster” as to
make her painfully constrained in his presence. I think
that “ Dominie ” would be quite safe alone with at least
999 out of 1000 bush-schoolgirls. Besides, the “big”
girls often leave school when a man-teacher arrives, and
it is not out of any over-strained solicitude for the young
man’s moral health either ! But, perhaps, “ Dominie
has a wholesome doubt of his own manners, when with a
pretty girl in her teens in a lonely school-house. If so,
he’s a wise man. Moreover, the Public Service Board
would do well to appoint only girl-teachers to mixed
schools where only one teacher is required. I never heard
of a female teacher taking any precautions for her own
moral safety (whatever she might do to avoid scandal)
against the big boys of the school, and yet they are
brought up under the same home-conditions as the girls.
* * * •
“ W.1.A.” : Was once in a Melb. arith-
metic competition for boys under 14; prize £5;
two trials, oral and written. A lad of a well-
known turfy Hebrew family (now a layer of the
odds himself), dead-heated with me in the oral
exam, for first place; and, fancying my chance
for the written exam, (to take place some days
later), approached me to “ cut up the fiver ” with
him. Now, what show has a Gentile of 13 with a
simple Yid of like age ?
The rumor of a city railway extension
through old Redfern cemetery has induced many
people to unearth and transplant the bones of
their friends. At one of these cheerful ceremonies
a little while ago, where a large family, long-
buried, was being shovelled forth for removal to
Rookwood, there came to the surface a skull to
which was attached a phenomenally long thick
plait 'of golden hair. Strange to say, it shone
almost as brightly as if it hadn’t been among the
worms for a generation. Some lugubrious bard
should write poetry about that hair.
* * * *
The Sydney clergy, as seen by “Jack
Shay ”: —
I have been making a study lately of the religious pro-
fession in Sydney. The R.C. clergy are mostly brawny
and well-fed-looking, but they are nearly all quite “ out
of condition,” and very few have the kind of face which
painters usually give to absolute saints. The Anglican
churchmen are mixed in size and condition, but the
majority have more of the look that the vigorous fasting
and penances of the R.C. Church would theoretically
induce among the priesthood—the sort of look that Card.
Moran himself has, for instance. The Dissenting clergy, as
a rule, are a narrow, weedy lot, lack of stamina their
predominant characteristic. They mostly look like men
who eat a lot of food that does them no good. The best
crowd are the leading lights of the Salvation Army. The
majority are not only big in bulk, but they possess in
general that sense of bigness which shows itself in
feature, voice, and gesture. I have heard snufflers and
whiners, droners and lispers, in all the other clerical
classes, but never yet one among the Army captains.
They are blatant, raucous bellowers or loud, sonorous
preachers, but never a taint of weakness or effeminacy in
a man of them. I can understand the hold the Army
has got on the large semi-illiterate mass, which is the
biggest factor in averaging our Democracy. The Army
preachers look well-fed, well-clothed, well-trained soldiers,
veritable workers in the vineyard, and their selection tells
of more than blind religious fervor on the part of the
Booth hierarchy.
MEMORY TEST;
OR, HIS AN-
NUAL CROP.
BARBER : “ Which
side do you part
your hair on, sir? ”
BACKBLOCK (down for the
annual agricultural
show ): “Oh! I’m dashed if I know,
boss. You ought to know best; you 're
the last one that did it when I was
in for the show last year.”
That rather bumptious person, Salmon,
M.P. (Vic.), made an attack on the girls of the
telephone exchange in Parliament the other night.
He complained that they did not say sir and
“ please ” when he rang-up, and accused them of
want of civility. “ What some peopiewant
interjected Trenwith, “is not civility but ser-
vility.” Salmon says the Sydney phone girls
always said “ sir ”to him. Salmon is the sort of
man who is always liable to have sir said to
him in a city where he isn’t known.
In a recent Sydney divorce-case petitioner
deposed that for 12 years he had lived happily
with his spouse in the bush, before the spouse
grew tired and thirsted after civilisation. lo
gratify her, he then took a cottage nigh unto the
haunts of men, but when he returned suddenly
from a journey he found a man haunting it, so he
promptly stoushed the intruder, sat down on him,
and calmly waited till Providence should send a
policeman along. Would have sitting there
still had another man not come that way and
given him the captives name. Husband asked
for decree nisi and got it.
This was pretty well as it should be, but in a
remote M.L. township writer once got mixed up
in a shocking example of how things should not
be On that occasion hubby came home, found
a stranger hugging his wife, and waded in for
slaughter. But half a minute later the mangled
remains of hubby shot through the door and made
a bee line for the railway-station with the intruder
in chase. Hubby rushed into the office and writer
locked the door and met pursuer at the parcel-
counter with an enquiry if he wan ted any thing.
“Yes I want the cove inside. Gant nave
him”’ “I will have him.” “Better come and
take him then.” “ Right! ’’-and he came flying
over the counter and got his nose broken by a
blow from a blackwood ruler. As he landed,
writer caught him round the knees and threw him
on top of a bull-pup which bit him in three
places; but, seizing the b.p. by the hind legs
assailant knocked writer down with it, then got
hold of fugitive and bull-pupped him till pup was
dead, and hubby all but. Then started on writer,
poured all the ink in the station over him, painted
the walls with him, and was trying to push him
into the stove when the porter rushed to the
rescue. Then he threw writer at porter, knocked
latter down, and was dancing on him when the
woman appeared and took him away. They the
fugitive, the porter, and writer—cautiously crawled
over to the pub. and were put to bed.
* * • *
From the Mooki :
The country out here is as bad as I’ve ever seen country
look anywhere ; burnt-up, brown, bare plains with a few
dead thistles scattered about; and the surviving stock
look as thirsty as the first inmate of Sheol ought to be by
now A lot of stock travelling—by rail, at “starvation
rates,” though. No “ Olanc.y ” business hereabouts. If
the drought lasts anv longer there won’t be any grass to
truck cattle to. The “ bullockies ” suffer more perhaps,
than the big men or the cockies. Driving famishing
bullocks about the country, fossicking for “feed where
none exists, cursed at and hunted by every squatter and
cockie—it’s time to give up punching oxen.
Bishop Thornton, of
Ballarat, has let go in his
old age at a portion of
our reptile contemporary,
the Australian
country press.
“The country
press in some
places,” he said,
“ was contempt-
ible, if no more. It
was little else than black-
/ 4 mail levied on residents jby
incompetent advertisers.” Which
bitter speech is a reminder that some
years ago a sensitive resident in N.S.W.
back country requested the local newspaper
man to refrain from throwing his painful
journal through the window, and promised to pay
the subscription regularly, provided the paper was
kept off the premises. The newspaper man has
since sent his quarterly account and been duly
paid, and the arrangement is likely to last till one
or other -dies.
♦ • * *
“Face”: Was passing a big Sydney
school, recently, when about 80 boys sallied out
and opened fire on au aged vegetable-chow with
hunks of bread, mud, &c. Was surprised to notice
that the leader of the attacking party was a young
chow of about 16, who bombarded his countryman
with great precision and yelled with joy when he
was hit.
WHEN LILAC BLOOMS.
When Lilac blooms what whir of wing 1
Through hawthorn boughs what gambolling 1
And in sweet peas and mignonette
On window-ledges quaintly set,
What hum of bees ! what murmuring 1
And as the lindens sway and swing,
This slow blood moves with everything ;
The pulses throb with fume and fret
When Lilac blooms !
And old Love stirs, and fain would sing
And revel with the lusty Spring-
Old Love who lingers with me yet
In this strange garden of regret—
Alas ! too late his wakening
When Lilac blooms!
Sydney.
DORA WILCOX.


Visitors to Sydney
I©
5©
&
Tan, Button, |-wide Welts, 23/6; Lace, 22/6
„ „ 22/6; Lace, 21/-
If you wish to enjoy your stay
in Sydney, you should choose
your foot-wear well. 111-fitting
boots will completely ruin a
summer holiday. If you come
and get a pair of our Callaghan
Boots, made of soft, pliable lea-
ther, and fitted to your needs,
you will never return after a
day’s outing with tired, burning
Feet.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS have N 0 ***
Atckerley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ _ ~ Sydney, December 20, IS9B.
My Deab Myee—
Sydney Philharmonic gave us something new
last week m “Psyche,” a musical presentment of
the naughty girl who wanted to know too much,
ihe opportunities of making a great splash with
this fine old argument will be patent to anyone who
has never tried, but Niels W. Gade, the composer,
has not yet put much inspiration into his work.
Parts 1 and 2 were conspicuously uninteresting
and monotonous. Also, there was a general air
of not being entirely familiar with the work, that
probably came as much from the unacquainted
listener as from the Philharmonic. Things im-
proved when the Society got into the lower world
and Part 3, where the composer worked in some
realistic hints about the noises of Hades. Part 4
was graced with a tenderfully tuneful song for
Eros, but opportunities for yawns were sprinkled
plentifully over the rest of the programme.
Psyche fell to the lot of Miss Hettie Holroyd,
who dressed the damsel in white and interpreted
her songs in a somewhat similar color. In spite
u cr y stal voice there was not much meaning
to be gleaned from her interpretation. The music
seemed a size too large for her. Every one agreed
that Eros was rightly given to Mr. Burns Walker,
who is still the idol of the aesthetic fair. Nor does
rnu throatiness appear to be easing.
That striking-looking songstress, Eva Mylott,
represented Proserpine, but had so little to do that
one can scarcely comment on her. By the way
Melbourne wai highly delighted with Miss
Mylott s singing, lately, and several critics compare
her favorably with Ada Crossley, but she hasn’t
the .velvety richness of Large Ada, who always
reminded some people of a big, soft, purring pussy -
Our other promising- songstress, Florence
Schmidt, hasn’t settled down to anything yet. At
present she is in Milan hearing things. After
.Xmas she goes to Paris, which will probably
mean Marchesi, though nobody says so. Alva
turned up at Milan lately, and the two sopranos
had tea and talk together, although their opinions
°f Australian musical taste and its treatment of
artists must have been widely different.
J had » look at Mr. Longstaff’s latest work the
other day. It is a portrait of Ed ward Knox, executed
to the commission of the Union Club. If anyone
wants to see a remarkable delineation of a bald
forehead with a glisten of flesh so lifelike that you
can t believe you’re not looking at the gentleman
himself -but I don’t know whether anyone can
see the picture, as the Union Club hangs it up in
the privacy of its rooms next week. A weakness
for this same artist’s “Lady in Black ” impels me
to express my pleasure that this sweet, adorable
vision has returned from the Eadith Walker Ex-
hibition, and will hang again in our Gallery soon.
® on t you think that those thin, beautifully ner-
vous hands, and all the suggestions of a fascinat-
lnf?> kindly, witty woman of over thirty, are worth
1111^ 101 ! cow - e y ed and almond-eyed beauties
after Dash and Dash. And yet, because the cow-
eyes don’t yearn at you from this canvas, and
because the mouth goes over the beauty limit, and
th© figure is indubitably thin, you will hoar any
day at the Art Gallery, “ Fancy anyone painting
a woman like that 1 ”
A packed house welcomed back the dark, de-
lightful Jubilee singers at the Palace Theatre on
baturday. Mattie Allan, now Madam Mattie
Allan Orpheus McAdoo, is evidently going to be
as well-beloved by the populace as ever. She was
warmly received, and all the flowers went her way.
One couldn’t but admire the artlessness with which
the little family history of Mr. and Mrs. Orpheus
was depicted on the back of the playbill. A por-
trait of Mrs. Orpheus appeared on one side of the
programme, one of Mr. Orpheus on the other, and
U P 111 the corner of his proud father’s portrait was
a dear little darkie in a sailor hat, aged about two.
It reminded one of the little girls who rush about
excitedly with the great news, “ We’ve got a new
baby.” Unfortunately Orpheus was ill in Mel-
bourne and unable to appear on Saturday.
You wouldn’t expect much frocking at a show
so much patronised by the religious bodies, but
Mattie Allan sported two Frenchy frocks with a
piquant swagger that didn’t seem in the least
a / “? ,ld °f what the “Sunday schools would say.”
(Of course you know that’s a quote from a certain
Australian publishing firm when dubious about
accepting a book decorated with asterisks and
little straight lines.) Her first frock was a high-
necked mauve silk with broad white stripes,
draped with an apron of thick white silk lace.
All the co. changed frocks for the second part of
the programme, and Mrs. McAdoo came out in a
festive black net sprinkled with big white burrs.
This was made over a green silk slip, and the
bodice. was turned down with jewelled revers of
dull pink. The lady described as black Melba
rather accentuated herself here with black-and-
white. stripes, and sleeves that looked as if they
were intended to wear with boots. The beaming
faces of the co. and their mincing, mouthy, im
genuous little attempts at putting on frill, give
you the idea that they are all aged about seven,
and have dressed up for the night in their mothers’
frocks.
A gratifyingly noiseless performance is the Cine-
matograph display, which shows how Fregoli,
Biondi, and others manage their quick-change
business. The pictures—which, by the way, dance
just as hard and aggravatingly as ever, and can
only be kept steady whenyou peer at them through
half-closed eyes—let you into the great Fregoli’s
dressing-room, and you see the four valets waiting
at different doors to pluck off and cast on the
actor’s garb. Everything is done like lightning,
but without flurry. One man’s business is just to
pick up the clothes Fregoli flings on the floor.
Also, you see that Biondi has slavishly copied his
master. From what I saw of the elder man’s busi-
ness, there seemed to be nothing left for the
younger one to originate. In fact, I shouldn’t
think Biondi would be particularly pleased with
this give-away of his biz.
I* l. o°ks 0 °ks as if Xmas weather was going to favor
Pudding and beef-eaters this year. The cruelty of
the average Xmas stuffing doesn’t need dilating
on, and it isn’t strange that the first movement
agamst Xmas comes from the sex that swelters
over colonial ovens for half the chief day of the
Christian year. The Woman’s College leads off
by keeping up Xmas in the middle of June, with
roaring logs and brandified puddings and a Xmas
tree and a dance. People sneer at this Institution
and say it’s useless and unpractical, but there you
are!
Ihe shops have all their best bravery out this
week, and the limited influx of country cousins is
the only deterrent to a bright shopping Xmas. I
looked round at various shops, and was struck
with the constancy with which different houses
keep their reputation for one particular line of
goods. For instance, David Jones for lingerie,
fichus, scarves, Webb’s for veils, Waters for gloves,
and so on. “Davy” Jones is showing some
dressy skirts that must commend themselves to
anyone who wants something nice in a hurry.
One in particular was soft white silk, billowy with
myriads of val.-edged flounces. These ran up to
the waist at the back, leaving a brief apron striped
with val. lace in front. The bodice accom-
panies the skirt, but isn’t made-up. Other smart
white skirts are of simple-looking silks, trimmed
with chantilly lace until they become worthy of
race-meetings and garden-parties. The same firm
is showing some delightful things in linen and
lace and embroidery, such as tea cloths, pillow
shams, table-cloths. And I must not forget that
alluring case oi baby clothes, which would turn
any toddler into a fairy queen at a moment’s
notice. Ihe latest baby fashion does away with
capes and pelisses, and originates a sort of silk
redingote with loose little sleeves that slip on over
long or short clothes.
To describe Anthony Hordern’s is a large order,
rather like describing all the other shops in one
breath. Country and suburban people arrive at
eight m the morning, bring their lunch along, and
spend the day inside the emporium walls. On the
whole, I think the toys are the special feature
here. A huge underground hall is crammed from
floor to ceiling with herds of fiery little rocking-
horses, nations of male and female dolls, cities of
dolls houses, butcher’s shops, baker’s shops,
the commonplace passing right out of them in
these miniattire replicas. The book counters are
also marvellous, and when you see the works of
good writers, modern as well as classical, well
bound and printed, selling at a shilling a vol., you
wonder where the publishers come in, to say
nothing of the authors. Although they are not
expected to come in at all.
For every sort of dainty frippery, scarves, veils,
belts and smart millinery, Webb’s is well worth
visiting. You get the prettiest muslins in the city
there. Waters’ is also gaily stocked with feminine
fancies, silk blouses, ties, a line of Irish goods that
are not to be found everywhere, and all the
smartest things in ribbons. Pitt-street Hordern’s
Xmas speciality appears to extend to all depart-
ments, a line of popular horizontally-striped silks
being specially commendable.
Jewellers are also putting a Xmas shine on their
plate-glass windows. Stewart Dawson’s establish-
ment always sets forth its good things attractively,
the windows at present revealing one temptation
after another—to say nothing of long-felt wants in
the shape of household-plate and personal jewel-
lery. And here, to baffled men who want to make
a seasonable present to their women-kind, let me
whisper muff-chains and charms—many charms.
1 heGoldsmiths’andSilversmiths’Alliance abounds
in thase fancies, from the tiny gold doll that came in
with La Poupee to microscopic elephants. Also, you
will find here sparkling Parisian-diamonds, and
dainty be-diamonded aigrettes within the reach of
moderate purses, as well as all the up-to-date
jewellery stock. Saunders and Co., at the Hay-
market, captivate country cousins with huge
assortments of faithful Waterburys. Their win-
dows glitter with all the table equipments that
make glad the heart of the housewife, and they
are equal to any run on chains, rings, brooches,
and so on. Fairfax and Roberts put forward all
manner of high-class jewellery, some special lines
of purses, and beautiful table silver, until fanciful
people, who can t find Xmas presents anywhere
else, must certainly be satisfied here.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Janet Lady Clarke wore black and dia.
monds, while daughter Mary aired her crim.
son pelisse, at the farewell function tendered
them by Austral Salonites on Dec. 15th.
Mrs. Evelyn Gough, spokeslady for the club,
voiced members’ esteem for their departing vice-
president and their unalloyed regret, &c. The
guest of the evening replied in pleasant, unaffected
strain. Unlike Blunderbuss Brassey at Cliveden,
t’other night, she refrained from alluding to
Salonites as dear good creatures, earning tea and
toast by their own struggles and perspiration, or
anything to that effect. Said gubernatorial utter-
ances, by the way, provoked to indignant bridling
certain libelled ladies of leisure among his hearers.
Hard luck, after joining an association with a
view to being considered ‘in society,’ to find
you’ve only made yourself liable to be patted on
the head as a worthy wage-winner and a promising
inky toiler, deserving of encouragement from your
Betters.
“Re dainty do-nothings : Alfred Moule, in his
Melbourne days, was prouder of his white hands
than of his music. Often when a singing pupil
blundered in for her lesson without knocking she
surprised her teacher m the act of gloating over
his outspread lily-white paws. Then he promptly
accused the intruder of chilblains or hang-nails,
and wound up by saying, ‘ One can’t have decent
hands without care. I, for instance, have never
cut a slice of bread-and-butter for myself in my
life ! ’ J
“Toilers or loafers, Salonites, as a class, look
physically fitted to fight the battle of life. Such
massive arms as dot the landscape on full-dress
evenings. Sarah Bernhardt, in her Melb. appear-
ances as Cleopatra, habitually strolled into view,
arms supported by slaves on either side. Not that
hers appeared over-weighty. But at Salon func-
tions most of the short-sleeved dowagers on show
could do comfortably with a little side-wing por-
terage.
. 11 At that farewell reception the Salon programme
included some rollicking recitations by Sophie
Osmond, an elocutionist bound to please so long as
she refrains from the weird.
‘ ‘ Miss Florence Stanbridge, Daylesford’s orphan
heiress, is revisiting her native Australia after
three years European travel, winding up with pre-
sentation at Court. This'lucky possessor of £6OOO
per annum is a tall, graceful 20-year-old, with dark
hair and eyes, clear - cut features, creamy com-
plexion, and sullen scarlet mouth, in fascinating
contrast to the rest of her personality. ’Tis said
that a blue-blooded English lad, a year older than
the handsome heiress, has let no grass grow under
his feet, and is shortly to follow the young lady
and her guardians to Australia, with the sanction
of all concerned.
“ The other night, when the Brasseys were
being driven along Swanston-street to a function
or a fete, a rigid, angular female with wild hair,
driving a perky but emaciated pony in a battered
part, chipped in between the jangling aide and the
vice-regal caravan, and maintained the position to
the delirious joy of street-arabs and disloyal pedes-
trians. The beautiful military person on the gor-
geous horse piloted the way, blissfully unconscious
of the indignity that was being put upon the vice-
regal institution, and the rigid female, and the
wild-haired pony, and the cart, jogged along at his
heels, whilst Governor Brassey and party hung fire
at the tail of the procession.
“On the ‘Geisha’s ’ first night (Saturday, Dec.
17th), Janet Lady Clarke’s big farewell theatre-
party filled the centre of the Princess d.c., except
the small frontage block booked by ‘Govment
’Ouse.’ Lady Brassey, in unobtrusive black,
brought with her Mrs. Vallange, who wore a white
frock under her lilac-brocade pelisse, while her
Jap. top-knot roosted as high as ever. In fact,
for evening wear, the more-or-less-elevated coiffure
quite holds its own. Aides Nevill and Cecil sat
together, bored of aspect, and only very occasion-
ally smiled with difficulty at the fooling of Chin-
Chin Chinaman Lauri.
“Mr. Cecil, a scion of the Salisbury clan, still
goes on crutches in consequence of his ’board-ship
accident. Throughout the Cup gaieties he was
bed-ridden at Surgeon Fitzgerald’s hospital, where
Lady Brassey visited him daily before starting for
Flemington. His sunburnt, boyish, and, at pre-
sent, anxious face, seen en profile, is not unlike
Mr. Vallange’s, though less irregularly featured.
“The hostess of the Cliveden party, in black
decolletage, wore a slightly-worried air re a dia-
mond trinket supposed to have been lost en route.
All round sat kith and kin—Snodgrasses, Hughes,
Ryans, Dr. Rowans, Cruickshanks, Falconer-
Macdonalds, etc. Also, Frank-Stephens and
ramifications of the Madden clan, for the Chief-
Justice’s clique and the Cliveden-Clarkes are
sworn allies.
“ The departing aide, Captain Frewen, the
freshest and most cheery-faced of the Brassey staff,
sat with the Cliveden contingent. Somehow he
often arrives ‘on his own’at functions, when all
the vice-regal chairs are appropriated, and either
stands apologetically on one foot while ‘Lord
Richard ’ re-hashes the party, or else perches afar
off with outside acquaintances. Now he goes to
rejoin his regiment.
“Stage Geisha-land is a paradise of beauty.
Hard to decide which of its scenes one would
rather wake up in after death—that tea-house
mantled with mauve wistaria and approached by
bamboo bridge spanning a lake spangled with
water-lilies, or the palace gardens gorgeous with
chrysanthemums. And there’s something ecstatic
about the clothes, too. They’re too radiant for
this work-a-day world. Such warm, appealing
pinks, soothing greens, and blues both bright and
delicate.
“Florence Perry, the imported Geisha, is not
‘beautiful as a butterfly,’ though an attractive
warbler. The satin groundwork of her first gold-
embroidered robe is delicious pinky-heliotrope. In
her second costume, pale blue predominates,
heightened by brilliant pink blossoms tucked into
the wearer’s raven locks. Rose Musgrove, as a
French interpretress in Jap dress, wears soft pink
Canton crepe to begin with, strewn with scattered
bamboo sprays in faint brown. Tall, fair, pretty,
vivacious and tuneful—the gay Juliette is suf-
ficiently cocksure and nipperish to excuse Marquis
Vernon’s obstinacy in not taking any till he can’t
help himself.
“Dolly Vane, as a touring English Miss, affects
white serge Russian jacket and skirt, peppered
with small buttons by way of trimming ; even the
placket-hole buttons outside. First-nights seem
flurrying. Miss Vane, re-appearing in the frock
just described, had evidently whisked it off in the
meantime, popped on as many Jappy things as
possible, in readiness for future scenes, and hustled
the serge on top hardly in time for her cue. She
caine on struggling with jacket buttons. Mrs.
Bracy sneaked one fastening for her, but there
were still gaps. One can’t blame either lady for
finding no plausible explanation of ma’mzelle’s
dishabille to offer. If the place had been a public
bath, or a dressmaker’s ! But it was ‘ the house of
ten thousand joys,’ given over to geishas, British
naval flirts, and bad Jap. ’ristoerats, and the young
female foreign devil had been warned off the grass.
So what reason could one give for undress?
“ Gov. Brassey allowed the unsatisfactory Capt.
Frewen to stay long enough to join in the annual
romps of the State-school children at Govt. House
before packing him back to England. It’s about
the only fun he has seen. The other aides have
been carried around the stations and allowed to
get glimpses of real Australian life and see kanga-
roos and things ; but this one, perhaps on account
of his youth and want of push, has been shut up
within the gates. Frewen is sent back under the
wing of Janet Lady Clarke, so it is to be hoped
she will find a means to soothe his wounded feelings
and make the way pleasant for him as far as they
go together. Brassey’s desire in aides seems to be
something of an unknown quantity. He got rid
of Capt. Wallington because he took too much
upon himself, and it is understood that Frewen
goes because he took too little.
“ Baronet Rupert Clarke is back in Melbourne
after his trip to India. He has left his moustache
behind him. He now looks like an actor, of the
usual clean-shaven variety—a resemblance which
will probably tend to greatly please Mrs. Baronet.
Also baldness is creeping stealthily over Srupert’s
head, and he has to spread the few hairs he has on
top carefully over the exposed surface. He should
have saved the moustache for the top of the head.
“H. H. Champion’s marriage with Miss Elsie
Goldstein—gone through in the bride’s family’s
parlor, with only the bride’s nearest friends for
witnesses, with condensed nuptial-service, per-
formed by Dr. Chas. Strong in a few minutes—
must, in its simplicity at least, have presented one
feature in common wi h that first marriage of his.
Long ago, in his ardent youth, Mr. Champion, as
the exponent of Socialism, sought to bridge over
the gap between ‘ the classes ’ and ‘ the masses ’ by
stepping straight from Mayfair to find a bride in
the East End. Rumor has been pretty silent as to
the result, probably because there was nothing ex-
citing or unusual to say. It is possibly this atmos-
phere of romance clinging to his past that has
made H. H. Champion, Socialist, with his some-
what cold exterior, the idol of so many different
specimens of the New Woman.
‘ ‘ Pattie Browne tells her Melbourne friends that
she has agreed to play principal boy in the panto,
‘just to oblige dear Mr. Williamson.’ That is so
kind of her. And when dear Mr. Williamson
hands her cheques as plump as herself he will
doubtless say that he pays them over ‘just to
oblige dear Miss Browne.’ It is so sweet for
people to be so obliging to each other.
“ Harking back to the night when pa and ma
Bevan at-homed that burglar. Men can’t help
their selfish natures, of course, but don’t you think
his reverence might have sampled the cold floor
himself, instead of up-rooting the tenderer plant
from between the blankets to supply Bill Sikes’
wants ? The self-sacrificing wife, by the way, had
consented to part with a ring of her own as a substi-
tute for hubby’s ring first demanded by the
marauder. One hopes Mrs. Bevan gave his rev.
pepper for dragging her name and deeds of dering-
do into his reports of the atrocity. What woman
but would rather die inglorious than go down to
posterity enshrined in flannelette, haloed in a
shawl, and with ‘her arm thrown across my
(himself’s) chest ’ (vide Dr. B. ’s report) ?
“The heroine of above midnight adventure is a
large, commonsensical dowager, conspicuous afc
evening entertainments by her sartorial souvenirs
of a recent tour —lace scarves worn cap-wise, Orien-
tal shawls and sich. The Bevan family came to
Melb. first of all for Mrs. B.’s health, now com-
pletely restored. She was then suffering from the
effects of serious spinal injury. Sensation-mongers
point her out as the only person who ever lived to
tell what ‘ a broken neck ’ feels like. Anyway,
in her early Melb. days, she couldn’t go up or
down stairs, and a sort of household switchback
was designed for her convenience.
“Lieutenant Lilley, who has been so curiously
jobbed into an artillery commission by the
Imperial swashbuckling crowd in Melb., is a tall,
dark youth with London Journal legs and a
penchant for wearing a straw hat several sizes too
small for him—though, to do him justice, any hat
would be too small for him. He originally in-
tended going for a commission in the British army,
but the examinations disagreed with him and ho
was left to get into a common kawlonial appoint-
ment by a side door. Lilley is a grandson of old
Ben Williams, at one time member for Beech-
worth in the Vic. Assembly. Williams was one
of the most popular men in the district in the
old days, and there was never a drover or a digger
within 50 miles but swore by his whisky.
\ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Brisbane Courier didn’t know much about
the earthquake-recording seismograph when, refer-
ing to an eruption of Vesuvius, it remarked that
“ Sismograph’s observatory, on the mountain,
shows great agitation.” Same paper put a whisky
ad. under “Religious Announcements.” Was
this grim humor ?


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
. •
CIGARETTES,
Tlie Famous French.
Chocolate.
CHBCDEIIT-BIEHIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
240 Georye-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“Rougemont the great Austrumbug.”—
London Paper.
“The late Mr. Tyson”—the only time
ever he was late.
On December 14 Queen Victoria was 37
years a lone widow.
The oldest legislator in'S.A. is Samuel
Tomkinson, one of the hardest of Tory M’s.L.C.,
83 years old.
There is bound to be unlimited trouble
and woe over the Tyson millions ; there were 13
vehicles at the funeral.
The venerable Dr. Torregiani, R.C. Bishop
of Armidale, is probably the weightiest ecclesiastio
in Australia. Turns the scale at 20st. 51b.
There still lives in Melbourne a man who,
when he married, advertised his fair Nora Kath-
leen as “ the last surviving descendant of Brian
Boru.”
A Northern medico the other day at-
tempted suicide. Took prussic acid, injected
morphia, hacked himself with a knife, and—
recovered. Yet a common Chow can unerringly
do the job with his pig-tail.
“Sammy” Grimes has just completed his
20th year as representative of Oxley, in the
Queensland Parliament. Foxton has represented
Carnarvon for 15 years, and Groom has done 31
years as member for Toowoomba.
Kindly Judge Noel is leaving the Queens-
land bench to plunge into the arena of politics.
Will stand as a Liberal Democrat, and intends
Sit is understood) to have a try for Cairns. The
fudge has many well-wishers all over Bananaland.
Drowned, the other day, by the founder-
ing of the Government Rteamer “ Little Nell,” off
Redhead (N.S.W.), Peter Kemp, senior, 83 years
of age, an old Hawkesbury settler and father o f
11 children, including the ex-champion sculler of
the world.
Related of a very pompous Westralian
pilot that he once boarded a man-of-war in all the
panoply of gold lace and waxed moustache, not
noticing that his careful wife had done-up his
buttons in tissue paper, which was still on when
he paced the quarter-deck.
Salomons, Q.C., estimated the estate of
“ hungry ” Tyson at something over £2, 000,000.
A well-known Sydney stock and station expert a
day or two ago oracularly said, “It’s all very well
to put down station property, &c, at six millions.
Wait till they come to realise.”
Australasian Premiers who went to England
as Agent-Generals and returned to local politics
to cut more or less insignificant figures for the
rest of their careers: Cowper, Forster, Berry, Vogel
and Gillies. John Douglas, of Queensland, became
Premier after having filled the A.G. office, but it
was only a flash in the pan. His best Parlia-
mentary work was done before, in the Macalister
and Lilley Ministries.
Was Thurston, Lora High Commissioner
of the South Pacific, a Machiavellian trickster, or
a man among men ? Anyhow, even his enemie
admit the tremendousness of his personality.
At a public meeting at Levuka, in the early
days of expediency and experi-
ment, when the hall was
thronged with the men who
sought vainly to “ down ”
him, Thurston unctuously
thanked his foes for his
advancement from the
boatswain’s berth to a
vice - regal commission.
Then, turning to his little
knot of supporters, he
assured them, in curt,
Caesarean terms, that he
ewed them no thanks, and
would be double d d
before he would give them
any. Nevertheless, a chief
of high native rank ha
been known to remark, after
a severe wigging from the autocrat of the
South Pacific, and the scant entertain-
ment of a cup of tea and a bad cigar,
that the shell-back emperor of the Fijis
hinted to him that he would not disdain a
few turtle. And they were promptly sent!
A pathetic Melb. sight is the poor old
Scotchman who perambulates the streets in a cos-
tume crossed between a Highlander’s and a barn-
storming theatrical super’s. The old man was a
soldier in a Highland regiment, and as he served
with gallantry through Crimean campaign and
Indian Mutiny he is fired out by his grateful
country to hustle for a charitable crust.
When witty old Vincent Pyke was elected
by a narrow majority to Maoriland House of Re-
presentatives, he was twitted by his defeated oppo-
nent with having polled “ votes from the ceme-
tery.” “ This assertion of my naturally-aggrieved
friend may or may not be true,” said Pyke in
reply ; “ but if it is true, it only goes to show that
even the dead rose in judgment against my oppo-
nent. ”
The vitriolic j. H. Finlayson, editor and
part proprietor of S.A. Register, and Premier
Kingston’s oldest journalistic enemy, returned to
Adelaide the other day. “Finny” has aged
much since he departed two years ago, but there
is a kick in the old horse yet. Starting as office-
boy, Finlayson, who is much liked by young jour-
nalists, has been editor of the Register for over
20 years.
Mrs. Ellen M‘Nabb, the young Footscray
(Vic.) mother who poisoned her baby after being
jointly and severally bashed by sundry male
friends, was found guilty of manslaughter with a
strong recommendation to mercy, and C. -J.
Madden let her off with 12 months hard. The
sympathy of all was with the unfortunate girl,
but, all the same, had she killed the youngster
before it was born she would probably have got
seven years.
Recent Bulletin reference to the late
George McCullagh Reid’s connection
with the founding of Auckland Stab
turns on the reminiscence-tap of a cor-
respondent. Thomson \V. Leys suc-
ceeded Reid in the editorial chair, and
has sat there, working with tireless
energy, for a quarter of a cen-
tury. And if he has worked
hard himself he hasn’t spared /
his staff—always competent
and well - paid. Among
those who have been on
Auckland Star at differ-
ent times are Alfred
Stewart Rathbone, who
founded Auckland Ob-
server, and is now pro-
minent in journalistic
circles in London, and is
believed to write, among
many other things, Syd-
ney D. T’s interesting
“ Personal Notes from
London”; John Black-
man, author of “A Life of
Thomas Day” and much
melodious verse, and who was
a complete guide to Dickens,
whose friendship he enjoyed ;
the versatile C. O. Montrose,
soldier, war correspondent,
and raconteur; J. A. Philp,
well-known on Sydney side ; J. F. Edgar, sub-
editor of Melb. Argus ; J. Liddell Kelly, well-
known to Bulletin writers, and now editor of Wel-
lington Times (M.L.), and others who have made
some sort of mark on their generation. Brett has
kept his paper ahead of all competitors. He was
the first to print with web machinery in Maoriland,
the first to introduce linotypes, and he has the
biggest general printing and bill-posting business
in the province.
George R. Johnson, the Melb. architect
who died on his way back from the west, out-
stripped by far all other Australian designers in
the building of theatres—no less than 15 standing
to his credit. Johnson was a red-headed, reckless
sort of man, with a vein of humor seldom to be
found in his profession. He it was who sent in a
design for the Melb. Commercial Bank competi-
tion with the motto, “ Refer to Drawer.”
“Profesh”: Re somebody’s truism that
the man who puts fire into his writing is generally
a meek person in the flesh. Has The Bulletin
ever met its own “Steele Rudd”? A shy, un-
social Australian, who stands at street corners
studying horses in preference to “ankles.” Or
looks as if he did . . . there are depths. Note :
Chief Justice Griffith—the cold-spined imperialist
—openly bubbles with merriment over “ Our
Selection.”
OFF HIS BEAT.
CYCLIST (who has lost Iris head alter violent collision
with the other roller-skater from behind):
“ Why in the didn't you ring your
bell?”
Litigants before a certain Australian Dis-
trict Court Judge have no reason to complain of
the law’s delays. His Honor invariably knows all
about the dispute on reading through the plaint—
sometimes even sooner. He can try a case while
a party is getting from the back of the court to
the witness-box. Evidence is a detail which only
helps to delay the trial of the cause ; if the case
should jiroceed after a few questions have been
asked and answered his Honor becomes restive,
and in rapidly succeeding stages irritable and
aggressive, and the refractory litigant is informed
that of course his Honor will hear all the evidence
if he insists on protracting the case. If he is wise,
he doesn’t insist on protracting the case, because
should he do so his Honor gets so very mad that
he has no judicial attitude left.
JUST A MINUTE, PLEASE!
Tired men, whether suffering from physical
or mental fatigue, delicate women, growing girls,
and little children find Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa a
unique beverage of inestimable benefit. The
nauseous drugs and disagreeable medicines associ-
ated with ill-health are, in Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa,
replaced by something which is pleasant and nice,
with a distinctive flavoring of its own which will
appeal to the fastidious and over-nice palate of the
invalid, and its soothing effect renders it an ideal
“ Pick-me-up.”
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, by taking the place of
stimulants of an ardent nature, has made happy
many a home which otherwise to-day would have
been wretched, and the ultimate effects of which
it is impossible to foresee. For breakfast, dinner,
supper—indeed, at any hour of the twenty-four—
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be found light and re-
freshing ; it leads the way among all beverages,
and nothing can equal it
The unique vitalising and restorative powers of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa are being recognised to an
extent hitherto unknown in the history of any
preparation. Merit, and merit alone, is what is
claimed for Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the pro-
prietors are prepared to send to any reader who
names The Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty
sample-tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-
paid.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
METHOD IN HIS DRINK.
DOOTOR (after examining patient) : " Just one
question, O'Grady. Do you regulate your
grog? ”
O’GRADY : “Is it regulate me grog? Faith, you've
just got it, doctor. You see, the first six
tumblers I takes warm, the next six I takes
cowld, and afther that the divil I cares how
I takes 'em.”
Recently inquiries came from Cape Town
to Westralia for camels and information there-
anent. Geo. Throssell, Minister for Lands, re-
plied as follows : “ I was the first to introduce
camels for carrying purposes on to the goldfields.
Cost me about .£65 per head landed in W.A. ;
about 20 shuffling off this mortal coil immediately
after landing. Ultimately, out of 46, seven sur-
vived to tell the tale. I have never liked the
animal since.”
George Wells—who put down one of the
first eight holes on the famous Black Hill rush at
Ballarat, was the holder of the 20th licence issued
at Mt. Alexander (Castlemaine), and was earlier
still on the White Hills (Bendigo) rush—pegged
out his last claim the other day at Bendigo. Mr.
Wells, who was later in life a director of many
Bendigo cos., was regarded as almost a model
man in his relations with the woiking miners and
other employes.
“ Sheoak ” : Does the Stephen Judgeship,
like Tennyson’s Brook, go on for ever ? Note the
following from a Hobart Town monthly of 1828:
“ There are three persons of one family belonging
to the Sydney Bench, viz., Mr. Judge Stephen,
the father; Mr. Sydney Stephen, son, acting as
Solicitor-General; and Mr. John Stephen, son,
acting as Registrar. The Solicitor-General (Mr.
Alfred Stephen), of Van Diemen’s Land, is also a
son of Mr. Judge Stephen.”
Service is the only one left in politics who
was a member of the first Vic. Par’iament (1857)
under the Constitution Act. Archibald Michie
and another still survive, but are out of politics.
Gillies (the father of the Assembly) and L. L.
Smith were members of the second Parliament.
Cameron has done 24 continuous years in Vic.
Assembly ; Graves 21 years, having won ten suc-
cessive elections at Delatite ; M‘lntyre 21 years,
Tucker 24 years, Deakin and Shiels 18 years.
P. Fysh, the new Tas. Agent-General, is a
potentate of great tonnage in his own country.
Two young men stood talking on a Hobart side-
waik, the other day, when Fysh appeared. A
watchful policeman at once swooped down upon
them and removed them out of the way to let the
bearded tin god have room to pass. “It’s a
wondher yez wouldn’t know betther than to be
loytrin’in the strate,” he said, sternly. “Sure,
yez never offered to shift when Sir Philip kem by ! ”
“ Scribo I was present when auctioneer-
boomster G. W. Taylor made his renowned pie-
crust promises, in Pastor Bevan’s Melb. church, at
a meeting of the Congregational Union. “Mr.
Chairman, Sir, as a Christian man I feel I must
give of my substance to the Lord. Therefore I
shall donate to the church this year the sum of ten
thousand pounds (frantic plaudits). Further, Sir,
I—ah —intend to give the same sum for each of the
ensuing five years ! ” Here the roof was visibly
lifted.
During the last half-century Adelaide
Anglicans have had three bishops—Short, 1847;
Kennion, 1882 ; and Harmer, 1895. Three deans
—Farrell, 1849; Russell, 1869; and Marryat,
1887. And four archdeacons —Hale, 1848 ; Wood-
cock, 1858 ; Marryat, 1868 ; and Morse, 1887.
Archdeacon Hale was afterwards respectively first
Bishop of Perth and second Bishop of Brisbane.
In 1853 Dean Marryat, who is a nephew of the
naval novelist, was Chaplain of Darlinghurst and
Cockatoo Island, N.S.W.
“ Dabton ” : The story of Vic. bushranger
Power’s apprehension by Supt. Nicholson, as told
to the warder to whom he was allotted. When
Power was dodging the police in the vicinage of
Euroa he was very ill from an old surgical trouble
and was suffering intense pain ; so to avoid the
ingloriousness of giving himself up he wrote to
Nicholson indicating his hiding-place, and asking
the super, to come and take him. Nicholson’s
version was that he surprised Power asleep. He
got promotion and a reward.
Related by musician Kowalski that during
his Parisian student days he went with a confrere
to look for lodgings. Saw a house they thought
would suit, knocked at the door, and “ze portair
he come and I say, ve vant rooms. ‘Two room,’
I say, * for my friend hez a dogue.’ ‘ And vot it
eez your beezness, zhentlemen ? ’ ‘Ve are musi-
cian,’ I say. So he say, ‘my mastair eez out, but
I tell heem. Vill you call to-morrow?’ Ve go
next day, and ze portair he tell us, ‘ My mastair
say he vill accomodate ze dogue; but ze musician,
—no, nevair ! ’ ”
An appeal is being made to Vic. Parlia-
ment for a pension or annuity for the surviving
pioneer of Melbourne, Mr. Robert Russell, now in
his 91st year and living at Richmond. He arrived
at the future site of Melbourne in 1836 before
Governor Bourke named the place, and before
Surveyor Hod die, who amassed money out of the
surveys, ever saw the spot. Mr. Russell was the
first Commissioner of Crown Lands and principal
surveyor of Port Philip. His original plan of
Melbourne is in the survey office in that city. It
is proposed that Govt, grant a small annuity for
the joint lives of Mr. Russell and his wife.
“5.8.” : Bulletin says that the late Mr.
Rodd was the oldest solicitor on the rolls of Aus-
tralia—dating from time of admission. If Tas-
mania counts, I think this is a mistake. Both
Adye Douglas, of Launceston, and John Roberts,
of Hobart, date from the thirties.
The late “Jimmy” Tyson lies buried in
the Anglican section of the Drayton and Too-
woomba (Q.) cemetery, close to four other old
Darling Downs pioneers—James Taylor, W. B.
Tooth (of Clifton), W. H. Kent (Jondaryan), and
Tyson’s neighbor for many years, William
Hogarth, of Balgownie.
A strange sight was seen in Burketown (Q.)
the other day when a dying Chow, on his last legs
and almost speechless, was carried by a country-
man to the Savings Bank to draw his little all
and thus save probate-duty. He died the same
night. Verily the Chinese do not pay much
towards the Government of the leper-stricken pro-
vince.
“Jimmy” Allison, of sainted memory,
was once running a show, in which the relations
of the sexes didn’t meet with his approval.
“ Never had such a company as this,” said Jimmy.
“There’s one man paired-off with one woman, and
another man paired-off with another woman. In
fact, the whole company is living in a perfect state
of idolatry.”
Journalists are born, not made. A live
freelance pressman, of Sydney, spotted a newly-
deceased horse lying on a suburban road. He
made a paragraph of it with indignant remarks on
the supineness of the local nuisance boss, and sold
the paragraph to a morning paper. Then he went
back and hewed off about 501 b. of horseflesh to
feed his dog with.
S.A. Sheriff Booth by has held office tor 46
years, but he nearly had a sudden stop 20 years
ago when the Gothenburg went down en route
from Port Darwin to Sydney with Judge Wearing
and party, returning from a N. Territory circuit
court. Boothby was to have made the trip, but a
Leg. Council election (for which he was returning-
officer) made it necessary to detain him in
Adelaide. A special Act was passed to appoint a
Deputy Sheriff in Boothby’s place, and the substi-
tute went down with the rest.
The noseless “Nosey Bob” is not the
only disfigured executioner N.S.W. has had. In
the bad old days, when the job meant constant
work, one “Split-Mouth” filled the billet for
nearly ten years for N.S.W. and Norfolk Island.
He had, before his Govt, service began, captured
a pair of bushrangers at Port Macquarie, and in
the struggle had received a cut from a hanger
across the mouth, opening it to the ear. Under
excitement the scar had a peculiar habit of turn-
ing black and blue. Private employers declined
to give him work, so Govt, engaged him as man-
butcher. Many of his victims cried out in sheer
horror at the approach of “ Split-Mouth.”
PEGGING OUT.
HIS OLD WOMAN : “Strike me pink, Jimmy, 'ow's
it yer not at school?”
JIMMY : “ Oh, the teacher let me off when I told 'im
you was peggin’ out this afternoon! ”
“ Yooey ” Taylor, once M.P. for Parra-
matta, bore an intolerant hatred to his successful
rival, Dowell O'Reilly ; and his supporters, who
fully shared it, have ever prayed for the downfall
of the usurper of “ Yooey’s rights.” After the
recent Ferris victory, the Tayloriles enthusias-
tically celebrated the occasion. At midnight, a
prominent townsman was asked to go home.
“ Nom-ine,” he said. “ Nom-me must tell
Yooey (hie) ’bout Reilly’s lickin’—Yooey will be
sho pleased ” —and off he went up Church-street.
He was found next morning asleep in the ceme-
tery, on Mr. Taylor’s grave. His fuddled brain
just remembered where he had last seen his old
friend going, and off he had staggered to con-
gratulate him.
Nowhere do managers of big mines get
more miserable pay than in Bendigo. One
of the biggest mines paid £4 a week to the
manager, who in years handled OOOOoz. of
gold from its workings. Eighteen months ago
he put a mythical person on the pay-sheet, and
kept him there until somebody stumbled on a
discovery which has landed the manager in gaol
under an 18 months’ sentence. The poor wretch,
whom the co’s representative said had been
otherwise an excellent officer, mortgaged
his belongings and scraped together £100; and
the co., of course, accepted it, and doesn’t
want him punished very severely. By this time
he and his “large family ” are probably sorry that
he “ worked his way up,” as it- was urged in
his favor he had done. To work up to the manage-
ment of a Bendigo mine seems very like rising to
perdition.


ThreeGoodThings
MADE IN ENGLAND
Sau
CE
NEGAR
►pv6B
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
A Big Scrub police ex sergeant, when look-
ing for a prisoner escaped from Twowharves lock-
up, got hopelessly bushed in a lawyer-vine and
lantana patch. At last he was tired of hunting
for the lost track and tried a loud “ coo-ee.” The
call was answered. “Who's there?” “ Sanior-
sarjant Dooley from Twowharves, lukin’ forra
niscaped prisoner. ” There was a long laugh, and
“All right, old man, stay where you are; I’m
tli’ bloke ya lookin’ for. ’ And then there was a
great quantity of silence.
ABORIGINAL FEMININE DUEL NEAR TH
BOTTLE TREE (STERCULIA).
“ Surveyor ” (with 15 years’ experience in
Tasmanian survey-camps)
The man is not yet born, and probably never will be
born, competent to right the wrongs done to Tasmania
by her old survey - system. That system scrambled
over all obstacles for gain, unmindful of the past,
callous as to the future, and left no. trace save chaos
behind. It appointed men who went flying across
country armed with compasses stuck on sticks, link-
chains as heavy as bullock-drags and hardly so accurate,
and meat-choppers in lieu of axes. These warriors of -the
past walked all day without rest on a mouthful of oat-
meal and water, and coiled up in a hollow log with as
much content as other men would on a feather bed. They
took their sights at a venture and dragged the chain at a
hand-gallop. WHat they couldn't measure they guessed,
and their guesses were more wonderful than the stars.
Their most intricate problem was how to get through
the scrub in the swiftest way possible, and the pride
of t-heir profession to rush recklessly down a boundary
creek, noticing the curves that weren’t there in their
field-book. An old sojer, who has been as well cursed as
any man in Australia, rode round his lines with a pocket-
compass in one hand and a meat-chopper in the other,
blazing the trees as he went. Any tree 20 yards on either
side was good enough with him. When he reckoned he
was far enough—by his watch —he would dismount, hew
the top off a sapling and hammer it into the ground with
his meat-axe. This was his corner peg. When he had
Sroceeded thus to the third angle (having previously
ghted a fire at the starting point) he merely made
straight for the smoke, and the survey was complete.
“ There, tna mon,” he would remark to the perspiring
selector who had followed him round, “all the ground
eenside tha fouah cor-runers belangs to yoursel.” One
selector, of writer’s acquaintance, refused to ac-
company the old man round the lines. He did
better than that. He hanged out the signal-fire
and lighted another about ten chains to his own good.
The warrior on horseback arrived at the fire all
right, and observed that it was “ a copital close ! ” This
is not romancing. Scores of similar farces were enacted
in those days, and their results are multiplied all over
the island. The whole country is a net-work of erroneous
lines, and the old charts are pictures of inaccuracy ; good
as the work of the present system may be, it is only in-
creasing the same old errors of the meat-chopper brigade,
and it will go on increasing them until there is no room
to err in. Then the boss surveyor and his assistants will
Stand up on top of the Cradle Mount and inspect poor,
much-cut-up little Tas. —and weep.
* * * *
“ Werriraee ” : Most bushmen aver that
snakes, no matter at what time killed, will squirm
till sunset. Have never watched for proof, bub
have noticed that the head can be “killed” out-
right, whereas the body, however battered, will
wriggle out the average slayer’s patience. The
tail part wriggles the most. If cut off, it wriggles
more, but will not last as long as the body.
Apropos. Snakes are fond of milk, and a saucer-
full, set adjacent, will bring any snake out from
under a house. Also, the only Australian snake
I have never seen up a tree is the black-backed,
red-bellied variety. All others, so far as my ex-
perience goes, are excellent climbers.
* * * *
Be Fred. Bradshaw, on pigs (Bulletin,
19/11/’9B). I once knew a cove who, when visiting
his best girl, always used to take an old boar with
him for protection against the dogs. Plan of
campaign was as follows : The cove would make a
feint to the rear of the girl’s premises, when the
dogs would go for him. He would settle No. 1.,
while “ Billy,” the boar, would do likewise with
Nos. 11. and 111. Then an entrance to the front
would be made, the he-pig staying outside to tackle
dog IV., who generally came home late, being a
dissipated brute. After a time they got to know
that boar, and my friend could visit his girl with
impunity.—6Y.H.
* * * •
Letter received by a Big Scrub doctor :
deer Sir, —ihoapyou will come andvissit myhussiband,
he have got an oreful pain through careless ehooing his
food with deoaid teath in his stuinmick and has indigestun
terreble bad—yours truely, Mrs jane creeker.
* • *
Harry Stockdaie tackles De Rougemont
again re aboriginal feminine duels :
De Rougemont’s description of a “ lubra combat” is
obviously not from personal observation. He says,
“ They would then stand face to face, and one would bend
whilst the other dealt her a terrific blow between the
shoulders or on the head with a formidable club. The
blow, which would be enough to kill an ordinary white
woman, would be borne with wonderful fortitude, and the
aggressor would hand the club to the woman she had
just struck. The latter would then take a turn,” and so
on—blow for blow about until one gave in or was unable
to rise. Now, though much of this is perfectly accurate,
three important points are very wide of the mark. First,
the lubras do not tight with clubs, but with a “ fighting
pole,” about 4ft. long, thicker than an ordinary broom-
handle, and of heavy wood, such as red gum or
ironbark. Secondly, the women do not strike
between the shoulders; they strike only on the
head, for which reason a thickly-matted head of hair
(Parramooroo) is of great service to these combatants.
There is no choice of position or any kind of manoeuvring.
The wronged one (generally the challenger) usually gives
first whack. The one to receive the blow
bends the head, as in illustration, usually
putting the hands either on the knees (if a
man), or between the thighs (if a woman),
and the head is so posed as to offer to the
blow the strongest part of the skull. No
dodging is permitted ; friends usually being
picked to see fair play, as in a European
fist-fight. In the rare case of any unfair-
ness, the offender is similarly treated or in-
jured. The third mistake is that women
always use both hands on the fighting pole
—not one, as depicted under de R.’s de-
scription. I have seen many of these ladies’
duels in different parts, of Australia, but
never saw anyone killed, though most of
the blows are very vicious. Occasionally
only one or two blows are struck, one or
the other having had enough ; but gene-
rally it goes an until one combatant is to-
tally disabled. It should be borne in mind
that the natives’ huge head of hair, as
has been said, matted and mixed with
grease and ochre, renders comparatively
innocuous a blow that would naturally
smash the undefended skull. The Cooper's
Creek (Central Australia) Dieyeri tribe,
when fighting a duel accompany each blow
with a savage shout, “ Diemarro! ’’ (I
strike). When a blow fairly fells the re
ceiver, the striker eagerly calls “ Duumkami ” (get*
up, get up); very rarely is there any interference
with a woman’s quarrel, no matter how freely
flows the koomaru (blood). Neither is there any
parrying or feinting (koorathurroona) as when the men
fight. Anything more terrible and brutal in the
way of combat it would be hard to conceive ; but the
women of the aboriginals are inured to blows and bear
them with a fortitude incredible to those who have never
witnessed it.
* » * *
“J.E.N.”: For years he had been kan-
garooing, dogging, and rabbit-trapping, but,
though I had beard of bis queer ways, I never
dropped across him till one hot day when I was
making tracks back to camp. Reaching the sum-
mit of a sand-hill I caught sight of him gesticulat-
ing, talking at the top of Ins voice as if in violent
controversy, and occasionally clinching a point
with a stick which he had in bis hand. After
watching him for a bit, I walked down towards
him, but he didn’t seem to notice me, and when I
bade him “Good-day,” he wasn’t the least put
out. “Hot,” I said. “’Tis that.” “Do you
know, mate,” I ventured, “that you have been
talking to yourself for the last half-hour?”
“Yes.” “Did you enjoy it?” “Likely I did,
if I kept at it half-an-hour.” “What was the
subject in dispute ? Give me a bold of it and the
pair of us can thrash it out.” “ I can’t give you a
hold of it,” he said. “ The fellow I was arguing
with has got it. He always clears when strangers
Miss ADA CROSSLEY,
Photo., E. Walter Barnett, London, S.W.
come along, and never comes back till they’re gone.
He’s a bloke, too, as mostly minds his own busi-
ness—ain’t cheeky enough to interfere with other
people. Good-day.”
* * * *
“M‘G.” : Talking about the superstitions
of the Australian bush, who knows anything
about the “ Hairy Men ” of the Murrumbidgee
ranges ? Two men I have met from that locality
swear by the existence of a race of Hairy Men—
diminutive in stature and supernatural in state—
who kill sheep, throw stones at camps after night-
fall, and make themselves generally useless and
objectionable. My informants even hinted that
one’s life was not safe in a neighborhood infested
by Hairy Men, and ascribed many mysterious
disappearances to their malignance, though ad-
mitting that no case of murder was absolutely
traced to them. Nevertheless, nobody living
about the Murrumbidgee ranges would think of
sleeping in a camp without another keeping
watch. My acquaintances both added that they
had themselves seen Hairy Men, though they had
not been injured by them.
* ♦ * *
Dear Bulletin.— lf the jackass doesn’t
kill snakes, and good big ones, too, how do you
explain this? In the Perth Zoo, not long ago, a
snake about 20in. long led a happy life in a box
with a wire front. Tiring of the monotony he
made his escape by means unknown. That even-
ing a High-school boy, aged 14, was wandering
round when he spotted the escaped serpent, and,
with the enthusiasm of youth, “ bottled ” him in a
jam-tin, took him along to the kookaburra’s cage,
and introduced him to the three or four inmates.
Talk about a circus ! In one act the snake was
done for—hammered to death by one bird against
the log on which the jackies roosted. I was there
at the time, and I’m not more than an average
liar.— Onlooker.
* * * *
Hoolan had a paddock of oats which,
every night for a week, had gradually been getting
less. There was no police protection at the place,
as a shearers’ strike was on at the time, and th?
trooper had been called away. However, O’Toole
came to the rescue. He told Hoolan to bring
along a bottle of whisky, and they would catch
the scoundrel if they had to watch for a week.
Next night Hoolan (who kept the pub.) turned up
at the paddock with two bottles of whisky, and
they laid themselves out to watch. After a little
time a fellow with a bag and a hook entered the
field from the opposite side and started cutting.
Then Hoolan got excited and shouted, and he and
O’Toole charged down upon the reaper, when the
latter raised a weapon and fired. O’Toole fell,
and Hoolan made tracks for home with his hair
trying hard to get through his hat. Then O’Toole
rose again and he and the reaper drank the grog
between them. Next morning he showed Hoolan
his riddled . hat, and Hoolan paid for a new one,
and stood sundry drinks, and tendered a sovereign
as some compensation for the shot which was
alleged to have entered O’Toole in a large number
of places, and caused him great suffering.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Be “D.L’s” remarks
about Busy and her pups. You couldn’t beat that
strain : so intelligent and so conscientious, too
Next trip we were running the Warrego down
with a flock of 2000 sheep, and found we had
dropped 17 somehow. Sent the pups back to
hustle them along and kept on travelling our-
selves. Forty miles lower down the pups caught
us up. They had 15 of the stragglers, and had
brought along two skins of those they had to use
for rations on the way. Later on, had one of the
pups mustering a paddock at the head station—
we counted out one short, and sent the dog back.
He didn’t bring the stray —but rounded up and
fetched along a sundowner whom he had caught
red-handed killing the sheep.— Kosciusko.
“ Onlooker” : An old drunk at Nan-
nine, Murchison, after “a big night,’ wan-
dered out of the local pub., and fell asleep a
few yards off, in the bush. In the morning i
found an iguana, about 3ft. long, lying along
his chest, and snapping up the flies which
clustered about the drunk s nose, ears and
eyes. In fact, you could scarcely see an
inch of his face for the insects, while, at
first glance, it looked as if he had gut a snake
down his throat. Couldn’t wake him, so,
when iguana bolted, covered his face with
sacking.
♦ * * *
“ Jeh ” : I herewith give “ Ben-Sun
(B. 19/11/'9B) the result of study of ants and
their antics conducted at expense of much
“ slapping ” for lateness at school. The colo-
nies of ants have a simple system of freetrade.
Between each mound is a regular track.
Knew one colony situate near a wheat pad-
dock and another near a corn field, and
there was a regular exchange of wheat and
corn between the two. Ants’ senses of touch
and smell are enormously developed at tin-
expense of voice and hearing. Have hid
piece of bread behind grass a few inches off
track and observed ant staggering along with
piece-of wheat, when abreast of bread, drop
wheat and scramble over grass to bread ;
smelt it, and, finding it too heavy, rushed
back and met three mates to whom he ap-
peared to communicate the news. Anyhow
the three quickly had bread over grass on
to track. Very interesting also are their
defensive arrangements. When the enemy
(a stick in writer’s hand) scraped top of
mound, a band of scouts rushed out in great
excitement and scampered off in all direc-
tions to locate the foe. Then the mound be-
came black with the main body, who mus-
tered and marched off north, south, east and
west, leaving behind a reserve who quickly
gathered up pieces of stone and mud and
fortified each hole. Presently the scouts,
finding no enemy, returned and held a head-
to-head confab with rest, and all retired
except a small band of observation that re-
mained on guard for hours.
* * * «
Dear Bulletin. Be flood-heights.
You might refer to your own cartoon of
a year ago. Back-block pater familias,
in reply to flood-mark hunter, “ Waal, no ;
flood did not reach that high. I put it up
there to keep the kids from knocking it
off. “C.l.H.’s” gum-log up a gidya also
recalls the merry conceit of the Wagga-
to-Hay coach-driver who had cod-fish skeletons
hooked up on trees, telegraph-poles, &c., and
would inform inquiring passengers that they had
been stranded there in a recent flood. — Bower
Bird.
♦ * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Be your footnote to my
letter on the intelligence of pigs (Bulletin
19/11/ J 9B). Now that you have reminded me of
it, I remember, years ago, hunting truffles in the
Bungaree forest with specially-trained pigs. I
used to make a nice little bit out of their skins,
which are well furred and make excellent rugs.
The eggs of the truffle were considered a great
delicacy in those days, but, being extremely rare,
were very costly. Indeed, only one man in Bun-
garee—a retired police-sergeant—could afford to
eat them. The Government, as usual, “ pro-
tected ” these valuable and beautiful animab
« hen they had nearly all been exterminated. i
IN “PUSH” SOCIETY.
BILL: “ Wot were you talking to Sam Jones for
larst night?”
JANE: " There aint no ’arm in talking to a bloke.”
BILL: “If yer ’ad any love or respect for me
you’d talk to a bloke wot I was able to stoush,
not to Sam, who’s a champion ’eavy-weight."
have never seen pigs acting as “pointers,” but
have frequently seen them coursing- mostly in
potato-fields. A farmer carrying a hoe invariably
followed them up—acting as judge probably.—!'.
Bradshaw.
* * * *
“ S.S.” : The bush-barber is often a brutal
miscreant, with the soul of Torquemada. Tin-
last one 1 unguardedly visited shaved me with a
hoop-iron razor that operated on the principle of
the giant stump-extractor. The barber's shingle
was hung out on the chimney of a slab-hut, and
hisshaving-saloon was furnished with a stool, a
six-inch pier-glass, a bar of yellow soap, and a
young mpnkey-bear. The shaving-brush was
made from the tail feathers of a dead horse, and
the artist operated with cold water. When he
had shaved me I was as raw as a skinned rabbit
and fifty times as unhappy. Asked him if lie had
been long at' 1 the trade, and he said nearly a week,
DEAD WOOL.-A BUSH PICTURE.
Oh, there’s cursing on the station when the order comes
to straddle
The worn and weary horses whose death would be their
gain ;
With a curse on all around us and a woolpack on each
saddle
The station-hands go picking up the dead wool from the
plain.
Oh, the weariness of riding when the whole world seems
a-frying
And misery’s cup beside you is ever, ever full;
When you curse yourself for living and you curse the
sheep for dying,
Leaving you to gather up the stinking rotten wool.
When we come unto a carcase we shake it for a minute
To free it from the maggots and sundry swarms of ants,
Then we cram it in the wool-bag leaving many thousands
in it
Who shortly get to business on the inside of our pants ;
Oh, it’s weary, weary riding with the hot sun on our faces
To feel yourself a crawling mass from stirrup-bars to hat;
For the black ants get to business in most aggravating
places
And make you feel as active as a circus acrobat.
Oh, the muddy-rotten water where the bogged sheep lie
a quiver
When the crows have plucked their eyes out and drilled
them through the sides,
We draw them out in hundreds from the filthy, fetid river
And cut their throats for mercy—for mercy and their
hides ;
Is there any wonder in it when we join the shanty’s revel
That we try to drown all misery by keeping ever full;
Is there any wonder in it that we plump it for the devil
When vye ride in from the paddocks after picking up dead
wool ?
So, in lieu of something better, fill your quart-pots at the
river,
Where the carcases are boiling in a perfect devil’s stew,
’Tis an excellent restorer for hydatids in your liver,
So drink the health I now propose, and get hydatids, too.
To the sheep that die in drought-time ! may we find them
knee-deep feeding,
Though the parson says the dumb-beasts from the earth
can mount no higher;
But we who saw their misery and eyeless sockets bleeding
Just hope and pray that we may find the parson is a liar.
C. P. Q. C.


,'-N
■» ! 'v®
y'
JWy-y
' AND BE
IMPOSEP
UPON BY
IMIT/VpONj
WOLFEsScHNAPRS
Tt is seriously alleged that, at the battle of
Santiago, the Americans fired off 0000 shell and
only hit with 123. Apparently the difference was
that the Americans were pretty bad marksmen
while the Spaniards were a great deal worse.
When two big ironclad fleets come together, both
in splendid fighting trim, manned by really good
marksmen, as well as by men of grit, and well-
officered to boot, what kind of holocaust will it be ?
During the month of last Sept, the New-
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.
supplied the German warship Falke with 0000
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use on the
voyage to Samoa and Apia. During the vessel’s
stay in our harbor GOO gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute to the
excellence of the local lager comes from the Ger-
man warship "Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart
bottles of Sydney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk Lager daily.
Both ships’ crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney Lager. As the firemen,
officers and crews come from the country that has
always been famous for lager production, it is
clear that the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
deserves all that has been said by every con-
noisseur in favor of its lager.*
Hotel
Australia.
RATES.-12/6 per Day
upwards, inclusive of all
Meals and Attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE,
Manager,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
Church bells—Signals to avoid the shallows
of the 10th century.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering- a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, oan be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
S/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 Sydney.*
ASK FOB
The Exquisite Lager
and they’ll give you
GEO. ADAMS, Sole Agent.
WHITE LABEL LAGER
and informed me he expected to be quite proficient
in a month. So he probably will be, if the sub-
jects hold out, but much misery will be avoided if
he is hanged in the meantime. When I had liair
I often bad it cut by bush-barbers, and I found
that, in nine cases out of ten, the operator was a
man soured by failure in every other trade or call-
ing. Have been clipped with horse-clippers, gar-
den and sheep-shears, and a tommy-axe, but
avoided the specialist who kerosened his patron’s
hair and burnt off the crop. The latter’s victims
were men of colossal faith, and trusted to the
expert to douse the glim at the critical moment.
Bush-barbering offers a magnificent opportunity
for indulging a rabid misanthropy.
» • « *
“Tom H.” : “ Nack’s ” legged-snake was
probably a “ shingleback.” Oily-looking reptile,
either jet-black or yellow-and-brown, and never
much more than 18in long ; body thick, compara-
tively. Several that I have killed were found
under heaps of split fencing-stuff stacked in sand-
stone ridges. Can’t say if venomous.
* • * •
“ A. A. A.” : One of the camels of the ill-
fated Burke-Wills expedition got astray on the
Thompson, and for many months was a lone and
humpy wanderer across country' until it reached
civilisation at Dunglebar Station, on the Barwon.
An old aboriginal who was shepherding about
seven miles from the homestead first discovered it,
and, thinking it was an apparition, deserted
his sheep, and, mounting his horse, made a bee-
line for home at break-neck speed. Arriving
there, almost paralysed with fright, the only ex-
planation that could be dragged from him, after a
liberal dose of brandy, was : “ Holey gose ! Seen
a blully sumthen, blue blully sumthen ! ” The
“ blully sumthen ” turned out to be the above-
mentioned camel, which was eventually handed
over to Melb. Zoo.
“A.,” on the evanishment of the Tas-
manian aborigines :
Perhaps the most singular circumstances connected
with the history of the Tasmanian blacks are their total
disappearance, after the last camp was captured, and the
few traces which remain of their existence. Solitary
stone implements have been unearthed in some locaiilies,
and stone ovens, doubtfully credited to the blacks, are
found on the S. and VV. coasts, notably at Remine, Trial
Bay. Only at Green Point, on the northern portion of
the West; Coast, are there extensive evidences of the
old inhabitants. About a quarter-of-a-inile inland, and
some 50ft. above high water, are huge mounds of burnt
sea-shells, now sheltered by guintrees, which have grown
through their centres. I have sat upon one of
these monuments of the past, and reckoned that,
within a radius of 50 yards, 2000 tons of
shells were deposited and burnt. How many teams
of long-suffering gins must have toiled up those
shifting sand-dunes to supply their families with roast-
mussels? But, apart from these solitary witnesses, there
is now absolutely' nothing on the island clearly connected
with its original possessors. Like the V.D.L. emus, they
walk the plains no more, and What remains is but a
memory, and perhaps a vacant and doubtful skull in a
museum-case. The last blacks were brought in from the
Arthur River by Robinson about ’4B. This extraordinary
man, formerly a Hobart brickinaker, and merely a
handful, tramped from the capital via Port Davy, Mac-
quarie Harbor, and the Pieman to the Arthur River ; and
thence to Circular Head. Here he heard of a notoiiouslv
blood-thirsty tribe (they thirsted for the blood of their
murderers), and, getting on to their tracks, overtook
them at the Black Bluff, about twenty miles south of
Ulveston. Fenton describes how, when the warriors
were drawn up in battle form, Robinson, unarmed
and alone, walked on to the little plain and shook
hands with the boss nigger. The whole tribe then fol-
lowed the plucky little man to Hobart. This incident
is unique in the history of Australia. However, when we
take into consideration the shooting proclivities of the
old Hinglish sports, the depredations and gallantries of
sealers and the military, and the odd hundreds that were
shot, drowned and pole-axed in the interests of civilisa-
tion and agriculture, t he disappearance of the blacks does
not seem quite so curious after all. There is a cliff at the
N.VV. point of the Island down which, old hands have
affirmed, more than 209 blacks were driven into the sea,
chased violently thither by mounted emigrants, who
afterwards pelted the drowning niggers with rocks.
There were slaughtered in the short space of 43 years
the whole of the owners of Van Diemen’s Land, with
the exception of a few miserable consumptives who were
marooned on the Flinders group as punishment for daring
to be still alive.
• * * *
Some years ago a surveyor and his assistant
were doing some fishing on the Herbert River,
N.Q., by lamplight, and from a boat moored, as
they hoped, beyond spear-range from the shore,
the blacks having of late been plentiful and un-
unfriendly. Suddenly, with a crash, over went
the lamp, and the surveyor and his assistant took
to the water, yelling in panic, and struck out for
camp all they knew, leaving boat and fish to take
care of themselves. They dodged the allodiles
and crocogators safely, and, negotiating the mud
and mangroves, they reached camp, scattered the
fire, and lay armed and watching, eaten alive by
sandflies, waiting for the attack. When daylight
came and their courage returned, someone had to
swim to the boat. After much hesitation, the
boss ran the gauntlet of the ’gators a second time,
and discovered lying in the bottom of the boat a
big mullet that had jumped at the light and ex-
tinguished it.
MISSIONARY NOTE
FROM CHINA.
“ The Rev. Amos Dobb
has a large and enthusiastic
following."
“E.S.S.” writes :
There are many noted camps in N.S.W. and Q., said to
be haunted, on which no mob of cattle will stay the
night. Conmion-sense can hardly accept the ghost
theory ; but there is something about these camps that
terrifies cattle, and which could be explained, perhaps, if
looked into. It might be merely'the peculiar shape of
a bush ; a very limber tree bending low in the wind ; a
hawk or other bird nesting in a tree ; or some singularity
in the surroundings. The scent of a strange animal, too,
will frequently cause a rush. Note how excited a horse
will become on crossing a camel-track. Again, the
“ghost” on many camps may turn out to be a'carpet-
snake, which wanders at night. One beast has only to
jump from it to start the whole mob, and, once they'
nave rushed, the least thing in life will startle them again.
It’s the crushing the majority get that makes them so
terribly anxious to be up and away'. We had one bullock
in a mob from Bulgroo we called “Rushing Rocket.”
He was a very quiet bullock, and didn’t bother getting
up in the first rush ; but, when the hoofs began to pound
him, his bellowing was something to remember. After
that, he always camped 20 or 30yds. out from the mob.
If a beast got up to stretch himself, or one coughed or
switched its tail, “Rushing Rocket” would be on his
pins and going for the Melbourne Cup in one second.
“ Tear-an’-scratch-it ” was another, only- more so. He
tore and scratched so much one night that we lost sight
of him. Was seen next day tearing across a sandhill 20
miles distant. Think he’s tearing yet—if he hasn’t
bu’sted.
* * * *
“Tassy”: When writer was prospecting
on Mt. Dundas (West Coast, Tas.), self and mates
used to hang our meat (nearly always salt-junk)
by a cord to the limb of a tree against which our
humpy was built. Native-cats used to climb
down string and gnaw our food. At last one of
us got a kerosene-tin, flattened it out, and, pierc-
ing it, passed the string through the hole, and
hung the meat beneath. Itcompletely “euchred”
those cats. They would climb down the cord until
they reached the tin—where, of course, there was
no foothold —slide down it and land on the
ground with a thump. Then they would climb
the tree and repeat the operation again and again.
They must have been very puzzled animals, and
considerably sore about the feet, by the time they
left off.
THE WESTBALIAN DIGGER’S PRAYER.
God ! why do You send those flaming flies?
We do not mind the snakes or centipedes,
Hot, stifling winds, Barcoo, or blighted eyes,
Unholy blacks, tin dog, or duffer leads.
All these are diggers’ luck. We patch our pants,
And hail the washing-day with deep disgust;
Whack tucker with the socialistic ants,
And swamp it through the spinifex and dust.
But, Lord ! why do You send those cursfed flies?
They foul the air and fetch the fever on;
In raging masses creep into our eyes,
And make our lives a hell. Not we alone,
But our poor horses—they must suffer, too;
So we, in desperation, come to You.
Unto the silent stars our plaints arise,
Hark to our prayer ; “ Lord ! call off Your flies.”
D. B. G.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken or communications insuficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Noraidthe : The small girl teacher had to
“keep in” the big boy pupil and was scared lest he
should kiss her. Well, what if he did? ... “Convales-
cent’’(Too.): What was it about ? Thousands of letters
come here Scot : If there is any bulge on the top of a
can of tinned meat or fish, the contents are bad. If de-
pressed, 10 to 1 good, i.e., as regards putrefaction. As
regards mineral poisoning, no test except analysis and
gastric trouble M.E.L. : Good in its way, but the vast
majority of Bulletin readers need something less nebu-
lous W.H.P.: Neat, but it doesn’t grip one by the hair
like the spirit that came for Tomlinson Dot: Sketches
not suitable Centralian : Tale of partially-nude drunk
declined Amsol : Grub-eating competition has seen its
best days E. West : Not mean enough for publication.
“ Funny Column ” : Leaden and desolate like a pau-
per’s funeral on a wet day Dry Blower : Can’t answer
any of your questions, but rejoice to hear that you are
“on good patch.” Trust you’ll stay there M. : Smith
fell off his bike and broke his collar-bone; farmer took
him in and farmer’s daughter nursed him and then mar-
ried him. Good old conventional ending E.L.M. :
Commonplace variant of 20 other man-learning-to-ride-
bike stories Jack-Shay : Beginning to get mixed over
the innumerable aspects of the tea-argument Face:
Remember telling the cork-leg yarn when undergoing our
07th transmigration, way back in crimson Babylon
Uina : You don’t put it printably Burgoyne : Wants
brighter telling Lou Wal. : The fun isn’t paralysing
Yan D. : “John Smith, senior’s, selection ” is easier said
and more intelligible than “John Smith’s, senior, selec-
tion,” and just about as grammatically defensible
Patsy B.: If it is a lie, sa.v so Milky: “Mat”
dull Frank K. : Kindly take a rest for three
years Bore: Nothing.. She oak : None usable.
Smoko : Doesn’t hit us. ... Henry P. : The oonun-
drum-editor is DEAD. If he wasn’t, you would have
murdered him. Yarrum : ’Tisn’t, funny. Grenfell :
Point’s in the names-which we can't print. J.A.K. :
All dull J.J.O’M. : “Rose” won’t do. Hautlieu :
Not now. P. (Parlt. H.) : Dealt with. P. VV.T. :
If you had as “much pleasure” in sending as we
in squashing, you’re n happy bloke. . .F.J.R.:
Received. ... M.H.R. (Brisk.): We didn’t laugh.
Half-Fare : The height-plan is feasible, but you couldn’t
well weigh every passenger Gyp. : Funny, but not
strength enough G. : Well, did you ever see a revolver
that wasn’t a breech-loader, except the obsolete “ pepper-
box.” The accidents are with cheap rubbish, having
erratic lock-action. Webley’s latest costs t'7—so what
can you expect for as many shillings?... Nell Cook :
Cockatoo sentinel custom well known.. Old Possum :
“Success and Failure” well written, but seems to have
no end, motive, object, purpose, reason for its existence
—no whyness, in fact L.M.D. (Horsham): Both good.
King Richard : Your theory about the licensed actor
who passes a government examination is the boss jackass
up to date F.K. : “Swagman’s Diary” wants much
boiling down. Boiled diary may appear shortly. Tassy :
Not a brilliant collection Pug : Thanks T.T.F. :
Doesn't hit our soul in the right place 11.M.C. : Dread-
ful old joke . 61 A. : Dull catalogue of the snakes that
have called at your house Hugh V. : Flat .....
Maggie K.: “ God or Man ” undoubted promise, but per-
formance not skilled enough. Other rather feeble. Bow-
ring’s Heine, any leading bookseller Fred. M. : Idea
not bad, but needs more dramatic handling Marsyas :
“ Feathers ” good in its way. Sorry it’s not our way
Bargo : Archer-Elliottarticle self-contradictory Alone:
28 will make par. only Toby G. : Verses received.
Will look up others H.S. : Suicide sometimes due to
cause mentioned; but there are scores of others. No
legislation could abolish it ...Cecil P. : Nothing in it.
J.A.K. : “The ’bus-driver is an artist in his way.” Can’t
say you are ditto in your ditto The Beggar : “ Dust”
—“thou art, and unto,” &e. Also “poem ” has “ joined
the great majority.” L.G.D. : Not 100 bad, but would
need .much trimming Evelyn : Some poetic feeling,
THE RECENT PETERSHAM (N.S.W.) TRAGEDY.
BRIGGS. MAGGIE BUTT.
Photo., Woodfield. Photo - Duffield’s Studios.
but execution clumsy .. Ben Sun: None up to mark.
“Pump” best of three; the comic is your line
W.B.M. :No value . Lilian M. : Beastly mediocre
A. W. : Good heavens ! think of the wave of bad verses
which will submerge Tub Bulletin of 50 years hence,
when even now our gasping head is only just, above the
flood Judy (New Cal.): Sorry not up. Verse posted
on Trombone : You see and describe well, hut want
strength and restraint. Time.may bring them Kooree :
Not good enough T.E.R. : Too much shriek-in-the.
abstract S.W. : Sorry unusable N.A.R. : Interest
bit too 10ca1... Munca : Drawing dismal; but suggestions
promising A.H.G. : Promising batch F. Mont. :
One dull; will you swear other’s your ow n invention !
E.N. : Price 4s. lljd. too high..... Ignotus (Ad.): Not
bright enongh W.M.F. : “ Plains” echoes some recent
verse too closely. Same with “Desire.” F. Marryat
N. : Send address. J.T.K. : The author, “ Joaquin
Miller” (Cincinnatus Hiner Miller) published several
variants of that piece. C.C. : Literary generalisations
rather vague W.M.F. : “Flea” doesn’t rhyme w'ith
“ purgatory,” if it can possibly jump away G.E.R. :
The verse is only nearly as had as the drawing. Peter
P. : Came in like a cow and whizzed out like a comet.
Carim : Flat echoes. W.P. : No interest. E.C. : So
dreary. . Sedle.v : Commonplace wail. A.L.C. : Why
are the “ blacks’legends ”so dreadfully dull ? Cobalt:
“Dennis” pig-story printed long ago V.N. (A.P.) :
Little Pedlington again P. W.: Thanks 6xB : Pretty
tired of that out-back controversy, but some of your dis-
course may pass C.L.O. : Can’t afford to publish
anything for the purpose of especially pleasing the popu-
lace of Briagolong. To especially please Briagolong
might be to especially bore everyone else
J.A.P. (Q.) : To hand .... Man in L. (B.) : Thanks
Arch G. (Tas.) : Many thanks. He illustrated a chestnut,
unfortunately. But there is no suspicion of plagiarism in
his drawing. Sorry can’t keep track of all chestnuts.
Bulletin isn’t absolutely original—it is only as original as
we can make it. . E. du M. : Contributions not necessarily'
accepted. As you will see, printed memo, sent only'in-
structs you how to claim for any MS. accepted. H.W.F. :
Bulletin has had many complaints’to the effect that “ Tat-
tersall s” office has disregarded instructions front clients
that their money was to go only' into the special sweeps.
Tatt. knows well enough on which side his bread is but-
tered ; and he may, w>e think, be relied oti to give this
matter his personal attention Mendora : Bulletin
loathes “dialect”; also, it abhors squalid stories unless
they are of more or less lurid originality C. W.A. :It
was undoubtedly improper for the Minister to deliberately
accept the hospitality’ of a contractor under his depart-
ment ... Camoliri : Squashed it quicker than winking
H. R. M‘Crae : “ Hoaey'inoon Trip” excellent A.
Fraser : Idea already much used. J.A.D. : “ Frag
ment” is too vague a soul-moan Dan ton : “Pro-
sperity” misses the mark somehow Novus Homo :
Couldn’t find room for all the poems about Dr. Bevan’s
bprglar Backbloeks (Adavale) : What does it matter ?
All things are bet r and vanity—mostly beer Louis M. :
One good one, anyhow Frank K. (Narrabri) : Under
consideration. Suggest that it, is difficult to judge verse
done on yellowish tissue paper. We lose the swing and
rythm while calling in expert opinion about the next
wold Ben Sun: “Among the Cookies” will do
Carini : Rather flatter than usual All Alone: Well,
who do you expect, to associate with a person who writes
like that? Crowdy Head : 1898 ends when it finishes
at 60 minutes past li on 31st December by local standard
time. Any more conundrums? Marie B. : Tediousclis-
quisitions fired promptly Crosby's Gum-Tree : One
part curlew', three parts fiog, with a" dash of moo-cow —
total : .“ I respectfully send a small poem,” &c
Shaker : Good ; more ; cut out pars, and send monthly' to
accountant, who w ill remit Lance T. : Will print
“Poetry.” A.E.P. (Well.): Only the intention good.
Valentine W. : Not. up ; also King Drivel isn’t dead
by a long year K.C.G. (Paraguay): What the Lane do
.you think Australia cares for your domestic squabbles?
The Rue Ass.-person is definitely sized up and put away'.
. W.R.W. : Can’t hunt up a 3-year-old picture in an
alien periodical. If you want opinion, send the basis
F.C.T.: The usual below-mediocrity Dal. C.: Can’t be
bothered with allegories unless Al. Give us artunveiled.
William .1. (Vic.): Hope y'our poor feet are better
■ than your poetry 11.F.G. : No, not even the bribe of a
years subscription will make us print it M. Ney:
Weak antique Phil K. : All dull all damned Frau
Gual: We yawned, and the gulf y'awned C.M.V.A.:
Four initials couldn’t save it Ixie: N'Orie usable
B.E. : Will use “ Beyond.” .Aerostat(London): Curious !
The Bulletin says rough things about Englishmen, Irish,
Scots, Australians, Chinese and niggers And nine-
tenths of the letters of weepful protest come froir
Englishmen. Read leading article in Bulletin, 17tl
December, and see if this paper keeps all its nasty re
marks for the Britisher R.G. : Story of a man whe
planted a crop of Bile Beans has been told 6729 times
Old Possum: “Professor's Downfall” takes too long
falling. “Snakes” a purposeless horror. R.R.P. :
That Tyson episode has happened regularly all over Aus-
tralia for 50 years. It still transpires occasionally when
it isn’t too tired D. M‘K. (Moree): Photo, too dim to
stand reproduction E.B.W. : Shows promise, but plot
too weak. Penniless suagman struggling successfully
against temptation by a camp-fire is rather thin ..
Sprocket: None usable Fuzzyawuzzy : Looks as if you
had been suffielded ; but no apparent, show of setting
things right A.H. (Grafton): This isn’t a Sunday-
school B. (Townsville): S. returned Asmodeus:
“ Love’s sweet throes ” would do; but we fear you spelt
better than you knew. Prospect; Letter posted
Ruo.yle : No life in it . .Leonides (Bendigo): Neither
good enough .. Tim Fog : Dead remarks on a dead
subject F.C.E. : Better keep the rest till winter; it’s
too hot for flics here now Snag: Ogilvie isn’t Austra-
lian, but he deserves to be, and y T ou can’t say more than
that All alone: Emotion too hashy.. . Coeksparrow :
Chiefly small points smothered in words Bob’s Girl :
Can’t lake any more clothes off Sappho Swag : Fog of
many undefined objections has duly spread itself.. IT.
Buekland : Stamps of Maoriland or any' Australian pro
vinoe are taken as cash Tiger : Too vague.
W.L. (M.L.): Fairly fluent cotnmonplice ... Bags: Alia,
you’ve caught the callous Parasite-Woman, who take s
cash and gives nix. Cut her, boy, cut her ; or presently
her whited sepulchre will hold your bones Banool :
Corpse-verse neat, but not bright. Soul must jingle, as
well as rhymes Starlight : Wants force D.W.
(M.L.): Probably “Garden” J.H.B. : Mostly anci.ent,
and not terse enough W.A.B. : Returned Alone
29, 30 : Stiff and dull Banana (Kalgoorlie) wants refer-
ence to an alleged saying of Mme. de Montespan : that fine
wit pierces like a rapier ; coarse wit stabs like an oyster-
knife T.F.G. (Auckland): Some poetical sentiment;
wants condensing Manawhita: You wasted half-a-
minute, if that’s any satisfaction ...Jeff : Doubtful.


it tis^ e4e sv»•* *’?.£? "**
- a6 ° na
?*&&s■■&** s"
h
h
IjfXCifed fr/siwv f^ 5
fieycfj: —- £cuje
Sor jud dyzrj~T m m \AJr
——
r •"'a
■r^
NktW
Gilliei
"fW %*
ofWiw^e
o^osfßo^
cyj.sls
1
T/i-k^VT
“Sir
-O’
/°a ? oVjc __- r
/ vW,
l X2§; iwr,^
'4 Ir V%J~Z
h
? ® “f I
I l' e Ce) *5
IBS jVf
% c^v l-i °°v*
<<..3^3-
°
i&JXfi
e?
sn
e °iicM.o.r y
Jrepdey//^ q / (pufc*//:—^#
SfiovS' <%p/ sfou
ftreceizpce 7/e <3/~~
'• '
(foe:— '.B'g /o*r£ Wi7/ f
no 7oufr7~' -
*}% ijpviy \ L
l\ > yp
-fyxrrfipslerletCocK^<
%* eff tdT
oP 'farjy
-UjiD-y tyi\
/pTorr,
ioeifp see5 ee % {joiryTop-
fi>«\coc!<s laC%f~ "
ed^Sy
MELBOURNE ITEMS AND EPISODES.


(2). He dreamed that the editor of Tint
Bulletin went Home, got knighted, and
became the bosom friend of the Prince or
Wales. i
I?
/
$
if
v3> .
.<s■
*Y
VO- op
//
* <£-
.<Z)
< cy
//
<?
a- Th . t Archbishop Smith took over the editorship of this paper
' aed removed the editorial rooms to a coedemned cab.
(4). That Cardinal Moran drew the political cartoons.
(5) That Pinchgut
oecame the capital of
Federated Australia ,
that Sydney Harbor
froze over, and that the
Russians, with big guns
mounted on sledges,
skated in and annexed
-the lot
(7). J hat Papa Brunker rnodi-
,lied his views somewhat and
\ went fishing on Sunday ; that
\ he fel) overboard and got
\ his hajo wet
(6). That Jack Want beeame the tirst Governor of Federated Australia, and
that his first official Act was to make war irpon Japan.
(«?). That our artist turned undertaker, and encouraged political funerals
MIDSUMMER DAY’S DREAM.


Not generally known that the Emperor of
Austria is “King of Jerusalem.” Which is
probably vvny German William went there. He
wanted to see if the kingdom was worth snatching
Re Albert Edward's late lamented birth-
day. Sanders (“Life of Richard Brinsley Sheri-
dan ) records that Sheridan’s grandfather' a grace-
less Irish parson, lost a comfortable Govt chap-
laincy by preaching on the birthday of the then
Heir-Apparent from the text “ Sufficient for the
day is the evil thereof ” !
“ APENTA.”
The best natural aperient water. Relieves the
kidneys, unloads the liver and opens the bowels.
Sole exporters : The Appolinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.
The irony of it. The German Anthropo-
logical Society has just established that Bismarck’s
ancestry was not Teutonic, hut Celtic ; of the
same race as the Celts of Central France. What
a shock for the old lion to have discovered that
his beloved Prussians were really aliens, and that
it was his own kith and kin he was tramnlinsr
down in 1870.
Related of a certain old-time Tas. peda-
gogue, lately deceased, that, his wife’s pet poodle
haying annoyed him by its yapping, he caught the
animal by the head, placed his foot on its hind-
quarters, tore the shrieking animal in halves, and
tossed the bleeding remnants into the river. Also,
when on one occasion he was thrown from his
horse, he tied its head tightly to a tree in a bush
paddock, placed a bundle or two of green fodder
and a bucket of water a few yards out of its reach,
and left it there for some days. To make the
animal feel its position more acutely, he daily rode
another horse to the spot and allowed it to eat of
the greenstuff and drink of the water, and if the
starving creature looked too pleadingly on, or,
goaded by exposure and hunger, attempted to
break away, he lashed it unmercifully. This
noble gentleman is now in Heaven, no doubt.
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
THE Talking liacbiOg Depot.
Edison Phonographs from t'7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematoirraphes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDTSON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
EX» WAKIIS'
ĥ
ħ
L
WORLD-RENOWNED
fair Producer $ Restorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE" Produces Luxuriant Hair.
h
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Orey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Thu World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Bantering Grey TTair
to its orir/Utal color.
18?” It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
ĥ
# of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2 0 and (triple 2 6 size) 4 6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World
EDWARDS’ “HARLENS” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN. LONDON, W.G
f 4
% m
Sv*,
•AA'A
_ _ _ *=o
* f j|S#!lCv *
•0
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bras : ‘ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming’,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns ?”
Second Bear : “No ! Kodaks 1 ”
Australian Depots
—FOR—
3*®^
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BnKER* ROUS€
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
graphophone.
50/; p
lbe
Hi
gbA
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
TALKS!
LAUGHS!
SINGS ! AMUSES ! and
ENTERTAINS !
PRICE (including: Repro-
ducer, Horn, and Record),
£2 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
US King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Importing'Represenla-
tives for Australia. Agents wanted where we are nor.
already represented. Send for Catalogues of Grapho-
phonos, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cahinets, Musical
Instruments and Music ; also for the best Mouth Organ in
the vvorld—“The BOOMERANG,” price 2s. 6d. Trade
supplied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
ALBA
IHe
k
Wp
' >\U-
*^r/VT
-/V*i>
"&Kt tIiVA,TOFi
'Pitt Street
e^»T»
1
E. GENNEBT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. Georges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Monev Order or London Draft.
A. Saunders.
8 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 20«
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
r6o. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
£3 6s ; 6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong'
Brooch.
18c. Solid Gold, 17 Diamonds, £lO.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
150. Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2 15s.
New Style, hove Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d '
m
■ lit ;
-
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
15c Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £B.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
A. Blunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
m
2-Bar Scroll Beil and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest sf vie.
enm
A. Saunders.
2-Bar 150. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’ Long Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, k 3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send tor
illustrations.
B*
a®
18c. Solid Gold, extra Strong
and Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s„ £3, £4.
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 80s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Doub.e Cut
Diamond, £6 ss; Larger,
£6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 20s, 255;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
2
y
9c. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
15c. Solid Gold, Hand-made Brooch,
60 Diamonds and 8 Sapphires, £l5 15s.
58 Diamonds, 1.20.
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
<Qls£
COOS
JODp
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ „ 455.
■
---jar
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s; 15c., £2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free..
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s;
16c. Gold, 15s ; 18c. Gold, 2US.
Silver, 3a 6cL
v». Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers
Sohd Gold, 5s 6d,% od, 10s each • 150 r
h s ® 1 eX i‘ heavy - 258 : 18c. Gold, 20s •' e
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send tor card. ’
16c. Solid Gold Hand-made Bracelet, 27 Diamonds
Extra Strong, £'22 10s.
20s.
eft
r* s
0
©
0
AfAC^
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper ; strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. 2, S, 4,6, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
□
Extra Strong, 15c. Gold, Hand-made, 2 Heart Bracelet,
40 Diamonds, £22 10s.
25 Diamonds and 15 Rubies, £l6 16s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders'
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 13s 6d ; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Solid Gold Hand-made Brooch,
21 Diamonds, £lO.
Very Pretty.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £-10. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Bonk
A. SAUNDERS
Display of Watches, Jewellery, .and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
jodge for yourself. Tl» finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 G-eorge-street, Sydney.


David graham C°->
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPORTEKS OP—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - - AT ref p°kT ces
AT RE^^^ es j TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
ZrsZ WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
iP
A FRIEND IN NEED
a A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Kear Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE.
ATKINSON’S
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very mueh more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
J". <fe E. Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excellent flavour, which, while
maintaining all the due stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been mellowed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.
Missing Friends.
RE PATRICK CASS, DECEASED.
ULD JOSEPH PATRICK CASS please
communicate with G. Archer, Solicitor,
Victoria, re his interest in estate.
w°
Benalla,
ineto-iusTulifs saddles.
brush
Mikrr
%i octet.
%?/Aiu* 'f
No. 19.
Natural Saffron
AND
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
brush.
Maker
SyDue*.
: fa 4
'rr > v. \xvi »<*
«A>v>"* ; .
No. 21.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, with
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped—
“ Brush, IVlELtsier, Sydney, Registered.”
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit for
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, <£3 5s ;A, £.3 15s; L, A-l;
C, 10s ;D, .£5 ;E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our Gss SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups,.English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired. _
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, llogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, GOs, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s Gd. . A . . xr q w
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in JM.S>. w.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired—No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations of
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS you WANT!
Telephone 2210.
pSSffl WILL
ii l ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER
CHEAP BOOKS
r .
ii!
Wife’s Guide and Friend ;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the riti'ht to sell it.
Fruits of Philosopiit,
Besant - Bradlaujjh, prose-
cuted work, Is ; post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riage Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Pata, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Crisp Tales from the French, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is ; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post. Robbery Under Arms, new complete
edition, Is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is ; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is ; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster; or, How to Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d.
How to Behave, the Latest Book on Etiquette; post
free, Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, Is 2d.
Gustave and His Loves, by Paul de Kock; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is Cd.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d, post free. Tub
Same for Girls, Is 6d, post free.
Dr. Beaney’s Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, ls6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is Cd, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1893 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Best Way to Get On : Guide to Money-making. Is Cd,
post free. The Art of Ventriloquism. Post free, Is.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer’s
Oracle ; post free, Is 6d. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated ; 2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of tub
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Tokology, illustrated—a book for every woman, 10s fid ;
post free, 11s. How to Excel in Business. Post free, Is 6d.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS x>ost free any where.
WILL
ANDRADE,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
opposite Waxworks.
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL,
COLLINS STREET WEST,
MELBOURNE.
9.
1
ALL AUSTRALIANS, whether from
the North, South, East, or West of
the Continent, find this magnificent hotel
exactly suited to their requirements when
visiting Melbourne.
Its situation is unrivalled, beino- close to
steamers, station, and centre of city. Trams
pass door to all parts of Melbourne and
suburbs.
It offers Pull Board or Rooms
Only at option of visitors, and at prices
unsurpassed by any hotel in the world.
Card of Tariffs sent to any address imme-
diately on application.
BEDS: 2s. to 10s. per Night.
TIM) DIDIIIS Dooms * CAFE
LIFTS ALWAYS RUNNING . .
. . ELECTRIC LIGHT IN EVERY ROOM
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in tlio World!
Bar TNT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is su :
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of thecolony, composed ofwild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Ca
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your ,Jo=ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known toman eoual to JOSEPHSONS
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous A fl ections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any otner medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases noil find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Bitters, and consider them mosb
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October of), 1866.
II I I 1 iif lii 111 1 1 WMiHBIIWWMWBMBP
Baron Berzilius’= - - =—
— — - —Bucliu Bitters.
BARON BER7.ILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronio
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It lias a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening ; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. 1 therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint)
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of lhe Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW'S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex at
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better tha.^
ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot bairn you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when sutler in?’ from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.— When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea ;
But once'the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TEA
Cures carjv and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend tv mi Id meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
■None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
JAMES INGIiIS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE ;
Agents for
1 White Heather ” Whisky,
Gtranuma and Kodak Porridge Meals.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
f3P“ Sales Held at the A action /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
S.A. Government proposes lowering the
income-tax exemption from ,£2OO to £l5O to meet
the slump in revenue arising from a fourth con-
secutive failure of the harvest.
Alleged that Gov. Buxton will not return
to S.A. at the .end of his leave, next March, and
will be succeeded by the Dook of Leeds, who was
an aspirant for Curzon’s billet in India, and is
now waiting for something to be thrown to him.
John M‘Kenzie’s retirement from the
Maoriland Ministry is announced to take place
definitely next March. Old John’s mighty con-
stitution is breaking up, and he wants to get out
of the collar and the furrow in his declining years.
“Actinomycosis,” according to Solomon,
M.P. (S.A.), is a sort of Parliamentary disease
resulting from enlargement of the jaw. Under
the new Health Bill cattle suffering from it are
supposed to be killed, but politicians will escape.
Dear B.—Warwick is the R.C. constitu-
ency of Leperland. There is no fiction in this, as
Mr. Morgan says. The writer of the par. in B. of
26/ LO/’9B is a native of Warwick, and knows nearly
every elector personally.— Pompous Peter’s
Watchdog.
Premier Reid consented to abide by the
feeling in the Assembly that salaries of public
servants receiving over £3OO should not be in-
creased. His own little increment of £5OO, equal-
ling about 20 of the proposed increases, was, how-
ever, cheerfully assented to.
Gormly, M.L.A., fell off his horse lately
at Wagga, one foot remaining in the stirrup. The
Albury'BoßDEß Post says: “ Unfortunately the
horse remained at a standstill and the M.L.A.
escaped uninjured.” Type-setting is a risky
occupation about Christmas time.
N.S.W. Govt, contractors are bound, on
paper, to pay laborers not less than 6s. per day,
under a penalty, also on paper, of £5O for each
breach. It is time a few fines were raked in on
this account —if only to convince certain contrac-
tors that the Govt, really means business.
Some S.A. Ministerial measures passed by
the Assembly and killed by the Council this
session : Law Reform, Early Closing, Household
Suffrage,, Workmen’s Compensation and Land
Values Assessment. No Bill which is not hope-
lessly Conservative can now get through the S.A.
Upper House.
After years of agitation a partial and tem-
porary Wages Attachment Abolition Act (holding
good till 1902 only) has passed the Vic. House of
48 Rich Landlords. It provides that there shall
be no attachment of wages up to £2 a week, and
no costs except stamps and court fees (no shark’s
costs, in fact) for attachment of wages up to £4 a
week. The British Parliament has wholly abolished
wage-attachment, even the House of Lords making
no demur. Victoria’s House of Landlords, less
humane and more Tory and more yearnful after
its lib. of flesh, wouldn’t hear of the idea until it
dawned on it that the attachment of wages often
prevented the landlord getting his rent. Then it
sat up suddenly with its hair on end.
GEORGE RETD'S
PROMISED
PROSPERITY.
If SO unemployed earning
their Xmas dinner.
Notwithstanding the glo-
rification of municipal work by
Sen Tillett and the Webbs, the
S.A. Labor-party let the recent
local election go by without wak-
mg ; and yet the S.A. party has more
practical horse-sense than most. Sydney Webb
touched this spot as well as a good many
ethers. You can’t arouse interest (which is to say,
you can’t get the working-man voters to the polls)
unless you send the whole crowd of councillors for
election at once.
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce is peti-
tioning Govt, to prohibit Japs, from owning
pearling boats. No objection, of course, to Japs,
cutting out white labor. “ White men cannot do
the work,” say Northern capitalists. No—neither
could they trash cane or cut it, or do any form of
plantation work until five years ago—and now
whites in hundreds do every form of plantation
labor conceivable.
Roberts, M.P., told the S.A. Assembly
the other day that most of the accidents happen-
ing at sea occur because vessels are manned
with cheap amateurs, tramps and loafers.
Archibald, who represents Port Adelaide, as-
serted that he knew a vessel to be filled up with
a crew consisting of an undertaker, a tinker, some
drapers’ assistants, an ex-policeman, and other
similarly qualified hands.
Rutledge, ex-Wesleyan Minister and Q.
Crown-Prosecutor (he worked-up the grotesque
Q.N. Bank cases), has his eye on the Q. Attorney-
Generalship ; and is going in for politics again
will probably try a squatting electorate. His
oratory is of the table-thumping style. He tried
it on the Towers miners some years ago ; but,
although the Wesleyan element is very strong up
there, he was left to nurse the baby.
Though the N.S. W. Supreme Court has
ruled that the State is not responsible for the lives
and limbs of prisoners, Victoria long ago acknow-
ledged its responsibility in this direction. It is
now about four years since an explosion occurred
in the Pentridge quarries, badly mangling a burg-
lar named Church and rendering him a hopeless
cripple. Church was nursed back to health in the
gaol hospital, and was then granted a pardon
together with an annuity of .£75. The Vic. Govt,
did not wait to be sued for damages, and did not
try to wriggle out of its moral obligation on legal
technicalities.
It really looks as if next year’s general
election for S.A. Assembly will be fought out on
the question of the totalisator. At recent bye-
election for L. Council, the anti-gambling crowd
made the abolition of the machine the test ques-
tion by nominating Haslam, who was also the
Govt, candidate, and, despite their defeat, the
Ikey Mo supporters are already actively organis-
ing for next April. The three organisations now
canvassing against the machine are the united
council of churches, the W.C.T.U., and the Chris-
tian Endeavorers—and it is doubtful which crowd
makes most incoherent row.
Now that the Legislative Council has
scornfully kicked his financial proposals down-
stairs on their head, Premier Reid says, for the
third time, that the time has really come when
that aggressive gang of nominees will have to be
dealt with. He said the same thing when it threw
out his previous Probate Duties Bill, and again
when it threw out his Land Tax ; but though the
country has twice given Reid a majority on the
assurance that he would immediately reform the
Council on a large scale, it remains just where it
was all along. And, so far as N.S. W.’s fat poli-
tical welsher is concerned, it seems likely to stay
there.
The sparkling J. H. Gordon's retorts are
nowadays almost the only things that differentiate
the once-Liberal S.A. Legislative Council from
other drowsy Upper Houses. And most of Gor-
don’s shafts are now sent towards the Labor
benches. Gordon was pooh-poohing Kingston’s
law-reform proposals. He knew, he said, four
gentlemen who were awaiting the opportunity to
practise law. Then Robinson, inanely: “Can
they chop wood?’’ Gordon: “Yes; and they
will be glad to do so if the hon. gentleman will
bring his head into the back-yard,” Robinson
might have shot back something about axes and
the little one that lawyer Gordon was grinding
but he didn’t.
O/djeorge,
An amazing person
named “M, J. Foyer ”
who recently globe-trot-
ted through Australia, pub-
lishes his wild discoveries in
the Natal (South Africa) Ad-
vertiser. Foyer describes him-
self as a “ single-tax enthusiast; ”
■J and his best discovery is that
Queensland keeps its only tweed
factory going by a 20 per cent, protec-
tive tax on imported wool—apparently
the single-tax enthusiast actually im-
agines that Australia is a wool-importing
country. Also, he is greatly pleased to find that
the <ias services in N.S.W. are owned by the State,
and sets it down to the blessed influences of Free-
trade.
The old relief-work system has started
again undisguisedly in N.S.W. It has really
raged all the time in the shape of sand-shifting,
forest-thinning, scrub-cutting, railway deviation
works, reclamation jobs at Shea’s Creek, blanket-
distributions and the like, but the public took little
notice. But the putting on of 1730 unemployed
at one fell swoop to paint the Sydney park railings
at ss. per day (this just after Reid's blatant asser-
tion that the unemployed trouble was almost
extinct) is a sudden shock to the believers in Jolly
and Fat.
DROUGHT.
NEW-CHUM : “ Great Scott I And they call this a
DRY season! ”
When the Yic. political crisis was at its
height, the other week, the possibility of Tren-
with’s Premiership was seriously discussed in the
lobbies. One of the Ministries formed on paper
was: 'Tren with, Premier and Chief Secretary;
Styles, Treasurer and Railways ; Higgins, Attor-
ney-General; M‘Lean, Lands; Hancock, Public
Works and Customs; M‘Cay, Solicitor-General
and Education ; Burton, Mines ; Donald Melville,
Defence; Godfrey, Postmaster-General.
Ono of the Turner Govt.’s proposed
amendments of the Factories Act provides that
all regulations and by-laws may be disputed for a
year after their promulgation, but after that
period they shall not be challengeable on any tech-
nical grounds. This is a most important pro-
vision, and, whether passed now or not, will
ultimately be found essential to the success of the
Wages Board principle. Without such a provision
the law will be in a continual state of flux on
account of the extreme improbability of a board
of laymen framing the wording of a regulation on
strictly accurate legal lines. Even a gathering of
lawyers seldom frames a law which doesn’t break
down somewhere on an utterly useless technical
point. The proviso that one year, and no more,
shall be allowed for hunting up technical flaws
would come in handy if applied to the Statute
Book all round.
S.M. Herald came out on 12th December
with a leading article of great whoop about how,
under the blessings of Freetrade, a foreign soap
firm (Lever Bros., of England) had been induced
to start business in Sydney. Under the Freetrade
system the number of N.S.W. soap-works has
dropped from 50 in 1895 to 40 at the beginning of
1898 ; employes from 476 to 310 ; soap made from
299,356 cwt. to 187,142 cwt.; candles made from
4,632,7301 b. to 2,638,1751 b. And this despite the
fact that the business has been greatly improved
on paper by the inclusion, since 1896, of small
factories employing less than five hands, not
previously reckoned. If Freetrade destroys 11
Australian-owned soap factories and puts one
foreign-owned one in their place the blessing
might be a little more obvious without much in
jury to its constitution.
Both N.S.W. Houses are now finished
with the proposed Federal amendments, and each
one demands that the financial arrangements con-
tained in the old Bill shall be completely reor-
ganised. Yet neither House gives the slightest
hint as to the kind of reorganisation it wants ; or
explains what is wrong with the present scheme.
The N.S.W. Premier is simply to meet the other
provinces and say: “Our Legislature wants the
financial arrangement altered.” Then will come
the natural question : “What kind of alteration
does it want?” “ Dunno !” “What does your
Parliament think is the matter with the present
arrangement?” “Dunno! Never asked it. We
want the Braddon clause left out, anyhow.” “Do
you want anything put in instead of it?”
“Dunno! Our Parliament didn’t say.” “Have
you any new financial scheme about you ? ” “No,
not ex-actly.” “What kind of financial scheme
will suit the N.S.W. Parliament?” “Dunno.
Never thought of asking.” “Is there any part of
the present scheme you object to more than the
test?-” “Dunno.” “ Well, what do you want us
t<* do about it? ” “ Dunno.” No wonder Federa-
tion is getting along rapidly.
The commendable Early Closing Bill, in-
troduced in N.S.W. Assembly by the Reid
Government, is not really an Early Closing Bill at
all. It provides that no person, except the boss or
a member of his family, shall be compelled to
work more than a certain number of hours per
week; but if the man who owns the emporium
likes to hire relays of employes he can keep open
24 hours in the day and do no harm to anybody.
Indirectly this gives a lift to the small man who
runs his establishment all by himself as against
the big one who-works with hired labor, which is
a decidedly good feature. But there are far too
many exemptions—chemists, coffee houses, res-
taurants, confectioners, fish, oyster, fruit and
vegetable shops, booksellers, news-agents, tobac-
conists, and hotels can still work their employes
to skin and bone for an indefinite number of hours
per day. There would be good sense in exempting
these in an Early Closing Bill, but in a Bill which
merely restricts the hours of labor and lets the
shop keep open as long as the owner pleases, no
exemption—except, perhaps, in the case of the
chemist—is needed. Still, the move is in the right
direction, though when a democratic measure like
this comes on at the last days of a hurried, jaded,
overworked session, it is apt to be only a good
intention.
In Maoriland, under the State resumption
of lands for closer settle-
ment policy, one little g r P
of landowners demanded
.£120,000 from the Treasury
for 43,000 odd acres, and
swore to the valuation as
honest and even moderate.
The same crowd, when id
sent in its land-tax valua-
tions, had just previously
sworn that the same property
was worth less than <£47,000.
And nobody seemed much
surprised. Little things like
that are always liable to hap-
pen.
The police-system,
when a charge of hav-
ing no sufficient law
ful means of support
arises, of ringing
in all sorts of evi-
dence embracing
every subject
under the Z sun,
receives a rebuff
from the Vic.
Chief Justice.
The case was
one of a man
convicted of
vagrancy,
partly on the
evidence of a
witness who
alleged he had
seen him pick-
in g pockets.
The C.J.
ruled that it was
the first princi-
pie of law that a man was to answer only the
offence on which he was charged, and if evi-
dence was brought relating to other charges
the conviction was bad. The average amateur
J.P. should cut this out and paste it on the
whisky-bottle, so that he will see it frequently.
The most amazing circumstance of the year
in S.A. politics was the rejection, by 27 votes to
23, of the Aliens Restriction Bill. The British
Government flatly refuses to assent to a measure
which shuts out the British nigger and the British
Chinaman, as such, from any part of the empire.
But it professes its willingness to sanction a Bill
providing an educational test for all immigrants,
white and colored ; and, as very few of the yellows
and the browns are likely to crawl through the
needle’s eye of this restriction, the idea certainly
seems good. It was rejected by a temporary com-
bination of the Labor-party and the Tories —which
was the maddest thing the S.A. Labor-party has
done up to date.
Now that the Legislative Council ot N.S.W.
has thrown out Premier Reid’s probate and suc-
cession duties, he has only £70,000 left out of the
.£279,000 of new taxation which he demanded.
When he asked for the original £279,000 he told
the Assembly it was all required to make ends
meet. The Assembly professed to want to make
ends meet, yet it knocked off £129,000 of the
amount—nearly one-half—and offered nothing in
exchange ; so it tacitly recorded its opinion that
Reid, when he said the whole amount was essen-
tial, was either a fool ora liar. The bill came
before the Council as a demand for £150,000 which
was all alleged to be absolutely essential, and the
Council, by knocking off another £BO,OOO, re-
corded its tacit opinion tiiat Reid was either a
fool or a liar. Both were merely expressions of
opinion ; still, they were very unpleasant opinions.
Published report of a recent speech in
Queensland Assembly by the wildly cultivated
Matthew Battersby, M.L.A. —the gentleman who
objects to “ book-larnin’,” and opposes the estab-
lishment of a Queensland University :
Mr. Battersby : Mr. Annear, Mr. Annear, I am sorry
Mr. Annear, you have stopped me. (daughter). You
generally try to do that. (Interruption). Clause 2. Mr.
Annear, at any time any alteration of the said pharmocie
—(loud laughter)—for the time being is made by under
the protection, sir, of the general colonial. (Loud laugh-
ter). Mr. Annear, of the general council it shall be lawful
for the Governor-in-Council by notification.
Mr. Foxton : It is notice ; not notification.
Mr. Battersby : Mr. Annear, if I am wrong you can
correct me. I leave it to you. By notification, Mr. An-
near, by notification—(laughter)—published in the Gazette
to declare that on and after a certain date pacified in
such notice, the British Farmy soapy—(laughter)—as to
altered. Mr. Annear, what do you understand these jaw-
breaking names? (Laughter). The only man that can
understand them is a lawyer, a lawyer. The only man is
a lawyer. (Laughter). Mr. Annear, you talk about a
thunderstorm. (Interruption). I would rather be in a
thunderstorm than these jawbreaking names. You had
better withdraw the bill. I am not inclined to legislate.
I am not inclined to deal with legislation unless it deals
with the colony as a whole, hut not not—not—(interrup-
tion). Mr. Annear, they will keep talking. Mr. Annear,
unless this is going to deal with the whole colony, the
whole colony, I am not prepared to vote for it. For
nothing of this sort —of this sort—would—what is it, Mr.
Annear ?
Mr. Annear : I remind the hon. member that the clause
applies to the whole colony.
Mr. Battersby : Mr. Annear, one more word, sir, and
I’ve done. If the Minister in charge of the hill will take
my advice he will withdraw the bill and put it where—
well, I wouldn’t like to say where.
Colonial Artist’s Success.
Among our colonial artists whose names have
come prominently before the public is that of Mr.
Ulic Nichols, of Sydney, and his recent success
with Warner’s Safe Cure is but another proof of
the merits of this great remedy that others imitate
but none equal.
The Studio, 337 Pitt-street, Sydney,
25/8/98.
“ I had suffered for some years from liver and
kidney complaints, as well as those of the bladder,
which Warner’s Safe Cure has effectually cured.
I was unable to stand long at my easel, which was
a great trouble until I took this medicine.”
The experience of this well-known artist is
not unique. It is simply the repetition of that of
others who persevered as he did.


FRCTS
If You Wish to Obtain
High Quality and Durability
At Low Prices,
BUY
I>
> Solicits—
Critical Examination
or OUR GOODS.
PIANOS and
ORGANS from
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD
Who hold the Largest and Best Selected
Stock in Australasia.
MORE FACTS.
PALING'S
PIANOS #
ORGANS
Are fully guaranteed in every respect.
They appeal to the Highest Musical Tastes,
And are the perfection of Artistic Ahievement.
Paling & fio. [td. ri
SOLE AGENTS
THE CELEBRATED
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
LIPP
FEURICH
UEBEI
VICTOR
BELLING
Pianos
Pianos
Pianos
Pianos
Pianos
Pianos
Pianos
The Estey Organs
Are UNIVERSALLY RECOGNISED
AS THE STANDARD ORGAN OF
AMERICAN MANUFACTURE.
LEADING FEATURES
PURITY OF TONE,
SYMPATHETIC TOUCH,
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSTRUCTED, and
BEAUTY AND FINISH OF EXTERIORS.
Any Instrument Can be Purchased on Our
EASY TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM.
IT WILL PAY YOU
TO SEND FOR OUR.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUESI
WITH PRICE LISTS. J
FREE
BY POST.
Northern Branch:
NEWCASTLE.
Queensland Branch:
BRISBANE.
W. H. PALING & CO. Ltd.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
West Australian and Industrial' ** Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
IF YOU HAVE SUFFERED for 20 YEARS,
VITADATIO WILL CURE YOU,
YITADATIO WILL CURE YOU,
and don’t forget it (without operation), even when the eminent doctors of London, Melbourne, or any other part
of the world have failed; be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Consumption, Piles, Gall Stones, Liver or
Kidney Complaint, Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Indigestion, &c.
VITADATIO.
Mr. F. W. lIOHNE, who has been a clerk in the employ of Perry and Co., timber merchants, 150 Lonsdale-
street, for eight years, sends his photographs to show what “ VITADATIO ’’ has done for him. He says : —“ For
the last five years I have been a great sufferer, and I did not know what it was to be at work for a month without
having to have two or three days’ leave of absence. I became so despondent at times that I began to think of
‘suicide,’ as life was only a burden to me. I consulted my lodge doctor (lama prominent member in the
Druids' Order), who said that I had very bad bilious attacks. When I had the last attack of my trouble, a par-
ticular friend of mine (who is a great believer in VITADATIO) came to see me, and would not go away until I
promised him to go in for a course of VITADATIO. I did so. I purchased six bottles, and before I had finished
the first bottle I got so bad that I consulted a doctor. From what I told the doctor on that occasion, he said,
c >
V
■ &
'A
A
BEFORE TAKING “VITADATIO.
- ,«5
■
.
SStSI
AFTER TAKING “ VITADATIO ” for 10 Weeks.
‘ Why, man, you are suffering from hydatids.’ I said, ‘ Oh, well, that is all right; I have trot the cure.’ He
said, ‘What is it?’ I replied,'‘ Vitadatio.’ The doctor said, ‘I have heard some very good reports about that
remedy.’ After persevering with a course of the medicine (which I took in ten weeks), lam thoroughly restored
to perfect health, which, "if you judge between the two photos., you will see for yourself. I will be glad to
answer any inquiries about my case, addressed in care of above firm.—Yours very gratefully, FRED. W. liOIINE,
District President Druids Order, No. 1 District.”
For Testimonials of others that have been cured, write or send to the agent, S. A. PALMER, 45 and 47
Bourke-street, Melbourne. A Thorough Cure is Guaranteed. The sum of £5OO (five hundred pounds) will be
paid to anyone that can refute any testimonial in circulation about VITADATIO.
The Price of this Valuable Medicine and Tonic is: Large Size, 5/6; Small Size, 36. Ask your
Chemist or Grocer for it.
S. A. PALMER, offices, 45-7 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
From the Mayor and Justices of the Peace and the Rev. Mr. Jones, of Invercargill, New Zealand, where Mr.
Palmer lived about 25 years. Read what they say :
“THIS IS TO CERTIFY that we, the undersigned, have known the bearer, Mr. S. A. Palmer, as a resident
of Invercargill, New Zealand, for a great many years. We know he has been a great sufferer during the past 14
years, and he never was expected to recover. But, as the result of taking a course of Vitadatio, he has quite
recovered his long-lost health, and now appears to us to be quite a new man. We have pleasure in recommend-
ing him to the public, wherever his lot may be cast, as an honorable man and worthy the confidence of ail with
whom he may come in contact.— John Sinclair, Mayor, Invercargill; Jno. W. Mitchell, Merchant, Invercargill;
Peter Wright Jones, Primitive Methodist Minister, Invercargill; G. Froqoatt, J.P., Invercargill."
Remember that
inferior tyres will
make a high-grade
Bicycle almost use-
less, and that
Duniqp Tyres
make
Cycling a pleasure.
Rcrpcnjbsr.
rim
h
DUNipPIYRES
Duniop Tyres
put the world on wheels.
for Speed and Durability,
for Path and Road.
are only Genuine when they
they bear this
TRADE
MARK-
First in 1888. Foremost Ever Since.
ĥ
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [imited,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
AND AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.).


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
D.S.UI. fllont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Mahble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
FEjR month.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
\U4\ssmm
\A
HEAD office
Intersection Hunter, Buck and
Castlereagh Streets,—
•SYDNEY*
72,.. Established - 1079 ,
«****•
Office in AustrM*'* *
Annua l Income a n d In yes ted
Funds Exceed 000 Sterling.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHER.SON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THI3 ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collins-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BLTRNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... .£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability- of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free, securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes :“ I was more
than satisfied With the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
Banking, Publio Companies, &o.
Jb« Trustees, CxecCitorS,
AND
Conjpagy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ...£6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up . .. £3,069,602
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Eso., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Entitling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. O. O. Howard.
London, Office: 1 Hishopsffate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers; The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
MEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John ,M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford with nywicy at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
W THE
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748- assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. htd. o/ London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Kmp. Liiabilty,
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e<c.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. .) essop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. HAss all ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shan assy, Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. I. Winter-living-,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address— lilEMSElL. TELEPHONE No. 095.
Code— Mokeing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKze & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHARE BROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
IRADE MB MARK
GIRL It JRJUtt
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Peregrine, Friday, Dec. 23, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 31,12 Noon.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG ll
PORTLAND fJ
WARRNAMBOOL J
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, January 3, 5 p.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, January 3, 6 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Deo. 24, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Dec. 27, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 31, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 24, 2 p.
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 31,
to g
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
AMERIO A
ENGLAND VIA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under;—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most lavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G. P. 0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
business Announcements.
of Ain Wi6ea4e6.
1 s?leu) Wideodery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGM'iLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
jßayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir. For years past (about ten), I have been
trouble with “ Acne” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene ”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “Cam Grano Palis" and was in-
clined not to use it; eventually I iried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now entirely cured;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy'. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligmolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of • Pro-
fessor M’Call Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
■ When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
~ commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon ,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat* Vic.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
5s arid 7s 6d eacH.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Dec. 24.
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturday, Dec. 31.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
December 24.
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturday,
December 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Roekton, Saturday,
December 24.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
♦Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydneyr
Huddart, parker & go’s gine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
| for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
|D < |luiraith,f|) < Eacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'tlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and everv Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London" Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
• via' Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenr/er A ccommodution, A ttendance and
Quinine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE- B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Christmas Presents. JSTew Tear Gifts.
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
m
No. 176 a.
18ct. Gold Band Ring.
21s to £2.
Gent’s 18ct. Gold Bing 1 ,
3 fine Diamonds, £2l.
No. 171.
18ct. Gold and fine Opal
Ring, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold and fine
Diamond Ring, £25.
No. 46. 18ot. Gold Ring-,
6 Diamonds and 6 Rubies,
£l3 10s.
No. 172. Gent’o 18ct. Gold
and fine Diamond Bing’,
£lO.
No. 168 a.
18cfc. Gold and Diamond
Bing, £B.
No. 107. 9ct. Gold, Pearl and Euby Brooch, 17s 6d.
No. 102 a.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Brooch, 14s 6d.
2
No. 110.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, 13s 6d.
No. 113.
9ot. Gold Brooch, Diamond centre,
17s 6d.
No. 196 a. Set Links.
Oct. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15ct„ £llss.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 194 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 392. Set Studs.
Bet. Gold, 14s; 15ct., £1 ss.
Silver, 4s.
No. 193 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £1 6s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 198 a. Set Links.
9ct. Gold, 15s 6d ; 16ct, £1 10s.
Silver, 4s.
No. 121 a.
15ct. Gold Bar and Anchor Brooch,
£1 10a.
No. 117.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby Brooch,
£1 7b Bd.
No. 129 a. 15ct. Gold and finest Opal Brooch, £2 lCs.
No. 104 a.
Set. Gold Trace and Shoe Brooch,
11a 6d.
No. 149 a.
16ot. Gold Band Bracelet, set fine Diamond, £5.
No. 134 a.
IBefc. Gold and fine Opal Hall-Hoop Bracelet, £lO.
No. 141 a.
9ct. Gold, Pearl and Buby Buckle Bracelet, £2 103.
No. 122 a.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Sexagon Amethyst,
£2 7s 6d.
No. 115 a. 9ct. Gold Brooch, with Amethyst
Centre and Heart, £1 ss.
No. 1111. 9ct. Gold Safety Pin Brooch,
with 15ct. Heart, set with Pearls,
£1 Is.
No. 116 a.
9ct. Oold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
18s fid.
No. 124 a.
15ct. Gold and fine Amethyst Brooch,
£1 7s fid.
No. 261. Medal.
9ct. Gold .. £llO
15ot. Gold .. 117 6
Silver .. .. 0 3 6
JSSSS
mm
§
No. 231.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
8 Diamonds, £4 10s.
No. 263.
Cross.
9ct. Gold
8s 6d
15ot.
17s 6d
No. 230.
Oct. Gold Compass, £1 6s
15ct. „ „ £2 los
Silver, 6s 6cL
No. 262. Cross.
9ct. Gold .. £llO
15et. „ .. £1 16 0
No. 231 a.
15ct. Gold Locket, set with
8 Diamonds, 4 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 205. Medal.
9ct. Gold, £1 10s ; 15ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
No. 128 a.
16ot. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. 673.
Fine Diamond New Moon Brooch, £3O.
Others in stock, £6 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s. £l2los.
No. 1174.
15ct. Gold “ Merry Thought” Brooch,
set Pearls, Sapphire, Ruby and Diamond,
£3 7s 6d.
Fo. 126 a. 15ct. Gold and Diamond
Set Swallow Brooch, £4.
•; t m
m%
No. 263 a.
Set of Silver Manicure Instruments in case, 17s 6d.
No. 336. Twelve Silver-plated Tea Spoons and
Tongs in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 295. Silver-plated Napkin Bin pa.
2in case, 8s 6d ; 4,16 s 6d ; 6, £1 6s.
No. 319. Silver Button Hooks and Shoe
Lift in case, 139 Cd.
;• V.OHOOH -i-omzu-4
No. 802 a. Two Solid Silver-mounted
Brushes in case, £3 3s.
■-
m
No. 800 a. Combination Case, containing
best Silver-plated Butter Knife, Jam
Spoon, Pickle Fork, Sugar Tongs, and
C ' r, O X*l Ko
Ho. 1171. Case, containing Solid
Silver Shell Butter Dish, with Solid
Silver Knife, £1 ss.
No. 830. Case, containing 1 Solid Silver Sugar
Sitter, Jam Spoon, and Butter Knife, i t sa.
SUMS
No. 804. Two Solid Silver llaii 1 Brushes
and Silver-mounted Comb, ill ease, M>
NOTE.—The various illustrations
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of
shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending pun hasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of svliioh will be
remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Ekek.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
S;. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Prevention of Seasickness. —Extraordi-
nary interest has been aroused by a large number
of letters appearing in the Evening News and
Star testifying to the efficacy of the new remedy,
“Seajoi.” The Mayor of Annandale, Mr. Allen
Taylor, writes that hitherto he was “always sea-
sick,” but took “Seajoi” on a recent journey to
Port Macquarie, and “ was enabled to onjoy the
trip without suffering any of the previous discom-
fort.” Another interesting letter was from Mr.
Alex. M‘lntosh, of the North Coast S. Ship Co.,
Grafton. He wrote : “ I and Mr. Me each
took your preparation, and I have now the pleasure
of informing you that neither of us had the
slightest sympton of sickness on the voyage to the
Clarence.” “ Seajoi ” is one of several valuable
remedies prepared and sold by Mr. Albert Sharp,
of 257 George-st., Sydney. (In bottles, 2s. 6d.
and 4s. 6d.; posted to any colony, 4d. and Bd.)*
Dear Bulletin. —A young Melb. matron
was, last week, sentenced to 12 months’ imprison-
ment for the unusual crime of poisoning her baby
with a dose of spirits of salt. As a poisoning case
pure and simple it was rough on the deceased, for
the spirits of salt burned the victim’s throat and
stomach horribly. Nevertheless, a jury sympa-
thised with the mother “ on account of the provo-
cation she had received,” and Chief Justice
Madden went one better by letting her off—poor
soul ! she appeared in deep mourning for the baby
—with al2 months’ holiday from work. A ridi-
culous sentence on the face of it, for a mother
who doesn’t deserve more than that for a fiendish
destruction of her offspring can’t possibly deserve
any punishment at all. But the excuse in Ellen
M’Nabb’s case was the excuse that always moves
Judge Madden to make a sentimental object of
himself. “She had been deserted,” said his rampa-
gious Honor, “by a villainous husband who cared
nought what became of her or their child. She
had been battered, ill-treated and almost starved
in a villainous fashion and then taken back by her
parents.” Also her father had slightly harrowed
her feelings by suggesting that she might have
managed her husband better perhaps. Anyway,
she was in great trouble, therefore she became
irresponsible for her actions and killed the baby
in a burst of frenzy. Justice Madden took the
evidence of the prisoner and her friends for
granted. The dead baby said nothing to the con-
trary, and the husband is away in Westralia or
somewhere, so he couldn’t throw light on his
alleged villainy. The husband was found guilty
behind his back and condemned to infamy (by
Madden) for evermore. Nobody.had the cruelty
to remark that Ellen M‘Nabb, the excitable baby-
slayer, was possibly the sort of wife that creates
iil-conduct in a husband. The- fact that she has
proved capable of burning her child’s internals to
death looks like it. Madden’s faith in the
grievances of the opposite sex needs a wholesome
corrective. If a poor, forsaken, ungovernable-
tern pered- Melb. wife were to relieve her feelings
by pouring half-a-pint of acid on Madden’s bald
head she would thereby explain a whole lot of
things to him. — Conrad.
y- y- y- y-
yyy y y y
As tljs face is ao Me*
i
i
Of Character,
y y y
So the beautiful and high-class finish on the surface of the “ RED BIRD
SPECIAL” is proof of the high character of material and workmanship
contained therein.
Makers of Cheap Bicycles call their products “plain good,” and call
attention to their internal points of merit, which are all out of sight be-
neath the cheap black paint.
“RED BIRDS” are good all the way through, but their points of
superiority are not all in the inside.
Call and examine the latest and best of Cycles.
The fioold Bicycle Co. [imited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office). I 245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q. | VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
221 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
*
*
%
Af/ents in Town and Country.
USE THE
Mew Sunli
in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s, 6d,
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 43 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS.
.To adopt the language of solemn journalism—
“ it is within the knowledge ” of this flippant red-covered
paper that Mr. W. It. Wilson desires to be a self-respecting
horse-owner. Seeing there was no malice in some Bul-
letin references to the recent deeds of Symmetry, Auri-
ferous and Scorn, owner W. R. Wilson has furnished full
explanations, verbal and documentary, and this paper
feels more than ever smileful at the blind ignorance
of the average punter. Take the case of Scorn.
The owner backed the colt heavily at its first dis-
appointing attempt, and again for £lOO when it
lost the Debutant Stakes (Caulfield). When it won
the Maribyrnong Plate the owner, his faith being
considerably shaken, put only £5O on his chance.
Yet “clever” folk suggest that Scorn was “stiffened”
for the aforesaid Debutant Stakes (worth £1000) with a
view to lengthening its price for the Maribyrong (worth
£1070) so that the stable might land a great coup.
Revenue, another two-year-old object of suspicion, carried
the same amount of Wilson capita]—a big amount—each
time it ran, losing one race at Caulfield previous to win-
ning twice at Flemington. And in these cases, as in all
the cases under notice, W. R. Wilson’s stable manager,
Leslie Macdonald, speculated on the same lines as the
“ boss.” What the one knows about the 'osses, the other
knows. Sometimes they both know nothing. It is only
the ’oss that knows.
Touching the performances of Symmetry and
Auriferous. The mare, long time invalided, had not
been out in public for a year when she and Auriferous
went for the Toorak Handicap (one mile) at Caulfield.
Mr. Wilson put £5O on each of them, but didn’t fancy
them greatly. He planted £25 on Devoted likewise.
Symmetry, in the stable’s opinion, was not likely to prove
herself a stout mare. She pulls hard, and given a very
fast race, she tires in the seventh furlong. Auriferous is
notoriously a colt that needs plenty' of whip persuasion.
Neither he nor the mare went near to winning the Toorak
Handicap. And W. R. Wilson, being then almost con-
vinced that Symmetry couldn’t stay, ran her in the
Coburg Stakes (one mile) on the V.R.C. Derby day',
and did not hack her, or advise anyone to back
her. She was unbacked, except, perhaps, by a few dozen
very small punters who ought to have known better,
owner Wilson would say, than to throw their shillings
away upon the representative of a popular stable when it
was clearly not a popular “tip.” The Coburg Stakes
failure, coming after the Toorak Handicap failure,
naturally tended to put the public off Symmetry. They
were not to know that the stable reckoned her fairly
good goods for a sprint and a sprint only'. On Cup-day
the twice-beaten Symmetry came out for a six-furlongs
race, and owner Wilson went for a recovery' —not
a “plunge” by any means, but just a little dip. The
stable didn’t regard Symmetry as a “dead-bird,” y'et she
got there all the same. Owing to her brilliant win in the
Railway Handicap, Symmetry was made a hot first favor-
ite for the Oaks. Sopiebpdy must have “plunged ” over
Symmetry. Not W. R. Wilson, or anyone connected
with him. The stable didn’t have a solitary shilling on,
The Bulletin is assured. It was not reckoned a reason-
able investment at the price. W.R.YV. told his friends
that Symmetry couldn’t win the Oaks(l£ mile) if the pace
were fast throughout; his brother wired him to put £5
on, but he did not invest his brother’s fiver as requested.
The Oaks was a “muddling” race, and the fleet Sym-
metry managed to win it by a few inches with a final
sprint. The public thought that the stable “ brought off
a coup,” whereas the stable let its first favorite run loose.
So much for popular turf delusions.
On the clay when Symmetry won the Oaks,
little Auriferous showed smart form in running second to
Catspaw for a 1J race ; therefore, when the stable com-
panions, Auriferous and Elusive, came out for the Final
Handicap (on the Saturday), many people preferred the
little ’un. As a matter of fact, W. R. Wilson backed both
of them, preferring Elusive, who had also run well earlier
in the week. He put £lOO on Elusive, £5O on Auriferous,
and “ savers” on three other horses. Elusive won, whilst
Auriferous ran nowhere. Mr. Wilson explains that the
boy on Auriferous had his whip knocked out of his
hand at an early stage of the race, and has never
seen it more. The whip was lost for ever, and
the chance of the sluggish Auriferous was lost with
it. To cut a long story shorter, The Bulletin rises to
express a full belief- in every plain statement made by
owner W. It. Wilson concerning his horses, and his own
bets, and the bets of Leslie Macdonald, who has ever been
regarded by outsiders as ttie stable wire-puller and
“ tricky ” man. Macdonald dresses himself up to look
like the shiny villain in a Bland Holt melodrama, but he
doesn’t actually play the character in the smallest degree.
Were he really such a. crafty dandy as he looks—well, he
would dissemble.
But to believe that W. R. Wilson is a very white
man, as horse-owners go, is one thing. To admire the
Australian racing system of which Mr. Wilson is a respect-
able exponent is quite another thing. The Bulletin has
always maintained an attitude of snort towards a horse-
racing community whose most honest members see
nothing unsportsmanlike in running a supposed sprinter
over a mile course, un backed, as owner Wilson admits to
having run Symmetry in the Coburg Stakes. That sort
of thing is not done by the trusted owners—the Roths-
childs and Roseberys—in England, the home of horse-
racing. Moreover, Mr. Wilson argues that it is fair sport
to run an unfit two-year-old together with a fit stable
companion which admittedly carries the owner’s coin and
confidence. He talks, as ail Australian owners talk, of
the “ necessity ” for making a youngster acquainted
with a crowd before it is seriously started in busi-
ness. Rats! The risk of a two-year-old “run-
ning green ” at a first attempt is not so great
that it ought to be run at the public expense. Every horse
that represents an important stable carries some public
money, and is supposed to represent some stable hope of
success. It has no business to be “ out for an airing,”
though, the “ airing ”be known to almost anybody. The
“out-for-an-airing” policy gives unenlightened punters
a chance to drop their dollars and half-sovereigns down
the sink, and any owner who follows this common Aus-
tralian practice is not a real At 18-carat sportsman. To Tub
Bulletin’s way of thinking, every turfman in this country
invites suspicion, and ought not to feel surprised when
he gets it.
« * • •
Victorian turf authorities are wrestling hard
with this problem : A Vic. bookmaker was instructed by
a client to put £lO on Scorn for the Maribyrnong Plate,
and, in case of a win, to put the winnings on Bobadil for
the Derby. He agreed, and Scorn did win the Maribyr-
nong Plate. But ttie Derby was run before the Maribyr-
nong Plate, so he decided that he couldn’t put the
winnings on Bobadil—both parties appear to have for-
gotten the respective dates when the wager was made.
Bobadil didn’t win, by the way. Now the question is : (1)
Does the backer get the £6O he won on Scorn for the
Plate, and does the matter end there ? Or (2) does he get
nothing on the ground that he lost on Bobadil the £6O he
won on Scorn though he hadn’t then won it—in other
words, was Bobadil supposed to carry all the money that
the backer was going to win on Scorn, whatever it might
be, and supposing he was going to win anything
at all? Or (3) does the backer get back his £lO on
the ground that there was no bet at all; in other
words, the money having been staked on the allegedly
impossible condition that the winnings on the second
race, if any, were to be staked on the first race,
which is the same as going to do last week what
should be done to-morrow, is the whole transaction off ?
In The Bulletin’s opinion No. 2 is the logical answer,
and the gentleman with the bag is, for once, a legitimate
winner. The backer ordered that his winnings on Scorn
(next week), if any, were to be staked on Bobadil (to-day).
He didn’t say they were to be staked on Bobadil to-day
after they had been won on Scorn next week ; he simply
said they were to be staked. Therefore, a logical bookie
would have carried out his instructions literally. The
case as regards Bobadil was : “ I lay Mr. , £
(amount ta be filled in in the event of Scorn winning)
against Bobadil at (say) 2to 1.” If Bobadil won, and the
odds were 2 to 1, then the bookie had simply to pay
double the winnings on Scorn, if that animal won. When
Bobadil lost, then the bookie had merely to make a note
in his own capacious mind : “ Whatever Mr. wins
from me on Scorn, if he wins anything, he has already
lost to me on Bobadil. If he doesn’t win anything
on Scorn, then he hasn’t lost anything to me on
Bobadil. Either way, the transaction is closed.” As to
the contention that it was impossible to back Bobadil
with the money won on Scorn because Bobadil’s race came
first, that is a logical absurdity. If anyone will send the
writer £lOO with instructions to back a horse in the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1900 at starting-price, and, if the animal
wins, to put the winnings at starting-price on a horse in
the Melbourne Cup of 1899, he will do it, and thereby
demonstrate the possibility of the matter. Also, he will
do it with the utmost ease—on his head, so to speak.
* • • *
The Totalisator Bill has been “ postponed ” by
N.S.W. Council, and, as the session will probably end
before the postponement is over, that simply means re-
jection. G. C. Heydon, Webb, and Renwick all im-
plored the Fat Men not to legalise the curse of gambling,
and the Fat Men decided that they wouldn’t. Now if
these three pious shriekists will introduce a Bill under
which the papers will be fined (say) £lOO each every time
they foster gambling by publishing the odds, and every
time they publish “Tattersall’s ” sweep advt. ; and
which will also order the arrest and imprisonment of
every bookmaker laying the odds on any racecourse or
anywhere else in N.S.W., and the fining, to the extent of
(say) £lOOO, of every racing club which allows book-
makers on its grounds, and the fining or jugging of the
man found backing a horse, and a few other things—then
Tiib Bulletin will begin to believe in the sincerity of the
three gentlemen aboveinentioned. As they never do
anything, however, to suppress the gambling evil they de-
plore so much, they look like three very unconvincing
whited sepulchres who are helping the bookmaker to
carry on the worst gamble going, for reasons which this
paper doesn't want to inquire into.
■» * • •
“ Bill ” Long’s Grand Flaneur colt Beaulieu,
looks the deadest of birds for the rich December Stakes at
Randwiek on Saturday. Judging by the way in which he
humped 9st. 31b. and ran away with the 2-year-old race at
Warwick Farm, the other youngsters will have to improve
wonderfully to get within “ cooee ” of him at weight for
age.
* * * *
The divs. paid by one of Sydney’s illegal ss.
totes (pay first three) on the Warwick Farm Handicap,
make interesting comparison with the “legal” odds laid
by Ikey Mo on that race. The placed horses were Eastern
King, Fitzroy, and Standard ; and Ikey, who pays first
horse only (not first three), was laying 7’s, 10’s and 6’s
respectively. The tote returned £3 17s. Bd. for every
“ crown ” invested on Eastern King—close on double the
odds laid by the books. Fitzroy paid the remarkable div.
of £4l 19s. 6d. for second place, while the 133 who had
their modest dollar on Standard were each returned
4s. 2d. The books, of course, paid nothing on Standard
or Fitzroy. Had Fitzroy won, the machine would have
paid at the rate of about 600 to 1. Imagine Cohen laying
tote odds, and bawling “ Six hundred to von Fitzroy ! ”
A ss. tote, run by same man, on last Kensington Handi-
cap, returned £5 3s. 6d. for winner, against whom the
books were laying the munificent odds of 6 to 1.
• * • •
No better gauge of the possibilities of well-
conducted pony-meetings can be taken than the fact that
Mr. P. O’Mara has decided to throw in his lot with the
ponies, by continuing the management of Kensington
and giving Rosehill the go-bye. Mr. O’Mara has held the
dual positions for many years, and is assured of the pony
future by his past lengthy experience, for it is scarcely
likely he would throw up the substance for the shadow.
The A.J.C. may yet regret its decision compelling
racing officials to choose between the “horses” and
“ little-’uns,” instead of meeting the inevitable and taking
the pony management in hand.
• • • •
The added money of the next Newmarket Han-
dicap has been raised from 750 to 1000 sovs., whilst the
sweepstakes remains 25 sovs., so this race is well worth
waiting for and winning. The Australian Cup is kept
at its old “figger”—looo sovs. with sweepstakes of 25
sovs.
• • * *
The team of racers and chasers going ’Ome
under management of Mr. J. E. Brewer is a purely
Australian conbination. Now an opportunity will be
afforded of seeing our horses, trained and ridden by Aus-
tralians, competing with the English cracks.
• • » *
When this issue went to press the N.S.W. and
S.A. teams were still battering the sphere with the piece
of wood in an unsettled kind of way. N.S.W. made 374,
and S.A. 334 first innings; Donnan’s 160 and Trumper’s
68 for N.S.W., and the 82 of Jones and 73 of Hill for S.A
being top scores. The fallen idol, Giffen, was out for 15.
And when last heard of S.A. was belting the sphere, in
its second innings, with great vigor and only moderate
prospects.
• • • •
Noble, who threw up his bank billet foi the
interprovincial cricket tour in esse and the English
one in posse, should have paused to consider the example
of Geo. Giffen. He will have to do wonders before he
does for cricket what Giffen has done, and then, should
he fail once or twice, the cricket-loving public will turn
dog on him as they have done on the South Australian.
AFreneh Premier’s portfolio isn’t so slippery as the billet
of a cricketing idol.
* * * •
Cricketers who have scored over 200 in inter-
provincial matches : Murdoch, 321 v. Victoria (still the
record); Moses, 297 not out v. Victoria ; Trumper, 295
not out v. Tasmania ; P C. Macdonnell, 239 v. Victoria ;
Clem Hill, 206 not out v. N.S. Wales, and Geo. Giffen, 271
and 239 v. Victoria, and 203 v. N.S. Wales. Strange that
Joe Darling, probably the best batsman in Australia, has
never made over 200 in one innings against any province.
* • * *
Ned Gregory is lying dangerously ill at his
home in the Cricket Association Ground.
* * * *
The Melb. country cricket week has just ended.
The idea was to unearth young and rising talent, particu-
larly in the bowling line, but all the old fossils that have
been playing cricket for the past 20 years or more—
Pleasance, Jack Harry, Bruce, the Mackays, and others —
came down to play. The province was divided into four
districts, a team came from each. They were pitted
against each other, and, at the end of the week, a picked
team did battle against a very moderate Victorian eleven,
captained hy Laver. Naturally enough, the four country
captains chose the team, and, naturally enough, the four
country captains were amongst the elect. Laver, who
apparently glories in bowling, bowled all the bumpkins
out, although there were some comparatively untried
trundlers on his side whom he did not make use of. So
the object of the country week was in some measure
defeated.
• • • *
The mammoth scoring still goes on in Yic. pen-
nant matches. Carlton, captained by Worrall —the only
unbeaten team, so far—made 881 in three Saturdays
against Richmond in the last round, and the Richinond-
ites thereupon abandoned the match. T. Warne scored
402 by a magnificent display of cricket, marred by only
one sharp chance at 41. He batted for nearly three
Saturdays, and his false strokes could be counted on one
hand. He seemed to lose his head when approaching
Worrall’s record score of 417 (not out), and hit wildly at
a shortish one and was caught at cover. His doings for
this season are : 141 (not out), 56 (given out wrongly), 77
(run out), and 402.
Dear Bulletin. —He paragraph in Bulletin
Oct. 15., I wish to make a correction. It was for Hamp-
stead v. Stoics that Stoddart made 485, not Hampshire
C.C., as the “Q.C.P.” states. Stoddart never played for
Hampshire, only for Middlesex. Hampstead is a suburb
of London (where the said Stoddart lived), and Hampshire
is a county. So, I fancy, the “ Parson” must be dream-
ing, to put it mildly.— Kensinqtonian.
* * » •
During the running of the Austral final, a new
feature was introduced in the shape of the trainer's
whistle. As the race assumed a different aspect, as men
came along from the rear or dropped back, the whistle
would ring out in notes of different length and number
telegraphing the position of the field to the man plugging
onwards with his head down.
* * * *
Billy Middleton, who finished second in the
Austral, is the third cycling member of the plucky
Dunnolly mining family, and seems to have better judg-
ment than either of his brothers.
The failure of Walne in early part of Austral
meeting was atoned for last Saturday by his brilliant
finish of the 10-mile scratch, which he won by lengths,
•weeping round the field in the final run in as good style
as ever. In his heat of one of the minor events Walne
also made a dash, that was one of the features of the
afternoon, unsuccessful though it was.
M‘Donald, another Dunollyite, who made a
name by defeating Walne in the mile-scratch on the pre-
vious Saturday, was the most erratic performer the last
day. Riding splendidly in the first half of one race, he
faded away at the end and finished nowhere, only to
come out and win the preliminary of another race in the
style of a real champion. But the final heat of the second
race saw M’Donald collapse once more, after riding half
the race in splendid style.
A stout figure in a white helmet pervaded the
arena for several minutes during the afternoon, and the
crowd started asking what Mossy Isaacs was doing there,
and several yelled from the fence fora price about Finne-
gan. Then Minister Best came along, and crawled at the
feet of the man in the helmet so squirmingly that he was
identified at once as Baron Brassey himself.
Porta, fat as a Legislative Councillor, passed
the ladies’ reserve without an eye being raised to greet
him, and not once did he pedal round waving his hand as
of yore. Maximilian rode nowhere in everything, and
retired to brood over past greatness, when bevies of St.
Kilda beauties brought him flowers to solace him for a
broken leg, and when he was carefully shaved in bed
every morning by a barber who guaranteed not to cut
him and “ mek him hoogly."
Cyclists seem to be afflicted with names of a far
more extraordinary nature than other athletes. The
Austral programme contains Busst, Crisp, Diseaciati,
Hefter, Tame, Mutton, Hickox, Howqua, Jochimsen,
Body and Neunhoffer ; while Gargurevich and Jamoneau
finished first and second in one Austral heat.
* • » *
During the interval in the performance of “ My
Sweetheart,” in Hobart, the other night, the one-armed
round-the-world pedestrian, Schilling, appeared and made
a speech. Like most big athletes, Schilling is somewhat
slope-headed, and, when introduced to the audience,
looked half-inclined to run away and hide somewhere.
However, with a mighty yawn, intended to hide his con-
fusion, he began a stammering bit of battered-speak to
the “ladies and gents.” present. The start was painful
in the extreme. The big fellow floundered over the first
few mixed-up sentences somehow'; made an attempt to
catalogue his route in guide-book fashion ; and got mixed-
up worse than ever. Then he mentioned something about
how much he missed his “ doag,” that faithful animal
having been run into quarantine in Sydney forsix months.
Mention of the “ doag” brought a mighty cheer instead
of the laugh which seemed inevitable. The gods were
with the speaker at once. The athlete was cute enough
to notice his advantage, and w'orked that “dong” for all
it was worth. The rest of the speech was mostly “doag,”
punctuated by cheers. If the Teutonic-Yank'had only
dragged a horse into the trouble, lie would have made
never-dying fame as an orator. One touch of dog or
horse makes all Australia kin.
• * • *
For years Sydney has not had such an exciting
swimming competition as that at Coogee last Saturday
afternoon for the Flying Squadron team championship, or
club supremacy, of the province. Deafening yells and
screeches of encouragement and applause marked the
progress of the contest from beginning to end. Thanks
to the brilliant efforts of its two sehool-boy champions—
Byers and Grant—Balmain Club won by six yards from
East Sydney, which team beat Newcastle by a yard. But
for the absence of one of their best men, Kemp, through
the death, by drowning, of his father on Friday, the
Novacastrians might have proved successful. As it was,
they won their heat in 2 l-ssec. faster than the time of
the final, but some of them, apparently, couldn’t saddle
up again.
• * • *
There’s no mistake about the manner In which
swimming has taken on in Sydney. Over 90 swdmmers
competed in one event last Saturday, and the bringing of
it off necessitated 14 preliminary' heats, three semi-finals
and, of course, a final.
* * * *
Strong-man Sampson, when he left Sydney last
week for Melbourne, was a very weak man, through having
burst, a blood-vessel on the previous Friday. Medical
advice was opposed,to a continuance of his business for
at. least a month, but Sampson has made engagements
ahead, and must start breaking things again. His advent
in Sydney gave a great impetus to the chain-making
industry. Almost every second man you meet has his
theory and is experimenting. Two well-known sporting
medicoes spent all one Sunday, aided by half-a-dozen
friends, in testing one of Sampson’s chains which they
had secured. Tugs-of-war were arranged, and herculean
attempts made to pull the house down. A vice was
pressed into service, and, with the chain-bracelet en-
circled thereon, expanded, but all to no purpose—the
links would stretch but not snap. Shillings also
resisted the power of a pair of pincers in each hand.
How’s the thing done, anyhow ?
* * • *
At a recent Sydney “ glove ” contest there was,
for personal reasons, very bad blood between two of the
“ pugs,” and they fought like tiger-cats. After one of
the rounds, one of them suddenly jumped up, rushed
across, and, brandishing his fist in his antagonist’s face,
yelled, “You , you ’it me foul!” The other res-
ponded with equal eloquence, and the choicest amenities
filled the air until the referee stepped between, with
“ Come, come, gentlemen 1 No unpleasantness, please I’’
• * * *
The design for this year’s ladies’ tickets for the
Sydney Cricket Ground (curiously resembling a teetotum,
and executed, regardless of expense, in common card-
board) is another attempt to grapple with the problem of
twice as many ladies being present in the stands as there
are tickets issued. A minion at the gate is to stamp out
one of the figures on the dial, which prevents the ticket
being used again that day. Also, the ugliness of the
document is probably intended as a discouragement.
Comparatively few display these cheeseplate-looking
affairs compared with those who wore the pretty heart-
shaped tokens of previous years. ,
* • * •
Dear Bulletin. —He certain recent Bulletin
remarks : Out of £8 sent to “ Tattersall ’’ for tickets, £'3
were put on the ordinary ss. sweeps in direct disregard of
my request that they should be reserved for the
“ specials," drawn on day of race.— E. H., Charters
Towers.
* * * •
They’ve got things down fine in Melb. just now.
One Bourke-street tobacconist sells quarter-plugs of weed
at a penny; and a publican on Poverty-corner for a
“ tray” has been giving a long-sleever, a free lunch and
also laying the customers £5 he didn’t name the first
three in the Cup, or £3 he didn’t strike the winning
double—Melb. and Williamstown Cups.


Anybody can be an agent for cherry
brandy ; but John Walker and Sons, Ltd., of 22
Bond-st., Sydney, have a unique cherry whiskey
calculated to throw the most festive kind of frag-
rance over Xmas. This already famous liqueur—
Fretny's Cherry Whiskey—is the result of the com-
bination of a new idea with the Montmorency
cherry and fine old Glenlivet whiskey, and it
makes your mouth water even to read a paragraph
about it, let alone write one. And the Sydney
agents are John Walker and Sons aforesaid.*
The ancient ship Republic—which has
twice set sail from N.S. W. with coal for Honolulu,
and twice put back for repairs—made a third
abortive attempt to get away last week. The new
crew was still unsatisfied of the vessel’s sea-
worthiness, and refused to bend sail or get up
anchor ; and there were strange rows and ructions
on board the aged, luckless tub, and the captain
was arrested on a charge of shooting one of the
sailors and committed for trial. At latest advices
the Republic still leaks tranquilly at her anchor-
age. There is no law in N.S.W. under which any
authority can prevent any ship, however awful,
going to sea if the crew will take her there and
provided she doesn’t carry passengers, and the
proposed new navigation law of Premier Reid
leaves things in this respect exactly as they were.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholio
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.*
What enterprise, combined with quality,
will do for a business firm in Australia is exempli-
fied by the success here of Holbrook and Co., of
London and Birmingham. This firm began busi-
ness in Sydney only two years ago, yet its popu-
larity has already reached such a stage that during
last week 100,000 bottles —that is, 1680 cases of
Holbrook’s sauce—were sold from the Sydney
depOt. Such success proves that no English house
need have the least misgiving in sending a first-class
article into the Australian market. Holbrook’s, too,
have done wonderfully good business with their
pickles and “ pure malt ” vinegar ; proving again
that sterling quality brings Australian money into
a firm’s exchequer.
A pretty girl’s affection is worth striving
for, fighting for, dressing for ; and to dress for her
is, perhaps, the surest way to win her. The tailor
makes about 75 per cent, of the man ; and we pro-
vide, at the most moderate prices, all the essen-
tials to the smart appearance which spells suc-
cess. Write for particulars of clothing—suits,
head, neck, foot-wear, etc. Feme and Co., Lon-
don and American Supply Stores, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c.j &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
“Ligmolliene,” the new specific discovered
by W. H. Malyon, chemist, of Victoria, is a
wonderful remedy for skin diseases. Mr. Malyon
is constantly receiving testimonials from people
who have been cured by his preparation ; even
doctors have been cured by it, after all the other
known remedies had failed. When such authori-
ties testimonialise Ligmolliene its specific virtues
are beyond all question.*
A cool hundred dead cats and dogs and
such small deer were recently taken out of the
Yarra at Hawthorn bridge ; and the odors of
Smellbourne’s glorious sewer have become so warm
with the approach of summer that the authorities
have almost made up their minds to “ really do
something.” Down in Smellbourne, the way to
dispose of everything objectionable is to “chuck it
in the Yarra.” The corpse of a lady in a boot-
trunk was chucked in the other evening in the
usual course, and apparently sank or floated about
for some days before the police noticed it. Dr.
Neild, who post-mortemed, thinks the lady was
chloroformed as a preliminary to illegal operation,
and died of the chloroform. Anyway, Smell-
bourne has a fine large Xmas sensation, and the
Yarra continues to stink proudly to the sea.
WE WISH YOU
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
.... AND ....
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
Can yon think of any gift which
will bring its recipients greater joy
or which is calculated to add more
to their health and pleasure than an
easy-rnnning, high-bred
MASSEY-H ARRIS
BICYCLE ?
Our new 1899 Models are
now on View at all our Depots
and Agencies—not old stock, but
’99 Models. Please bear in
mind that this is the first time
that the Bicycle business has been
so far advanced as to make
this possible. New Models
have never before been ready
in time for Christmas.
Establish.. 1 847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters! William Street, Melbourne.
BbakCHES : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—Northam.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere
The Bulletin wishes to set right a mistake
made in setting the half-page advt. of H. P.
Gregory and Co. in last Xmas number. In this
advt. a compositor put “otside” for “outside.”
Nobody of course would credit the mistake to
H. P. Gregory and Co., who know all there is to
be known about the outside, inside, and every side
of pumping and other machinery.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment ..
also,
Perfect,’ * Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
prank firimleg]
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-205 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TXTE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
* ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
£3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
HaYc Yo 6 Read
h
“The Breech-Loader
and How to Use It ? "
A concise Treatise on the Gun,
with valuable Hints on Shoot*
ing ; by W. W. Grekxer.
If not, send 35., when a book
will be forwarded Post Free.
ALL SPORTSMEN should
have a
Greener’s Patent GUN-SLING.
They are Indispensable. Post Free, 7/6.
Write C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Curral Road,
Elsternwiek, Melbourne ; or Box 326, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
“ DOWRIDGEVS
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
iT, F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 87 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘Garden City’
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
{Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
FOB the person who Is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One Is “THE CRESCENT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
** Cllis' Kin "-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
S\TJIBELIj’S Fluid Disinfectant clears out
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverflsh, and Fevers.
s
e
"*v
0
»///
ft
<o
LlS—
T‘Swift’No. 1 Lady’s - - £2B
Club ‘Swift’ Lady’s - - £25
Road Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Path Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Austral ‘Swift’ Roadster - £22
Austral ‘Swift’ Road Racer £2O
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
-Swift CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Justral Cycle Agency [td.,
391 George Street, Sydney .
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Bendigo,
Warrnambool, Hamilton, Hobart, Launceston,
Christchurch, eta


ĥ
The Falling Leaves
Give Warning of Winter
So the falling of the hair tells
of the approach of age and declin-
ing power. No matter how barren
the tree nor how leafless it may
seem, you confidently expect leaves
again. And why?
Because there is Life
at the Roots.
So you need not worry about the
falling of your hair, the threatened de-
parture of your youth and beauty. And why ?
Because if there is a spark of life re-
maining in the roots of the hair
Ayer's
Heir Vigor
will arouse it into healthy activity. The
hair ceases to come out: it begins to grow:
and the glory of youth is restored to you.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co.,Lowell .Mass.,TJ.S. A
D.S.MAIR
QO
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6; Cleaning, 2/6; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
2/6; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
I>. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrall.y-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents t’o forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
ħ
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 eaoh,
PLATTS and TAILS,
2t>in. Ion?, 6/0. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/0 per oz.
We are the cheapeitin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.“wigz«ll,
)10 W 11,1,1 AU SrttßßT,
rorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
h
Send stamps for fall Prioe List-
Prompt attentioa'given to Country Orders.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers ana Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
“Malle”: Moreprenatal influence. Writer’s
grandfather, when a very young man, received, at
the battle of Assaye, a severe sword-cut on the
forehead ; the mark of which was reproduced on
his son (writer’s father) and was also very ap-
parent on writer himself in infancy—a plainly
distinguishable dent still remaining.
“0.Q.” : The patriarchal yarn about the
furniture-polish man who could not sell the stuff
he made until he labelled it “cough mixture,” is
practically the history of the late Joseph Bosisto.
Baron von Mueller had little or nothing to do with
B.’s early experiments. An educated but dilapi-
dated character, known as “Jack the Buster,”
first brought under Bosisto’s notice the subject of
the distillation of essential oils from the leaves of
indigenous trees. Many a time I have talked
with Jack on his way to Bosisto’s shop, with a
bag of leaves on his shoulder. Bosisto experi-
mented for a long time, his aim being to produce
varnish; and very excellent varnish it was, too.
But he could not get it to dry hard, so he bottled
it up and sold it as liniment. Poor old “ Jack the
Buster” died happily in the midst of one of his
periodical “ bursts.” His surname, I believe, was
Blackwell.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR-
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
Queer letter received by N.S. Wales M.P.:
Sir, —I have been detained in Gladesville and Kenmore
Lunatic Asylums for about 4 years, though I am quite
sane. I wrote to the Minister for Justice some days ago,
asking for an inquiry into my case, but, so far, have not
received a reply. I wish you would favor me by mention-
ing my case to him when you find an opportunity. The
law that regulates my life is as follows : Moral, code—Do
not kill, murder, or shed blood. Do not commit adultery
or adulterate. Do not bear false witness or lie. Do not
steal. Marry one wife (mate). Six children, born at
three-vear intervals —are a lawful family. Marriage should
take place when the wife is 18 years of age, or at any sub-
sequent 3 year period. 40 acres of good agricultural land,
to be heldas joint property of husband and wife ; should
constitute home. While the male animals and birds should
be the property of the husband, the females should belong
to the wife. The common, intercommunicating through-
out the whole seaboard, should be free to all, subject to
timber regulations; sea and ports should be free. No
mining should take place on private or common lands,
except by permission of all the people. Naturally, my
diet law is vegetarian, which does not permit me to use
milk, butter, or eggs, or any dish into the composition of
which they enter. When the spirit of the above law is
enforced individually, the fall of man and all that fol-
lowed could almost be forgotten immediately.
A Novelty for a Christmas Present.
The Calendar Hatch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
To purchasers of this Watch we will present, Free of
Charge, a solid Silver H.M. Gent’s Single or Double Chain.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH CO-, LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
$Sg3!
Caution. —Genuine ChlOrodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHGEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
* Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Oil i.orodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
fHE
Plum’
ĥ
Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-temyiered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, " e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits.. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
p . f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather oase, 21s.
Price |ging.] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 80s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the ivorld.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
DRAWING an OVERDRAFT
• ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
&
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c„ &c;—Use
ends ‘reuiT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLERS’ BAG 3HOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
IN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood, and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect Of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
OH.TJTIOJS'.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENOS Patent.
ħ
T>OOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holdipg back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new 1
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Hbptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;hy post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is: Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illv.s., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by 0. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
, the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave l)or6. 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest ilius. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Boole Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
B Y ROYAL WARRAWTT OF AFFOIKTTMBKTT TO “ THE QXTEBKT.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky ai>d
‘ScbW€pp€’
h
addaMtpS,
pCie ApCiejg
JOj y\su
SOPAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.PTO <T..m,lre
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),. near SYDNEY.
MAKERS OP
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
lIiLAWAmtA’
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
i tel lasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLI IN
HIGHEST TRICES PAID EOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


H err RaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfalioe Herbal
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Remedies
Testimonials.
_A_ Few of Them.
+
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street-, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
arid that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr, E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumat ism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
O/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through inr.etnperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. Withmany thanks.—lam,dearsir,yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. 0. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected bj’ his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A.—“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide. —“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.—" Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
St'dney.”
Australian star, Sj T dney.—“Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herb Rassmussen. . .
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HIiRR RASMUSSEN’S
(llission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration'the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and .unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •
Patrons of Herr Bass-
Herbs anywhere.
i; •
m
Herr T{assmvssen, TTp-to-Date Herbalist.
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Baris, Praised by the Press. Recommended by
the Faculty, and, received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT
and
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all vour Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head ~
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSmiISSGII
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed, thus “ H.R., Boj
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
ADVICE FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALF ALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is.; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet Sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6*.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujuhes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
- suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
_ __, T -p, v T tivtip -rrTT* a t TtY ~pTT.T.a (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
bIood”EUILDER aS the U worltl has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Imprcving the Memory, WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmusseu’s Head Office: 54*7 Georg’e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :


Soul and Body.
On* Samuel Gibson, a confine* in N.S.W.
Trial Bay prison, had an eye destroyed by the
bursting of a steam gauge, and sued the Govern-
ment for compensation. Whereupon the Crown
raised the contention that, as Gibson was a con-
victed felon, there was no duty upon its part,
as between employer and to keep its
machinery in proper order so that it wouldn’t
explode and destroy Gibson’s eye. Judge
Owen, while admitting the Crown’s possible
moral responsibility in the matter, held that of
legal responsibility there was not a shred, and that
Gibson, ‘ 1 not being aservant of the Government,
and not being a member of the general public,
exercising equal rights with the public,” was,
in fact, nobody at all, and had no statutory
status for redress against the Government.
Now it seems that plaintiff, at the time of his
mishap, was very much indeed a servant of the
Government j inasmuch as he could not even
give up an employment which he might know
or apprehend to be dangerous. If Gibson, in
fact, had known that the steam-gauge was
liable to burst at any moment, he could not,
like a free Government have removed
himself from its dangerous vicinity. If this
isn’t being a servant of the most aggravated
type—well, what is it ? Judge Owen’s theory
is that the Crown isn’t liable because it didn’t
want its scalded to be there ; that he
was there voluntarily because he voluntarily
committed the act which brought him there.
But there are several large and obvious holes
in this logic. (1) Some men get there, not by
their voluntary act, but through miscarriage of
justice. (2) For a multitude of offences the
courts are authorised to allow the option of a
fine, and the man who is scalded by the
bursting of the Crown’s boiler often only gets
within reach of it because the law refused him
that option ; in other words, he is there partly
by his own act and partly by the court’s liver.
(3) The Crown virtually contracts itself out of
the impunity which Judge Owen claims for it.
It passes a definite sentence of, say, six months’
hard labor, not six months “hard” and any
other accidental damage which may accrue ;
and it should keep to the terms of its own sen-
tence. (4) Even if there is no option of a fine,
and the offence is one which must be expiated
by imprisonment, the law simply says, “ hard
labor,” and tending a rotten boiler or anything
of the kind isn’t specified in the statute. Tho
prisoner doesn’t voluntarily, by his own crimi-
nal act, put himself in danger of the Crown’s
unreliable gauge-glass, because the statute says
nothing about any such implement. Why
doesn’t the Crown keep to the letter of its bar-
gain, when it is so anxious to hold the prisoner
t o the letter of his ?
Let’s see : this year’s ’9B ; and next year’s
99 ; and the year after —’00 ?
The Bulletin hears from various quarters
that if, or when, N.S.W. Navigation Acts
Amendment Bill passes, an attempt will be
made to dump the ancient fossils of the Marine
Board into the new places of Navigation Super-
intendent and Assessors created by the Bill.
It is to be hoped there is enough grit in
the Assembly to block this move. The in-
capacity of many of the members of the
Marine Board has been proved over and over ;
most of them are too old for active and efficient
service, and turn their posts into sinecures ; and
all are parts of the bad existing system which it is
the business of the Amending Bill to abolish root
and branch. If the transfer is really accomplished,
and the old Board continues to rule the roost
under new names, it will be one of the worst jobs
which the Reid Cabinet has perpetrated.
The story of the loss of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment steamer, Little Nell, as told at the inquest:
Vessel narrow and rather crank ; captain drunk ;
had often been drunk, but still retained in Govern-
ment employ ; steered the little vessel in all direc-
tions till he got her broadside on to the sea and
she went under ; one boat on board—so securely
lashed down that it couldn’t be moved ; no life-
belts ; two life-buoys for five people. The Little
Nell was convoyed for safety by the larger and
slower vessel, Dawn, but the drunken captain
raced away from her, and she was far astern when
wanted. Two lives lost. Marine Board fast
asleep.
A beautiful example of the worthlessness
of N.S.W. Assembly’s check on Treasurer Reid’s
expenditure was given in the debate on the
“Greater Britain Exhibition” vote. This exhi-
bition is being run by a private Hungarian com-
pany in London with the assistance of English
guinea-pigs, and the only reason for spending
money on it is to keep Ministerial supporters
sweet with the pickings. Reid asked the House
to authorise the expenditure of .£5OOO. When it
was objected to he coolly said that he had already
spent an unauthorised .£4OOO, which would
be money thrown away if it wasn’t supple-
mented. Then he said that the total expense
would not exceed ,£Booo—which meant that
he foresaw the unauthorised expenditure of
-83000 beyond the .£5OOO asked for. Later still he
offered to guarantee the expense wouldn’t be more
than _i!10,000 so, as long as he secured some
sanction, he was going to stretch it like elastic.
Finally, the vote was reduced to .£4000; and Reid
said he would take that as an intimation to pay
outstanding liabilities and let the matter drop.
So that apparently the Ministry has spent .£4OOO
without the authority of Parliament; and nothing
at all results—it is money thrown away.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buver of all other Australian gems.*
The smash-up of Cervera’s Spanish ships
off Santiago de Cuba bore out the British deduc-
tion from the battle of Yalu River, that it is the
medium quick-firing gun that does the damage.
American naval experts who have examined the
pulverised Spanish hulls report that the big 12
and 13in. guns did little damage, whereas the
blizzard of quick-fired projectiles swept completely
through the ships and utterly demoralised the
men it didn’t kill.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Tenders.
RENDERS FOE MEDIOAL OFFICER.
GLADSTONE UNITED FRIENDLY SOCIETIES,
QUEENSLAND.
Tenders are hereby called for above|Societies. Salary,
120 members at 255. per member per annum. Applicants
to state a ire, also forward testimonials to the undersigned
by 31st JANUARY NEXT.
B. JOYNER, Chairman,
United Friendly Societies, Gladstone.
Missing Friends.
HOLDSWORTH & CO., 101 Svvanston-streefe,
Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
Unparalleled Success.
HOLDSWORTH 'k
HOLDSWORTH I
HOLDSWORTH f
HOLDSWORTH J
The
Sherlock Holmes”
of real life.
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH.
Gives up His Work.
SICK, SUFFERED and SAVED.
The Case of
Mr. Win. McCarthy.
(From the Windsor and Richmond Gazette).
BY OUR SPECIAL REPORTER.
Information having been conveyed to the
Gazette that Mr. McCarthy had recovered from
A Very Serious illness,
we at once detailed a reporter to make fall
enquiries into the matter, and also to per-
sonally interview McCarthy himself on the
subject. When our reporter arrived at
McGrath’s Hill, near Windsor, he found
whom he sought, powerfully wielding a
sledge hammer in his forge. The way that
Mr. McCarthy lifted up the heavy sledge
as though it weighed but a few ounces quite
astonished our reporter, for he had expected
to find the blacksmith in
A Weak State of Health.
“ How do you feel, asked our reporter ?”
“ Never felt better in my life,” replied the
blacksmith, and he put down his hammer
and entered straight away into a conver-
sation.
“You ask me what was the matter with
me,” said Mr. McCarthy, “ well, that is
what no one could tell me. My illness
came upon me as unexpectedly
As a Thunderbolt.
One day I was working in the forge when I
was seized with a violent headache. I had
to at once put down my tools and go into
the house.
From that day I date my sufferings. I
could no longer enjoy my food. In fact, in
a very short time eating caused me intense
pain, and I only took what food was abso-
lutely necessary to prevent my dying of
sheer starvation. When my food (and that
always of the lightest and most easily
digestible kind) was eaten it caused a painful
Distension in My Stomach.
Sour gas would rise in my throat, together
with an intensely bitter fluid. This, I
believe, is what is commonly called heart-
burn. My skin began to get of a dirty
yellow colour, and I started to lose weight
rapidly.”
“ How about your work V*
** I had to entirely
Give Up My Work,
as I was too weak to do any. Sleep became
almost entirely out of the question. I was a
victim to the worst form of sleeplessness.
Night after night I passed walking up and
down my bedroom, getting into bed and
again rising to pace the room in the vain
hope of inducing sleep. In the morning I
would be so weary that I could scarcely
stand, and yet was quite unable to obtain
The Blessing of Sleep.
How I did long for it, if but for half-an-
hour. No one who has not suffered as I did
can have the faintest idea of the advantage
of proper sleep. ”
“ What effect had this want of sleep upon
your nerves ?”
“ The very worst. I began to get horribly
nervous. I couldn’t bear the sight of
strangers. The most trifling noises would
send me into
A Fit of IVAiYiblinfi:.
I became extremely irritable, and in spite of
myself, I used to fall into a terrible state of
excitement about nothing.”
“Any other symptoms, McCarthy?”
“ Yes; strange pains now came on in my
back and loins. They were doubtless kidney
and liver troubles and extremely agonising,
and used to fairly wear me out, and then
there arose another stage of my illness
which was so dreadful that even now I
hardly care to talk about it. As you under-
stand, although I couldn’t work I could
still walk, and was accustomed to take a
stroll in open air on fine days in the
hope that the fresh air would do me good.
One day, when some distance from home,
without any warning, I saw everything
going black before me, and I fell down in a
fit. It was epilepsy, or the falling sickness,
and I was
Taken Home Insensible
in a cart. The state I was in for some time
after this I can hardly describe, I vomited
and was so weak I could hardly move. All
day long I sat in a dull, lifeless sort of a
way. I seemed to possess no interest in the
world that waa moving round me. I be*
came vei'y despondent and low spirited.”
“ Were doctors called in to see you V
“Oh, yes, and they prescribed for me,
but with no result. 5 *
“ How long were you ill altogether ?”
“I was ill for two years. Nothing
seemed to hold out any hope.”
“Did you suffer from further seizures ?”
“Yes, most unfortunately, I did. Not
long after the first fit I had another,
and then another. Each fit was worse than
the previous one, and my illness seemed to
be rapidly progressing
To a Fatal Close.
I was now in a terrible plight. All my
symptoms were intensified. I suffered more
than ever from want of sleep. I became
extremely weak and thin, and in a very
short time I dropped from list to 9st 61b—a
loss of 221 b. This is a
Tremendous Loss of Flesh
for a light man, and will speak more plainly
of my condition than any mere words could
do. My irritability and excitability had
become worse since my seizures. I was hope-
less and in despair. I was laid up in bed, and
never expected to leave it again. Once a
little book was brought me by a friend.
‘ Read it carefully, 5 he said. 1 did so. The
book was descriptive of Clements Tonic and
how it had effected cures in the apparently
Most Hopeless Cases.” (
" What did you do ?”
“ I sent for some and commenced a course
of it. After about a dozen doses I began to
notice a distinct improvement in the general
tone of my nerves. They gradually became
better in tone and less liable to cause me to
shake suddenly. My nervous system
gathered vitality every day. That
Gloomy, Foreboding Feeling
which had hung over me for so long began
to lift like a cloud.”
“ Could you eat and digest your food 2”
“Yes; with better spirits came a
renewed appetite, and Clements Tonic, I
found, had a wonderfully stimulating effect
on my digestive organs, and lastly, but by no
means least, sleep once more came to me.
Deep and Refreshing Sleep
was now the rule with me every night I
was soon out of bed and in the open air.
The exercise did me good, and as I continued
Clements Tonic my strength continually
improved.”
“ And what about the other pains ?’\
“ Those in the back and head all left me,
and was soon able to do some light work.
Very shortly Clements Tonic put me on my
legs again, as
Strong and Able a Man
as ever I was in my life.”
“And you had no more seizures, Mr.
McCarthy ?”
“ No; I firmly believe the epilepsy has
been completely driven out of my system,
and I don’t fear it now.”
“ You look in good health, anyhow 1”
“Yes, and can do as hard a day’s work
as any blacksmith in Australia.”
“ And can I put this in the Gazette ?'
“Yes, you can, and as I am known all
the country round anyone who requires
further particulars of my case can easily find
me? As you may guess I am extremely
grateful for my cure from what seemed a
life-long, if not fatal illness.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION 1 ,
1, WiT.tiAu McCartuv, of McGrath’s Hill, near
Windsor, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of eleven*
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to eleven,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
cf my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the same in
any way; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
'Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
Declared at Windsor this 20th day of July, 1898,
before me.
JAMES J. FITZPATRICK,
Justice of the Peace.
CLEMENTS TONIC has a record of cures none can rival. Hundreds of base
substitutes come on the market, the plausible advertising resorted to attracts the attention
of the thoughtless and unwary, and they have a sale for a year or two till they are found
out. For a medicine to remain popular for the number of years Clements Tonic has, it
must have exceptional merit. The Australian public is too well educated and too discriminate
ing to be gulled for long even by clever, if false advertisements, and that is the reason all
the quack nostrums run to the length of their tether in leu than four years in this country.
Clements Tonio baa been the leader for ten.
Will Ogilvie’s charming volume of verse,
“ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,” is now ready. In
case of any local difficulty or delay in supply, the
best plan is to order direct from The Bulletin,
enclosing 4s. 6d. in stamps or postal notes ; and
get the book by return post.
Amusements.
XTER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mussrrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
The Theatre will be closed until Monday, December 28.
BOXING NIGHT, MONDAY, DEO. 26,
Will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Spec-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
rjRTTEMON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
alpbed eampieb.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING !
. . . Grand Revival of . . .
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
PRlCES—Private Boxes, £1 ls;Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls,
2s ; Family Circle, Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
T>ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. 0. M. McADOO.
McADOO’S
ORIGIMC JUBILEE SINEUS
TONIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
TO-NIGHT
Entire CHANGE of
Programme.
Entire CHANGE of
Programme.
NEW JUBILEE
CHOU USES.
New Novelties.
New Novelties.
JUBTI.EE
SINGERS
JUBILEE
SINGERS
JUBILEE
SINGERS
JUBILEE
SINGERS
GO AND HEAR
Madame Mattie Allan McAdoo
The Only Lady Tenor in the World.
SPECIAL MATINEE SATURDAY, 2.30 p.m.
Prices— 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Paling’S.
CLIFFORD FERLEY, Advance Agent.
Business Manager, R. H. COLLINS.
T
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Miss PEGGY PKYDE.
HONS. AJAX, THE FLEXIBLE MARVEL.
Sisters Phillips ...and... Bros- Lorenzi-
Miss CORA CASELLI, POPE and SAYLES,
The BOVIS BROTHERS, FLORRIE RANGER, DELROY
and LYNNE, FANING and DEVOE, and our Grand
Double Co. Matinees every Saturday.
OPERA HOUSE,* MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
0- A- Sampson- Lieut- Frank Travis-
SISTERS CLARENCE. CHAS. W. COGILL.
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
&T PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
■pBINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mrsoitom
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
(And Special Holiday Matinee Boxing Day, 2 p.m.)
Will be Repeated
(§eisha: <A (Story of a £ea (House.
Book by Owen Hall.
Lyrics by Harry Greenbank. Music by Sydney Jones.
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
T~ HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Hol*.
SATURDAY, 24th DECEMBER (XMAS EVE).
Great Holiday Production. BLAND HOLT
will present that Remarkable Compendium of
Sensation, Life, Fun, Frolic, and Human Interest,
NTew 33a,L>yloii.
Full and Augmented Strength of this Grand Dramatic
Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’fe.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Hamilton.
PT* SATURDAY, 24th DECEMBER (XMAS EVE).
First Production in Australia of
MADAME SANS GENE.
(by special arrangement with Sir Henry Irving and
Mons. Sardou).
A comedy in a Prologue and 3 Acts, by Victorien Sardon
and Emile Moreau, adapted by J. Comyns Carr.
PRICES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen’s;
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Commencing Boxing Night, Monday, Dee. SC,
And Until Further Notice,
Grand Production of the Latest Drury Lane
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
Complete Company, Beautiful Scenery, Gorgeous
Dresses, Marvellous Effects, Full Operatic Orchestra
and Chorus of over 200.
POPULAR PRICES : 3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
't'
o
y/M
ATT
tr
OLD
RMS
SUNB
INC
0
CH
os
Y


Christmas and New Year’s Presents.
h
TERMS
A. H. MOORE & CO.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
From 6a.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 6/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Smith S Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
V&~ Foverty Pointersl
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queens.and
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
IXTortlx Qneenaland..
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
U of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
Publications, eto.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3a. 6d..
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
*
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting: her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes- 1
sions j
of a
ĥ
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
nnniTQ Books Books
Published, Second
Price. Hand.
Chambers’ Encyclopssdia, last edition,
10 vols., 1887 £7 10 0 £2 15 0
Picturesque Atlasof Australasia,3 vols 16 16 0 310 0
Popular Educator. 6 vols 400 100
The Home Physician 2 5 0 017 6
Largre Family Bibles, colored plates ... 4 0 0 1 5 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
by the best authors for 255, very suitable for a Christmas
present. NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS . . .
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Hus-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris: Maria Monk; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan —all very racy, each post
free Is 6d; The Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
Kina: Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Hag-yard,Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
R. W. SKINNER,
Telephone, 3043.
New and Seoond-hand Book
Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Sydney.
ħ
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme*
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Ib.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 38.——=
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
‘Continental Supply Agency,
j Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melboubne.
Cheap Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 108 pages, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
J. G. Jaensch, the first man to take up
River Murray country in S.A. for farming, was
recently killed by accident in that province.
Jaensch was one of the first of the German em-
ployes of the S.A. Co. ; his wage (he was getting
2s. 6d. a day) and the possibilities of the country
brought scores more out. Before he died he was
one of the largest and most successful farmers in
the S.A. hill-country.
Caldwell, the very bad poet of S.A.
Assembly, got up on his two boots in the course
of the discussion re the bill for keeping out un-
desirable niggers, and waded in to p>rove that Pro-
vidence meant Australia to be a nigger country.
He was laboring badly in a heavy sea when Glynn
asked him how it was, in that case, that Eve had
red hair, and he broke up. Caldwell, being a
heavy ironclad, couldn’t see the irrelevance of it
in time, and he went away to seriously look up
Eve’s hair in the “ Encyclopedia Britannica.”
A BEAUTIEUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Leopold Fane De Salis, of Tharwa, near
Queanbeyan, who died the other day at 84, was
brother of William Pane De Salis, who died in
England a few years ago after a remarkable and
pecuniarily successful career in many phases of
early Australian life. Banking was his special
forte. A painting of him bv Millais hangs in the
board-room of London Chartered Bank. The
early soundness of Victorian banking is largely
attributed to his administration. He wandered
through the South Sea Islands, most of China,
and a good part of the then known Australia, and
collected valuable curios as he went along. When
dying he made liberal bequests to several hospitals
in Australia, as well as in England. He was so re-
markably like Gladstone in appearance that people
often followed him in the streets of London. To
Leopold, now deceased, he left <£3oo a year, with
an interest in <£20,000 and blocks of land in various
countries.
Handsome Nickel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
11/ \%
y
With Name Engraved on Eeverse Side
KOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id. ;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil pointings; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber; 6 Ball-pointed Pens;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion— a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
6 6 A WATCH and CHAIM for 6/6
h
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“ Burmese ” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Pencil to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bullbtin.
H. POTIER &. CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
h
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
moijth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
TO ALL
\ DOMESTIC /
i\ANIMALS/a
ĥ
Hr
'DESTROYS
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
Sv DOMESTIC /a
;/&
ħ
h
'DESTROYS'
ALI
Noxicua
INSECTS
HARMLESS
s. TO ALL
A
wA
ANIMALS/
xs
ĥ
Destroys'
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
THE UNWELCOME GUEST-
WHERE HE COMES. HOW HE COMES.
WHY HE COMES.
ħ
Death
comes a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
conscious-
ly invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, be -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overtakes
them, and
death that
is prema -
ture be-
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman :
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“ Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic—something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes : —“ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable.”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes i —“lt is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure.”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Presby-
terian, Sydney, writes : —“lt is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate. ”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr. Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Eeldheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
m
s
I'll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6<l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitkeu, 680-832 George-st„ Sydney
sEa
DEAF
h
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stomped) addressed envelope to
R
SPECIAL BELTforLADIESi
REALLY A MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
ĥ
gift to man - Electricity.
Our Electric Belts ,will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
lug current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations 01 different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Svdnev.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORy BELTfor *
CENTLEMEN. s SIMPLYaWONDER
flrunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
HEMS,
The CELEBRATED and onlv SAFE,
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTF
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use ol
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inehriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book ol
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. IFE HAVJ'J NO AGENTS-
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
the EUCRAHY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
D?ROBERTS’w-»««- fUipyn
SX/tf MEASEf
d?r6berts
ALTERS', V J
AN O WOUA/OS
or £. VER Y
DESCR/PT/OfY
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES>
ANJD ALL D/SOEDERS OF THE
STOMA CE & L/VER .
or ALL CHEMJSTS //// X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARWICOTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
Catalogue?
C-<TY POST FREE
V&tcHes-Clocks-Jewellery- BirtHday*
WeddiNg z Presents
H-NeWMAIS)- 1755177-FLIZARFTH Si*
OPPOSITE C:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron hand, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss — Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may r now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It.
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address -
R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth street, SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tall
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As uns rupulous persons are
offering injuri ms counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n;brocatioQ.


1 SitUER WITCH FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
1
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s : 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is Cd ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is Cd ; 12 Russia, Cd ; 12 Roumama,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, Cd ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, Cd ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s Cd ; 150,5 s ; 1000, 47s Cd; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
IG2 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Publishers’ Notices.
Just Published. Price, 5/-; posted, 5/6.
With Rabbit Map of Queensland and
Numerous Plates.
—THE—
lull
By C- L. MORGAN, Clerk Maranoa Rabbit Board.
Watson, Ferguson & 00., Brisbane,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. A nglo-Amkiucan Publishing
Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
Medical.
COUGHS. COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a had attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. ' At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of tiie Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it. —ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria. ”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. Cd. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
ON€ HONCST MAN.
taEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manlj- Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
CAUTION TO WOMEN!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY’S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, 6s. per Box ; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE
HOUSE.
h
JJr. Clarkson’s
Re-Invig orator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 28; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4'-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
Sole /• .ents,
Consulting and Dispensir < Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
UIJiELF’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
The London & American Supply Stores
ĥ
FOB . .
GENTLEMEN'S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BCURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
W (Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
Monday
Tuesday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agenoy Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - - - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Oa, Ltd-
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenohard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
Dr, TARRANT,
F.R.0.5.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.P.C.P.E.,
7^
Mil
. -
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermio medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
4»nger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
Becret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are seat securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
aiyijuiutu, >»ao uj taigtm ouuwj ttiiu UUacfV'S*
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatneaa, whole nervoua
system is deranged.
KTo Mian or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
33a.xigerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr!
TARRANT makes
Absolutely UNTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED-
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, Cr.P.O., Sydney,
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
ħ
Our Suit to Order at 42,'- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 '-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Bugs, 13.'6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Bugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man's Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
try ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
.. Self-Measurement System ..
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the
Human Foot
Post Free.
BEWARE of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS.
h
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
Ag ELLIS’S Boots are made on specially-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address:
W. J. ELLIS,
635 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Sydney. Our New Address.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at P 2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T*E T*M* F* R E*E*Y*o*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to Wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with [the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, IS9B.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Eanking Co. of Sydney.
Watches and Jewellery!
GRAND XMAS PRESENTS.
Gents’ Solid Silver Keyless Hunters, 19s 6d ; Lady’s
Solid Silver Hunters, 17s 6d; Silver Alberts, Lady’s or
Gent’s, 5s 6d ; lovely Solid Goid Brooches, set real stones,
8s 6d, 10s 6d; Lady's Gold Watches, 3os.—written guar-
antee given with all Watches sold from our establishment
for three years. Engagement Rings, set real stones, 10s
6d, 15s, 20s ; Waterbury Alarm Clocks, 2s 9d ; Gun-metal
Watches, 7s 6d —guaranteed one year ; Gold Sleeve Links,
10s 6d, Hall-marked. Orders by Post sent same day
•FRENCH’S.
632 George Street,
Sydney.
CrampsA
i Colic, '
\ Colds,
V
Croup , \
Coughs,\
Tooth- '
ache,
Cats, \
Barns, \
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles la
"PoTm-Kitter
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGJUSTTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
ITIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Waning. It. 3d.


YTVTAS PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Thousands of Latest Novelties.
OUR LATEST “ REGISTERED” NOVELTIES.
REGS
14s. 6d.
Solid Gold,
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
16s. 6d.
DECS
Without Pendant,
13s. 6d.
Solid
Quid.
h
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK
Very Pretty and
Useful,
2s. 6d. each.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT,
ss. each.
With Pin and
Chain, Bs. 6d.
Gold Xmas BELL BROOCH, 10s. 6d.
Thousands of Other Patterns.
GOLD TWIN SWALLOW BROOCHES.
Full Size, London-made, 9c., 12s. 6d.; 15c., 17s. 6d. pair.
Set with Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise, 18s. 6d.
9c., 13s. 6d. ; 15c., 275. 61
Silver, 3s.
100 DESIGNS.
18c. HAW-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £'s, £‘6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £‘4, £‘6.
5 lovely Opals, 455., 505., 60s.
18c. TWO HEART.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
2 fine Diamonds, 455.
15e. Gold Star
PENDANTS,
Pure White Pearls,
725. 6d., 555., 355.
each.
With Diamond
Centre, £5 17s. 6d.
and £4 15s. each.
Pearl and Turquoise,
large size, £5 10s.
18c. MARQUISE,
set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald,
or Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
POST FREE.
Please Send for Our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
ĥ
New Gold
HORSE AND STIRRUP
PENDANT, 13s. 6d.
Any NAME or MOTTO.
9c., 12s. 6d., 155., 20s.
15c., 205., 225. 6d, 275. 6d.
18c., 215., 255., 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
ss. extra.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MICE SIMMONS.
♦
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
♦
All SportiQS Materials at Lowest CGt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATi s .—Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,5/6
Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle
~ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International)
~ Bryant’s Men’s AIJ-cane Handle (President)
,-, Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
„ Clapshavv’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring)
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring)
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
„ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.-Youths’ ..
„ Men’s
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d,
Us 6d
16s
13s
10s
14s
9s
12s
18s
6s
7s, 7 s
9s 6d, 12s
... 12s 6d
4s 6d
ss, 6s 6d
7s 9d, 9s 6d
10s 6d
With pegs, runners, &c., &c.
5s Od
6s Qd
4s Od
80s Od
20s Od
40s, 50s, 60s Od
OS 05 CS O 03 © ffl O O) 1
P jZLP* p. cl p. P Pi p* p-
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15 sOd
„ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLE TS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
, ~ Match, SV-JOZ., Is; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys' Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d; Men’s, 8/3, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, &St umps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. M. T. HOOKHAM, Organist, Holy Trinity, Erskinville, says:—“l
should be wanting in gratitude if I did not express my thanks to you for the skil-
ful manner in which you extracted some substance from the centre of my eye after
suffering for three weeks. Using your eye lotion now only two days, I write this
in proof of its efficacy, and I can assure you I was nearly blind in the affected
eye, and the other one was very weak.”
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOXjIB PEOPEIETOB :
H. A. EOSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
On Widows and Other Women.
A few words by a woman on the maid, the widow,
and the Girl that is conventionally Lost:—
In her relation to the other sex, the widow is at the
greatest advantage. Why ? Because she is maid, wife,
widow in one. She carries into wifehood something of
the maid ; she carries into widowhood something of the
wife. She is Woman intensified. The virgin poetically
extolled as the one true type of womanhood, is, in reality,
something of the man-type. Like him, she is timid
socially, brave physically. Ask any woman that has
borne children (someone you knew as an Amazonic, out-
of-doors damsel), and she will tell you that though she is
as strong mentally and bodily as before, she could not do
what she used to do. Her horse takes her the safe, long
path now, not the short cut by the gully ; she is afraid to
be alone at night, etc., etc. Marriage has deepened in her
all that is essentially feminine, and completely obliterated
the masculine fibre of her maiden days.
* * • •
There are two sexes in the human world: men and
women are one, widows the other.
• • * *
The conventional idea is that, when a man has
had experiences that should be marital, and are not, his
prospects in the matrimonial world are by no means in-
jured ; but that, when a woman has ventured to rehearse
beforehand, her chance of shortening the mistress to the
Mrs. are nil. Theoretically, they are nil; practically,
they are not. Observe, there is always a halo of romance
about the girl who falls. She may be everything else, but
she is never ridiculous. The spinster, after a certain age,
is essentially ridiculous—she receives men’s conventional
esteem, but the other gets the real thing. The more
respectable the less respected. Miss Slimmens, with her
virginal 40-year-old curls, who keeps a boarding-house to
beguile the Government-clerk into lawful matrimony—
that’s comedy. But who ever brings Phryne on to
the stage in order to laugh at her ? The girl who can fall
naturally and gracefully has a future before her. Litera-
ture, which is masculine, is tear-sodden with beautiful-
snow allusions. No woman ever writes lovely, sad poems
about the fallen man. There are no masculine equiva-
lents for the “ringless bride,” “hunted huntress,”
“high priestess of humanity,” and so forth. In reality
there is as much romance about the one as the other.
That is to say, there is none at all. Delilah, who pleads
for custom at the corner of the street, is merely an ordi-
nary young woman who wants to get better clothes and
better food without troubling to work for them. I do
not say there is anything wrong in this; it is very wrong
to say anything is wrong nowadays. She may be a very
nice girl for all I know ; but I deny that there is any
romance about her. At the risk of being considered
narrow-minded, I maintain chat she is no better than the
virtuous woman.
• « * *
It is popularly supposed that what man admires most
in woman is chastity. And if chastity made the hair
grow and likewise acted as a complexion-restorer doubt-
less this would be true enough. As it is, in practice
though not in theory, he likes other things a great
deal better. In fact, if he has to choose between the
two, he will cheerfully let the chastity slide. A man does
not actuallv prefer a woman to be fallen, but he likes her
to be a little bit slanting, especially if she slants in his
direction. Even if she has slanted in somebody else’s
direction before he came on the scene, he doesn't mind so
much as is generally imagined. So long as there is no
baby, that is. A baby makes things too real. Sometimes
he will even stand the baby, and that brings us back to
the widow.
» * » «
Oobbett in his “ Advice to Young Men ” speaks strongly
and coarsely against the re-marriages of widows—“ For
after all, who can look at her without reflecting that she
has for a second time undergone that surrender,” &c.,
&c. This is how you should imagine a man would reflect.
But then a man never does reflect. Man, more imagina-
tive than woman, uses his imagination far afield. He
does not waste it in gilding his own life. He lives his life
but once. Woman flies backwards and forwards on
Wells’ Time Machine; she lives her honeymoon ere it
arrives, and has named all her children long before she
has received her first proposal. Man’s jealousy is purely
for the present; it is never retrospective. The jilted
hero leaves his sweetheart because he “ will not see her
in the arms of another,’’ which is ridiculous, by the
way, for he isn’t expected to be there when she
is in the arms of another. But he can bear to
think that she has been in the arms of another, ten, five,
or two years ago—so long as the Church has blessed the
union. * The thing itself does not appal him ; it is merely
his conventionality that is liable to be shocked. For man
loves to be virtuous by proxy ; and his wife is his God-
given whipping-girl.
* * * *
And to conclude—ln the eyes of man, the greatest vir-
tue about a woman is the fact that some other man wants
her. Man is not attracted by woman, but by the attrac-
tion of the other man. This is not true of women.
Nothing sickens a sensible woman sooner of her love for
a man than the knowledge that other women, whom
she despises, have the audacity to share her emo-
tions. But man likes to be one of a crowd. Now the
widow shows by the mere fact of her widowhood that
someone has wanted her. There is the fact patent to all
men that someone has asked her, someone has had her,
someone has lived with her, and hasn’t died. At least he
is dead, but he didn’t die of that And to know that
some other man has gone through it before, is a great
consolation toMan—less ready to plunge into the Unknown
than Woman, probably because he knows more about it.
And now you see why the Girl that is Conventionally
Lost is placed, as far' as matrimonial chances are con-
cerned, above the maid and next the widow. She, too,
in her simple, humble way has been Preferred.
The inferior Judge isn’t always quite the
stupendous potentate that he looks, and some-
times things happen to him in the disrespectful
country Out Back that are better left unreported.
Out in the wilderness you hear strange stories at
times about His ’Onah, and the things he did, and
the things that were done to him, and his drinks,
and his girls, and other matters. About the
wildest episode of the lot happened many
years ago to a certain Australian inferior
Judge who is still alive. His ’Onah was
sour and aggressive and cantankerous; but
he always put his tail down in the end if the
other party got really angry. He was staying at
a bakblox hotel once while out on duty, and the
first night of his arrival the house was full of
navvies all drinking themselves into the horrors.
The noise was terrific, and every now and then
His ’Onah came to the door of his sitting-room to
make loud, sour remarks about it. Consequently
he grew steadily more and more unpopular with
the crowd of road-menders, and several times
they yelled up the stair to him to “ shut up.” He
went to bed, but the racket still continued. Then
he arose again, and came to the top of the stair in
his nightshirt, and denounced the pick-and-shovel
men down below in such scathing language that a
riot broke out on the instant. Three of them
rushed the stair. They were all woefully unsteady,
and His ’Onah was a good-sized man, with a
strong position at the head of a narrow stairway,
and, if he had defended the situation with a
water-jug, he might possibly have routed the
enemy. But, instead, he gave a short, sudden
yelp, and fled into his bedroom, where he tripped
over a chair and fell across the bed. The
attitude was so convenient that two ribald
road-menders promptly held His ’Onah there,
face-downwards, while the third flicked him
severely with a wet towel. The distressed
landlady stood outside the door and implored
them to stop, but she couldn’t come in and
actually interfere owing to the Judge not being in
a state to receive company. Then the road-
menders poured a jug of beer over His
’Onah as a siirn of disrespect, and retired
shrieking with mirth and whisky. Nothing
came of the outrage When the crowd sobered-up
it cleared out hurriedly for fear of getting three
years And as His’Onah couldn’t well prosecute
fa Judge who went into the witness-box and de-
tailed how he had been swished with a wet
towel and had beer poured over him would
be a laughing-stock for ever afterwards) he
also cleared out as soon as possible and said
nothing But sentences were very large on that
particular circuit and people noticed that His
’Onah’s liver was something awful.
o rmnrfprmaster of a
Some time a S.°, ie 3 ~ , n (bv con-
tramp steamer, which loaded nickel-ore (by con-
viet labor) at Noumea, three days after leaving
discovered three convicts m one oi theJglda.
Had them up before the old man who a.d he
was not supposed to know.^“ e se6
them to trim coal. The three worked like tigers
and when the ship►anchored off Jideo the
skipper quietly told - afterwards found that
did, per coal-barge. It waa after‘gj*
they were “lifers -two murderers and a burglar.
Albert Edward is clapped on the back by
the Argus and advised to buck up : “ His aestiny
cannot wait him long. The ordinary expectancy
of nature has brought it now within measurable
distance.” Later on his Highness is offered the
comforts of religion—
Dear Prince, if for a crown you thirst,
And see no hope, please do ;
F You may enjoy a throne On-High.’
“ Sniffer ” : Re “ talk-of-the-devil ” meet-
ings with acquaintances, I have concluded that
the phenomenon is due to the imperfectly-deve-
loped soentmg powers of civilised man We, really
siaeM the person before we see b ’ m > and by the
time his scent has brought him to. our memory
he skips round the corner to astonish us. In
savages the faculty is sometimes sufficiently keen
to distinguish different persons behind their backs,
C N h l ° n h -?u « with ]ust enough to
affect the brain, without affectin 0 the intermed .ry
nerves of the nose. What have the scientists to
say about it.
The law-trouble over the M‘Kellar tomb-
stone (Vic.), and the disinclination of the legatees
to part with their siller in payment thereof, re-
calls the sensible will of the late bediamonded Dr.
Beaney, who left a large amount to be expended
on his own marble tablet. Some people say he
left the inscription as well, to render the romantic
affair complete. He knew his way about, and
didn’t trust to the dubious affection of his heirs
and successors in such post-mortem reminiscences.
Any man who wants to lie under a good tomb-
stone, and to be properly lied-over by it, had best
buy it himself.
A noted fact that people who do like to feel
comfortable generally buy their Summer outfits at
Hordern Brothers’ Establishment in Pitt-st., Sydney.
For instance, their Tennis Jackets and Trousers (made of
Flannels, Serges Kharki, Assam Silks Grass Cloths and
Crash), in all prices to suit everybody s pockets, are made
large and roomy for the tropical weather. Tennis Shirts
to mateh, in all the most effective colorings ; with and
without collar. No description would convey an ade-
quate idea of our marvellous stock. We send these goods
free per parcels post anywhere ; send along any order,
large or small, and we will surprise you i with the value
we forward, or write for price-list. Hordern Brothers,
Pitt-st., Sydney. (Cash Buyers and Sellers.)*
The Geological SpieleTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Steelman and Smith struck the new railway-line
just above the last embankment. They had been
battling round, with very moderate success, for
some months, down there in the region of “Juno ”
tobacco and square, japanned tin matchboxes.
Their luck was running just a few inches above
sea-level, as it were; they were “just living ”■—
“ knocking round and hanging out.’' They were
making for Wanganui, where Steelman hoped to
“get on to something,’’ and working the likely
towns by the way. Steelman had a scheme —for
“ raising stuff ” —in connection with certain local
affairs and persons in Wanganui, with which town
he was very well, though cautiously and discreetly,
acquainted.
• • • *
Steelman carried a black bag containing half-a-
dozen clean collars, a packet of official-looking
envelopes and documents—for the sake of certain
appearances ; three union tickets, one “ loyalty ”
strike ticket, and eight loaded dice; a leather
dice-box of his own invention and one on which
he could depend, yet not differing in appearance
from the boxes in common use round there ; a
pack of carefully-marked cards, a Bible, a copy of
“Innocents Abroad,” and “A Journey to the
Centre of the Earth,” by Jules Verne, a few
printed sermons clipped from a religious periodical,
a book of recitations, a song-book, a collection of
“ good yarns ” in manuscript—in a pocketbook,
and other various, curious, and mysterious
small properties, necessary to ths profession of a
gentleman-spieler, which it would be an unpardon-
able breach of faith to particularise.
# * - * ♦
Smith had a bulky, bulgy carpet bag with some
clothing in it; a couple of caps, a spare hat,
about a pound of “Juno” tobacco—all in little
bits and wrapped in a towel to keep it moist;
spare pipes, shaving tackle, and a Maoriland
directory. He also had a billy full of small
groceries, a couple of blankets, some more clothes,
spare boots, and various little camp belongings
usually found in swags—needles, thread, pens and
ink, soap and towels, pocket-book and note-paper,
soap, comb and brush, boot laces, string, &c.—
the whole in a canvas bag—like a small sailor’s
bag—which he carried swag fashion on his back.
Steelman also carried it sometimes, but not too
far nor often. In the baggage were also a long
rusty black coat of clerical cut, and a wide-
brimmed, black, soft felt hat, such as might be
worn by an unemployed laborer in the Lord’s
vineyard. Steelman labored in the Lord’s vine-
yard when things were slack in the other.
m m * *
The men were at work in the cutting and on the
embankment with their drays, barrows and
“ jacks.” It was a fine sunny day as yet, and the
smoke rose faintly blue from the “ burning off.”
Down through the cutting and across a curve at
the far end the railway camp was located.
Steelman stepped off the track, out of sight of
the workmen, sat down on a log, and dropped his
swag on the grass. Smith did likewise. Steelman
rested his head on his hand, his elbow on his knee,
and got ready to think.
“ Fill my pipe, Smith,” he said wearily, draw-
ing the pipe from his pocket in a tired, abstracted
way, with his disengaged hand, and handing the
briar to Smith without looking at it or at him.
“ Fill my pipe, Smith, and don’t talk now—l


66
Poi)’t Look Pale ai)d W?ari?d. YoCi Necdo’t
I can’t help it; it’s the heat,” you say. No such thing. Don’t be always blaming the weather.
It’s your blood that’s at fault. You want a tonic—to strengthen your back—to build up your
blood and nerves—to stimulate your brain. You Avant
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
They will put you right. Commence by taking one after each meal, and follow the directions.
Then you will soon be well. Remember this: A clear head indicates good health ; good health
is essential to business success. Only a healthy woman can be beautiful. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
BriQg Sparkliog €yss ai)d Rosy Checks.
No Appetite. Tired in the Mornings.
HOW YOUR NEIGHBOR FOUND A CURE.
“ I really tried everything to improve my complexion; my face
used to be perfectly yellow; my lips were bloodless and my gums
white, and I was fearfully weak—a victim to persistent, pernicious
anaemia (bloodlessness),” so said Mrs. Johns, of GO Yurong-street,
Sydney. “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, however, gave me a dazzlinrjly
beautiful complexion, and made me most strong and always
energetic. Formerly, I was very thin and fearfully depressed in
spirits ; whilst my appetite failed me altogether. My sleep used to
be restless and disturbed, and I was so tired in the mornings that
I could hardly get out of bed, and when I did I used to lie on the
sofa, feeling I hardly cared what happened. I saw a doctor, who
said I needed a strong
tonic, and I had several
bottles of physio from
him, besides tonics from
chemists ; but I grew no
better. I was in this
miserable and hopeless
condition when I heard
from somebody who had
been cured by them about
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
and I at once got some.
After taking a few I was
agreeably surprised to
find a real and distinct
change for the better. I
got rid of that miserable
depression of spirits,
which in itself was enough
to keep me ill; and in a few days I was able to sleep the night
through without interruption. The pills, too, gave me a good
appetite, and I began slowly to get cheerful and fat again. After
taking six boxes I was completely cured. I shall remember my
cure with gratitude.”
1 i
hi
Pale Girls Made Pretty.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at the time their
daughters are budding into womanhood. If your daughter is pale,
complains of weakness, is “ tired out ” upon the slightest exertion ;
if she is troubled with headache or backache, pain in the side, if
her temper is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition of
extreme peril, a fit subject for the most dreaded of all diseases—
Consumption. If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the
patient to develop properly and regularly ; they will enrich the
blood and restore health’s roses to the cheeks ; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and all danger of con-
sumption and premature death will be averted.
+
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills permanently cure anaemia
(bloodlessness), indigestion, sleeplessness, biliousness,
liver and kidney troubles, general debility, all ladies’
ailments, nervous prostration, chronic diarrhoea, lung
trouble, effects of measles and influenza, gravel, Bright’s
disease, rickets, paralysis, locomotor ataxia, etc., etc.
Obtainable from all chemists and dealers, or from
the Dr. Williams Medicine Co., Queen’s place, Sydney,
who will forward six boxes for 15s. 3d., or one box for
2s. 9d., post free.
“A Mere Skeleton-”
A DEBILITATED MAN FILLED WITH LIFE AND VIGOR.
Blood disorders and blood impoverishments (weakness) lead to a
host of specific diseases, some fatal, others not fatal. Diarrhoea and
dysentery are two of the vvorst results of this weakness, and deaths
from this source are of daily occurrence. Hence every precaution
should be taken to avoid the initial weakness, and thus ward off its
invariably fearful consequences. Mr. W. Filmer, of Abbott-street,
West Maitland, N.S.W. where he is a highly-respected resident—
thus tells of his narrow escape from death :
“ For from twenty-five to thirty years I suffered from ehronio
diarrhoea,” he says. “At times I was affected in a most alarming
manner, and notwithstanding all my care with regard to diet, etc.,
I suffered terribly. I fell away to a mere skeleton, grew weak, losb
all confidence in my powers, and, finally, got so debilitated that
after an attack I have been seized with fainting fits which left me
in a prostrate and helpless condition. My medical adviser ordered
a change last November, ’97, as a last resource. During my absence
from Maitland I met a friend in Newcastle who had been a sufferer
in the same manner as myself for 10 years, and, on his advice, I re-
solved to give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. In January, ’9B, I
procured the pills, and the result was most satisfactory from the
outset. My head grew clearer, my appetite increased, and I gradu-
ally grew stronger, and now, after all my years of suffering, I can
most conscientiously say that 3§ or 4 boxes of these famous pills
have brought about my ultimate recovery ; to-day I actually feel
better than I have done for the past 30 years, and during the last
nine months my weight has increased thirteen pounds. In sending
this testimonial testifying to the good qualities of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, I am performing my duty, so that other sufferers can
know for a.surety that a remedy is procurable that will make their
troubles things of the past. Should I ever again be attacked in a
similar manner, I would have no hesitation in taking these pills,
and would feel quite certain of their giving me almost instant
relief.”
Need there be printed stronger testimony than this ?
want to think.” [Smith hadn’t spoken for over
an hour, nor shown any signs of wanting to talk.]
m, • * , T . * , ,
The pipes were filled. It was part of Smith’s
duty to keep the firm supplied with tobacco ; but
h°w he did it, under Steelman’s training is
another story. That the tobacco was all m little
bits might ?ive a hint.
They smoked awhile in a silence which was
sterMy thoughtful on Steelman s part, and
patiently discreet on the part of Smith He had
trained himself to appear unconscious of his near
surroundings on such an occasion. He sat looking
before him with as vacant an expression as he
could assume H.s chief anxiety was not to
look resigned, for Steelman hated to see a re-
signed expression on Smiths face—“an injured
look ” he called it. Smith found it a good plan
to try to look interested in the background of the
scenery sometimes. He found it a very bad plan
to take the slightest notice of Steelman, or even
appear aware of his presence when he fSteelman)
was thinking writing, or mending his clothe*
Smith knew Steelman, and Steelman understood
human nature.
„*,* , * * ,
Fresently Steelman rose, took up his bag, retraced
his steps along the track a little way, and turned
off into the edge of a belt of dead timber—green
with parasites. Smith followed. Steelman opened
his bag, took out two clean collars, handed one
to Smith, and put the other on himself.
“Now the cap, Smith,” he said. “No—hold
011 J— the wideawake.”
Smith opened the carpet-bag and handed out
the broad-brimmed hat, with which Steelman
replaced the hard-hitter he had been wearing.
“You’d better get out the billy, make a fire,
and heat a drop of water. I. want to have a
shave.”
femith started to gather some sticks. Steelman
meanwhile regarded himself critically in a second-
hand glass, which he carried in the black bag.
“ Never mind, Smith,” he said. “ I’ll do better
with ( the stubble on. Give me your grey sao-
coat -”
Smith obeyed without words, though he had
fully expected to be asked for the clerical gar-
ITien t.
“ Now then. Fix up and come along.”
He started back down the edge of the cutting,
Smith followed, still discreetly silent. His be-
haviour seemed to meet with the approval of
Steelman, who presently said :
“ Walk up alongside me, Smith.”
Smith did so, although he had to walk over
stones and tussocks, for the path was not wide
enough for two.
“ Lend me your lug, Smith.” >
Smith intimated, by a slight sideway movement
of his head, that his “lug”—otherwise his ear—
was at Steelman’s disposal.
“ Now, the main thing is to get some tucker and
shelter for a few days. There’s bad weather com-
ing on, I think”—pointing to the south-east—
“ there’s more weather down there than the moon
can swallow up. And, besides, I don’t want to
strike Wanganui for a fortnight yet. We want
all the money we’ve got—it’s only a mug that
parts with his money unless absolutely forced to
it-” 4 _
“ Y es, I see,” said Smith.
“ Well, now, bring both your lugs to bear on
mB <; m n B’ eo i°S' s t-”
“I see.” t
“ But you don’t see. I’ll show yon. Now
listen—get that vacant look off your face ! ”
Smith got as much of it off as ha could on such
abrupt notice.
“ I’m a geologist, travelling in the interests of
science and for my own amusement. See? ”
“ Y ee t RPft »
“ No,’you don’t Give me a show, for God’s
sake. I’m well off-well enough off to settle down
and b e an independent man for the rest of my
life. But I couldn’t settle down and rest con-
tented, for my heart and soul’s in geology, and if
I had a million pounds cash I wouldn’t rest-I’d
have to travel round and poke round amongst old
rocks and rubbish ; and the more I had, the more
I’d root round. I’m a member-vice-president
and half-a-dozen other things, in fact-of a
learned (learn-ned, remember), learn-ned society
in Sydney ” J
“ Why not London, Steely ? ”
“ Because,” said Steelman, rather impatiently,
“ Sydney is the London of these Maorilanders
You see,” he continued, condescendingly, “ you
seldom hear of London or Melbourne over in
these parts, but you always hear of Sydney.
Every second yokel’s ambition is to see Sydney
before he dies. . . . You’re my man—mysorvant,
or valet, or whatever you like to call it.”
“I see.”
“Well, don’t you forget it. You don’t know
much about me; you’ve only been travelling with
me for about six or seven months. I’m an Oxford
University man you think, and not long out. I’m
a bit eccentric, I’m cracked on geology” but that’s
only to be expected. I’m gone on science right
enough, but you’ve got no call to complain against
me as a boss. I always treated you square and
straight. You’ve got an easy berth—it just suits
you to loaf round and see the country, and live on
the fat of the land, and get paid for it. You’ve
got nothing to do except to arrange for accommo-
dation, carry a bag or two when off the coach or
rail route, and dig up a stone now and then,
You get your salary, and all expenses paid.’
You got this billet through answering an adver-
tisement in Wellington. Your boss doesn’t
like to talk much about himself, but he’s all there
on rocks. That will about do to begin with.
They won’t expect you to talk much about your
boss’s business—they’ll respect you all the more
for being a bit close about it. We’ve been
travelling round pretty near by the same route
that we did actually come by—only we took the
train and coach whenever we could. We’ll
arrange all about that to-night if we catch-on. If
they seem to want to know any more about it
you’ll have to think it up, or ask me on the quiet;
but always give me the office either before or im-
mediately after you commit yourself to anything,
for it won’t do for us to have different opinions
about our recent travels. We might run against
some brains down there amongst those navvies,
You know your own pitch about yourself beforo
you met me.”
“ That’s alright.”
“ By-the-way, have you got that Jules Verne’s
1 Journey to the Centre of the Earth ’ safe in your
ba ff—j lO . IVe got it; I might want to look through
again to-night.”
Smith now saw where Steelman got his idea
and confidence from ; but he knew better than say
anything.
“You see,” continued Steelman, good-
naturedly—or perhaps he hadn’t the fullest confi-
dence in his own scheme, and sought comfort
from begging the question, even with Smith—
“ you see, geology can always be made interest-
ing, even to ignorant men, especially if you have
a wall to illustrate by, like the side of that cutting
there, that’s studded with fossil mussels and petri-
fied oysters and fish that were stale in Noah’s
time and fresh about the year one million 8.A.”
Pause.
“ What’s * 8.A.,’ Steely? ” asked Smith.
“ ‘ Before Adam,’ ” said Steelman with a short
grin.
Smith smiled his sickly smile and asked :
“ What society do you belong to, Steelman ? ”
“ Oh, yes. I’d alvwst forgot that. There’s
more in your head than I thought, Smithy. Let’s
see—l wish we had an Australian Directory with
us.”
I. wish we had,” said Smith. But he didn’t
wish it. He formed an idea of the size of an
Australian directory as compared with the bulk
and weight of the Maoriland one he carried from
the extent of Australia on the map, as compared
with the size of Maoriland. He had enough to
carry already.
“ Let’s see,” said Steelman. “The Royal
Geolo No—the Royal Geographical Society
of Australia.’ I’ve seen the name somewhere, and
there’s sure to be a branch in Geology. I’d better
be vice-president, or chairman, or something—the
* vice ’ always sounds better than the real thing.
. . . No; now I come to think of it, ‘ honorary
member ’ will suit best and be safest, in case we
run against some brains down there amongst those
navvies.
“ And another thing, Smith. If you happen to
get merry with any of those chaps some night,
you might let your tongue loose a bit, and make
out that geology’s all bosh, and you’re sick of
hearing about it, and, if you had half my money,
you’d be damned if you’d go rooting round in the
mud, like a blessed old sunstruck ant-eater. And
you might refer to me, when I’m not in hearing,
as ‘ Old Rocks over there ’ —it’ll amuse the chaps,
and make the thing look more natural—but don’t
let me hear you at it, or I’ll give you the waddle
(the sack) on the spot, and stoush you afterwards.”
He grinned good-naturedly, and Smith smiled
his tired smile.
“ By-the-way, what’s your name, Steely ? ” he
asked.
“ Oh, yes, that’s right. Glad you reminded me
of it. You see, I can’t be expected to do all the
brain-work —there’s a limit to the biggest heads.
. . . I’m beginning to think,” he continued,
absently, but with a quiet grin for himself, “ I’m
beginning to think that men who are struck with
great ideas are often missed by small ones.” And
he mused awhile.
“I once heard a fellovv say,” murmured Smith,
innocently—“ or I seen it in a book, I’m not sure
which—that big ideas are always simple, and,
consequently, they strike fools first, and that the
fools get to be wise men afterwards through think-
ing over them.”
Steelman turned slowly, and regarded him with
astonishment, but Smith’s face was about as
idiotio as it usually was ; he wondered what he’d
done now.
“You should have been an educated man,
Smith,” said Steelman; then, after a pause, “I
don’t know whether to be proud of you or not.
It’s a good job you haven’t got brains enough to
see where you’re driving. But never mind; let’s
to business. My name’s Stoneleigh, 8.A.,
F.R. A.G. ; but you can’t remember all that; say
that you reckon there’s a dozen letters sticking up
after your boss’s name, like a funeral in wet
weather.”
“ Hold on ! What’s my name ? ” asked Smith,
as they stepped down on to the level.
“Smith—same as your own—James Smith,”
whispered Steelman, hurriedly. “ I’ll call you
James. Now hold your tongue and keep your
wits about you.”
* * * *
“ We had a geologist staying in our camp once,
for a week,” said a man who had worked with a
co-operative party on a new railway-line down
yonder in Maoriland. “He was a queer card.
He'd sent his traps on by coach and was tramping
it along the line looking at the country. He
seemed mighty interested in that piece of country,
too. He had his man with him, and vve got ’em
to stay with us a few days. He could read the
side of a cutting like a book, and tell us what
period every ‘ strarter ’ or ‘ layer,’ as he called it,
belonged to. It was raining most of the time,
and we had nothing to read, and Lord knows
how we’d have got on without that geologist
joker to keep us alive. Every time the rain
held up for an hour or so he’d call ‘James,’ and
go out and poke round the line, come back with a
bag full of old rocks, and lecture on ’em. He
could do it, too. Some of the boys were never
tired of listening to him. And he’d plenty of
good yarns if you could only get him away from
geology for awhile. He was worth any amount of
money, too, I believe; but, you know, those
scientific men will follow up their fads to their
dying days. I reckon we learnt a lot from that
chap—we got lessons and lectures every day for a
week and gave nothing for ’em—only a share of
the whare and the bit of grub him and his man
eat. You ought to have seen the chaps sitting
round the fire and listening to him all eyes and
mouths and ears, when he got right back to the
times when there were frogs as big as cows, and
when men went naked and lived in caves, and
knocked each other’s brains out with lumps of
stone tied onto sticks. The ‘ stone age ’ he called
it.”
HENRY LAWSON.
Two Sonnets.
I.
Ah me ! that quiet grave-yard on the hill !
Thither the mourners with their burdens go,
Their heads bow’d down, their footsteps sad and
slow ;
There lie my dead—and yet beside the rill
The children laugh their loudest; as they will
Those happy lovers loiter to and fro.
Life hath no break in its continuous flow,
And oti those mounds the sunshine streameth still.
Yet what avails it that the glory lies
Upon the hill ? What comfort can it give
To my dear dead, or unto me who live
Bereav’d ? Alas, there is no solace there )
Indeed, I find no comfort anywhere,—
The race endures —the individuai dies 1
ii.
The lilies bud and blossom, droop and die ;
The apples redden, mellowing to decay ;
The noiseless years steal on and glide away,
And here the living leave their dead,—while I
I know full well mine own time draweth nigh.
Yet welcome we the New Year as we may,
And Spring shows fairer flowers day by day,
And fresh fruits ripen as the months roll by.
Ah ! what avails it that we leave our love
With our lone dead upon the quiet hill ?
Time has a sharp, sweet medicine that cures
The heartache; and the wide world’s life is still
Eternal, as the silent stars above, —
The individual dies —the race endures !
DORA WILCOX.


Oh, the Multitude Who Say It!
Speaking of another world than this, a certain
Book, from which so many draw comfort in times
of trouble, says : “ The inhabitant never saith, £
am sick.” But in this world the air is full of the
weary, wailing cry, “I am sick,” “I suffer so,”
“ Can nothing be done to rid me of pain ?
Here is another case of it another out of a
number beyond all counting or imagining. Yet
this one got well. Do you want to hear about it ?
or do you know of any pain-racked mortal who
might like to hear about it? Then read, either
for yourself or for someone else. We give the facts
exactly as they were given to us.
“ In the early part of 1889 I began to suffer from
illness. I had at first a bad taste in my mouth,
and belched up a sour, gaseous fluid. My appetite
was poor, and, after eating, I had a burning pain
at my chest, and palpitation of the heart. I had
also a gnawing, grinding sensation at the pit of the
stomach, with a feeling of sinking, as though I
were being bodily lowered into a pit. My food
never seemed to settle, but repeated, and I had to
spit it out; this going on until my stomach was
empty.
“I lost a deal of sleep at night. I got very weak
and thin, losing over a stone in weight; I was so
feeble that I could hardly drag myself along. As
time went on I grew irritable and nervous, and
took no interest or pleasure in anything.
“ Sometimes better and at other times worse, I
continued in this way until August of last year
(1893), when I had to give up my employment as
collier at the Waterloo Main Colliery, where I
had been at work for seven years. At this time I
had got so bad that I sat in my chair from morn-
ing till night, too weak and prostrated to go about.
When I did venture out I dare not go alone for
fear I should fall down in the street.
“ At times a strange feeling came over me, as if
my henrt had stopped beating; and on one of
these occasions I felt as if I were dying, and said
tomy wife, ‘Lass, it's all up with me
“ During my long illness I consulted several
doctors, and they all said my heart was sound,
and that the trouble was all from my stomach and
liver. They gave jjne medicines and recommended
a change of air. I therefore went to Blackpool,
Scarborough, and Whitby, but was no better either
from the change or frpm the doctor’s physic.
‘ ‘ One day a book was left at my house telling
about Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and I
thought it might possibly help me. So I got a
bottle from Mr. Webster, chemist, Green Road,
and when 1 had finished that bottle I found relief,
for my food no longer repeated and the pain at
my heart was easier. I kept on with the medicine
and soon my appetite returned, and I could eat
without feeling any pain or distress. Gradually I
improved, getting stronger and stronger every
day. I can now eat anything, and do my work
with pleasure. I feel quite a new man, and con-
sider that Mother Seigel’s Syrup has saved my
life. Yours truly, (Signed) George Hopton, 25
Bayswater Terrace, Roundhay Road, Leeds,
February Bth, 1894.”
No words of ours can add an ounce to the
weight of this plain and manly letter. From it,
as from a hilltop, we can see the sad picture of
those four years of misery. The discouraged and
suffering husband, the patient, burden-bearing,
helpful wife. Heaven be praised that it all ended
as it did—in renewed health—instead of as it
might have ended. The disease was that insatiate
fiend and monster —indigestion and dyspepsia;
cunning as a fox, destructive as a man-eating
tiger. In this ease, as in so many others, Mother
Seigel’s Syrup demonstrated that power which has
made it celebrated all over the world—in palace
and in hut, wherever the inhabitant saith, I am
sick. If you are one of these, try it now. If you
are healthy and hearty, thank God for that, and
pass the news of George Hopton’s illness and re-
covery on to any who need to hear it.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If {fas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
fW" Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
PRIZE
mj\Q jIM
ii. ' ‘ill!
r-W®§
f^G)
’■K?
©
«3C
I.—Fakmkr : “ Turkeys, I’ll show ye a trick
with that hatchet pretty soon that’ll
surprise ye.”
%
II
IJ, 1 f I Jfl
\<H' %
\/A
-Turkey : “ That so ? Well, we’ve been
practicin’ a little ourselves.”
''///
-W"
3. —“How’s that for a scratch?”
ħ
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
9
IS NOW
PRINTED
BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OXJTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL
WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; l
and Export Oilmen generally. 1
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
h
SON, &
<.' tr . fr K hi'
[AN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDIOIJTS.
PILLS
T< OK Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache*
. Giddiness, I ! ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush"
mgs of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
™ Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be " WOUfTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic— a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
JNervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY '
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9id, Is lid, and ‘2s 9d each.
ECOND-HAND
AND
EW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
" JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.). SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not Jeen
recognised bv thousands ol sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nf.w Oxford-st., London, jag'" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
ĥ
(RA.3\TDT’S PATENT
ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
SE
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
SSST lOlbs. of Ice and Iced Water produced at a cost of 2/-.
Price - - 5 Os.
BRANDT BROS., L 23T P ”t“r s c Xey;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
RONISGH
JiONISCU
eonlsch
EONISCH
EONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
P! A NOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS
• •
ħ
Cures While Sleeping.
=3»o«=
TESTIMOKTIAL.
Adamstown, September 11th. 1896
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being a sutierer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away and
the oough is thereby considerably pacified. ’
I remain,. Yours respectfully, j
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
25h* 'to TONSUMPTION. BEEAIHING - H <** Complain!,
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON^S.
Bonnington’s Pills


ESTABLISHES
1847.
*he large
iis
5t
MAKERS
flag
HIQH-CLABB
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO* LIMITED
Bead Office and Factoriet - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian ITeadq’rt’rs, 163-160 Willi&m-at. Melb.
New South Wales Address I
36 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue tree, "n application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUEACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
First-class Accommodation. Tariff—B - per Day
m
What is Health?
J-fhetimatiam, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA UK lilt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
h
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark:
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<|>HE JjBBOT
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK/’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortbitygtoi) P(in>pii)g Eogipe Conjpapy.
(Australasian Branch.) BlUipSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian BrrnicK.)
.
arence-st
WORTHINGTON
Sydney,
Agencies :
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE:
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johm-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
ljol Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STItNML’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ĥ
OLEAC
Discovered by Christophsr
Mndd, F.L.S,. Botanißt to
H.B.H. the Prince ol Wales
ħ
ECZEMA
h
Jars (concentcL), 4/6, post i/10
dm-om:
ĥ
ħ
t M
A
per Post, Is. 3d.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING- all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fisk,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)—92 XII
_DE—for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.-A •
Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private
23
YAIi
an
of
be
e at
Wm
i s
THE
in
AUI.NTS EVIiitYWMI ERE.
“HEAD OFFICE, 1 ’
ECEIVE PROMPT
25 HARBOUR STREET,
ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
y£i
S'2"dTE"ST-
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
„ . . Sole Agents for . . .
The ‘New lngersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easdy
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
s
Baking p owc |er.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & C 0.,.
Melbourne, Gunmakers, comer Little Collins and Elizabeth'
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, beat twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
h
£8 reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading- Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel looks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d ® ach *
coninlete • 17 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, lett-nann
barrel full’ choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highlv finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
lnadimr Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO. -
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS CO MPA NY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Nfckle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross'), Nipple's, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
8 3 "toss. VW SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 26
per-cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date £7. 'B, 1.'9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED—GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
ĥ
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
bLJUTTLE.
KORT INCUS INJECTOR.
Unrivalled.
HAVE FOR SALE
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors
Mason’s Steam and Water Reducing
Yalves
“ Pickering” Steam Engine Governors
“ Midget” Steam Traps
“Ludlow” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Yalves
Richards and other Steam Indicators
Revolution Counters, Jenkin’s Yalves
Every description of Engine and Boiler Fittings, Mountings and Supplies
