

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY,
BEAVER STOUT.
JEFfRtT
Roller. Stge! and Special CHAINS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WiNE^>
IN AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C a -«> pm street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating ana Conveying Machinery . .
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances Coal Ore and
Gram Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery. ? PP ’ ’ U d
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
&
JjIjOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WI Ml'OMffl GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation In Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, Os. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
KCOELART;
——
Hadley s Orient fjotel.
a//
co 'ww J/Zcd*.
c
c
860,112 Bottles Sold
in One Month—THE CHEAPEST
AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTINC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by the'N.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.
117 •'sforlc Street;,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
<<
Tal es of tlie System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
Tke Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON ft SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
Flummer Love & Co.
249 George Street, SYJWEY.
The Bulletin
Vo}. 20.—N0. 1024 j
[Saturday, September 30, 1899.
ftps'!stored at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.


COMING!
“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
Ready End of Next Month.
Price: Six Shillings, Post Free-
Order from Bulletin Office.
Por the liUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Coughs, Coltls,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure .
A
Ji. The Larynx, or organ of
▼oice.
J 3. The Tkach ha or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
IX A lobe of one ef the lunge.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
I J uOlio
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOB OLD
AND TOUNO.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO coonine or •thriftointnotm ttruy ... ”
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor-G. HUDSON Chemist Itvwriek
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT—S. TAYLOR, 6 and’ 7 Queers Plaee. ’
THE RED PAGE.
The Quid Lad.
I mind myself a wee boy wi’ no plain talk,
An’ standin’ not the height o’ two peats ;
There was things tneself consated ’or the time that
I could walk,
An’ who’s to tell when wit an’ childer meets ?
’Twas the daisies down in tlie low grass,
The stars high up in the skies,
The first I knowed of a mother’s face
Wi’ the kind love in her eyes,
Och, oeh !
The kind love in her eyes.
I went the way of other lads that’s nayther good
nor bad,
An’ still, d’ye see, a lad has far to go !
But the things meself consated when I wasn’t sick
nor sad,
They’re aisy told an’ little use to know.
’Twas whiles a boat on the say beyont,
An’ whiles a girl on the shore,
An’ whiles a scrape o’ the fiddle-strings,
Or maybe an odd thing more,
In troth !
Maybe an odd thing more.
A man, they say, in spite of all is betther for a
wife:
In-undher this ould roof I live me lone;
I never seen the woman yet I wanted all me life,
Nor I never made me pillow on a stone.
“ ’Tis fancy buys the ribbon an’ all,”
An’ fancy sticks to the young:
But a man of his years can do wi’a pipe,
Can smoke an’ hould his tongue,
D’ye mind,
Smoke, an’ hould his tongue.
Ye see me now an ould man, his work near done,
Sure the hair upon me head’s all white ;
But the things meself consated ’or the time that
I could run,
They’re the nearest to me heart this night.
Just the daisies down in the low grass,
The stars high up in the skies,
The first I knowed of a mother’s face
Wi’the kind love in her eyes,
Och, och J
The kind love in her eyes. -
MOIRA O'NEILL.
Longfellow.
Arthur A. D. Bayldon writes—
Longfellow well illustrates the saying that
popularity is not fame. Like Byron, he was con-
sidered a sort of poetic divinity during his life,
and suffered through a consequent reaction soon
after his death. He is now almost neglected by
cosmopolitan critics, whilst Byron is beginning to
get his just meed. If you play the hurdy-gurdy
for the masses you will get your reward—fulsome
flattery and lucre ; but your fate will be the
fockec’s—a sudden flight, a momentary display,
oblivion. Were an editor, however, to relieve
Longfellow of cumbrous baggage as Byron and
Wordsworth have been relieved, he would render
a service. Longfellow certainly deserves some
attention, even praise.
Longfellow tried nearly every track to the publio
heart. He was a Christian, a Pantheist, a
Spiritualist:
The spirit-world around the world of sense
Floats like an atmosphere.
Indeed, he flatters spiritualists to the top of their
bent in “Resignation.” His terrible craving to
be popular caused him to play sad havoc with his
good work. The first four stanzas of “Endy-
mion ” are really beautiful; but five more must be
hitched on to lug in something about humanity
and to spoil the poem. How Poe must have
grinned at such provoking monomania 1 On one
page is a sonnet on Nature which lifts Longfellow
m your estimation; on another, the execrable
“ Excelsior ”; and through all his verse runs that
tantalising feeling for art whioh forbids abrupt
dismissal. You search in vain for a passionate
outburst, a cry of pain, a song from the spheres:
there is no sound-sorcery, no springing to touch the
skirts of the gods. Now and again you pause at a
poem, re-read it with pleasure; and lines are
caught up by the memory :
1 remember the black wharves and the slips,
And the sea-tides tossing free ;
And Spanish sailors svith bearded lips,
And the beauty and mystery of the ships,
And the magic of the sea.
But you are always beset with a doubt, expecting
the sharp twangy note of conventionality, as you
pass from stanza to stanza, and you experience a
novel and pleasant surprise when the twang is
absent. You are in a mood to give thanks to
your household gods that the lovely “Day is
Done ”is free from taint. And you suppress out
of respect for it a hasty—“ Oh ! drat the fellow! ”
when such stuff as “ Maidenhood ” and the like
comes under your notioe.
Longfellow was an excellent craftsman within
prescribed limits: his perception of the subtle
shades of meaning of words was sometimes blunt,
however. Note:
Faint the hollow murmur rings.
His flexible poetical temperament contributed not
a little to the success of otherwise naked balder-
dash, and was capable of jetting out short fitfu!
streams of poetry accompanied by flashes of
imagery. Through most of his poems there is a
petulant and irritating striving for your good
opinion that is painfully servile ; a tickling of
your memory about your Sunday-school days and
the goody-goody homilies pumped into you at
your mother’s apron-strings. When he struggles
out of this barbarism he gives good, never great,
work. He is rarely energetic. Like a thunder-
olap come the lines :
The battle of our life is brief,
The alarm—the struggle—-the relief,
Then sleep we side by side.
There are many indications that Longfellow was
well-read in several literatures, and admired the
German especially. Heine, Uiiland, and Schiller
api>ear to have been his pets. His philosophy, if
he had any, was worthless ; his scientific know-
ledge worse than Tennyson’s. His favorite atti-
tude is to point to an object—some sand of the
desert in an hour-glass, for example—and versify
the thoughts it suggests—never very striking,
often picturesque-—and thrust in, if he gets a
chance, a didactic tang which rarely snaps.
Although a voluminous writer and well-tutored ns
to his talents, one instinctively feels he was a
hesitator, feared Mother Grundy—that he laboured
to win the praise of the nobodies rather than to
build a monumental work ; and in this I'espeot, as
in others, he is inferior to Tennyson, who, with all
his flimsies, had noble aspirations. When Long-
fellow got hold of a good image, he loved to repeat
it. The sun likened to a magician is introduced
and improved on in his prose. When his skill
leaves him lie makes a frightful exhibition:
. . . leave behind ns
Footprints on the sands of Time.
Footprints that perhaps another,
Sailing o’er life’s solemn main,
A forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, shall take heart attain.
Longfellow’s style is nerveless, though plastic ;
wearies with poetaster’s rhymes, and is impotent
to make the most of lusty, colour-drenched words.
Sometimes, however, he writes descriptions (as in
Part 2 of “Evangeline”) which are vivid and
press in with firm persistency, reminding you of
passages in Kingsley’s “ Westward Ho.” Several
poems (I repeat) stripped of their fatal togs are
fenuine pieces of art, and will rescue him from a
oom like Pollock’s. “The Beleaguered City” is
a noteworthy example. Verse like “The Wreck
of the Hesperus ”is also valuable, inasmuch as it
is something for young ladies to read, and it
should be printed alongside Mrs. Hemans’
“Casabianca” for them. “The Village Black-
smith” demands more respect. There is not the
note of sincerity in Longfellow’s child-poems—not
the note vyhich brings home Victor Hugo’s. “ The
Children’s Hour ” is perhaps the most convincing.
“ Hiawatha ” is as interesting as Arnold’s “Light
of Asia” ; you_ get information, not poetry,
■ ‘Evangeline” is in Longfellow’s best mood ; never-
theless, one yearns to break the backbone of its
metre. When will poets learn the folly of
attempting the broad vowellation of the Greek ai,
oi, on in English verse? As a sonneteer, Long-
fellow is always scrupulous in his structure. In
short: in a certain period of our lives Longfellow
is appreciated, but God help the unfortunate
wretch who cannot get beyond him !
, I will string together some passages which en-
title Longfellow to the bays:
The bards sublime
Whose distant footsteps echo
Through the corridors of Time.
The snow was falling as if Heaven dropped down
White flowers of Paradise to strew his palL
Then from those cavernous eyes
' Pale flashes seem to rise.
And our hearts, though stout and" brave,
Still like muffled drums are beating
Funeral marches to the grave.
. . . Silver-white the river gleams
As if Diana in her dreams
Had dropped her silver bow
Upon the meadows low.
Then straight into the city of the Lord
The Rabbi leaped with the Death-Angel sword,
And through the streets there swept a sudden breath
Of something there unknown, which men call death.
The last citation has a touch of greatness about it.
Now for some passages which fall short of full
poetic pressure, and yet are eloquent of Long-
fellow’s poetic temperament:
Through the closed blinds the golden sun
Poured in a dusty beam,
Like the celestial ladder seen .
By Jacob in his dream.
So blue yon winding river flows
Its seems an outlet from the skies.
The majestic organ roiled
Contrition from its mouths of gold.
The moon was pallid, but not faint;
And beautiful as some fair saint
Serenely moving on her way
As if she heard the voice of Ood,
Unharmed with naked feet she trod
Upon the hot and burning stars.
As on the glowing coals and bars
That were to prove her strength and try
Her holiness and purity.
From remote and sunless suburbs came they to
The friendly guild,
Building nests in Fame’s great temple as in
Spouts the swallows build.
The last lines, on the Master-Singers, hold one of
the conceits which make us hesitate whether to
thrust Longfellow away as a worthless fellow or
ransack him to see if he have another such.
Bookfellow’s Competitions .
VIII.—WANTED—A SPRING POEM.
Many were called—and few are good enough to
be chosen for nrint. The prize of £1 Is. goes to
Hubert Church, M.L., whose scholarly verse has
been highly appreciated aforetime. A. E. Stallard
is commended—he has and gives some lyrio
emotion.
SPRING IN MAORILAND.
Thou wilt come with suddenness,
Like a gull between the waves,
Or a snowdrop that does press
Through the white shroud on the graves—
Like a love too long withheld
That at last has over-welled.
What if we have waited long,
Brooding by the Southern Pole,
Where the towering icebergs throng,
And the inky surges roll;
What can all their terror be
When thy fond winds compass thee ?
They shall blow through all the land
Fragrance of thy cloudy throne,
Underneath the rainbow spanned
Thou wilt enter in thine own,
And the glittering earth shall shine
Where thy footstep is divine.
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
THE COMING OF SPRING.
She comes with the scent of the wattle-bloom
laden,
She comes with the breath of the flowers on the
breeze,
She comes as a queen of the seasons, this maiden,
With a glint of the gold on the green of the
trees.
Her voice is the music of murmuring rivers,
Her eyes have the glow of the wandering stars,
Her harp is the low wind that trembles and
quivers
And touches the keys of the sobbing belars.
The earth as a bridegroom is waiting to greet her
With a garland of flowers for her he loves best,
With the message of birds that are longing to
meet her
Who is crowned with the bloom of the Pride of
the West.
Her wings are outspread—she is ready for flying—
Awhile in the bush shall her bright heralds sing,
And she stops for a moment to hearken their
crying,
“Prepare for the coming of beautiful Spring ! ”
N.S.W.
A. E. STALLARD.
SPRING - FLEDGED.
How the world keeps on a-growing
Everywhere in nook and hole !
Two more hens are hatching chickens,
And the bay mare’s got a foal.
How the world keeps on a-growing,
Keeps a growing, all the while!
Poor old Lassie has been pupping
Underneath the paling-pile.
How the world keeps on a-growing !
It’s enough to make me laugh !
Pussy-cat again has kittens,
And old I’oley’s got a calf.
How the world keeps on a-growing
On, and on, and never back !
Do you see the magpies building
In the trees behind the stack ?
How the world keeps on a-growing
Spite of sorrow—spite of sins !
Missus Hearty down the river
Has a healthy pair of twins.
Creeds may-fight, and faddists grumble—
Nations fall and change their name;
But the world keeps on a-growing,
Keeps a-growing just the same !
N.Q.
6 x 8.
A SPRING SUNRISE.
Scents of fragrant eucalyptus
Thrill me ere the Day is bom,
When the soldier-bird, all wakeful,
Briskly sings to call the morn.
Night mists rise from waving wheat-fields
As the black crow’s caw is heard,
And the jackass laughs his loudest
In a mocking minor third.
Brightly gleam the sparkling dewdrops—
Golden tearlets on green grass;
Fading as the flickering sunbeams
Thro’ soft sighing zephyrs pass. .
Peach buds blushing ere they open
Pinkish haloes spread around ;
Snowflakes fresh from cherry blossoms
Trip it gaily to the ground.
Coming from the foothills sombre,
Homeward pace the lowing kino ;
While, the yellow wattle’s perfume
Mingles with the pungent pine.
Now upleaps my heart with gladness,
Great Sun-God ! to thee I sing.
Hail! bright Ceres; ’tis your birth-month-
Sweet September, Austral’s Spring !
N.S.W.
G.V.G.H.
THERE AIN’T NO SPRING.
I’m suffering from ophthalmia in the West:
At Kimberley they get it just for fun ;
We’d three weeks Autumn—Summer’s just
begun—
The other seasons always take a rest.
There ain’t no Spring,
No decent thing
That you could call a West Australian Spring.
I’m growing wheat down Murrumbidgee way ;
There’s only been four points of rain this year.
The Seasons ! Why, we never have them here!
Just ask a cocky and you’ll hear him say,
“There ain’t no Spring—
No blanky thing
That you could call a Murrumbidgee Spring ! ”
I’m working down in Lyell in the face.
We always go and come from work in wet.
The Seasons ! Why, I haven’t seen them yet;
We never had but Winter in the place.
There ain’t no Spring—
No blooming thing
That you could truly call, a ’Stralian Spring.
I’m droving sheep m Queensland in the West;
We’ve floods and flies and every creeping thing
That Summer, Winter, Autumn, ever bring.
It’s always mixed up here. I give it best.
There ain’t no Spring
Nor any thing
That you could caU a Never-Never Spring.
Just now we’ve snow and dust and frost and
drought;
We’ve all the blooming seasons rolled in one;
And when they say the Spring has just begun
It puzzles me where they can find it out.
Oh, I can’t sing
About the Spring—
We haven’t got a semblance of the thing!
Y.
JAS. F. MERRIL[?]S.
Poems and things received from K.B. ; Scire Facia*•
A.J.O. ; Von K. ; C.M.B. ; Dreamer ; YV.M.W. • J J B •
C.L.; C. Cat; R.G.M. ; P.S. ; P. Heath ; R.O. ; E.YV D •
Moyeashel ; O.P. ; M.R. ; 8.D.5.; Narranghi ; JD •
J.F.M. ; G.V.G. ; H.; A.E.S. ;6xB ; C.R.M. ; Done ;A. ;
Russell R. ; J.B.C. ; E.B. ; Arrah Luen ; J.B.D. ; E.A :
H.J.W. ; Wattle; Wil ; L.G. ; R.O. ; S.M.L.; AD-
Clarence C.; J.G.D. ; Cooey; H.H.; L.H. ; JGP ’•
J.L.S. ; Winter; B.F. ’ ’
On the subject of art-criticism Alex. Mont-
gomery writes —
It appears to me—as one whose “withers are
unwrung” by the artists’ revanche— that much of
the difficulty of the question is due to insufficient
recognition of the faot that, when we speak of
“ Art,” we connote two distinct concepts;—(l) the
ultimate value of the effect; (2) the methods by
which that effect has been reached. Of the latter
(otherwise technique) the artist—graphio, musical,
or literary—-is (by the nature of the case, must be)
the better judge. Ho sane person would seek to
invalidate his pretensions in that direction ; but,
when he asserts that his should also be the final
verdict as regards the completed effect, he is laying
impudently larcenous hands upon the common
intellectual property of mankind. To admit such
a claim would be to admit that the dictum of any
man or woman who writes or paints or sings or
fiddles—no matter how execrably—necessarily
outweighs that of a man whose faculties,
no matter liow otherwise brilliant, have not
specialised themselves along these particular
lines, it would be like denying to every person
ignorant of “ voice-producing ” methods the capa-
bility of knowing when a singer is out of tune.
And, just as in stlch a ease we cannot rob every
non-expert of the judgment-value of his “ear,” so
neither are we entitled to deny to every man who
can’t paint the judgment-value of his eye.
I haVe emphasised “ every ” because T am quite
prepared to admit that, with the pictorial art as
with the literary, the best work appeals to a
comparatively limited appreciation. But, just as
the fact that a man Cannot himself produce a line
of fiction does not of necessity prove him insen-
sible to bad work in fiction; so the inability to
draw one straight line perpendicular to another is
no proof at all that the mechanically-inadequate
person’s opinion about Titian or Turner —or even
about .Julian Ashton—is of no value.
Were it otherwise, we should be confronted with
the preposterous position that the opinion of a man
of high intelligence, logical mental habit, and cul-
tivated general taste is (if he do not possess execu-
tive artistic ability) of no account alongside the
“ professional ” pronouncement of, for instance,
the marvellous young gentleman who recently
illuminated this page with soul-piercing satire.
Dear Bookfetxow, —Apropos old-time solicitor
Stenhouse, patron of Kendall and others, and the
recent praises lavished on him, I would like you to
Erint this extract from a letter written by Chas.
larpur to Henry Kendall. The original is in my
possession.—T, H. Lennard.
Euroma, via Bodalla,
_ 21st March, 1864.
Da Kendall,
... I do not recollect ever having said that our good
old friend Stenhouse was the best of our colonial critics.
But if I did say so, it was not saying very much in his
behalf. That he was a very nice-nosed flower-finder in
certain poetical fields, I could not but perceive ; hut I never
thought him to be the possessor of enough of any kind
of genius himself to be the discoverer of it in others.
And I also saw that he never cared to patronise any
writer, until he became pronounced in some- high criti-
cal quarter—and that then, and not till then—his furore
in his favor came to a flood-tide. Thus you see, ury dear
Hal, that my measure of him has always been pretty
much what yours is now. In certain tracks, first indi-
cated it may be by deeper spirits, his judgments are cor-
rect enough, and sometimes even admirable. But he is
a good man rather than a great one —a feeler of the
Sublime and Beautiful, after they have been shown to
him, notin his own light a perceiverof them in.the sense
that a poet is, or even a great critic.—Yours most truly,
Chas. HAitPUR.
Aha ! a flower in our dreary path—the galled
jade wincesj-
London, August 10,1899.
To the Editor of the Sydney Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—When you criticised (sic) my first book,
“Sic” is good.
M in so coarse and cowardly a manner as
to call forth the angry remonstrance of several English
papers, I, even then clung to the belief that you honestly
meant what you said, believing the said poetry worthless,
and forgave you your usual SpitalHelds style of vitupera-
tion on that soore.
But in your notice last week of “ ** (whioh
the Queen says “ is one of the few collections which have
Ho, the Queen is Sladen, the condensed-milk
poet; and it was the Queen which said of one of
Sladen’s poetry-books that “ Taken altogether, it
gives him a high claim to be considered the best
poet that Australia has produced.” Honour the
Queen /
ever met with a cordial reception from the whole press")
your motives are too patent tor me to so misread again,
and jealousy stands out so plainly that he who runs may
read.
You cannot bear the thought, my dear Editor Bull' 1 "' ",
that anyone not found, christened and blest by you su , d
receive the hall-mark of generous approval from the
capital of the literary world—London.
Your unceasingly log-rolled “potes” are unknown
outside Australia, and it hurts your proviucial couceit to
find that an “ Unßulletinized ’’ Queenslander can and
does succeed ; where they, with you at their backs bar-
racking for them as hard as you can holler, have failed.
A notice appeared some weeks ago in a leading London
journal anent the so-called “Bulletin” school, which
would have penetrated even your hide had you seen it.
Ho, ho! this was Patchett Martin—Sladen
Seoundus—vice-president of the Sladen coterie.
Your object is doubtless to give pain. If you added to
your vicious desire, a little delicacy, a touch of cleverness
OtShade of finesse, and a grain of manliness (though per-
haps this latter is too much to ask for) you would be
more successful than you have been hitherto.
An arrow speeds home, where a broad-tailed paper kite
plunges ludicrously in the wind close to the clumsy
holder of its thread.
In the future if you want books of mine for review yea
will have to spend 6/- for the pleasure of abusing
Lond. Saturday Review smote the dear lady a
little harder than we. Hope it hasn’t had a
similar letter. The Saturday may not have our
“hide,” and feel hurt.—-And the writer is quite
unconscious that this letter accurately measures
her value!


ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turninp prey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE JIAIIt-
WASII. Simple to use, clean, and you can pet any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/0, Post Free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN,
650—682 GKOKQK STREET, SVDXEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wideaded.
s?leu) Widcodery
“CjP' //• *■>
oLigmottiene.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LXGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
*?£ ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best! solicitor
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema
me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.
What the Hon. W. 11. EMBLTNG, M.D., M.L.C., says •-
Melbourne May 27, 1599. Mr. \V. H. Malyon.-Dear
bir, I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some tune for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Youi-s faithfully, VY. H. EMBLING, M.D."
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. M altos, — August 21st, 1893.
With great pleasure Hiow sit down to record progress
enemy, “Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M’Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly sav
”7iT? y - ,S df : feated > and lam perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of mvself I hav e
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
Sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S.^L
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRYMALYON,
Manufacturing/ Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
’ 7s - 6<a -
E3T-'Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
THE austr ;Y?l'vTsnV- T ; IOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
steel oTfroThlT the P ', an of . th e above, with a heai i
h-fim • b ’ as vou kMo ' v lf vou have been in tl'
hab.t of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you co
' wearing such an instrument of torture when u
can furnish you a most efficient truss- VlZic-nill*
be worn wdth’ n° r Steel i Bprin | r about '*• and °”e that inav
As for r' ffU TV a # comfort both NIGHT and DAY
ssrff izsss&rts; sssrsst csssst
where it lg perform mg most, REMARKABLE CURES I
m e,H° n l y EbKCTRIU TRUSS in the World iKre
investigate at once. Call for free books price lilt *e
oru-riteforsnmie, enclosing 2d. in stamps Cfie
Address; MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRiKiti r
620 Market St., SAN U.S A -^r
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & C
l5B PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m.
r 9
■*w>
*zr
o
)LD WOJN p
SUNBUOT^i
RNs
ie
c/3
•f'IJJ’G
HAE-PfD
CP
:
N
y
2/V£
v.
W
m
p *o
P *ICT
ORS .
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER.
' ■' =ag
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Life of the System.
m
ITE
OPPJ
Intending Travellers by Sea or Lane
Buy your TRUNKS, BAGS and PORT-
REQUISITES, lwm‘ U
JOHN BRUSH, SON & CO.,
403 & 405 Georgfe-street, SYDNEY
The Largest Assortment of Baggage fora long
or short journey in the Australian colonies,
T ,le AD Y;^^^ GES we offer and claim for ou
Goods are LONGER WEAR, LOWER PRIORI
and BEST QUALITY, FINISH and APPEARANCE!
BRUSH'S SOLID LEATHER ami IMPERIAL TRUNKS,
regulation size to fit under berth.
Size 30 33 36
£0 6s £6 15s £7 7s
BRUSH’S GLADSTONE BAGS, similar to bag shown here.
Size 16 18 *2O 22 24
Lined lean 12s 6d 13s fid 14s 6d 15s 6d 18s 6d
„ leather 21s 22s 6d 24s fid 27s 6d 30s
BRUSH'S RELIABLE PORTMANTEAUS, in best solid
leather.
22in., 42s 24in., 47s 6d 2Gim, 55s
DRUSH’S LADIES’ SQUARE HAT CASES, in tan can-
vas, bound with leather, size 20in. x 16in. x 12in.
Price, 14s fid each. Size *2oin. x lfiin. x 14in. Priced
15s 9d each.
BRUSH’S “SPECIAL” KIT BAG, for Gentlemen, in
24in. and 26in. sizes. This is the large, square, open-
ing bag now so much used. Eacli bag contains a
moveable ease for dress suit, shirts, etc., fitting into
bottom of bag. Prices from 90s to 145 s each.
BRUSH’S ENGLISH SOLE LEATHER COAT CASES,
for Gentlemen, one side stiffened, the other collap-
sible, a splendid bag for hard usage and roimh
roads, sizes from 24in. to 33in. long. Prices from
63 to 100 s each.
BRUSH S BRIEF BAGS, cowhide, lined drill.
Size lOin.
Price 3s 6d
Better quality 5s Cd
BRUSH'S OVERLAND TRU
stitched.
Size 27in.
Price 63s
Riveted edges 90s
LADIES’ DRESS TRUNKS.
Size 30in.
37 s 6d
We send. Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales all orders of the value a
60s up. Cash with order or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies °
-PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
JOHN BRUSH, SON and CO.,
MANUFACTURERS
IMPORTERS . . ,
ai*
403-405 Goorge-street, SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS <sf the WISfl
mid BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUNDEItS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at. 42 • is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas .or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 t>. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, *.5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Wa terpr o o f,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
andother Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
_ and Cuffs, 2/-, 211, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 96. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, llats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, liug-s, etc. It will pay you to write to. or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 16 -, trimmings included.
s'2g2?}
uuvuu
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis>
Id ; 10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs*
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 60 Belgian, 2s ; 16 ltou-
inania, 6d ; 8 Esrvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 6d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
Cd ; 260, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. \V.\L ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants cfc Importers.
Our Specialities are-Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapinjrs, Matlinjf,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 eaclw
PLAITS and TAILS,
Ztlin. lone, ;>/<>. oil real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlted up, i/6 peroz.
e are the cheapestin
trail* for all Hair Work,.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^fl;
110 IVI|,L 1 AM STREET,
corner of I’almer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram nil! stop at Door..
Send stamps-for full Prioo LIsO-
Prompt attention fliven to Country Ordsm
I WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BFST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
. N.S.W. Aoexts : Messrs. ELLIOTT BITS., Ltd.,
O'Connell-street, Sydney.
I Tasmania?.- Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd.', Hobart.
DRUNKENNE SST
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be (riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney's leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co ,
33 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
m
and machiner
163-167 W'LLIaM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
uko’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £GS
Albert Fahr t
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
RucL Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34
They are obtainable for Cash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents-
w. H. <SLEN & CO.,
359 George Street, Sydney.
212 So 214; Collins Street, Melbourne


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address:
Caro GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Caulfield C. October 21.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in
Cup.
Name
Address
£ : :
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please \llot me sharC9 ' m tbe above *
Name
Address
t
MELBOURNE C. November 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares ohe above.
Name
Address
£
X
t
SPECIALS OPEN ON
Caulfield C.
... 100,000 at 5
Melbourne C. ...
... 100,000 at 5
TATTERSALL.
Please allot me Shares
in the —— SjpCCtCll •
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Famous Low Prices
FOR NEW SPRING GOODS
AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
*
Portfolio of Fashions for
Spring and Summer,
OVER 200 ILLUSTRATIONS.
sent Post Free to any address, on
application.
STATION SUPPLIES!
If YOU WOULD GET OUT of the
OLD FASHIONED RUT, and SAVE
MONEY, ........
BUY FROM US.
Patterns and Price Lists free by return.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (only), Sydney.
PMRof
TOLYpTur
sr*.4\n?\vcmr>s
(OVGHS (pips iz J
op >
/MITATI°mS
modern
milling-
machinery.
\
\
\
•- \
BAND SAW MTLT.R. CIRCULAR RAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
william Fleming,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
46 DO W RIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
Amd GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
il
<3-0 TO HCELX.-
I< i 1 11,A Nl l for Pretty Slumps, hut
if you want real food stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth*st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SO CI ETY is prepared to LEND in any amounts,
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES ; on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona fules on the part of the applicant.
The letral expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whethei
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
TTead Office, 87 Pit,t-st., Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, Genera! Manager.
ROIiERT 13. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 lSs., £6 155.,
£3 lfts., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Ibickboards, £9
1 Os., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List. "S3l
H. HILLIEK., 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Work*: MEI.ISOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-strect.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
hy return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
For Infants and
Invalids.
A Recent Testimonial.
[copy.J Silver-street,
St. Peter’s, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia
and New Zealand, Limited, London.
Dear Sirs. —Having used your Food for about eighteen
months with the greatest success, I have much pleasure in
stating that I think it superior to all other Foods. I have
been using it for my little daughter, who was left mother-
less when only twelve days old. After trying many reme-
dies, without success, I tried your Food, and found it most
successful. My little daughter is now two years old, and
as well and as hearty as can be. Mellin’s Food has done
it all.
You can make what use you like of this letter.
Yours truly,
T 7. DELGItE.
Mellin’s Food may be obtained of all Dealers.
The Australian Widows’ pund Qife Assurance Society [td.
EnTAHMSIIRD ]S7I.
rpiIIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting ail the usual form* ol Assurance, is the OXLY OFFICE IX AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies irrantinjr —
1. Remission of proport ion of premium in the event of temporary Incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
1I» A Paid-up Policy in the case ol permanent Incapacity through illness.
Hoard or Dirkctors :
non. Sir ARTHUR ItKXWICK, .M IL, M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. 1L CARRUTUERS; lion. JAMES MATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300.000 A nnual Income exceeds £215 OOd
Offices! 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospect us. 1 • GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
THB
* Plum ’
*>rD
THB
* Plum'
(1 E>« I LEMTO. who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor
" tnal. i liis razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow grounda
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact, kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and. having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. 117 qua ra ntec each Razor for Two Years.
Pbe Plum Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s Gd.
. _ ' Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, Gd. cake.
Price
/ ?! nfi >! e ]} n 7 in strong leather case, 10$. (si. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 213.
toingie Kazor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
ftefrixterrrf ntiil sent Post Fra to am/ part o' the world.
rioase add Gd. exchange on country and U. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG 8c AITKEN, GSO George Street, SYDNEY
IM.S.'W.
Cari ia.ge & Sacldlery Ma,nfl Company
>ote our New Address: 193 to 195 Clevcland-strect, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a ~ ~ „ .. ... . .
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of (close to Redfern vlway button).
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Sprint: Sulkies, JG7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special llent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buekboard Buggies irom £9
10s. Ladies' I’heatons (single and double), Don ('arts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S.t PDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not he
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay lb per
snt. mors for your requirements.
OUR SPECIAL IVo. 8
£8 18/6
I)pHTfn><J nl any tDiarf or
N.S.W. lUilnays Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Earth Speaks.
Hush ! he drowses, drowses deep,
W hile my quiet arms I keep
Close about him in his sleep.
Once he glanced at me aghast,
Shuddered from my kiss, and passed—
But I hold him here at last.
He had frenzied thoughts of fame,
Piteous strivings for a name—
But I called him, and he came.
Called him with the mother-call
That shall on the weary fall
Whispering “ Home ” to all, to all.
Fair white skin he looked upon ;
Eyes in his with passion shone ;
But my patient love has won.
There was one he deemed to wed j
But he faltered, came instead
To my narrow bridal bed.
Vehement his veins and wild—
Now a dreaming, glad-eyed child
To my kisses reconciled.
Tender heart and turbulent,
I and he together pent
In an ason of content !
Heaven holds for him no prize:
Stirless, nested here he lies
In his narrow Paradise.
When his trump God’s Angel blows,
When he shudders, wakens, knows,
I shall hold him close, so close !
He will feel life’s aching pain,
Turn his lips to me, and then
Sink to dreamless sleep again.
So for aye my love I keep
Here upon my breast asleep—
Hush! . . he drowses . . drowses . . deep.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
In Ecstasy.
What’s my Love like ? Frank and sunny,
With such teeth, so trim and pretty,
That although you searched the bonny
Girls that grace our seaside city
You’d but seldom find their equal:
And her eyes are deep and azure,
Wh ere the spoken word has sequel,
And dear dreams parade at pleasure.
What’s her hair like? Silken dresses
With the sunlight on them sleeping
Have the texture of her tresses ;
And the sky-lights through them peeping
Make a lustre quaint and tender—
As if some good sun down-bending
With her brown hair blent stray splendour,
But concealed one-lialf the blending.
Red her lips—so fruity seeming—
One goes brazed to crush and tooth them ;
Or of strawberries hath dreaming—
Strawberries with cream to soothe them.
Loves me? Yea! white arms extended,
Breasts of ivory warmly swelling,
Sob and sigh and rapture blended,
Tell me that she loves past telling.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Lily and the Rose.
Lo ! a proud, white, languid Lily
In a city garden grows ;
And, like mail-clad knight, beside her
Stands a tall, red-hearted Rose.
On her bosom cold the crimson
Of his burning heart is thrown ;
On her bosom cold ; that knoweth
No red passion of its own.
In the green, sun-dowered Southland,
Where the painted fire-tree gleams,
Sleeps a shy, sweet, scented Lily,
Hid beside the singing streams.
Sleeps and dreams she so ; but ever,
Through her vision calleth clear
Some unknown, red-hearted lover,
Some impassioned cavalier.
If the Rose but loved the Lily
That beside the river grows f
If the Lily of the garden
Did but love the crimson Rose?
Sydney, Aug., ’99.
E. J. BRADY.
In the season just finished S. Australia
shipped to England 10,250 crates of frozen rabbits
—say. 500,000 carcases in all. Price in London
has ruled from 7d. to Is. Id., but ofteuest Bd. or
9d.
Apropos the development of the Austra-
lian frozen produce trade, most people, down
here, anyhow, probably don’t know how big the
English import of natural ice is. From Norway
alone the U.K. gets an average of about 450,000
tons a year—last year it was 443,897 tons, valued
at .£323,501 ; year before, 450,011 tons, valued at
■£248,071. This par. isn’t written with much
hope of Australia competing, though Coolgardie
and Silverton perhaps might have a cut —or, say,
Cooktown.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
London,
E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FUA-KTIC JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia —C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTn.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney, w. j. Adams, Manager.
Ladies with families will find in this
handsome, newly-built, newly-furnished
hotel all the comforts of the best-
appointed homes, and an attention that
will please the most exacting.
Tariff: 10s. per day; £3 per week.
Excellent Suites of Rooms,
Private Dining and Reception
Rooms.
Faixxlesß Dentistry,
[ondon Dental
Institute.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mu. S. I). ASHER, Dentists.
I3F“ Modern Dentistry in fill its Jirane/iea
Leyitinuitely Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth witnout future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY
Over Hollingrlale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2015.
THE METROPOLITAN-—-'
EDWARD STREET, BriSOailO.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from 6'- per Day.
Telephone 784.
D. Swiss-Davibs, Prop.
(Member Com. Trav. Club.)
STICK TO
CIGARETTES
NO BEL-6 LASSO W EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
V
a
o
j/o wl
/
so
tfADEMAR
as
C MSG^
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BRLLISTITC.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
™ o or
vs
syv
‘He,
uis
TF
cp
tel
W*
5M
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BAIiIiISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hnrliner-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over .£lOOO more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PAHiVO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. JDalyety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
YOU KNOW
4$
<> .
:X4l^>
\ y * <6 4° *v<P °\*
V* X- c'l o>\v> “> X a,®', ci 2 ’ -
. ~ \oT,<> 0 v a> e -cy. c >°
>4>
<<r
*&+¥4<*
\i<4&
<yL&\ » «.
v »o <
°V>"<
V
A*
2$
ss
&
V d,
V v 6. X<^
V V‘ s ‘/°V^ >^
V® X V / O eP 0%® w
<*\ <5? c+X* S O ,VV <U*
«P e “>.*® , *Jp
<$ A.
°v .^°
e
x^x,®«?
X®W
v<x v
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY. • BRISBANE.
EXCLUSIVE PROVIDERS OF SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES.
NOW READY.
220 pp. —4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
“ Fair girls $ Gray Horses.
OVER
on€ Million Lbs. Tobacco
450
TONS
Is the OUTPUT of
PIXSON & SONS’ Sydney
Factory for year ending 30th June,
being 90J tons more than any other
manufacturer
DIXSON’S Great Leading Brand is
Yankee Poople
Yankee Doodle, dark, is mild smoking and the richest
flavor.
Yankee Doodle, bright or gold leaf plug and cutis increasing
by great strides with those who formerly smoked only the
well-known American and English brands.
(Hixson’s leaf purchases in America this season reached £25,000).
CHAMPION —the choicest gold leaf plug or cut.
CONQUEROR the working man’s great favorite for
smoking or chewing; rich and good, always the same.
BONANZA CIGARS— a marvel of cheapness—retailed
4 for 6d, yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobaoco,
Sumatra covered, made with the latest machinery.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 20.—N0. 1024.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1899.
Prick 6d.
Three soldiers have died at Aldershot from the effects of ptomain poisoninn-, after
having partaken of some alleged New Zealand cheese. After an analysis of the cheese had
been made, the War Office authorities forbade the supply of New Zealand cheese until afic!-
the adjourned inquest on the bodies of the victims on October 12. The New Zealand
•Government will be represented at the inquiry.
MORE DEADLY.
Secretary : “ A cable from New Zealand offering troops for the Transvaal, sir.”
Chamberlain : “Ah ! Tell them to send a few tons of cheese to Kruger, it will bo
just as serviceable.”
HE RETURNS THE LION.
■** London, Monday.—Three Transvaal dele-
gates were lately sent to tlie Cape, ostensibly
for the' purpose of getting specimens of
South African fauna for a zoological gardens
which it is intended to establish at Pretoria, but
presumably also with a secret political mission
to Cape sympathisers with the Transvaal Boers.
“Mr. C: J. Rhodes presented the delegates
with a lion, and the gift occasioned much
comment at the time.
“ President Kruger has now returned
t)ic lipp to Mr. Rhodes. ”
V
THE UNKINDEST CUT OF, ALL.
Ltnb . “ Now, then, M'Gowan, cut away, it’s cruel to ke6p the poor
beggar in suspense. Ta-ta, George, old man.”
SUNDRIES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Eer Annum ... ...
Half-yearly ... 01 * %
Quarterly 0 b b
notice.
Bv sending direet to Tub Bulletin Ofiice Twenty
Shillings sterling-urith Postage added where requi^^
which you may pay by Post Office 0d y • . *
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian pi omnc ,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. .
Chernies Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Ouectoi.
Literary Communications to he addressea •>. i*.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are **
the publishers. The right to reproduce or«ransa(e«ny
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustmtwn,or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceading two columns in
lenqth, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. Ml
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or icash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 It 00l Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.—The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial N ewspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, urith 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special lhynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1899.
The First Federal Premier.
The downfall of the Reid Government in
New South Wales has led to some curious
newspaper logic about the Federal Premier-
ship. It has been alleged, by nearly every
paper in N.S.W. and a good many outside,
that Reid has now, to some extent, “lost
his chance ” to be the first boss of the Com-
monwealth. It is even alleged that the want-
of-confider.ce debate was a battle, not only for
the Premiership of N.S.W., but for that of
Australia ; and it has been remarked in Vic-
toria that through Reid’s collapse George
Turner’s prospects of leading the first
Federal Ministry have brightened. Reid
himself vaguely suggested something to the
effect that the attack upon on him, re
Neild’s £350 and many other things, was
made with a view to deprive him of the
first place in the first Commonwealth
Cabinet. From all of which The Bul-
letin gathers that the people don't count
for anything in the selection of their
own chief ruler; and that they are not
supposed to be consulted. It appears to be
assumed in a large, off-hand fashion that the
Premier of the most populous province, even
if he is the greatest fool and muddler in
Australia, has a lien on the boss portfolio,
and the same indubitable right to bring ruin
on Australia as if he were the eldest son and
heir of the despot who last owned the
country. Also, it is assumed that the Pre-
mier of the second most populous province,
whether he has any single qualification to fit
him for the billet or not, has the second best
claim, other things being equal ; only the
new Premier of the most populous province
may not have the indubitable claim the old
one had—not by reason of unfitness (which
doesn’t come in at all), but because the Pre-
mier of the smaller province with five years’
record may count for more than the man
from the larger province with a record of,
perhaps, one year.
• * • •
It will necessarily be some time before the
first Federal Parliament meets, but it is
none too soon for the Australian people to
kiek against this ghastly assumption that
they necessarily belong to Reid, or Lyne, or
Turner, or anybody else, or that anybody
has a lien on the leadership of the Common-
wealth Ministry. It is high time to put for-
ward the demand that the first Australian
Parliament shall have some voice in the
selection of its own Premier. If this isn’t
done, the people will be, to all intents and
purposes, left out of the matter altogether.
In an old-established Parliament things are
different—though not nearly so different as
they should be. The people elect the mem-
bers who make up the two parties, and the
two parties elect Lyne and Reid in N.S.W.
and Gillies and Turner in Victoria, and
Seddon and Russell in Maoriland, so indi-
rectly the nation is allowed to make a more
or less audible remark about the choice of its
rulers. But in a new Parliament there will
be no Ministry to start with ; no defined
parties ; no party leaders or party war-cries.
Everything will be without form and void.
The new Governor-General will have no con-
stitutional advisers, for the first Australian
Government won’t be formed. And out of
his boundless ignorance of the different
men he has to select from, and their
political principles, and their honesty, and
their capacity for doing or not doing the
work required, and of making a great
triumph or a great wreck, he will “send for”
somebody to form a Ministry. (That is, he
will do this unless Australia decides that
Parliament shall take a hand in electing the
Ministry itself.) And in this blind, ridicu-
lous fashion a completely ignorant outsider
will probably resolve who will run the
affairs of this country for years to come. In
theory, of course, the Parliament will decide
whether the man “sent for” will have a
working majority or not. But the man
4 4 sent for, ” as soon as he has patronage to
dispose of, becomes a power, and in most
cases can get a majority. If all the leading
politicians of Australia are in that first
Federal Parliament there are probably a
dozen, any one of whom could get a working
majority, and form a Government capable of
lasting some years, and of doing some good
or a tremendous amount of harm, if only the
new raw Governor sent for him.
* • * •
And the new Governor-General may send
for the oldest politician ; or the longest-
established one ; or the one who got his ear
first; or the one who belongs to the same
brand of tabernacle as himself (if he is a
religious Governor); or the one who told
him a rich port-winey yarn about a Tottie
(if he is a dissipated Governor) ; or the one
who is most abjectly loyal; or the one with
the biggest title ; or the one who pleased the
Prince of Wales most when the politicians
were in England at Record Reign time. Or
he may do any other kind of foolishness,
and leave Australia to stand the conse-
quences and to pay the bill. But in N.S.W.,
at all events, it was apparently taken for
granted until a week or two ago that George
Reid, clown and mob-orator, must needs
have a first mortgage on the billet because
he was the man who made a disgraceful
mess of the finances of the most populous
province. Also, that if George Reid didn’t
get the billet, without any regard at all to
his glaring incapacity, N.S.W. would be
grievously insulted.
• • • *
Yet if any sane method is followed in the
selection of the Federal Premier, George
Reid’s chance isn’t a whit worse than it was
two months ago, and the chances of Lyne
and Turner are not one whit the better.
The only sane process is for the Federal
Parliament to decide which members are
best qualified for the various Ministerial
positions, no matter from what province
they come or what their rank in provincial
politics may be. The first Federal Ministry
has a great task before it. It needs vast
organising ability, industry, and capacity for
detail, for it has to set all the new Federal
departments going. It requires the very best
financial skill going, for it has to draft a tariff
to suit all Australia, and to raise enough money
to pay its own expenses, and enough over to
keep the provinces solvent, and to settle with
the provinces about payment for properties
surrendered to the Commonwealth, and to
construct the new capital, and to deal with
the huge problem of consolidating the State
debts. It has to create an all-Australian
postal, telegraph, and defence system. And
it has before it the biggest legislative con-
tract on record, for it has to make uniform
laws dealing with marriage, divorce, bank-
ing, insurance, currency, insolvency, the
exclusion of aliens, and many other things.
An incompetent provincial administration
might come into office with an urgent need
to legislate on all these matters, and get out
of the difficulty in the good old way, by
hanging them up indefinitely. The Federal
Administration must deal with them ; the
need for uniform law upon these and many
other matters will urge it on. And if it
is a tenth - rate Administration, created
because an ignorant Governor accidentally
“sent for” the wrong man, or because
it was held that the fool from a large pro-
vince must have precedence in the natural
order of things over the wise man from a
small one, then the results will be very bad
for Australia. No politician since this
country began will have better opportunities
for doing great damage or great good than
the first Premier of the Commonwealth.
• * * *
On his merits, George Reid is one of the
very last men who should get the office. It
wants a good democrat, a good financier, a
man of great industry, great constructive
power, and vast capacity for detail; and
Reid’s qualifications are that he never con-
structed anything worth speaking of, that
he has a monkeyish ingenuity for faking the
accounts, that he is politically crooked and
unreliable, and that he has a glozing tongue
which covers a multitude of sins. The
country needs a man, however uneloquent,
who will do things right; not a brilliant
talker who is a marvel of ingenuity at
persuading the public that things are
right when they are hopelessly wrong.
Then, as to Edmund Barton. The country
knows him as an eloquent man, a capable
lawyer and advocate, an unrivalled crusader
in a great cause ; but it doesn’t know if he
can laboriously organise a new system, or if
he knows anything about tariffs or finance,
or if he has a single qualification, barring his
fire and eloquence, for the billet of Federal
Premier. To entrust a man with the draft-
ing of a tariff, and the organisation of a new
and difficult financial system, and the crea-
tion of new departments, and the conversion
of the dreadfully complicated state debts,
merely because of his burning oratory would
be as absurd as to appoint a mere rhetorican
to the command of a navy in war time. The
two best public financiers in Australia, so far
as the visible evidence goes, are Turner of
Victoria, and Fysh of Tasmania —though, on
the principle that the incapable from a large
province should be preferred to the able man
from a small one, Fysh’s chance of
any important t.xlet is probably limited.
The man who looks nearest to being
an ideal Premier of the Commonwealth
is Charles Cameron Kingston of South
Australia—a good democrat, with much
of Turner’s constructive and adminis-
trative ability, along with a capacity for
larger ideals than Turner is capable of.
Slow, stodgy, incapable John Forrest is out
of all consideration. Braddon is incapaci-
tated by age—and other things. Dickson,
of Queensland, is, to a great extent, an un-
known quantity yet, though the unexpected
vigor he has shown over the Federal ques-
tion is raising him rapidly in public estima-
tion. N.S.W. has two brilliant lawyers—
Barton and Wise —that it can offer to the
combination, but no man who looks
supremely capable of taking the helm. The
idea that Lyne will develope into a man
capable of taking anything except a large
size in boots is left out of consideration
pending further developments. But Lyne'
has arrived almost too late in life to
develope.
• * * *
At all events, whatever material the first
Federal Government may consist of, what-
ever good or evil it may do, and whatever
chances it may seize or throw away, it should
be the creation of the Federal Parliament,
and the Federal Parliament should take the
responsibility. The matter should be left
to the decision of no irresponsible outsider.
And the Parliament should forget, or at least
try to forget, its provincial jealousies and
decide by merit only. George Reid from
Scotland has no more inherent right to the
leadership than John Hoolan from North
Queensland, and the idea that N.S.W.
would be wronged by the exclusion of its
imported Scotchman, unless he can show
that he is better fitted for the position than
all other candidates, is mere childish paro-
chialism. Reid’s downfall should not make
Turner’s chances one iota better or worse ;
the only chance Turner or any one else
should have is the chance of being adjudged
the best possible Premier available. And
Barton’s claims should rest on exactly
the same level. Barton is more dis-
tinctly the Father of Federation than any
other man in Australia. If the Federal
Government voted him £2OOO a year for life
it would be a very small acknowledgment of
his services, and if it made him Federal
Chief Justice it would be merely giving him
a position to which he is fairly entitled.
But even if Barton was the great grand-
father of Federation, and all its other rela-
tions as well, that would be no reason for
placing him in charge of a Treasury or a
locomotive if he wasn’t fully competent to
manage either. There is a huge responsi-
bility in view, and there never was a time
when the very best man could be more
urgently wanted. If the second or third or
tenth best is put in, out of gratitude to an
eloquent advocate, or because one big pro-
vince has conceived the idea that its Aus-
tralian honor is involved in getting the*-billet
for its utterly incapable, imported Scotch-
man, that mistake, or that slab of colossal
vanity, may cost £20,000,000 or more in
mismanagement. And about £7,500,000 of
that would be N.S.W.’s own loss. No
imported Scotchman this country has ever
seen is worth the price.
Jingo!
Since last week Australia’s attack of Jingoism
re the Transvaal has taken a more aggravated
form in some places, while in others it has
cooled down a little. The new Lyne Govern-
ment in N.S.W. has promised that no money
shall be spent on any African contingent with-
out the sauction of Parliament —which probably
decides that N.S.W. shall not make a fool of
itself on this occasion. Parliament is slow, and
war, when onoe it starts, is reasonably fast, so
the chances are that N.S.W. won’t be there in
time. Queensland ami Maoriland are warlike,
but comparatively calm. The Victorian Gov-
eminent, which, a week ago, appeared the
most sane of the four, has seemingly gone off
its head, and is “ mobilising ” two men and a
boy with feverish earnestness, and getting
forage ready, and otherwise “going it.” And
the long back hair of the Australian editor is
beginning to stream out worse than ever, like a
banner with a strange device, through excite-
ment over the situation. As an example, Pastor
Fitchett, the Melbourne parson who passes
the humble but gory plate in the Methodist
cause, and makes his living partly out of the
Gospel of Peace and partly out of the “Bleeds
that Won the Empire,” is producing this kind
of literature in the Review of Reviews :
The British inhabitants of the Transvaal, in a word,
are under conditions endured by no other men of the
English-speaking race throughout the world ; conditions
which, in any of the other colonies, would provoke insur-
rection within 24 hours. They are a majority oppressed
by a minority. They are denied both political rights and
civil justice. They are taxed to pay for schools in which
their children are practically denied the liberty of learn-
ing their own mother-tongue. In the Cape itself the
Englishman treats the Dutchman as his political equal;
in the Transvaal the Dutchman treats the Englishman as
his political serf. There may be facts in the tangle of
South African history which “explain” this_ state of
things; which in some faint and far-off sense justify it.
But the situation itself is monstrous. Does anyone
wonder that it arrests the attention and kindles the
generous indignation of colonists under all skies ? The
position of the British in the Transvaal, in a sense, puts
the honor of the whole English-speaking race on its trial.
And most of the other editors have got the
same disease, more or less.
* * * •
Assuming it is all true, what has Australia
to do with the matter ? But it isn’t all true.
Part of it is true on the surface and untrue
beneath. The other part is false both on top
and below. The Dutchman isn’t the English-
man’s political equal at the Cape ; he never was
and, if the Englishmen can help it, he probably
never will be. For many years after the
annexation he had no political rights at all,
except the right of being governed by British
officials. Now he has a full share in the
government of the country, with the reserva-
tion that it is garrisoned by British troops, and
there are British officials in all the highest
places; and the Dutch majority has self-
governing rights, provided it uses them as
Britain thinks it ought to do, otherwise the
Dutchman’s alien bosses in London will dis-
allow the acts of the Cape Parliament. So
long as the British section of the population
represents the race which has the army, and
the Governor, and the supreme authority in
London, it is no use saying that the Dutch sec-
tion is its political equal. There is no visible
way by which the Cape Dutchman can be made
the Cape Britishman’s political equal, but that
is no reason why any shrieking Australian
editor shouldn’t tell the straight truth about
the situation. A parson, especially, should
always tell the straight truth, even in his
most gory moments.
• * • •
The British at the Cape didn’t risk their in-
dependence by giving the Cape Dutchmen a
vote. If the Boers had behind them a Dutch
empire of over 200,000,000 people as a solid
guarantee that the political equality they gave
to the Transvaal Briton would be of no more
value than the equality the Briton gave to the
Cape Boer, probably they also would give the
franchise willingly enough. The differ-
ence between the two situations is just
this : If all men had what is called political
equality in both countries the British majority
in the Transvaal would, sooner or later, vote
that the country should become part of the
British empire—and it is 1000 to 1 Britain
would hold that as sufficient reason for annex-
ing the Transvaal forthwith. And if the Dutch
majority at the Cape voted in like manner that
the Cape should leave the British empire
they would only run the risk of
being put in gaol as rebels. Political
equality of that kind is a mockery.
The reason why the Boer doesn’t give a vote to
his alien majority is just the same reason why
the British Empire deprives the great majority
of its people of a vote. It can’t afford to give
one. Five-sixths of Victoria’s subjects are
black, and if Britain practised what it preaches
the Imperial capital would be removed to Cal-
cutta or Delhi, and a nigger viceroy would rule
in London. In like manner the Boer capital
would be removed to London, and an alien
viceroy would rule in Pretoria.
• * • »
And the British inhabitant of the Transvaal
who is denied political rights isn’t “ under
conditions endured by no other men of the
English-speaking race throughout the world.”
He is just in the same condition as the 60,000
English-speaking peop'e of Grenada (West
Indies), and the 268,000 English-speaking
people of Trinidad and Tobago, and the popu-
lation of Fiji, and British Honduras, and many
other British Crown colonies, which are ruled
by officials sent out from England, and where
the people (white and otherwise) have no self-
governing rights at all. The British-born
population of India has no such rights either ;
the purely nominee council which assists to run
the show has not even the power of initiating
legislation. And in none of these places does
insurrection arise every 24 hours, despite
Pastor Fitchett’s yell to that effect. This also has
no particular bearing on the case, yet a reverend
gentleman should be more particular about
keening to facts, and when Britain refuses so
very many thousands of English-speaking
people political rights, there is no reason for it
to be .so excited about the Boers doing, on a
smaller scale, just what it does itself.
* • * *
It is claimed, and quite truly, that the Boers
are cruel and oppressive in their dealings with
the natives. They are rather more cruel than
even the Westralians have been, and they are
about one-half as cruel as the people of many
other countries, about whom (because they have
no rich goldfields to be seized) Britain troubles
not at all. But, in any case, the prospective
war isn’t to free the natives, but to give the
British-American-German-Jew gang of exploi-
ters at Johannesburg a better hold on the coun-
try. Britain (wonderful to relate) doesn t
this time even profess to be going to war
for the sake of the oppressed nigger. As
for the grievances it is going to war about,
they are just the sort which Britain takes as a
matter of course in States which have no
rich goldfield to be plundered. There are


plenty of countries where the terms on
which the alien can become naturalised are
just about as hard as in the Transvaal—only
these countries have no Rand. There is no
country except the Transvaal where Britain
has claimed that her subjects should be natural-
ised and have votes as a matter of right—in
foreign countries where there is no great gold-
field to be annexed the right of the local Briton
to have a share in the Government isn’t con-
sidered worth mentioning. Even when Bri-
tain’s own adjacent colony of Natal refuses the
newly-arrived Englishman a vote for three
years after arrival, and taxes him without
representation all that time, Britain doesn’t
think the matter worth alluding to. Under
these circumstances it really seems that there
is no Transvaal problem at all, except that the
richest goldfield in the world is there, and the
people of the country it belongs to are
so ridiculously few that they can hardly
avoid being robbed of it by the philan-
thropic J. Bull. There is no “ humilia-
tion ” about the political position of the
Britisher in the Transvaal that he doesn’t also
put up with in a greater or less degree in
scores of other countries, and do.it, too, without
noticing anything remarkable about the situa-
tion. In fact, his situation is very much the
same as that of the alien everywhere, save for
one thing: The wealthiest gold region on
earth is there, almost undefended, and the
Briton’s interests are involved in seizing it, and
his honor is also involved, for if he doesn’t
steal it he is afraid people will think he hadn’t
the courage to steal it.
• * * •
If Britain is prepared to lay it down as a rule
that the Britisher, in every country which has a
Parliament, shall be able, if he wants it, to
insist on being naturalised and having a vote
upon certain uniform conditions, then it will be
fair to assume that Britain is looking after a
principle. But when it is discovered that the
circumstance which is not in the least
injurious or insulting to the Englishman
in about three dozen other foreign countries—
the circumstance that the alien has no right
to be naturalised even after 100 years’ residence
unless the local Government is agreeable—is
hideously injurious and insulting in the one
country which has an immensely rich goldfield ;
and that the denial of political rights
which matters so little elsewhere (even in
British crown colonies) is something awful in
the country with the Rand gold-deposits ; and
when the Briton’s blood boils so terribly (in the
country with the Rand gold-deposits) over a
matter which has never made him boil to any
extent worth mentioning in countries with no
gold deposits—the situation is at least peculiar.
And it is a quaint coincidence that, when the
diamond fields were discovered in the other
Boer republic, the Orange Free State, the
Englishman’s blood boiled in almost the same
fashion at the wrongs he suffered in that State
also; and it continued to boil until Britain
seized the Diamond Fields, and then having got
the profit he left off grieving about principles,
and gave up boiling until further notice.
Concerning Wild Cats and Others.
\\ arneord Lock, amiable mine (office) manager
who, during the Lucknow strike, showed such
a nice talent for saying nasty things, has gone ;
but lie has left for his better remembrance
as furious a blast as N.S.W. mining has
ever had to stand against. It is a pity,
though, that Mr. Lock’s bitterness should
have spoiled his parting shot, because he put
into it some things well worth thinking about.
As to gold-mining, he said what is true enough
to pass ; that “ the serious attention which is
inferred by tiie word ‘ industry ’ is conspicu-
ously absent.” Bad laws, had M’s.P., bad
Ministers, bad miners—anything, in fact, ex-
cept poor reefs. “ A sort of political pastime
or party plaything” it is, he snorts. Yet,
under almost identical laws, the silver-mining
industry on the Barrier has been a good deal
more than a plaything; and in Victoria, where
gold-mining is a pretty serious business, the
laws are, on the whole, not much, if any, more
liberal from the owmers’ point of view. There
is a big difference between Victorian and
N.S.W. gold-mining; but, so far as can be
seen, no greater difference than between Vie.
and N.S.W. gold-mines.
* * • •
For all that, it is a fair complaint that
“ the public of the province (N.S.W.)
manifest very little interest in their mines.”
Victoria was put on its feet by its gold-
mines ; its people are more or less those
who rushed to the fields in the fifties, and their
children. N.S.W. barely tolerated its gold-
finds at first, and regarded them as rather a
nuisance most of the time afterwards. Sydney
feared to lose caste —for these gold-rushers
were very vulgar. It couldn’t, in fact, appre-
ciate mining enterprise much better than poor
old Kruger’s people cun. That feeling,
modified a little, has continued right
along ; and so the “ wet-nursing of the
miners,” which Mr. Lock curses so bitterly,
has little to do in the case. As a matter of
discreditable fact, N.S.W. miners have been
less wet-nursed than Victorian miners. For
instance, the only laws and regulations which
N.S.W. metal-miners have had for 20 years
past, and still have, are not, in the words of
Judge Murray, reporting as a Royal Commis-
sioner, sufficient to protect life and limb
reasonably. And so little is the miner wet-
nursed that, though the report was made over
two years ago, no measure has since been
introduced to give the necessary protection.
That the protection is necessary is partly
proved by the fact that, in the last two years,
in one (the biggest) mining district, consider-
ably more than \ per cent.—about one in 185—
of the workmen have been killed in the mines 1
• * * »
Sydney thanks God or Captain Cook, accord-
ing to choice, twice a day, or as often as it
isn’t too tired to think of it, that it isn’t built
on the Yarra—it has the “ ’eavenly ’arbour ”
to throw its rubbish into. But there are com-
pensations. Men who made a pot out of Vic-
torian mining didn’t hanker after old age on
the Yarra ; Bendigo or Ballarat was as good.
In N.S.W., the Lansells, Atkinsons and
Lazaruses, after their first “ pot,” would have
skipped to Potts Point; and then—hang the
calls ! Average city people are good enough at
lifting dividends ; but when calls come, not
the most lurid manager’s reports, written by
the most accomplished short-story-teller in the
office, can long ward off that tired feeling. If
the N.S.W. Lansells and Atkinsons had stuck
to the early fields it is not certain that any
payable gold would have been found at 3000 ft.;
hut the country might have been tried, anyway.
And when N.S.W. people would touch mining
they have mostly wanted to he “so English.”
Bull will not look at small mining concerns
(“propositions ” is the correct card, but this
paper is in a hurry); so a small mine is turned
into a big one, on paper, by the simple process
of asking 10 times more than a fair thing for it,
making the capital 10 times more than is
necessiry, and sometimes taking up five times
more country than is worth having. That is
the plan, too, which Westralian first-robbers
have had to adopt; though, to do them justice,
the effort doesn’t seem to have broken fheir
hearts. But it has broken a few thousands of
pockets—and more breakages are ahead. And
when this plan has not been followed, the
equally perilous and mischievous one of having
a huge nominal capital and a microscopic work-
ing capital has been adopted, under the No
Liability Act. But this has been in the
interests of the City Stoek Exchange gambler
(the person who will mostly say “ Heah, heah,”
to Mr. Lock) and is dead against the interest
of the prospector, the working miner and the
mining industry. Vic. has a No Liability Act
too ; but comparatively few of the companies
which have made Vic. goldfields famous were
registered under it. And, anyhow, it would
not have made much difference to the men who
live alongside the mine, and who take up
shares because they know something about it,
or think they do. What Mr. Lock has to say
about N.S.W. miners themselves may pass;
they are the bee in whatever sorb of cady Mr.
Lock wears.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gropers Awake Too Late.
The one-sided Gropers who formed Westralia’s
Parliamentary Select Committee on Federation
have emerged from their state of deep thought
and presented a report. The decision arrived
at is that Westralia wants these four amend-
ments in the Federal Constitution :
(1) Westralia to be divided into separate electorates for
the election of its six Federal senators. (But every kind
of care is taken in the report to avoid specifying- that it
is to be divided according to population. Probably the
Old Gropers still cling to the idea of having five senators
for the 50,001) or so people in the slow, quiet pastoral and
agricultural districts, and one senator for the 120,000
inhabitants of the districts where the people are alive.)
(2) The Federal Government to construct a railway
connecting Perth with the eastern provinces.
(3) That for five years after the establishment of a
uniform tariff, Westralia shall he exempt from the pro-
viso abolishing interprovincial duties, and the tariff-
barrier between Westralia and the rest of the Common-
wealth shall remain up for five years.
(4) That, for same five years, Westralia shall be allowed
to charge higher railway-freights on the produce of the
other provinces than on its own, as it does at present—
this in order to help along its infant industries.
' The first inference which sticks out here is that
the Committee knows what fine, large liars are
those of its members and of the old Groper-
party in general who have been predicting
that Federation means inevitable ruin. Nobody
asks lo be inevitably' ruined five years hence,
and the Committee’s desire for partial Federa-
tion at once, and complete Federation in five
years, doesn’t square at all with its anti-
Federal utterances. Probably the trouble arises
from two causes. The old Gropers are pitiably
slow, and don’t like to do anything all at
once; and they reckon it advisable to invent
imaginary losses through Federation in
order to have an excuse for demanding the
transcontinental line by way of compensation.
The demands themselves amount to not very
much. The transcontinental railway must he
built anyhow. So long as the senatorial dis-
tricts are adjusted according to population, it
matters very little to the rest of the Common-
wealth whether Westralia is one electorate or
six of them. And as. for the other concessions,
five years is only an infinitesimal speck of time
after all—half the leading W.A. financiers
should have been in gaol longer than that. The
great trouble is that the Groper Government
was so abjectly slow in making up its own
alleged mind that it didn't know it wanted
these things put in the Bill till the three
sessions of the Convention were over, and the
Premiers’ conference was over, and the Bill
had been accepted by the people of the other
five provinces, and sent to England for accept-
ance by four of them. And then, at
minutes past the 11th hour, the snail-
like dawdlers of the West have discovered
the need for certain changes—apparently,
they want all these proceedings and re-
ferendums taken over again. And even now
they offer no guarantee that the people of
W.A. desire or authorise these alterations.
The people weren’t consulted in the appoint-
ment of the Westralian Federal delegates.
The Parliament which appointed the delegates
wasn’t elected specially on the Federal issue.
The Bill was never sent to the people. The
committee which demands these four amend-
ments wasn’t elected by the people. The Old
Gropers might have got all they wanted easily
enough if they had wakened up in time, but
the Old Gropers never wake up in time. The
Federal Parliament, when it meets, can guaran-
tee the transcontinental railway easily enough,
but on the other points it would have to go
through all the elaborate process of amending
the Constitution merely because the Old
Gropers had five years to recover consciousness
in, and then didn’t manage to do it soon enough.
Lyne’s Chestnuts.
The Lyne Government starts it's career well
and offers N.S.W. a programme which will
justify it in supporting Premier William John
all it knows. The first thing to he considered
with regard to any Government is its pro-
gramme ; the second is its performance. Fix-
Premier Reid’s first programmes were good •
his later ones mediocre ; his performance, first
and last, was awful. Lyne starts with a good
policy, which is every reason why the province
should give him a fair trial; in a year or so
it will be able to tell whether the new Govern-
ment’s deeds square sufficiently with its words
to justify it in prolonging the trial. So far,
the Lyne Ministry hasn’t made one joke or
raised one loud horse-laugh that can be
compared with Reid’s efforts ; but it pro-
mises an Early-Closing law, a measure pro-
viding for compulsory arbitration in trade
disputes after the manner of the one which
has put an end to strikes in Maoriland,
and the much-needed measure for the abolition
of coffin-ships and the extinction of the useless
and sleepy Marine Board. Also, it undertakes
to cut up for settlement a lot of land in the
Central Division, to establish a State Land
Bank, to introduce an Eight Hours Bill, and in
its second session, when it has a little breath-
ing time, to try its hand at establishing Old
Age Pensions ; and it has a few other demo-
cratic ideas on its list. Ex-Premier Reid has
already aimed at this programme the well-worn
jibe that it is all borrowed from his past pro-
grammes, and that there isn’t a single new
item in it. Which is absolutely true, though
the only man who should be more ashamed to
say so than Reid —well, he is dead now, so it
doesn’t matter. Nearly everything that
N.S. W. wants badly is stale by this time, and
is a“ steal from Reid’s past programmes,
because Reid put nearly everything in his pro-
gramme, and everything grew stale there in the
unhealthy atmosphere of neglect. The reason
why a new democratic leader has to put so
many old, weary chestnuts in his policy is the
utter uselessness of George Reid, who talked
these subjects to death and then left them just
where they were. Their old age and their
addled state is regrettable enough, but they are
addled because Reid sat on them for five years
without hatching anything, and without intend-
ing to hatch anything, and for mere ornament.
By-and-bye, when some live leader has done
the things Reid talked about, it will be pos-
sible to make a programme that will sound
new, but as Reid talked about practically all
the important things the chestnuts must needs
come first.
♦
A “Great Industry.”
“ Yamba ” discourses to The Bulletin on some
aspects of Victorian dairying :
The butter-factory directors who foregathered in Melb.
for the agricultural show have held their annual meeting,
at which much glorification re the great “ butter in-
dustry ” was given vent to. President Anderson believed
that the total to be exported this season would reach
12,000 tons, and establish a record. The money-value of
this lot is, at a conservative estimate, over £1,000,000.
This industry is, so far at least as Victoria is concerned,
extremely flourishing. Dairymen who own their farms
are making little fortunes, while even those who rent
land are prosperous. Land-owners who have cut up their
estates and let them to dairj inen are receiving up to 30s.
an acre for land which, under sheep or cattle,' used to
return them only ss. or 6s. an acre. Under these cir-
cumstances it would be thought that the factory
managers, secretaries, and employes generally, are in the
possession of rosy billets, and that their salaries are, as
is usual in prosperous industries, on the up-grade. Un-
fortunately, the very reverse is the case. In a great
many instances, applications are invited for the various
positions, “ the applicant to state salary,” which means
very often that the successful applicant, who sometimes
has to “ act as manager, tester, engine-driver, and secre-
tary, and supply horse and trap to cart the milk
to railway-station, four miles distant,” receives the mag-
nificent remuneration of £ L 10s. to £2 per week. Even the
big factories, which employ a manager, secretary, butter-
maker, engineer and several ordinary laborers, seldom pay
anything like a reasonable wage. All the employs work
seven days a week, and never have a holiday. The hours,
too, are such as are never heard of in other industries. In
the summer the employes have to be at the factory before
6 a.m., and they are lucky if they get away at 6 p.m.
The manager gets, say, £3 per week, the secretary and
the engine-driver £2 10s., amounts which are not starva-
tion rates, but which, in the manager’s case especially,
are out of all proportion to their responsibility. But the
rank and file never get more than £1 10s. per week (of
seven days), and more often less. Nearly all of these
men work about 70 hours per week, and work hard.
When the Factories Act was passing through Vic. Parlia-
ment it was discovered that the section relating to certi-
ficated engine-drivers would embrace the drivers of
factory-engines, and there was a rush to insert a clause
exempting the factories from the operation of this section.
Why this was done is an utter mystery. Up to the pre-
sent there have been no serious boiler accidents at butter-
factories, for the simple reason that all the boilers are
new and strong ; but in a few years there will be a big
crop of fatalities unless the factories are brought under
the Act. There are dozens of men driving factory engines
who know absolutely nothing of their mechanism. All
they are acquainted with are the steam and water-gauges
and the furnace. In many instances the engine-driver is
the sole person in charge of a creamery. He has to take
in and weigh the milk and attend to the separators,
and meanwhile lets the engine attend to itself.
Chief Secretary Peacock intends, he says, to bring
in an Amending Factories Act, so that the time is
opportune for dealing with this evil. Long hours and
poor pay are sufficient evils for the unfortunate employes
in the factories to labor under, without the added risk of
ignorant enginedrivers. And a clause providing for a
minimum wage of 7s. a day to the factory hands would
not be at all amiss. Then there would be no objection to
the Dairymen’s Association skiting about their “great
industry.” At present the greatness is very one-sided.
♦
The Victorian Bogey.
Ex-Minister “ Jim ” Hogue got up on his two
disrespected legs last Saturday to ramble about
the conspiracy successfully worked up by Mel-
bourne Age to oust Reid from the N.S. W.
Premiership in order that Turner might get
the leadership of the first Federal Government.
This eternal dragging of N.S. W. in the dust by
dull-headed Hogues and others grows weari-
some. N.S.W. has been told within the last
two years that it shouldn’t federate because it
would thereby place itself “at the mercy of ”
the little adjacent province which is one-fourth
N.S.W.’s size ; that it couldn’t compete with
Victoria on equal terms ; that with both states
under the same commercial conditions Victoria
would carry away N.S.W.’s trade ; that it was
Victorian influence that carried the Federal
Referendum in N.S.W. ; and finally (per
medium of Hogue) that a Melbourne penny
paper somehow was largely responsible
for the wrecking of one N.S.W. Min-
istry and the making of another. This
pitiable and silly cowardice on the part of a
few politicians brings N.S.W. into contempt.
The doctrine of Hogue and the other Victorian
scare-mongers is that Victoria can do just
about whatever it likes with its vastly larger
and more populous neighbor, and that, through
his utter want of courage and brains, the
Cornstalk is always being crushed by his small
relative next door. The pitiable cry of a few
politicians that N.S.W. has again been smacked
by the little boy in the adjacent yard is very
painful, and very, very abject.
Tke Enslaved Publican.
Last week The Bulletin, being misled by a
very incomplete report in the Sydney daily
press, said that Judge Walker had given a
good, common-sense decision in the tied-house
case of Tooth v. Parkes. It now desires to
withdraw the statement and to apologise for
the mistake. The decision was not good, nor
was there any common-sense in it that this
paper can see. The question at issue was this :
When a publican borrows money off a brewer,
can the latter stipulate, as one of the terms of
the loan, that the licensee and all succeeding
licensees for a hundred or a thousand years to
come (if the hotel lasts so Ions) shall buy all
their liquor off that brewer and his descend-
ants, whether the stuff is good or bad, whether
the price is reasonable or exorbitant, and tins
though the loan and all interest due thereupon
may be repaid punctually ? In other words,
can the fact that one licensee has borrowed
money from a brewer make not only him but
every other licensee of that hotel a slave to the
same brewer and his descendants for ever and
ever? And this N.S.W. Judge appears to have
decided that, so long as the eternal beer contract
is not a part of the mortgage itself but is em-
bedded in a separate bond, the arrangement is
quite lawful and can be legally enforced.
Legislation for the release of the enslaved beer-
seller can’t come too soon in N. S. W.
— +
The Guid Mon’s Weakness.
The connection between Scotch (particularly
Glasgow) Presbyterianism and financial “cronk-
ness ” would be an interesting subject for en-
quiry. Years ago the City of Glasgow Bank
directors put up a record for combining the
narrowest piety with the broadest views re
personal borrowings from the bank. A director
who had been advanced another £lOO,OOO at a
special board meeting on the Saturday after-
noon was invariably opposed to the reading of
Monday’s newspaper. He knew that it liad
been printed on the Sawbath what time he was
soothing his soul with prayer. Scotch Sab-
batarianism lately received another knock,
almost as bard as the facer it got from
the bank revelations twenty years ago. Dr.
James Colquhoun, city treasurer, LL.D. of
Glasgow University, elder of the Langside
Free Kirk, and a teetotaller of the deepest dye,
is in trouble for “breach of trust.” He loved
the Loard, but took to gambling secretly at
Monte Carlo and on the Stock Exchange, and
he seems to have lost everything except bis
soul. That is saved. James’s chief victim is
supposed to be the Glasgow District Society of
Ancient Shepherds, w hich placed £40,000 in
bis sleek hands for investment, but the taber-
nacle has dropped £3OOO over its immaculate
elder, and many private admirers are mourning
his absorption of their coin. Seeing that the
Colquhouns ofthis world are undoubtedly God-
fearing men by comparison with the average
careless, unacquisitive sinner, the world wants
to know the weak spot in their creed. What
does God teach them concerning trust-funds ?
It stands to reason that if the Almighty merely
says “ Thou shalt not steal,” and they get over
the difficulty by avoiding petty larceny and
house-breaking, the Sabbatarian conscience
needs an eleventh Commandment. “ Remem-
ber thy neighbor’s oof, to keep it holy ” would
fill a long-felt want. There was no chance to
do any embezzling at the time when Moses
came down the Mount with a table of stone
tucked under either arm, but times have
altered, and nowadays the temptation to play
with other people’s money is thrust upon the
person who honors his parents, respects the
Sawbath, and doesn’t swear, pilfer, murder,
perjure, commit adultery, or enjoy himself in
any other common, fleshly way—the dour re-
ligious person, in fact. His aggressive good-
ness commands financial confidence, and after
deducting a liberal discount for hypocrisy, we
find him, as a rule, more conscientious than the
out-and-out sinners on every point but one.
The question is how to fix the Goo-fearing per-
son on that golden point.
♦
The report of the Queensland Chief Inspector
of Factories, just published, should paralyse
with shame the collective Ananias who howled
about Scalyland wages being levelled down
to Southern level through Federation. The
reason why the anti-federalists talked about
“our infant industries ” was that so many of
the people who work the industries are infants
in the sight of the law. There are 14 factories
in Brisbane run by Asiatics, employing 26
males and 11 females. The females are white
Australians. The sanitation of the Brisbane
factories is a farce—not quite such a screaming
farce as it was last year, but farce enough.
Factories where stoves are required ire verit-
able hells with galvanised lids on y in which
sweated women and children work from 8 to 11
hours per day in the burning Queensland cli-
mate. There is a Factory Act which prescribes
a maximum of 48 hours per week for males
under 16 and for all females, and limits the
overtime to 3 hours per day, and overtime is
not to be worked on more than 52 days per
year. The are 500 male employes under 16,
and 58 per cent, of them worked overtime last
year to the extent of 9531 hours, while
1900 females worked 63,684 hours overtime.
In the laundries women were on the average
worked 130 hours’ overtime each ; one-fourth
of the W'hole number worked 200 hours’ over-
time each, and in one case a woman was
admitted to have worked 400 hours’ overtime.
The worst overtime-sweaters are the biscuit,
jam, and boot factories. In them it is the rule
and not the exception to keep the employes
working overtime three and four nights every
week. The girls are kept working from 1.30
and 2 p.m. till 8 and 8.30 p.m. without interval
for tea. No tea-money is allowed. In restaur-
ants, confectioners’ shops, and other dens of
servitude of like nature the hours range from
60 to 80 per week. Queensland isn’t the only
place in Australia where such horrors exist,
but Queensland has about the most trying
climate to contend with. And its Factories
Act seems to be even a deader dead letter thaw
the average.


Baker* Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
. . . THE CELEBRATED . . .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
375 George-street, Sydney.
Illustrated Catalogues Free*
Fowler’s Traction Engines
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
•;/ ' X: >
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
Sole A gents :
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hbr Majesm’s “ The Christian.”
Royal Villiers’ “ Khartoum at Last.”
Lyckum “ £lOOO Reward.”
Criterion “ Called Back."
Palace Rickards’ Co.
Rbdfbrn Station Flying Jordans’ Circus Carnival.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ lolanthe.”
Theatre Royal “ A Soldier and a Man.”
Bijou Rickards' Variety Co.
There was a large affluent-looking house at
Her Majesty’s when “The Christian” made his
appearance on Saturday. The house mostly came
in late, and it talked most of the time, and its
frock was cut very low three undeniable
proofs that it was highly fashionable. ‘ ‘ The
Christian ” went very well when the fashionable
audience stopped talking and allowed it to be
heard. It is a strong sombre play, with that
streak of grey religion in it which did a lot to
make the fortune of the “Sign of the Cross,” only
without the bare Roman legs which made the rest
of that fortune. For, alas, it is impossible to put
a modern preacher in a toga, or even in a kilt.
But this godless country loves a streak of religion
in its drama, even if the bare legs have to be
omitted, and “ The Christian ” has the streak in a
rather new form. Its burden is that faith is
ashes, and ideals are vanity, and high aspirations
are only high moral spectres moaning on a gallows
to no purpose. It probably doesn’t mean to teach
that lesson, but the lesson is there all the
same. John Storm was an idealist, and was
cast off by his wealthy father for entering the
church. He entered it because his soul urged
him to regenerate the world, and he heard voices
calling to him in the night, and similar goods and
chattels. Then he took his ideals to London, and
the omnibuses ran over them, and the dogs barked
at them, and the wind blew them along the muddy
streets, and the gaunt millions rushing after a job
bolted with broken boots over John the Dreamer’s
great dream. The policemen moved the apostle
on, and people selling winkles and bloaters elbowed
him out of the way. He was a curate in a fashion-
able suburb, and was “fired” as an upheaving
socialist. He became chaplain in a hospital, and
his best girl, and the callous committee, and his
ideals together drove him out. He turned monk,
hoping to find calm and peace in the swinging of
a censer and the wearing of a long coat and a rope,
and the uselessness of it all disgusted him. So he
turned street-preacher, demagogue, missionary,
socialist, philanthropist, prophet, and partly-
crazed Solomon Eagle, and finally one of his own
converts hit him on the head with a brick and he
died.
• * * *
John Storm had a best girl before he began
to have ideals, and he dragged her with him into
philanthropy and misery and hospital nursing,
and insisted on her dreaming the same kind of
dream that he dreamed, and wearing his misfit
ideals. In time she revolted from the hideousness
of corpses and plasters and broken legs; also she
loathed the repairing of Bill Sikes’s missus after
Bill had danced on her breast-bone ; so she cast off
the yoke of John’s creed and became a dazzling
sinner on the stage. Then her lover called round
one night with a divine mission to cut Glory’s
swan-like throat in order to save her soul; by this
time too much cold faith taken on an empty
stomach had made preacher Storm more or less
demented. The event didn’t actually come off,
but the girl fled back to her hospital nursing and
her repairing of Bill Sikes’s missus with a vague
idea that the inroad of the mad preacher was a
warning from Above. After that she makes one last
appearance—when she is fetched in haste to marry
the dying preacher after his convert has hit him
with a brick. There is no evidence that John’s
ideals did any particular good to anybody. They
made him miserable while he lived, and gave
him the stoop and the far-off eye and the eager
legs of one who is always running after a vision
and getting no nearer; also they wrecked the life
of his best girl, and shook up the equanimity of
the good old monks who dozed and burned incense
in their monkery. And when John Storm was
dead, winkles sold for no more per pint than if he
had never lived.
* * * *
“ The Christian ” is a strong, sombre,
pitiful story about how an over-excited man shook
his fist at a universe of sin, and it took no notice.
Anyhow, it is a good stage-story and the company
plays it with a finish and refinement that show
it at its best. Kingston, as John Storm,
and Miss Henrietta Watson, as Glory, do the
idealist and his best girl admirably. Miss
Watson, as Glory, is miles ahead of the same lady
as the Greek statue ; occasionally she is almost a
great artist, and this is one of the occasions. As
for Thomas Kingston, he is a good actor at all
times, and he looks the character of the feverish
visionary who is starting out in pursuit of the
rainbow with the very best intentions. Arthur
Lissant does most things well and some things
admirably; and old Parson Quayle is one of the
things he does admirably. The same may be said
of Hawtrey’s Canon Wealthy. Miss Eloise Juno
is, without exception, the best Scotchwoman on
the Australian stage, and David Glassford also
strikes a large deposit of public approval in his
little part of the chief father monk. In a cast of 37
characters, Walter Bentley is the only serious dis-
appointment. He is cast as a commonplace heavy
father, with some green stuff round his cork hel-
met, and he has the misfortune to turn up in the
first act—which is a very beautiful scene by John
Gordon —where the cork hat and the green stuff
are a Blot.
** * *
In the general flatness of things theatrical
in Sydney George Rignold has revived “Called
Back ” for a short season at the Criterion. The
revival is doing perhaps as well as could be
expected ; it is so long since anything has been a
rousing boom in Sydney that if the writer
wandered back to that period he would probably
die of improper feeding in infanoy, or else his
grandparents might think better of it and not get
married at all. Rignold’s Paolo Macari is as tine
a study as ever, or very near it. This writer is
somewhat weary of Rignold, and of himself, and
of the world in general, but even now he would
travel from Bourke by mixed train to see G. R- m
two characters—and Paolo Macari is one of them.
And the person who would not travel from
Bourke, by mixed train if necessary, to see
Rignold’s Paolo Macari is a Goth, and there is no
art in him. But apart from the great Paolo the
cast only calls for moderate enthusiasm. Miss
Watts-Phillips is a genuine artist, but she has
a shadowy little woman to play, and her shadowy
little woman has no real connection with the play.
Miss Wheeler’s Pauline is strong in places, but
uneven. This clever young actress became a star
much too soon for her own good, and a course of
training under a capable oppressor like Dot Bouci-
cault would have done a great deal for her. J.
H. Nunn puts some artistic touches in the
character of Dr. Ceneri, and there are matters
which don’t call for any loud execration about
Godfrey Cass in the part of Dr. Kenyon. But
some other people would be none the worse of being
dropped down a volcano, or being run after by an
active lion on a large plain. Against Johnson
Weir, in particular, this paper has a grievance,
because it once made the mistake of having con-
siderable hopes about Johnson W. What it has
about Johnson W. now is better left unsaid. And
now and then the writer cherishes a lingering
desire that the conspirators would get their hair
cut. Why shouldn’t conspirators’ hair be cut
occasionally ? There is a very respectable place
in Clarence-street where the whole conspiracy
could get its head attended to for 6d.
** * *
The departure of Robert Brough’s com-
pany leaves a great blank in Sydney. By way of
smothering its grief over Brough’s departure, the
Royal proprietary has wisely resolved to set
about an extensive reconstruction of the old
house. A new front is to be built, and the
premises are to be greatly altered, and improved
in various ways. A new management takes pos-
session about two months hence. Before the
renovation starts, however, war artist and corres-
pondent Villiers runs a four-night season there
with his limelight-lecture, “Khartoum at Last.”
That sun-browned veteran makes his final appear-
ance on Saturday night.
** * *
Nothing extraordinary has happened to
“ Tommy Atkins ” during the week. That martial
drama hangs out its moral lesson as usual at its
home opposite the Marble Bar, said moral lesson
being that the wicked shall perish at last after
having a very good time, and the virtuous shall
have his character restored to him when he is too
old to enjoy it. And his character is the only
thing that is restored to him. “ <£looo Reward ”
is billed for Saturday.
** * *
A concert that comes off at Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Hall next Friday (Sept. 29), will intro-
duce three sisters to the public all at once—
Florence, Louise, and Gertrude Mack. On this
occasion Louise Mack will recite, without any
pretence of elocution, some of her own little
sketches, which rather lends a distinctive feature
to the arrangements. Florence Mack is already
known to the public, but Gertrude Mack, the
youngest of the trio, makes her debut as a pianiste
on this occasion,
** * *
That somewhat different contortionist,
Manuel Woodson, the silver streak of perpetual
motion, is back with the Tivoli co. at the Palace.
Manuel is the Cinquevalli of contortionists, and
his weird twistings and turnings and rollings are
indescribable and fearful. The three Keziahs are
graceful where Woodson is brilliantly horrible, so
they come after Woodson—to take the taste out of
the pnblic’s mouth. Three pretty women wander-
ing up and down their silver ladders, or balanced
on each other in giddy imminence of sudden death,
all set in the gorgeous frame of the Palace stage,
form a living picture that is altogether beautiful.
To-day (Saturday) Cinquevalli re-appears for the
usual “short farewell season.” Some remarks
about the urgent necessity for killing Mr. George
Dean are unavoidably held over.
*****
On second inspection, the Flying Jordans’
Circus and Hippodrome is not nearly so interest-
ing and picturesque in the full glare of 16 arc-
lights as it was in the gloom and murk of the
gasolene flickers only. The cloud people are
always gaspy, and when young Steve Jordan
stands with his head close to the roof and revolves
round and round a bar till he looks like an
animated catherine-wheel he makes the hair
bristle. The little, fair-haired Nellie Jordan,
waltzes along the slack-wire and makes her
luxuriant hair stream behind her as she dives
down into the net, is thrilling, and a gorgeous
individual who climbs the mast and rattles down
the wire hanging by his teeth to the runner is dis-
tinctly good. So are the Lennon Bros., and
some rubber demon brothers called Deepner.
Bob Sing, the down elephant, is a noisy
animal, who sits at a table and rings a
bell till the attendant cocks an enquiring
ear at him, and then Bob roars and clangs the bell
till a plate of delicacies is brought to him. It is
swept clean in two seconds, and the bell jangles
loudly for more. Then Bob rings for liquor, and
having emptied two bottles he gets up and strolls
off with the air of a fat old gentleman who has
had a good supper. Finding himself boarded by
a clown on the way to his smoking-room he stops
with an air of amazement, and realising the in-
dignity shakes off the intruder with startling
suddenness. There are other entertaining items in
the circus, but somehow one comes away with a
feeling that the big show is not what it is cracked
up to be. Perhaps it is too big, and the three
events going on at the same time distract attention.
Perhaps after the performances of the people in
the air the rest of the show seems tame, and,
besides, the horsemanship is comparatively poor.
Anyhow, this writer felt when he wandered out
that he had seen better circuses somewhere.
Some of the doubts cast on the genuine-
ness of Cinque’s wonderful feats are ridiculously
illogical. For instance, sceptics suggest that the
“billiard” balls (which, by the way, are somewhat
bigger than ordinary French billiard balls) are
“ squared ” at places where they touch, or attached
to another with a blob of beeswax. If there were
any “ fake ” in the matter, how could the juggler
so easily shake the balance ball off into his left
shoulder-pocket? As a matter of fact one can
see the ball wobbling all the time the cue is being
raised. Some people even question the strength
of Cinquevalli, and will tell you that wires from
above are supporting rigid Walter (the boy in
buttons) while the boss is holding him up, likewise
the chair and table, with one hand. The unbe-
lievers in this case forget that the elevation of
the “boy” takes place at the front of the stage,
where the footlights would “ give away ” the
alleged wires. It is rather hard on Cinquevalli,
though, that Walter, who is so well adapted to
the billet, should be getting heavier every month.
** * *
There was an interesting performance of
“La Poupee ” down at Bendigo last week. Harry
Shine, who is engaged to play Lauri’s part (the
doll-maker) in the Firm’s No. 2 co., was taken
suddenly sick, so they fetched Kenningham from
Melbourne to take up his old part as Lancelot,
and young Syd. Bracy (the deputy Lancelot) had
to try his hand at doll-making. Considering that
he did it practically without rehearsal, young
Bracy’s first attempt in the low-comedy line
was a big success. The No. 2 co. is a useful
school for the rising generation. Carrie Moore,
who appeared as the precocious shop-boy in
the No. 1 production of “La Poupee,” takes
the name-part with the other co., her doll
being as clever as all the other “star” work
she has undertaken for the Firm at sundry times
during the past two years. But isn’t it a pity that
17-year-old Carrie, with an untrained voice and
an immature physique, should have these heavy
tasks put upon her ? In the light of the recent
Melbourne bother over Amy Castles and the
“ruin” of her top-note, this younger brighter
damsel looks a very suitable subject for public in-
terest. Why isn’t versatile Carrie benefited and
sent ’Ome to get tuition—and rest ?
*****
“ A Soldier and a Man,” after a few nights
of slack business at Melbourne Royal, drew
another big crowd last Saturday, and things look
healthy for Holloway’s spasmodic drama. Given a
wild outbreak of hostilities in South Africa, and the
patronage of local warriors headed by a brass band,
and “A Soldier and a Man” ought to go on and
prosper. It suffers at present from an insufficiency
of British Flag on the stage, and Rule Britannia
in the orchestra, but when these matters have
been attended to and the public have learned to
regard Sergeant Jane and other “comic reliefs”
as inevitable evils, the tale of potted Zulu will
supply a passing want. Sergeant Jane is a nice girl
in the wrong place. Also the bulky impersonator of
Jane’s father is an aggressive mistake, and Jane’s
young man seems a very ordinary sort of Jim. As
regards the juvenile old mother who dies from the
effect of building materials on her mignonette-bed
outside her dear old home The Bulletin will say
nothing more, except that she looks pleasant dur-
ing her last sleep and is a nice, light, little body to
carry indoors. Moreover, the decease of the placid
parent gives Miss Dora Winton an opportunity
to revile her husband with real womanly
feeling. Melbourne likes Miss Winton in
her stormy moments, and admires her vigorous
proposal to seek the bubble dissipation even
at the bottle’s mouth. The scene where
she asserts that brandy for the gander comes
equally handy to the goose is a valuable domestic
lesson which partly atones for the rest of the
drama. Up to that time the hero is a penniless
dead-beat, with an expensive thirst and a mania
for squandering his abject poverty at the billiard-
table. The thought of his wife taking to drink,
like himself, what time the lodger goes pawn-
ing clothes to buy food for the lady, is more than
the hero can bear. It converts him on the spot.
He perceives the utter impossibility of providing
drinks for two when there’s no money in the
house, therefore he refuses to let his wife touch a
drop. How like a husband !
** * *
“ The Geisha,” at the Princess’s, was re-
ceived with signs of weariness last week, and Wun
Hi is about to shut up shop again. On Saturday
there will be a revival of ‘ ‘ lolanthe, ” which is,
perhaps, the strongest of Gilbert and Sullivan’s
operas in its satire and music, but is also the most
difficult to cast. Fortunately “ lolanthe ” abounds
in fairies and bald-headed noblemen, so the Firm’s
chorus can be trusted to pull it through.
** * *
Melbourne feels somewhat deserted this
week. Cinquevalli leaves for Sydney to-day
(Thursday), and the place in the Rickards pro-
gramme where the mighty Paul worked his mira-
cles will be taken by a new arrival. Mdlle.
Trebelli on Saturday evening gave a farewell
recital at the Town Hall, concluding the crowded
occasion with a double encore. Also, Benno
Scherek, in the afternoon, led his orches-
tra to victory for the sixteenth and last
time. Scherek’s attractive concerts have made
a local market for high-class music of the
kind that everybody can appreciate, and his next
series will probably get almost as much support as
he deserves. In the meantime, the old admirers
of that gifted, sane musician wonder why they
didn’t persuade him to fix up an Orchestra years
ago. Melbourne has long been waiting for some-
body without taking the trouble to think that
Herr Benno was the very person required.
At Poverty Point.
Antoinette Trebelli is considerably younger than her
“ plump and pleasing” appearance gives many people to
suppose. Why, it doesn’t seem so long ago that ner
mother, Trebelli-Bettini-the finest Carmen of them all
was playing boy parts in grand opera. Mdlle. Trebell s
mother was a tall, intense, rather slim artiste,, with a
jaunty bearing and a raking stride, as woman-strides g ■
The daughter is equally charming, on quite dmerent
lines.
Madame Cecely Staunton (formerly of the Montague
Turner co., a handsome Maorilander with a charming
voice) is now associated with the Carl Rosa Opera co.,
and made a big hit in the r3le of the Nurse in ictor
Holleander’s new opera “San Lin,” lately produced at
the Grand Theatre, Islington.
The Newcastle soprano, Miss Violet Ludlow, °®. e
success at Co vent Gulden, London, was recently cabled,
was “discovered” by Mr. A. W. Juncker, under whose
tuition and direction she made several appearances ie
N.S.W. in oratorio and opera-bouffe.
Memo, from “ The Christian ” —Miss Henrietta Watson
cuts the loaf with her left hand. Is she naturally a left-
handed bread-cutter ?
Kenningham, who was himself a choir-boy soloist at
St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, inclines to the idea that
young Cyril Tyler, with the bustious chest, round limbs,
and feminine voice and methods, was really a girl in a
velvet kniekerbocker-suit. But there remains the fact
that Cyril’s voice broke into little bits in Queensland,
where the young person showed some very masculine
tendencies. R. S. Smythe, who had the “ refusal of
C.T. for an Australian tour, took it for granted t hat he
was a boy, and declined the speculation, reckoning that
the voice would be a constant anxiety to the manage-
ment—which, as a matter of fact, it was. No doubt as to
young Tyler’s sex was ever entertained in Australia. His
mother allowed him to go round with men, he performed
mighty feats with his chest expansion—which he could
hardly have done if he were a girl—and the last time
The Bulletin heard of him he was said to be developing
into a fine tenor. Can anybody throw any further light
on the subject ?
Playwright Haddon Chambers has a full namesake in
Haddon Chambers, Q. 0., well-known in London. Evi-
dently no name is unique.
Cinquevalli, for many weeks, has been compelled to im-
pose mustard leaves and other hot stuff on his mighty
right arm and shoulder, which took a bad sprain during
his first Sydney season. The poulticed parts are now as
brown and shiny as the skin of a coon, and Cinquevalli
remarks in a casual way that juggling is not unadulterated
joy, under the circs. What time he isn’t practising he
tries to soothe his feelings with amateur photography.
Present writer reckons that Baby Powers, the kiddie
who gives the doll song-and-dance at Rickai ds’s, is about
the cleverest, sturdiest, and most entertaining seien-
year-old “ phenomenon ” 'we have had. The child seems
to thrive on the work. Her little legs are solid supports,
and her voice fills the house with much less effort than
the average phenomenon requires for producing smaller
results.
Dear Bulletin. —lt isn’t only in his burlesques that the
Yank runs furiously to cocktails and comic-paper dissipa-
tion. It is the same in his music-hall sketches. At
Melb. Bijou a pair of variety artists are perpetrating the
eternal ’Murkan joke of the husband who is bent on a
night out, and the wife who intercepts his plans. The
man talks about having a good time at the French ball as
though he had just stepped out of one of Hoyt’s musical
eomedies. In ’Murkan “ sketches ” a puerile citizen is
usually trying to run away from his wife for the evening,
whereas in English ditto he talks a maudlin “ song ”
about the wife who ran away from him years ago, or the
dear children whom he has brought to poverty through
his weakness for drink and gambling. Hard to say
which is the more tiresome chestnut—the cheerful
Yankee benedict with his red nose, or the gloomy British
parent who concludes a long descriptive dirge (a “ scena ’
he calls it) by pretending to blow his alleged brains out’
But the latter, at any rate, can claim that he is the more
moral infliction of the two.— Hkntale.
Somebody raises a partial excuse for Amy Castles’
apparent inability to profit by the society of educated
people what time she was booming around Australia.
At a first glance the girl who still sang “ ’Ome, Sweet
’Ome,” in heartless, aitchless style, after five months of
sooial fame looks a hopeless case. But the apologists
argue that Amy got no chance to learn anything from
her new friends and worshippers. They never talked
sense to her. They merely said, “My dear young lady,
yours is the most marvellous voice in the world ; please
deign to accept this diamond ring, or bracelet, or what-
not, as a token of our insanity.” Whereupon Amy added
the token to her store of self-possessions and went on
singing “ ’Ome, Sweet ’Ome ” as before.
“ Belle of New York,” after paying big divs. for about
two years at the Shaftesbury Theatre, where it was intro-
duced to London, has got down to the bed-rock of popu-
larity, and people are wondering why the long season
doesn’t close. Probably the illness of manager George
Musgrove accounts for this prolonging of the agony.
And it has been whispered that Musgrove will retire from
London management when the curtain falls on “The
Belle.”
Melb. Argus chides Rickards’s new musical mono-
loguer, Yirto, for ringing in strictly London jokes on
Australian audiences. It’s about time that imported
artists were taken to task for making stock allusions to
Westminster Abbey and Burlington Arcade, which are
Chinese to the majority hereabouts.
“T.S.” : It is necessary to see how well Thomas King-
ston and Henrietta Watson do the two leading charac-
ters in “ The Christian ” to realise how badly they could
be done—if only Wilson Barrett and co. tried their hands
on them.
There is something like a revolt amongst the wholesale
manufacturers of British melodrama, and they have let it
be known that' they do not intend to furnish any “ fat,”
low-comedy parts just at present. It appears that the
demands of the voracious funny-man have exhausted the
intellects of modern melo-dramatists. The love-lorn
policeman, and the Jew, and the comic cockney, and the
three varieties of Irishmen have all been used, and used,
and used, and turned and used again, and as there re-
mains nothing else in the whole range of masculine
human nature from which the mechanical play-maker
can get a gallery laugh, the principal low-comedian must
take a back seat for awhile. It seems that his place is to
be partly filled by an eccentric young-woman character,
who will crack mild wheezes in the centre of the stage
until all the novelty has departed from her. And then
the chastened male joker will pop up again, compara-
tively fresh.
Agricultural criticism of “The Geisha” at front door of
Melb. Princess : “ Decent show ! Of course it is; but
who wants to go to Japan for a decent show ? ”
AFTER SEEING CINQUEVALLI.
The God in play to me appears.
He juggles with a million spheres,
And when we see a planet fall
We know that He has dropped a ball.


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(o/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
.Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars applv
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
\\\v
/Ss
?jgsm&
MW A
m
M
wm
in
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEH
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.,—Sydney.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/33%
Caustic Soda, Garb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/103%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Mkmsournb ;
HPUt-st., Sydney; (18 Currie-st., Add. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lornhton Qusiy, Wellington, NX.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Viotorian surplus, now that the accounts
for the year ended 30/6/’99 are definitely closed, proves to
be £382,255, or £30,798 more than Treas. Turner antici-
pated. This is the boss surplus of Australia for a very
long time. t 0 *
Maoriland Govt, has presented to Parliament a
statement of the relative cost of loans floated in London
and locally. It is estimated that a three per cent, loan
floated in London just now would probably realise only
£94 gross. And allowing for the great extra cost
of flotation in London and extra cost of manage-
ment and remitting interest, it is proved that on a
loan of £250,000 it would be £176 per annum
cheaper to offer 3| per cent, on the local market
and sell the loan at par. Also it would be very little
dearer to offer 4 per cent, locally than to float at 3 per
cent-, in London. Yet by a hideously stupid inversion
of ideas most Australian Treasurers reckon that the local
investor shouldn’t get a show unless he will take less than
the British one. In N.S.W., for instance, the best interest
offered to the local investor is 3 per cent and the Govern-
ment has never got money in London at so low a rate.
» • * *
The Q. railways are in a condition of improve-
ment. For the last 12 months they show an increase in
net revenue of £58,919 as compared with last year. The
total returns on all lines open amounted to £3 3s. Id. per
cent, on capital. Southern lines return £2 10s. 2d. per
cent. ; Central railwavs give £4 11s. lOd. per cent; the
Northern system, £3 18s. Bd. per cent. (No wonder the
North and Centre love Brisbane.) The Townsville line
produced £9 15s. 9d. per cent. The chronic idea of South
Queensland politicians is that the South should get the
cheapest possible freights and fares, and that enough
should be screwed out of the North and Centre to make
up the difference ; and in between turns the South rises
to ask why the North should be consulted on Federation
or why its vote should count in the matter. The guarantee
lines are only a qualified success. Three of the lines —
Pialba, Allora and Enoggera—are already defaulters ;
and the fourth —the ML Morgan line —might have
defaulted too if the guarantors had been called on, only
as it happened it was such a huge financial success that
the solidarity of their guarantee wasn’t put to the test.
* * * *
New appointees to N.S.W. civil service do not
contribute now to the moribund Superannuation-Fund ;
instead, they are required to insure their lives in some
office approved by the Public Service Board —said ap-
proval being, to some extent, a guarantee that the office is
above all suspicion. Considering the many weak offices
thatare now fishingforpremiums, and considering that one
or two absolutely cronk institutions are also dangling the
wormy prospectus in the waters of publio favor, and,
taking into account the stupendous ignorance of the
average insurer, there is room here for the Public Service
Board to do some good by approving only of the
strongest offices—those which are absolutely above
suspicion. But the Board appears useless in this
matter, and, to all seeming, approves of strong and weak
institutions quite indiscriminately. Its latest effort con-
sists in “ approving ” of the Standard Life Association, a
very small proprietary concern about six months old.
The Standard may pan out a great success or it may not;
there is nothing known against its character save that it
is so very new that its first annual balance-sheet isn’t
nearly due yet. Consequently there is no evidence yet on
which any Board could conscientiously “ approve” of it.
But, seemingly, the rule-of-thumb people of the Public
Service Board “ approve” indiscriminately.
» * * •
The National Bank of Maoriland (whose
balance-sheet is a painfully gradual document, and appar-
ently reaches Australia by protracted raft or similar con-
veyance) reports that the profit for the year ended 31st
March, 1899, was £40,966. Which compares with some
previous earnings as follows :
March, 1892 .. £19,335 March, 1896 .. £18,090
„ 1893 .. 16,344 „ 1897 .. 21,461
„ 1894 .. 16,997 „ 1898 .. 25,538
„ 1895 .. 16,431 „ 1899 .. 40,966
A dividend of 6 per cent and 1 per cent, bonus absorb
£17,500 ; £2500 is set aside as the nucleus of a pension-
fund for the hank’s officers—a departure which can’t be
too highly commended ; £20,000 is carried to reserve,
making it £60,000 ; and the other £966, added to
previous balance, leaves £5161 at credit of pro-
fit and loss. The profit is equivalent to £l4 2s. 6d.
per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds, so the
National of Maoriland is a remarkably profitable con-
cern, and very far indeed above the average. The
business continues to expand, and the reserve of cash and
liquid securities (£488,775) equals between 17 and 18 per
cent, on all liabilities to the public. This is by no means
a large reserve, according to the ideas now current. Two
of the reasons of the National Bank’s prosperity appear
to be that it keeps the non-interest-bearing item of cash-
reserves as low as possible, and that it does a large busi-
ness on a comparatively small capital. Many an institu-
tion doing an equal business would consider it expedient
to call up £lOO,OOO more capital, and keep it all as a gold-
reserve, whereby the same profit would only mean 10 per
cent, earned on the shareholders’ funds.
Taking all things into account, both Maoriland
banks are doing remarkably well, and show a rate of
progress that no bank on the mainland is keeping pace
with. Four years’ record of the two institutions is as
follows :
Bank of New National
Zealand. Bank.
1896 Profit .. .. £35,325 .. £18,090
1897 39,391 .. 21,461
1898— „ .. .. 74,900 .. 25,538
1899 93,920 .. 40,966
The most notable feature, however, is that, in the general
improvement, the privately-managed institution, despite
its prosperity, is badly left by the State-managed one every
time. Yet some months ago the S.M. Herald, which
barracks unscrupulously for private enterprise at all
times, had the gall to assert that the National Bank was
leaving the State-managed B.N.Z. behind, and asked why
the latter “ couldn’t show as great an increase of net
profits as the former ” if State control was what it was
cracked up to be ?
* • *
Melbourne Permanent Building Society has
had (for it) a comparatively good year :
August, 1893 —Loss £5605 August, 1897—Profit £1220
„ 1894 — „ 9860 „ 1898— „ 1523
„ 1895 „ 508 „ 1899 „ 1913
„ 1896 Profit 884
The date when the loss ended was when the Melbourne
Permanent obtained a reduction of debenture interest
from sto 2J per cent. But things, unfortunately, are not
all they seem, for the above are trading profits only, and
during the year £7206 had to be provided to cover
depreciation of properties. This absorbs all that re-
mained of the contingency fund, and next year’s losses on
property'sales will probably swallow the little reserve
fund of £5033. The Society has £499,182 of assets, but
it is specially notified that they are book values only ; for
instance, the item, “Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank Preference shares, 150 at £6 each, £750,” only re-
presents about £l5O of actual present value. With reason-
able luck, as things are just now', it is probable that
the assets are worth enough to cover all liabilities to the
outside public (say about £300,000), and leave nothing, or
thereabouts, for the shareholders ; though with the
revival of business and property values it is quite possible
that these latter may get their capital back intact in a
few years time. The institution has £177,164 paid-up
capital and it still owes t 262,707 to its debenture-holders,
which top-heavy liability makes all the trouble. If the
institution traded solely on its own capital it would have
no need to rush its properties on a partially-convalescent
market as it has been doing.
* * • •
M'Lean Brothers and Rigg, Limited, the great
hardware co. which pervades pretty nearly all Australia —
its curious record :
June 1892 Profit .. £11,487 June 1896 Profit .. £135
„ 1893 Loss .. 15,367 „ 1897 Loss .. 1,863
„ 1894 „ .. 16,368 „ 1898 „ ~. 34,197
„ 1895 „ .. 2,650 „ 1899 Profit .. 3,587
These are the actual trading losses and profits, but in
addition the co. decided in 1894 that it required to write
off £133,819 for depreciation and special losses and other
mysteries not too clearly explained. In 1898 it made a
further alarming discovery to the effect that this pro-
vision was quite insufficient, and that the losses and de-
preciation to be provided for (apart from the annual loss
incurred through the insufficiency of the takings to meet
working expenses and interest on borrowed money)
amounted to £314,132 more, or £447,951 in all. So the
present position of the co. is this :
Liabilities. Assets.
Debentures .. £240,480 Various Assets
Bank Overdraft 222,185 estimated to
Past Due Bills 195,723 be worth .. £471,135
Mortgages .. 8,333 Accumulated
Other Debts .. 53,532 Losses .. 249,118
£720,253 £720,253
In other words, this truly remarkable company has lost all
its paid-up capital of £250,000 and £249,118 besides. The
uncalled capital is £250,000, so if every penny of it was
called up, and every penny of it was collected (which is
too impossible to be worth mentioning) it would only
provide for the admitted losses, and leave £BB2 of share-
holders’ funds with which to work the huge iron-
mongery business. All the same, it appears to
have begun to pay its way again with the general
revival; and if it can keep making £3587 net profit
annually it is needless to say that it will pay off its huge
shortage and get on its feet again some day. Even the
most hopeless business on earth, if it can resume making
grofits and keep at it, will come right some day. M’Lean
ros. and Bigg paid 8 per cent, dividends till ’92, and it
is only 12 years old. It has crowded a good deal of his-
tory into 12 years.
* * * *
South Australian Gas Co. (Adelaide):
Profit. Dividends.
June, 1894 .. £32,041 13 per cent. = £32,500
„ 1895 .. 31,233 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1896 .. 34,429 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1897 . 29,963 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1898 .. 30,361 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1899 .. 30,636 12 „ = 30,000
This concern has £250,000 paid-up capital, £60,000 re-
serve, £7OOO replacement fund, and £15,189 at credit of
profit and loss, making its total reserves £82,189. And it
has been a most profitable burning and shining light in
the City of Churches for 38 years.
• * * *
The Bulletin has before it, in Queensland
Government Gazette, the annual abstract of the accounts
of the Provident and Industrial Insurance Co. of Maori-
land. It is a document which says more about the need
of State audit, and State valuation of securities, and a
rigid State standard of solvency, than any ordinary indi-
vidual could say in 10 columns of large print. The
amount of life insurances for which the Provident and In-
dustrial is liable in Queensland are over £28,000. And the
assets there to guarantee the pavment of these as they
fall due consist of £46 9s. 9d.—and even the £46 9s. 9d. is
not an asset, but consists merely of uncollected premiums
which may or may not be gathered in. The co. has
no cash, no property, and no investments in Queensland.
It is responsible in all for £230,976 worth of insurance to
be duly paid as it falls due, and its net assets as security
for all this appear to consist of £5760 worth of saleable
property. Even of this miserable sum £3240 was recently
made on paper by writing up the nominal value of the
company’s office. Yet some years ago, when the advisa-
bility of some kind of State regulation or some legal
standard of solvency was inquired into, Secretary Teece
of the A.M.P. rose to say that it was quite needless —
public opinion was sufficient to keep insurance institutions
straight.
* * * *
Melbourne Mutual Store—that concern whose
Kilkenny-cat meetings used to be the joy of local re-
porters, mainly because of the “ stoush ” that appeared
always imminent —is rather quieter nowadays, but finan-
cially it remains much the same. Its crab-like progress
of late years has been something like this :
Dividend.
Januarv, 1893 Profit £761 Nil
July, 1893 .. „ 133 „
Januarv, 1894 Loss 1747 ~
July, 1894 .. Profit 1427 „
Januarv, 1895 „ 1801 £2 4s. sd. per cent. £1250
July, 1895 .. ~ 2173 3 6s. Bd. „ 1875
January, 1896 ~ 1890 ~ ~ 1875
July, 1896 .. „ 2244 „ „ 1875
January, 1897 ~ 1448 £2 4s. sd. ~ 1250
July, 1897 .. „ 1332 „ „ 1250
Januarv, 1898 „ 2557 £3 6s. Bd. „ 1875
July, 1898 .. „ 1221 „ „ 1875
Januarv, 1899 „ 2210 „ „ 1875
July, 1899 .. „ 1275 £2 4s. sd. „ 1250
It is also mentioned that £2OOO has been taken from
reserve-fund, reducing it from a humble £7200 to a
humbler £5200—£1500 for sewerage and other alterations,
and £5OO as provision for law-costs, &c. The law-costs
should certainly have been charged to current profits, in
which case the real earnings would probably have
appeared at about £775. Things are growing no better
very fast with the Mutual Store. The dead weight of its
£64,000 overdraft, incurred when it built a palace in
Flinders-street without having the money to pay for it,
weighs it down like a millstone, and till that is removed
there is no visible hope. And the shortest way to remove
it is to stop all dividends till it is removed.
* * * *
Sydney Civil Service Co-operative Society, for
the half-year ended 31st July, 1899, hardly keeps up to
the level of the previous six months. Profits are :
January, 1896 .. £3273 January, 1898 .. £4250
July, 1896 .. .. 3275 July, 189 S .. .. 4184
January, 1897 .. 3785 January, 1899 .. 4968
Ju’y, 1897 .. ’.. 3962 July, 1899 .. .. 4801
The usual 10 per cent, dividend (£350) and 10 per cent,
bonus to shareholders on purchases (£424l).absorb £4591,
and the other £2lO is carried forward. Paid-up-capital is
£6996 ; reserve fund £11,500 ; and profit balance £545.
* * % *
Cabled that Frank Farnell, ex-M.L.A., is in
London floating a co. to catch fish on the N.S.W. coast
for the supply of Sydney. The idea of catching fish him-
self didn’t occurred to the self-reliant Cornstalk. Com-
mercial enterprise in Australia consists almost wholly in
asking J. Bull to come and do the thing for us.
Inverell. — TheD.T. correspondent at this place
is, at any rate, aptly named. He has risen a little above
himself in describing Inverell’s new discovery—a coal
mine ! “The shaft has been bottomed, showing a thick-
ness of 30ft. of coal. It is calculated that the width of
the seam is 1300 ft., and the length within the property is
fully half-a-mile. Such a volume of coal should indeed be
a profitable investment.” People will agree with the
D.T. man that the Inverell residents should now be able
to “ erect suitable works and to have their streets lit with
gas ; ” also, coal can be used for fuel if occasion requires,
and wood _ ets scarce. Inverell also has a Stock Exchange,
of which it is said, “ At the Exchange on Saturday night
there was a good attendance. Sales, Elsinore Valley Tin
at 6s. 9d.” Talk about gambling on the Stock Exchange 1
* * * *
Turon Dredging, N.S.W. Sydney papers con-
tinue trying to explain away this initial gigantic disap-
pointment in the local dredging business. One says “a
better feeling prevails,” another that “after all, the
return is satisfactory, because it is more than payable,” a
third that “ the dredges in Maoriland and elsewhere are
never very successful at the start.” The Turon is now
going to clean up every week. Exact time represented
by last clean-up still unknown. It is some little consola-
tion to know that 340 z. of gold were the other day taken
from the mats after 95 hours’ dredging—which is. a little
over an ounce, for 3 hours’ work. Shares over £2 each,
and there are 48,000 of them. Some people went into the
show at over £3.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Bock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
» * • •
South Germans (Maldon, Vic.) which have been
averaging about 355. per annum in divs., dropped from
£7 15s. to £6 9s. on the strength of a discouraging yarn
from a Bulletin correspondent printed in this column for
just what it may have been worth. Shares at time of
writing had recovered to £7 and higher, and the alarm of
sundry old lady investors was abating. The Argus came
to the rescue with a managerial proclamation to the effect
that there is fully two years’ stone in sight, also ‘ ‘ a large
amount of ground to the south is undeveloped exclusive
of the South German Extended reef 300 ft. west.”
* * * •
The Vic. mining veteran, J. A. Wallace, has
put in another pump-dredge on the Argo claim, Sandy
Creek, near Yackandandah, capable of lifting 7,000,000
gallons daily, and costing £10,009. The pump is a quad-
ruplex Worthington. Wallace must have invested fully
£lOO,OOO in his Yackandandah dredges. They have been
working for many years, were always open to the public,
are within 20 miles of Albury, and caused no boom out-
side till this year. Never a word about this in the dredg-
ing prospectus, nor a word of the fact that Wallace tried
the M.L. bucket-dredge in one place and threw it out,
thereby losing some thousands. By the way, too, it
would be interesting to know whether Wallace pays any
royalty on the pumps he uses.
• * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» * * »
Waihi, M.L. : Last month’s production, 8451
tons, yielding £24,165 bullion. Bunning 100 head of
stamps, erecting another 100, expects to have 300 going
within a year. By far the biggest mine in M.L., and
lately struck a distinct formation carrying higher values
than the present average. Began crushing wet, tried
dry crushing for several years, and has now returned to
wet crushing. Gold low-grade because of the quantity of
silver, and about half of it obtained by cyanidation.
« • * •
Rocky River (Tas.): “The indications are very
favorable of shortly meeting with some defined body.”
That appears to exactly explain the position of the mine.
Like its reports, it seems to have nothing very defined.
• • * •
Prospectus of the Moonlight Greek Hydraulic
Sluicing and Dredging Company shows that this co. pro-
poses to take over 64 acres on the Moonlight Creek, near
Castlemaine. Capital, £12,1)00 in 32,000 shares of 7s. 6d.
each, vendors receiving 12,000 fully paids, whilst 20,000
are offered to the public—ls. on app., Is. on allot., and
the balance by calls not exceeding 6d. per month, if
necessary. All the subscribed capital will go to the
credit of the co. The ground to be acquired forms part
of one of the old Vic. alluvial diggings whereof old miners
tell gorgeous tales. The difficulty during the past 39
years (yet one which may prove an advantage to the co.)
was the heavy water encountered at only a moderate
depth. Photographs can be seen and full information
obtained at the offices of Walford and Wilson, York
Chambers, 47 Queen-st., Melbourne; and Alexr. Oliver,
100 Queen-st., Melbourne, is the broker to whom applica-
tion for shares may be made.*
• * • *
Chillagoe railway and mines. —“ Griffith mine :
Very little progress made in prospecting. Magazine
shaft: Nodules of very rich ore met, with heavy inburst
of water which stops further work Nordville shaft :
Copper pyrites show occasionally ; ground very hard.
Bed Cap group : Solid ironstone gave place to ferruginous
conglomerate ; No. 1 tunnel in ironstone containing little
copper. Otho group: No. 1 shaft in solid formation,
carrying manganese oxide. Buddygore mine : No. 1
shaft stopped for present; No. 2 shaft no change.
Boomerang mine : Crosscutting just commenced. Ather-
ton mine : Crosscut extended 18ft. ; entered lode forma-
tion containing copper carbonate of fair value.” And
there is a good deal more of the same sort. A lot of
people are growing weary of miserable weekly yarns
which make this great concern look like a poor prospect-
ing venture. Either the man responsible for these reports
is abnormally pessimistic or the whole affair is mon-
strously overvalued.
• • • •
» The Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne,
are constructing to the order of the Boulder Perseverance
Co., Kalgoorlie, a very fine pair of first-motion winding
engines of ample size and power to go to a depth of 3000
feet. The engines have 20in. cylinders, sft. stroke with two
loose drums 10ft. diameter, and will be fitted with all the
latest improvements, balanced piston-valves; separate
steam reversing and steam brake engines being provided.
These and all the other controlling gear of the main
engines will be operated from an elevated platform by
the driver. When complete these engines will, probably,
be the most powerful and finest winding engines on the
Kalgoorlie goldfields.*
• * • *
Coolgardie Mining Syndicate is defunct in name,
but the record of its operations is the world’s romance in
mining. It was formed in June ’93 of 15 shares, five of
which were fully paid, the other ten contributing £l5
each. Total working capital, £150! 1 It was several
times enlarged; pegged out the Great Boulder, Lake
View, Associated Mines, Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie Mint, Lake
View South, L.V. Extended and Great Boulder No. 1.
When it went into liquidation last year the capitalisation
of these leases represented over £9,000,000. At present
the capitalisation is in the region of £30,000,000. The
amount distributed among Adelaide people in shares
represents about 3£ millions and in divs. nearly a million.
To the credit of the controlling spirit, George Brookman,
be it said that he never had one lawsuit throughout all
the complicated ramifications of this marvellous concern.
* * * *
The Statist (London) directs attention to the
fact that, taking Kalgoorlie div. mines all together, they
don’t average anything like 10 per cent., and that men of
large mining experience look for a much quicker return
on g. m. ventures that a 10 years’ basis. Even the
Golden Horseshoe, Great Boulder, Ivanhoe and Lai e View
Consols aren’t giving more than (say) 734 per cent, on
existing market values.
* * • •
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc.C.E., is visiting the Cool-
gardie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
* * » *
Dear Bulletin.—How those “evening” and
other newspaper romancers must kick themselves over
their pars, re Turon ! The publio had some suspicion
why the issue of those £6OOO of shares was made before
the first clean-up. Good stroke! If they can now
announce weekly returns —strange that it took four
months for the first one 1 Suppose they get 340 z. a
week (say, £130), there is at least £6O for exs. ;
then they have £7O to pay for dredge, plant, and
interest on about £lOO,OOO this being the price
of the property at from £2 15s. to £3 a share, at
which the public bought ! After this, what won’t the
numerous “ inferior ” dredges elsewhere in N.S.W. do!
Will the tipsters, boomers, “ paid storytellers”—by scrip
or otherwise—tell us why dredge-shares are now all
sellers and no buyers, and why some of those quoted
sellers, 4s. 6d., 55., ss. 5d., &c., on paper, are offered pri-
vately for Is., 9d., and 6d. ? — John Turon.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• * • •
Bayley’s, Coolgardie: “ Struck in the stopes
rich ore estimated at IOOOoz. per ton.” Gratifying to see
that Bayley’s is coming to the rescue of Coolgardie. It
wants something of the sort very badly. Warden Fin-
nertv will have to write a report this year for certain—he
is said to have missed last year, as there was nothing to
report about.
* * • •
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is one of I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices.*
• * * *
Working expenses are conspicuously missing
from Kalgoorlie reports. Even the managers taboo the
topic. Once yearly j,he shareholders get a passing glimpse
of the figures, but they are so presented as to obscure
actual cost in detail of the enterprise. The Boulder Main
Beef is the bright exception : cost of sulphide treatment
is explicitly set out. The silence of the L.V. Consols’ re-
port is as suggestive as the 10ft. iron fence surrounding
the plant. Bunning hours never accompany battery
tonnage ; cost of filter-press and cyanide extraction un-
stated ; and occasionally gold from battery and cyanide
mixed up, though the cyanide tonnage is always stated
separately.
30,0000z5. monthly looks splendid, but the cost
of keeping it up will presently astonish the L.V. Consols’
shareholders. Consols’ telluride ore contains a large
percentage of silver, yet no receipts for this metal have
so far been acknowledged. Is it a perquisite of the
smelting co. ?
Had the Bull syndicate secured the new issue of
Associated shares, its ascendancy would have resulted
in radical changes at the mine and a manipulation of
Kalgoorlie’s output. But the evil day is only deferred ;
the syndicate has vowed to possess the bonanza ulti-
mately. The directors’ little project was spoiled by the
shareholders putting up the extra capital freely—the bulk
of which the Board has put into Consols at 3 per cent!
Fancy a mining-directorate squeezing shareholders for
funds to invest in British bonds ! And yet these directors
will be re-elected.
The proposed Kalgoorlie Electric Power Co.
(just floated in London), to supply mines with power so
cheaply that they can throw out existing plants, origin-
ated under interesting circumstances. When electric-
lighting was first introduced to the mines much trouble
surrounded installations. Lake View, Boulder, and
Associated proposed a trust to supply the three largest
properties, and the scheme went ’Ome with strong re-
commendations from aforesaid managers, but no vendors’
shares being provided for directors incontinently flung
it out. The idea was then seized by an enterprising
machinery-dealer, who secured promises from managers
that, if given power cheaper than they could produce it,
the mines would be customers. Scheme again remitted
to London, original error presumably being rectified, and
managerial promises construed into contracts. Insiders
enquiring which, if any, of the two big co. directors are
interested, and what, if any, the consideration was in
promoters’ shares'?
* * • *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. are still im-
proving their system of ore dressing, and have decided to
erect a further number of “ Luhrig” Vanners, and shortly
74 of these machines will be at work in their mill. Before
adopting the “ Luhrig,” numerous tests were made with
other, vanners, percussion tables, &c., but the “ Luhrig”
Vanner beat all competitors. An experimental plant is
erected near Melbourne for treating small parcels of from
two to five tons. Full particulars of “ Luhrig ” machinery
may be obtained from the general agents, W. and J.
Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill.*
* • * •
Editor Bulletin. —In your last, you publish a
letter and extract from Engineer relating to acetylene
gas. Your correspondent is in error in some respects :
the cost of maintenance is given at the maximum, and
calculated to deter people from using the light. He
assumes that a middle-class householder is going to light
10 burners at 6 p.m. and keep them all burning until 11
р. In actual practice, not more than one-half the
lights would be in use at any one time. Re his statement
“ that the highest duty ascribed to acetylene is 32 c.p.
per hour with a one-foot burner ” ; I am perfectly aware
that c.p. is a variable quantity, but, even allowing
that, the statement is positively misleading. Let
him take an acetylene burner consuming 1 cu. ft.
per hour, and compare it with a Bochester 300
с. lamp or an incandescent 100 c.p. electric, and
his verdict will be in favor of acetylene. From an
economical standpoint acetylene can and does compete
with coal gas, as the following figures will show. Cost of
1000 cubic feet acetylene delivered within 300 miles of
Sydney: 2001 b. carbide at sd. =£4 3s. 4d. Various
authorities compute that acetylene is equal in illuminat-
ing power to from 14 to 19 times the quantity of coal-gas.
Take it at 15, then 1000 ft. acetylene = 15,000c0a1-gas; 3000
acetylene costs £4 3s. 4d. equal to coal-gas at ss. 7d. per
1000 feet. Can any country gas works supply coal-gas at
this figure, and if you deduct 20 per cent, for freight can
any works in N.S. Wales? For domestic lighting acetylene
is without a peer. Taking light for light it is the cheapest
illuminant known and the only one by which it is possible
to judge the true relationship of colors. —H. F. Stewart.
* * • •
The Insurance Post and Remembrancer
(London) writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society’s latest report:—“This is truly a remarkable
record of successful achievement, and it bears eloquent
testimony to the administrative ability and indefatigable
industry of all concerned in the management.”*
* * * *
Printed that two gold dredges for Siberia have
been shipped from Dunedin to the order of Mr. M. Hein,
St. Petersburg, who is interested in a dredging claim 400
miles in length, on a Siberian river, and intends to place
100 dredges on the property.


A NEW DEPARTURE
]n Orient Suit to Pleasure at 635.
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
JtST We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMP ANY,
GEORGE AND BARRACK STREETS,
(°STo t 0) SYDNEY.
Catcb tlje flection beaOticS
OF
!
and have pleasant reminders of HAPPY DAYS by making
PHOTOGRAPHS, and be certain you procure your
Cameras, Chemicals,
Plates, Papers, etc.,
from us. We stock the latest and best of everything, and
charge competitive prices.
Call upon us for particulars, or write for one of our Illu-
strated Catalogues, which will be sent post free with our
new Monthly List by return.
PRBMO ~\7~.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
Brisbane Branch—
-34 Queen Stkeet.
Harrington * Co. [td.,
Photographic
Merchants,
Melbourne Agents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.
66 King Street, Sydney.
and Agents in all the colonies.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Re the projected Australian contingent for
Boer slaughter, Commandant Holled-Smith (Vic.)
drops a remark calculated to take the edge off a
lot of young eagerness for the fray: “Australia
would have to be prepared to send out drafts of
fresh men to fill vacancies.” Filibustering is a
fine thing to talk about before and afterwards—
for the survivors. But it’s a rather unsatisfactory
business for the fellow who receives his little fatal
bullet from half-a-mile off and is left staring into
“ vacancy.”
* * * *
The meetings in Melbourne to protest
against the Dreyfus sentence were mere advts. for
a lot of selfish parsons and second-rate poli-
ticians. Rentoul, aggressive theological Ormond
professor, gave away the show completely.
When the committee met to decide upon the
motion? to be submitted to the meeting and the
speakers to move them, Rentoul lay low, expect-
ing someone to propose that he should be the first
ranter. To his dismay and horror someone rose
and proposed that parsons Edgar, Canon Potter,
and Dr. Charles Strong should be the speakers.
Instantly the fiery Rentoul jumped to his' feet
with, “I will have to object to that proposal, as I
regard it as a distinct slight to my church (Pres-
byterian). I don’t want to speak myself, but I
think my church ought to be considered, especially
as we lent the committee this hall in which to hold
its meetings. One of those proposed is a Wes-
leyan, the other an Anglican, and the third an
outsider. In order to preclude myself from being
appointed to speak, I move that no clergyman be
asked to move any of the motions.” Strong was
a Presbyterian minister before* he withdrew and
started the Australian Church. The Rev. Larry
Rentoul is willing to recognise even a Wesleyan
as an insider, but Strong must ever remain an
“ outsider.”
ALAS.
“Are you still engaged to that Popup girl?"
“ Oh, no; that’s off some time.”
“ Did she chuck you? ”
“ No—married me! ”
Geelong held a meeting lately at
tvhioh it sympathised with Dreyfus and passed
tremendous resolutions, and decided that its noble
indignation should be cabled to Madame Dreyfus
and other persons concerned. But it didn’t pub
up a single copper to pay for the cablegram. At
latest advices these noble sympathisers were
besieging the town clerk (the mayor being absent)
to persuade him to illegally appropriate some of
the town funds for the purpose, whereby he would
probably render himself liable to prosecution
and the loss of his billet. And as the town clerk
didn’t see it, Geelong’s sympathy is hung up.
* * * *
The foundation-stone of the additions to
the Church of St. John the Evangelist was laid
the other day by Lady Mary Lygon. This par-
ticular church is at Gordon, near Hornsby Junc-
tion, and it is notified that Archbishop Smith was
present. That Archbishop seems to have dele-
gated what other Archbishops think their special
functions in the matter of church-stone-laying to
either Lady Mary or her Gov. brother.
An “Empire city” (Welling-
ton, M.L.) picture. Domicile, a
miserable thatched cottage. Furni-
ture, a few sacks and boxes. Family,
17-year-old unmarried girl with
two children (her own), and a man,
her father, also occupying dual
position of father and grandfather
to aforementioned babes ! But no-
thing can be done, as there is no
law in Maoriland to punish the
crime of incest. The girl-mother
is partially demented and therefore
practically helpless in the hands of
her awful parent.' Yet the police
are powerless to protect her ! Had
the girl been below the age of con-
sent her unnatural father might
have been clutched by the law,
but even then conviction would be
doubtful. Maoriland helps to send
missionaries to China and India.
She sent seventeen by one steamer a
week or two ago.
* ♦ *
At a ball in Cairns a waiter
f»ut down a plate of soup before a
ady: “ Mulligatawney, miss?”
“Yes: where’s the milk and
sugar?” He brought them and nearly fainted as
she liberally milked and sugared the plateful.
* * * *
The reappointment of Mr. R. B. O’Con-
nor to the post of’ Acting-Supreme Court Judge
awoke a painstaking D.C. Judge from his usual
state of bonhommie : “When are non-political
and non-partisan Judges to get their rights ? ” he
exclaimed. “ Barristers should first go to tem-
porary vacancies on the D.C. bench ; able and ex-
perienced D.C. men should be the first eligible for
promotion._ But once a man sits down on the
N.S.W. minor bench he is left to die there!”
Well, nearly so. Judge Cheeke, however, was
Promoted direct from the D.C. to the Supreme
v. irt Bench.
* * • *
“The necessity of exercise for the teeth ”
was the subject of a recent lecture by a Melb.
doctor before the Women’s Health Society. The
lecture was quite uncalled for; the necessity in
question has been made apparent by several cases
of starvation in Melbourne in late years. An
epitaph :
Beneath this mound upon his back
One William Williams lies,
He died at thirty-five for lack
Of dental exercise.
In the near
future there will
be a tramway right
through from
North Shore to
Manly. Manly will
never be worth
living in until it
has an alternative
means of communi-
cation with Syd-
ney in rough
weather. Should
the engines of a
ferry - boat go
wrong while cross-
ing the Heads in
a heavy beam-sea,
all hands would
have “ Buck-ley’s
chance.” And
there are quite a
number of people
alive to the fact.
Ex- Judge Forbes, writing in S. M. Herald
on the expansion of Sydney, has a host of reminis-
ences about the growth of that city's streets, his
memory carrying him back over 70 years of intel-
ligent observation. The faults in construction of
the early streets are numerous, as Forbes-street,
Woolloomooloo, called after his father, testifies ;
but modern street building was not then known.
David, the ex-Judge’s eldest son, one time a
financier with a wide reputation, claims to be able
to prevent the absorption, for railway or other
purposes, of Devonshire-street cemetery, so far, at
all events, as the Forbes family vault is concerned,
the site of that structure being an Imperial gift to
his grandfather, N.S.W.’s first Chief Justice.
The first Chief Justice was a native of Bermuda
and his wife a native of Jamaica, so that the
present generation of Forbes have come a long
way. The family possesses many valuable docu-
ments dealing with early colonial history. G. B.
Barton, when historiographer, tried to get them
and Parkes tried to force their delivery, but the
ex-Judge’s eldest son holds possession and declines
to hand over.
The Devonshire-street vault in which Chief-
Justice Forbes was buried was considered, when
it was built, the finest in N.S.W. Soon after the
C.J. was deposited in it, however, the tomb was
wantonly and ghoulishly injured, or, in ecclesias-
tical parlance, desecrated. Forbes was a Repub-
lican in sentiment and—though holding a Royal
Commission—often in open word and act. When
he was buried, friends wrote an inscription detail-
ing many of. his virtues, and among the rest
making allusion to his candor and courage of
The White Star Liner MEDIC, the biggest ship which has yet visited Australia.
Photo., The Exchange Studios.
speech, and had the inscription copied on to a
panel of the tomb. That panel some Imperialistic
Goth cut out, and a blank represents it till to-day.
Efforts were made to discover the perpetrator,
but without success. It was taken as certain at
the time, however, that the perpetrator or per-
petrators were actuated by hatred of the dead
Judge’s Republican leanings. A portrait of the
0. J. hangs in the Supreme Court, in King-street,
Sydney.
» * • *
Early marriages are not always such
thoughtless proceedings as is generally repre-
sented. In a N.S.W. divorce-case, the other day,
where the wife was something less than 14 years
old when she went in for matrimony, it came out
that the bridegroom was so impressed by the
almost parental duties of his new position that he
thoughtfully gave his bride a “hiding” before
the ceremony, with the promise of another when
once she was his own. The bride took the hidings
and other small matters in good part, and the
little rift within the lute only began when the
husband would not wash himself. Come to think
of it, there is a lot more sense in granting a decree
nisi for unpleasant physical habits than for all
the moral iniquities in the world. Dirty finger-
nails will cause a wife more discomfort than the
Flossie in the next street that she knows nothing
about. The Judge, however, thought differently,
and the young wife was bidden to cleave once
more to the man she had wedded plus the growing
stratum of Mother Earth he had accumulated
during his unwashed married career.
* * * *
At Point Gellibrand (Vic.), have recently
been exhumed some grim reminders of the cruel old
“ system ” days—in the shape of human skeletons,
still wearing the irons in which the poor wretches
had lived, died, and been buried. One set of
shackles weighed 17lb. !
“ He died, and they ” — didn’t unlock — “ his chain,
And digged for him a shallow grave.”
“ S.S.” : My suburb has been
haunted lately by an amazing woman on a
shattered bike, dated 47 8.0. The woman
looks 70, deep black wrinkles gutter her
small, old face, long wisps of grey hair
escape from under her shabby black hat and
stream behind her as she rides ; she wears a
3in. plaid, and exposes wrinkled white
stockings as she pedals wildly down the
track, with gaping mouth and staring eyes,
and the general aspect of a baited banshee.
The wheels of her battered jigger wobble
all over the shop, and the machine shrieks
in all its bearings like a bag of cats. But
the wonderful old woman on top hammers
away with an amazing energy that causes
men, women, and children to stand and
glare after her with an uncanny sense of
beholding something just chased out of the
dead centuries. It ought to be a comio
sight, but it is awful. I cannot understand
what her parents are thinking of.
* * * *
Judge Conolly, at Auckland (M.L.)
got off a blast of barren wisdom in a recent
abortion case. He sentenced the abortion-
ist—a woman—to ten years, and expressed
a large red-hot opinion that the woman who
was operated upon, and who gave evidence
against the accused, should also be in the
dock and should get ten years likewise. It
plight not be expedient, but at all events
it would be logical enough. The patient en-
gages the abortionist, and incites her, and
pays her, to do an illegal act, and then when
said patient “ turns dog ” the law sends the
illegal to gaol but never does any-
thing to the illegal employer.
“ His Excellency Lieut.-Colonel Sir Jerry
Smith, K.C.M.G., Commander-in-Chief in and
over the colony of Western Australia and its
Dependencies,” was lately sued in Coolgardie
R.M.’s court for =£4o for sundry drinks and re-
freshments, supplied at an “At Home ” in the sad,
desolate Coolgardie Exhibition last February.
His Excellency paid £5 into court, and asked for
an adjournment till the underling who ordered
the. “refreshments” returned from England.
Plaintiff objected, as he had waited long enough
for his money; and then was witnessed the awful
spectacle of an ordinary R.M. and two beastly
J.’sP. refusing the Governor’s application. In
’Groperland, too !! The plaintiff deposed that
Capt. Haig ordered the goods in a gay and
haughty and hang-the-expense style. He said
nothing about cost, and plaintiff supplied first-
class vittles, and when he sent in his bill a row
was raised because he had not mentioned the
items. He said it was not usual in his business to
supply details but to charge at so much per head ;
and as there were 400 people present at the guzzle
the bill came to only 2s. per head, whereas the
Governor’s offer was 3d. for the refreshment of each
guest, or half the price of a drink of shypoo.
The court gave judgment for .£l9 10?. and costs
for two days. There was a time when a British
pro-consul would not have haggled about such a
matter, and if he thought he had been got at
would have paid silently and managed the next
affair better rather than have dragged his high
office in the mud.
* * * *
In “ high ” Melbourne circles they run a
missing-word competition : —“ Lord Brassey has
had another cropper. Yesterday morning he fell
in the .” Supply missing word.
* * * *
Gov. Lamington greatly astonished the
turnip intellects of Rosewood (S.Q.) district
t’other day. Rosewood is a great Anti-Federal
district, and at some local show at which Laming-
ton was present, allusion was made to the alleged
disastrous influence of Federation on the price of
butter. “Gentlemen,” said the Q. Governor,
“ there are higher and better things in this world
even than a rise in the price of butter ”... And
the yokels gazed at Lamington stolidly and then
went away solemnly and thanked their bucolic
gods that such an infamous specimen of a British
peer was going ’Ome shortly.
* * m 9
W.C.T.U. women in S.A. reckon they
have discovered the genesis of cigarette-smoking
at last. It arises from the bad habit mothers have
of giving their babies “comforters” to suck when
“ THE PUBH ” IN HEAVEN.
PIPO : “If that Chow goes in I stops out.”
SLOUCH: “ Hats I s’pose they're providing him fer us
to stoush.”
they are restless. “The children grow up with a
craving for something, they dunno what, and a
cheap cigarette or the stump of a cigar will do as
we H as anything else,” says a W.C.T.U. woman.
A Mrs. Clatworthy corroborated and testified that
her “ heart had often been broken as she had
noticed the same evil.” The W.C.T.U. has now
furnished a clue to the origin of the English
dude’s habit of sucking his walking stick, and
Premier Kingston is to be asked to legislate
against “ comforters.”
' * * *
The most popular form of suicide in


Sore Throat.
“ You cannot do better than
gargle with Condy’s Fluid.”
SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D.,
The Eminent Throat Specialist.
Insist on
Buying
CONDY &
Condy’s Fluid.
MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Makers.
“CoNDVS ’ * can be purchased of
all Chemist.-* and Stores. Beware oj imitations.
(jil (Jake
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throng hout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’lanl.
In order to introduce our GOLD-WIRE JEWELLERY
to the Australian public, we have decided to OFFER one
of the greatest BARGAINS ever seen in the jewellery
trade—viz., the above handsome BROOCH (any name or
3 initials), made of extra quality gold-filled wire, with
bell or heart pendant; guaranteed 9 carat solid gold.
Complete, sent post free on receipt P. 0.0. or M. 0., 5/-.
Agents wanted to take orders. Illustrated catalogue
sent free. R. SIMS, Manufacturing Gold-wire Jeweller,
Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
Cricketers going for records would do well
to try Zetz Spa Water—exhilarating. The real
Elixir of Life compounded in Nature’s laboratory.
Try a Zetz and lemon. See that Zetz is on the
bottle.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“My Experience as a Charity Carnival
Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send post-card to A. S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W. A.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed
lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
Try—
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
SULPHUR PILLS
Per post, Is 3d.
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
ALL ACHES AND PAINS
CURED . . .
By Writing to
F. Senior, Chemist,
246 George Street, Sydney.
Queensland is the fiery-chariot business —that is
for ladies. Recently an unfortunate woman of
Stanthorpe bought a quantity of kerosene and
gunpowder; walked some distance away from
town ; saturated her clothes with oil; put on a
thick sprinkling of gunpowder, and then set alight
to the combination. And even that didn’t succeed
for she was found (as a local paper briefly put
it) “ semi-combusted,” taken to the hospital, and
set on a fair way to recovery. There is no
creature so tenacious of life as a would-be suicide.
Yarrum : I know a home not so very far
from Sydney, where an 18-year-old idiotic youth
and his 14-year-old sister are left for days and
nights alone together. The father is somewhere
in South Africa, and the mother—sheet o’ bark
short—wanders about country in search of news
and tucker. I also knew a woman and her 25-
year-old son who had periodic boozings and
“ dossed ” together as long as the spree lasted.
It ended in the son trying to cut the mother’s
throat with a razor. And yet we send missionaries
to China!
• • • •
The case of the two Melb. lads, who con-
fessed to conspiring to murder a passing swagman
for the sake of a recalls that of the
Dederers, a couple of years back. They were
each 19 years old, and deliberately lured a Hindoo
hawker to a quiet spot, where he was murdered
and buried. A clumsy attempt to draw on his
Savings Bank account put the game away. But
the Dederers were creatures of hog-like ignorance
and stunted intellects. They knew nothing, and
neither of them had been 12 miles from his hack-
block birthplace in all his life. The lads of the
Wangaratta affair are city-bred youths, compara-
tively well-educated, and had spent all their lives
in a town that sends 30 missionaries a year to tell
the Hindoo and Chow heathen a number of un-
interesting facts about Aminadab—we don’t mean
Aminadab Sleek.
* • • *
Hunk of solid wisdom from Sydney D.T. :
Writing on the subject of Australian politeness—
The man who surrenders his seat to an inrush of
females only panders to overcrowding. If he sat where
he was, and compelled them to seek some other convey-
ance, or wait for the next, the powers that be would
have to make better provision for the traffic. It is, there-
fore, the fat gentleman who draws the dividend that is
oonvenienced when you politely surrender your seat, not
the old man or weak woman who takes it from you.
Moral: Sit still and don’t be a fool.
♦ * * *
At a recent Sydney Ragged Schools-
organisation meeting, the Rev. J. Hargrave struck
a startlingly new clerical note by deprecating the
immense vogue of foreign missions, as compared
with the miserable aid rendered to such valuable
home missionary movements as Ragged School
establishments.
* * * *
The Chow in defence of himself : “ You
Inglissee man no likee China man. Somebody
say so my countlyman spuilem (spoil) lillee Inglis-
seeman gel. You go to Hay ! Me stop this
countly long tam ; me healem Inglisseeman talkee
‘can’t spuilem lotten egg.’ Me think so allee
same lillee gel—him spuilem. before. Your
countlyman chuck ’im ’way; my countlyman pick
’im up. Thass all. Me think so lo harm.”
The Orange Church at Brunswick (Vic.)
ran a big card-party—2.s. entrance and small
prize. Good biz. The local R.C. Church took
the matter up and went one better—card-party,
dance, and bigger prize, and challenged the other
color to a final at the Town Hall. If it comes off
the finish will be interesting—to those not in it.
It has been freely asserted that Q. police
are often bribed by the Chinese. The Police
Commission now sitting in Brisbane elicited that
one constable had actually received a letter (>£l
enclosed) from a certain Ah Fat, but the copper
proved incorruptible, and Ah Fat’s present was
returned. ... As a proof of the virtue of the
Foorce this little stroke is simply superb. The
Chow who puts money into an envelope, and sends
it through the post as a present to a kindly trap,
is a very green Chow indeed.
♦ • * *
“ Out of the mouths of babes,” &c. In
Melb. Crim. Court last week a seven-year-old boy
was asked by Chief Justice Madden if he knew
“ what will happen to people who do right in this
world?” The sage urchin replied, “ They’ll go
to hell.” Here we have an unprecedented in-
stance of young Australian precocity. Truthful
Tommy grasps the fact that civilisation is honey-
combed with conventional lies—that the accepted
society notions of good and evil in human dealing
are out of accord with a small boy’s moral sense,
and that every frock-coated, bell-toppered “ right-
thinking person ” is doomed to Everlasting Fire.
Let us sing:
The Australian Church seems to be a de-
lightfully free-and-easy-going concern so far as
the pulpit is concerned. On three Sundays follow-
ing in Sydney there were three different creeds
represented by three different reverends. The
Rev. Walters is strongly Unitarian, the Rev. Dr.
Strong lackaadaisically Christian, and the Rev.
Walker, of Lucknow, hardly out of his Presby-
terian long-clothes. In the Lord’s Prayer Mr.
Walters changes the wording “Lead us not into
temptation” to “Be with us in temptation,” while
Mr. Walker manages to introduce “ World
without end ” into its last clause. There
is more than an ordinary amount of
liberality in the Rev. Walters’ lectures, as in-
stanced by that delivered on Ingersoll, and some
of his ideas are new to many of his hearers ; thus,
while condemning David over the Uriah business,
he asked that he should be judged by the standard
of his own day rather than by that of ours, and
then challenged the 19th century Pharisee to
throw the first stone at King David. There are
many who believe that the Australian Church, so
long as it does not go back from its creedless
position, has come to stay.
The singularly-haughty and exclusive per-
sonages forming the Melbourne Scottish Regiment
do not receive much respect from the local small
boy. A pitiful complaint was made after a recent
night parade that unregenerate youths of South
Melbourne had treacled the hirsute legs of the
heroes under cover of the darkness.
The pre-
dom in an t
note of the
sleepy little
Hawk e s -
bury town
of Gosford
is the fallen-
tree trium-
phant. 1 n
one case
there is a
street line
deviation to
get round a
m a m m o t li
log; in an-
other a
forest giant
sprawls
him self
across a
vege table
patch, and
the garden
fence con-
siderately
stops at the
trunk and
re-commen-
ces at the
other side!
At the little
cemetery
are at least
three in-
scrip tions,
full of
pathos and
i n d i ff ere n t
orthogra-
phy, record-
ing the tra-
ged i e s of
timber - get-
ting ; and as
if to accen-
tuate the
fatalness of
thedescend-
in g eucal-
ypti, several
of the grave
fences 1i e
ruined un-
der a fallen
trunk. At
N a r r a r a,
near by, Mr.
Fagan,
Kendall’s
fat her-in-
law, points
out to the
visitor one
of the poet’s
favorite
trees
“b 1 o w n
down by
the Mait-
land gale,
sir. No tap-
root.”
Be the alleged insanitary condition of
Sydney Equity and Bankruptcy buildings, the
original main building of Port-street School was
a military hospital, and the building now used
as Sydney Mint was also for years a hospital. So
also in a minor degree were the present ramshackle
N.S.W. Parliament Houses; yet none of these
buildings have given any cause for suspicion of
consequent insanitariness.
* » * •
The retirement of several Victorian P.Ms.
at the end of this year is to be followed by the
appointment of Chief Justice Madden’s associate,
Barlow, as P.M., a few dozen competent and ex-
perienced clerks of court being passed over. The
reason of the action is difficult to account for until
it is remembered that a vacant associateship will
result, and that the Chief Justice has a son just
over 21, who is destined to follow in the profes-
sional footsteps of his illustrious pa.
* * * *
The anti-dancing parson Gladstone, of
Nathalia, Vic., has broken out in a fresh place,
this time at Barmah. He was not respectful to
the populace, and they hustled him off the plat-
form, and gave him a run through the scrub. He
escaped without breakages in a farmer’s buggy.
He was not even smitten with an egg, but he
glories in his persecution. The common work-a-
day person, when he gives his neighbor much
“lip,” gets his chin knocked in or his nose deflected,
and bears his cross in silence and alone ; but when
a parson meets with opposition after abusing a
whole populace, he crosses his hands, goggles his
eyes, and invites adoration as a brand-new martyr.
It was the Irish community of Barmah which
started parson Gladstone on his hurried flight for
the bush. The brawling reverend told the Dublin
and Kilkenny part of his audience that the chief
characteristics of their nation were “drinking,
dancing, and dynamiting,” and then, when a
flushed “bhoy ” made a rush for the platform, he
asked for “ fair play ” —and peace and quietness.
It was a rather curious request from a man who
had just called his audience, and his audience’s
father and mother, drunken dynamiters. The
Irish gentleman who took the matter most to
heart responded by offering to make it a fair
stand-up fight of two if only the preacher would
come outside, which seemed a reasonable enough
suggestion in its way, but the good man fled by
a side-door.
* * * *
,1 ourneying to Brisbane Medical Congress,
the Melbourne doctor-contingent carefully avoided
a certain practitioner who is at present probably
more unpopular with the Australian profession in
general than any other member of it. One Mel-
bourne man, however, mistaking this very bete
HIS MATCH.
FOOTBALLER (referring to friend) : “He belongs to the leading club and plays a great
forward game.”
OTHER FELLOW (significantly) : “ Yes; but I notice he's tackling a tricky quarter,
who looks like scoring."
noir for another doctor from the same city, greeted
him with—“ Very few chaps from your side going
up. But I’m told that fellow is on the
train somewhere ; just keep me out of his way,
will you! ”
* * * *
The folly of cycling through crowded
city traffic has gathered in another victim in
young Stock well, recently killed by collision with
a ’bus in Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Deceased
was exceptionally endowed, and _ promised to
make a very distinguished civil engineer.
* * * *
Under the Early-closing law, a barber was
sued at Horsham, Vic., the other day for cutting
a boy’s hair 2min. after closing time, the job hav-
ing been started 7min. before. This item comes
under the head of “Police Intelligence’’ in the
dailies. When Minister Peacock is compelled to
go home half-shaven and in a lather he will offer
the rewards that now go to the policeman who
criminates to the other fellow who discriminates.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin. —You’re wrong about
S.A. Govt, giving the women resident-medicalr
officer experiment “ best.” The women resigned
of their own accord, and Govt, has since been
advertising for R.M.O.’s, “ men or women.”—
A.G.W. [But, that the Govt, did give the ex-
periment best is shown by the fact that they
promptly filled the three vacancies with men. No
women-medicos in Adelaide Hospital now.]
All the people doing “ right,”
In dear Mistress Grundy’s sight,
Till ’tis time to turn their toes up to the daisies,
Think their souls will go to God
When their bones are ’neath the sod,
Though the fact is they are bound to go to Blazes.
All the people doing “ right”
Hug the thought that black is white,
And they contemplate the Future State with gladness;
But Terewth is all a lie,
And the good ’uns by-and-bye
Will be punished for their conscientious badness,
Whilst the writer of this song,
Who is ever doing “ wrong,”
In the hope that his example may convert you,
Will be yelling out a hymn
With the other seraphim
Who have learned that honest vice is blessed virtue.
Lore's
REBVKE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WO lovers you could gamble on
For solid constancy were John
P. Hogg, and Alice Porter Swann.
But John he had a humor grim,
And one day, through some girlish whim,
Sweet Alice Porter frowned on him.
Next day he came to call on her,
The heat burst the thermometer,
But John P. wore a cap of fur.
His coat was of a blanket made —
The heaviest kind known in the trade —
And huge horn buttons it displayed.
His hands encased in mittens were,
And looked extremely like a pair
Of bolsters tak, n out to air.
Four pairs of woolly pants he
wore —
As Dutchmen did in days of
yore —
Turned up to show that they
were four.
When Alice Porter him
surveyed
She held her hands up,
sore dismayed,
And cried, “ What means
this masquerade ?”
Then solemnly replied
John P.
“/ always mean to
dress, ” said he,
“ Like this when you
look cold on me.”
G.R.


Spring BadS bav/e BdrSt
at
. MRRK FOY’S!
A Riot of LoVlipeSS.
All Drapers Everywhere.
Ren)?ri)b3r! .
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
Kins' & Georse Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have H ° y
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
w Sydney, September 26, 1899.
My Dear Myee,—
The Amateur Orchestral Society’s third concert
came off last Thursday to the orowded house that
always patronises this society’s admirable work.
A sonata of Tschaikowsky’s was the big piece of
the e vening, and anyone who could not distinguish
on his own account where the music passed into
deliriums, and where the “ billowy ecstasy of woe”
was intended to show up, was assisted by a printed
commentary that set out all the correct musical
emotions in black and white. Here the music be-
comes hopeless beyond all words. Here we see a
ray of hope. Now the composer strikes “the
fateful gong,” and the ignorant Philistine, whose
only idea of a gong is dinner, had his crude ideas
etherealised gratis. People who like to read their
own meaning into Beethoven or Wagner, are at
liberty to ignore the programmes, but people-
husbands, for instance—who can’t see what the
deuce it’s all about, find as much entertainment
and information in that booklet as the small boy
who is driven to read the Bible in order not to
hear the sermon. Miss Chisholm, who now sings
under her newly-married name, Mrs. Norman
Ashton, was the soloist. She wore a pink frock
and rosebuds in her hair, but her first song fell
rather flat, through want of sympathy on her
part, which I am told arises from extreme ner-
vousness. “Wind in the trees’’saw her more at
ease, and an encore followed. As a valedictory
compliment to Lady Mary Lygon, Hazon played
the little gavotte he wrote as a farewell to Lady
Carrington.
By the way, Lady Mary has stated that she will
return to Sydney as soon as possible. She tells
her friends that these four months have been the
most delightful in her life. This may be only the
correctly usual thing to say. But it’s likely to be
true. Maid of honour to the worried Duchess of
York must be a long way after playing Governoress
to Sydney’s select society.
The only news about Govt. House this week is
that Mr. Victor Corkran has won a ss. prize in
Madame’s graphology competition (Madame is
only an English society paper). A prize that our
Private Sec. might have won was a beautiful hat,
value three guineas, or a handsome gold bracelet
set with sapphires, value £l5. But Madame only
saw five shillings’ worth of goodness in the hand-
writing that transcribes His Ex. ’s mandates. I
am quite aware that this isn’t a very startling
piece of news, but I offer it in the belief that some
poor souls who have been eagerly looking for a
franked envelope inscribed by that same hand,
and have never got it yet, may find some consola-
tion in the thought that Madame didn’t give first
prize to that much-sought-after writing.
A warning to H.E. The cook and kitchen-maid
at a way-back station wrote young men’s names on
bits of paper, put them under their pillows, and,
in the morning, drew out the name of the husband-
to-be. The cook looked very black at breakfast,
the kitchen-maid was smiling a good deal. The
mistress noted, and inquired. It was the kitchen-
maid who explained, blushingly, that “Mary
drew ’Arry Casey;, but I writ down the Governor,
and I’ve drewed ’im for me ’usband. ”
What an avalanche of concerts is getting ready
to descend on Sydney. “Little Trebelli,” with
the story of the jewels hanging round her, arrives
next month. Maud McCarthy will also be here
soon. I have received a booklet—presumably-
written by her father—that tells the story of
Maud’s career up to date, forgetting nothing that
could possibly incline the public to rapturise over
her fiddling. She loves pets, she sketches, she
jabbers in foreign languages, revels in athletic
exercises, is an expert diver, edits a journal, keeps
a diary with a view to its publication, and writes
“ in her own original style 200-page letters to her
father.” However, the London press notices of
Maud’s playing are enthusiastic enough to
counterbalance these drivelling comments. The
Athenaeum sees in her the legitimate suc-
cessor of Joachim, when that great artist retires.
The critics all comment gladly on her personal
magnetism, and in the face of this rain of pearls it
hardly seems necessary for Dr. McCarthy to
break into reminiscences of the wonderful way in
which Maud used to shout out keynotes when she
was a baby in arms.
Another Australian coming back from Europe
shortly to play before her own folk is Miss Edith
Kilminster, the young Manly pianiste, ex-pupil of
Kretschmann and Kowalski. The Musical
Courier for July published Miss Kilminster’s
photograph on its front leaf and spoke well of her
recent pianoforte recital in London.
As I predicted last week, the local concert-
givers have multiplied by many. Miss Alice
Braund warbles at the Y.M.C.A. on October 10th.
Miss Frieda Miller’s pianoforte recital comes off
on October 3rd, and Miss Renee Lees’ friends are
working up a benefit concert for October 11, and
then, next Saturday, all the best cats in Sydney
and round about give their concert at the Exhi-
bition Building, when a wonderful collection of
well-bred creatures will swell the chorus. I haven’t
heard whether a man is allowed to send his neigh-
bor’s cat to this Exhibition, but the idea has its
points.
The Society of Artists brought their show to a
close last week, finishing up things with a run of
crowded “At Homes.” Miss Slattery and the Misses
Bensusan and Gotthelf entertained on Wednes-
day ; Mrs. Caro and Madame Aengenheyster on
Thursday night; and Mrs. Oliver and Mrs. Adams
the final reception on Friday afternoon. The
Society has gleaned a good deal of money from
these entertainments. The receipts for this year
are far ahead of those of former shows.
Mrs. Brough’s “At Home” on the Theatre
Royal Stage was one of those delightful, unusual
affairs that are happily not built u]p on precisely
the same lines as a hundred thousand other “At
Homes.” The stage was a harmony in green and
lilies. Little tables were dotted about with tea and
strawberries and cream—do you notice what a
strawberry season this has been? The garden
parties, at homes, and ball suppers have been able
to keep their strawberries “on” till the very end of
the party. All the theatrical world wore its Spring
frock, andheaps ofsociety were there, lookingalittle.
wooden by contrast with the easy, spontaneous
stage manners all round. Mrs. Brough, her hair
unaffectedly going grey and uncovered with a hat,
received in a red silk covered with black jetted
lace with transparent black sleeves and yoke,
and a posy of red roses in her hand. Miss
Temple played second hostess in a smart
black and white foulard. With one ex-
ception—Carne, of course—the whole of the
Brough co. was there. Miss Winnie Austin
wore a sweet little white frock with an open lace
yoke and a white tulle toque. Miss Marthbze and
Miss Renny, who are leaving the company next
month, returning to London, were being fare-
welled by many friends. Mr. and Mrs. Dartrey,
who always go everywhere together, Mr. Majeroni
(just Wedded), Mr. Lovell (just about to wed),
little Mr. “Freddy” Victor—after seeing his
clever study in “ Tanqueray ” one can’t help call-
ing him ’Orrid Victor—they were all there.
James Cassius and the new Mrs. Williamson,
“Goody,” Cecil Ward, Miss Henrietta Watson, in
a floppy muslin and floppier hat, represented Her
Majesty’s. Pretty Lilian Wheeler looked a little
peaky against a white boa after her recent indis-
position, when Helen Burdette had to be called in
to finish up the last few nights of the Indian
Mutiny. People came and went from three till
six. The thought of the coming six months
without any Broughs was the only cross on an
otherwise altogether fetching reception.
Another delightful party was Mrs. J. T. Too-
hey’s garden gathering at “ Innisfail, ” Wahroonga.
Several hundred people went up to this on Satur-
day afternoon. Many of the visitors lost them-
selves in the house, which is famed for its ex-
quisite interior decorations. One room after the
other was peeped into, and the tenth command-
ment fell to the ground all over the place. The
long white music-room with its beautiful pictures
and white gates shutting off a little stage, was
especially admired. The meaning of wall-papers
and colour schemes is a mystery to the majority
of Sydney people, whose only notion of making
their walls presentable is to cover them with shiny
sanitary papers that will wash.
And that reminds me that the Mutual Life of
New York scared the city last week by washing
itself down on the outside. The sparkling cleanli-
ness of this building inside is a bye-word. Ugly
people can admire themselves in the door-handles
and stair-rods, men are for ever washing marble
or polishing brass, and the high state of shine
extends as far as the ceilings. Last week, Major
Rennie had the building washed down on its
external side. Men scrubbed the stones from
little platforms. It was a moral lesson for people
like the hero in a local divorce case, whose wife
sought a divorce on the ground that he never
washed himself.
Theatrical weddings are in the air. Mr. Mario
Majeroni was married last Monday at Elizabeth
Bay to Miss Harpin from Randwick. It was a
truly “quiet wedding.” A wedding without any
musical accompaniments. Mr. Lovell is to be
married next Thursday to a pretty Melbourne
girl. He leaves the train at Melbourne, en route
for Adelaide, gets married there, and follows the
co. in a day or two. If the young stage darlings
continue to go off in this way, their fall in popu-
larity will have to be deducted from their salaries.
A new use for a paint-brush. Also, a new way
of dealing with oiled butter. A large, ravenous
picnic in Bananaland discovered it. The sand-
wich-cutters could not keep pace with the demand
until one perspiring damsel refused to chase molten
butter with a knife any longer. She seized a
paint-brush from the girl with the big nose who
always paints little bits at picnics, dabbed it into
the butter, and ingeniously saved the occasion.
A satire was lately enacted in the bush that
might have been founded on A.J.O. sandwiches.
A squatter and a city friend ordered some lunch
to be put up for them. By-and-bye, they picked
up a packet from the pantry shelf, and started off
to inspect the sheep on a run 50 miles away. At
dinner-time they opened their packet hungrily,
and got a horrid shock. The parcel was full of
clothes-pegs.
A long-time-ago Bulletin writer once gave to
the world the reason why the average doctoress
would never satisfy her own sex—because she
could not say “Now, little woman” with the
proper admixture of sympathy and master-
fulness. Same with the lecturess, only there
is too much masterfulness. The patronis-
ing, listen-my-children manner of anti-Catho-
lio Mrs. Slattery, for example, makes every
woman in the audience want to rise and heave
another woman’s bonnet at her, while her manner
of ending up with “ You may now consider your-
selves dismissed ” is so reminiscent of far-back
days that one instinctively feels for one’s slate and
jography book before toddling out to play. The
average lecturess is even more illogical than the
male of her species. Witness Mrs. S.’s arguments
against celibacy-vows. Girls take them in
their teens, when they are not fit to settle their
whole lives for themselves, also when they know
very little of the life to which they pledge them-
selves. But is not this equally true of the life-
long marriage system ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent i—
“As Findon Harriers’ Race Day (Sat., Sept. 23)
blustered from the start, most of the horsey
Naicest who frequent that smart meeting sailed
under storm canvas. With no finery-troubles, the
sport-loving crowd cheerfully faced the weather
with smiling lips, watery eyes, red noses and wind
in their back hair. An exception, who had trusted,
maybe, that the clouds might roll by was a
judge’s wife in grey brocade skirt, three-tailed
black velvet jacket, red hat and underskirt.
“At the races, Lady Brassey looked ship-shape
in braided-cloth skirt, hefurred jacket lined with
handsome brocade, and broad becoming hat
trimmed with magenta. Thank goodness, if her
ladyship’s cruse of periwinkle toques has failed at
last! His Ex. was cheery, though a trifle down-
trodden as to spats. Mrs. Pakenham, wearing a
white stitched black coat and skirt and blue head-
piece, looked a plump prosperous matron, an im-
proved edition of her sparse first appearance here-
abouts. Her experience is not singular. Every
Englishwoman, who camps for a time in ah Aus-
tralian pro-consulate subsequently humps her
bluey, a smarter, showier personage. ‘Gor Save’
must be a tonic tune ! The ladies’-committee,
headed by Lady Brassey, gave a dainty afternoon
tea to the M.C., so to speak, of the entertainment.
Mrs. Edward Miller enlivened her green cloth
with big gold buckles. A horrible warning was
provided by a stout matron who, presumably
meaning to fortify her complexion against the
weather under a coat of vaseline, had daubed on
red ochre instead.
“Several smart Melbourne girls are open-
ing feeding-rooms, where afternoon-tea for mere
petticoat-wearers will be less a specialty than
luncheon for the Right Sort! A rush of
patronage is prophesied, as the promoters
are all pleasing to look upon, and the possession
of ‘ troops of friends ’ (possible customers) is a
condition of partnership. More than one of the
firm, till she awoke to the lucrative properties of
chops and steaks, had looked like an angel and
worked like a steam-engine in the cap and pinny
of a Ministering Servant. Another, blessed with
a facile pen, has turned much honest pin-money,
and will continue to do so, no’ doubt, by the
manufacture of ‘Township Sketches,’ etc.
“At one tea-room —where, beneath waving
palms and artistic paraphernalia, sit the
gossiping maids and gilded _ youth of the
city—the firm consists of six girls, several
of whom are well-known in society, one hav-
ing earned the title of ‘the Most Beautiful.’
As, however, there are some hundreds of damsels
claiming this distinction, there has probably been
cruel unfairness in its bestowal. The girls call
themselves a co-operative company, m equal
shares, and declare themselves a benefit to society.
As their room is on the right side of Collins-street
—a cool, well-lighted basement, and contains all
necessary attractions, they should make a good
thing of it.
‘ ‘ Melb. women who have flocked back from the
Sydney junketings laugh and pooh-pooh all the
fuss made over the blue-and-white admission
cards at Govt. House. The same rule holds
good hero (only pump-handling . is and
the Naice people in these quarters always
found the plan of the two entrances a
sensible one. There is less delay in the
long-winded avenue, less of a crush in the dress-
ing-box where anxious eyes peer into the mirrors
by the aid of candle-light and noses have to be
powder-puffed before entering the ball-room. The
‘blue’ tickets are the official-and-intimate two.
hundred. They enter by the main door, and pass
on to the drawing-room, and from thence proceed
to the ball-room, or hang about till the house-party
appears, and sail in there after it. The white-
ticket common or garden guests are already on
the scene, and in two acts the sections have inter-
mingled, and the shadows of the blue bugbear lift
themselves gracefully away.
“At the Caledonianat-hoine (Masonic Haft), on
Friday nightman excited damsel rushed up to her
dearest chum with the news “I’ve been sitting
out with' an officer in kilts.” “In Hilts ? ” replied
the other, in the slow tones of scorn—-“ How
could you?” “Pooh! I put my cape over his
knees, and then I didn’t care a straw for Mother
Grundy. We got along splendidly.” But now
that the trouble of bare knees has been overcome
to the satisfaction of the fair sitter-out, perhaps
the kilted one will try to discover an aesthetic
method of sitting down. You see, when the
parties happen to alight on the same step of a stair-
case for a secluded nook, the highlander is much
troubled to so arrange his outer garment that he
will not take a severe chill. Up to the present no
warrior seems to have gracefully mastered the art
of gracefully tucking his skirt under him.
“ Dear little Dorothy Vane is blubbing about a
brother who is a private in the dragoon regiment
ordered to South Africa. She is so afraid—boo-ho!
—that those horrid Boers will kill him. Mean-
while Dorothy’s convent; scheme hangs off. She
clings to the world, the flesh, and the devil. It
was a good ‘ advt.’ though ; and commonsense
Mrs. Henry Bracy, with her ‘ My dear, don’t talk
silly nonsense, ’ failed to see that aspect of it.
“I have to express regret for a misunderstand-
ing and a mis-stateinent. The action against the
Rev. W. Gray Dixon, of Warrnambool, referred
to in last issue, is not for breach of promise, but
for breach of engagement—a very different matter.
The plaintiff is a domestic, regarding whose ser-
vices there was dispute. The suggestion that Mr.
Dixon is unlike one’s conception of a gay deceiver
has therefore no relevance whatever.
“ The widow of a Victorian professional man is
a member of the latest mission battalion for
China. This lady was matron of a metropolitan
hospital when she consented to be a mother to the
grown-up family of her wooing widower. Won-
derful to say, little or no friction developed be-
tween the not-too-meek orphans and their step-
parent. If anyone can, a woman with such a
record should coax the Heathen Chinee from the
god of his fathers.
“ All the big drapers in Melbourne seem to be
Baptists. At the funeral of the well-beloved Pas-
tor Chapman, of Collins-street Baptist Church,
nearly every pall-bearer was connected with the
softgoods business, and as they walked to the grave
fingering the black covering of the coffin, they
gave the impression that they were reckoning tip
its value per yard.
“That flinty-hearted aggregation, the Women’s
Hospital committee, is working innumerable points
to have the election of the doctors left in its own
hands, So that the institution may provide advt.
for its own particular medical pals. At present
the subscribers elect the staff, and apparently
with justice. The committee alleges that the elec-
tion is merely a sham controlled by those medicos
who can afford to put the most bogus subscribers
on the list. A defeated candidate is also out with
an offer to prove that four successful ones in dif-
ferent departments put in £l5O apiece and
swamped the election, and as the number of votes
polled has almost doubled since last election in
’95, people are listening. The subscriber-system
certainly opens the door to a {marvellous amount
of crooked work, but the results are not appalling.
In Melb. Hospital the same system prevails, and
the staffs of each institution comprise the men
at the top of the profession. The committee
now proposes to abolish one crooked method
and substitute another teii times as bad. The
Women’s Hospital committee dames are the same
blithe persons who label the beds of the unmarried
patients and who allow others to die pn the mat;
and to trust them with anything that isn’t
absolutely nailed down would be hopeless idiocy.
The best system of appointing the staffs of all the
hospitals would be to leave the choice to the
medical organisations. A tradesman’s or a
scientist’s ability is never known to the public
which, when left to itself, almost invariably
follows the charlatan and the loud-voiced commer-
cial traveller who has missed his vocation in life.
But in his own profession, a man’s worth is
properly estimated and, in the presence of all,
there is no such thing as crookedness or favoritism.
“Women really don’t seem to succeed as man-
agers of public institutions. The directors
of the Women’s Hospital are not common or
garden hens, but real prize Brahmas —and the
place is rarely without a scandal. Quite recently
there have been (1) a house-surgeon scandal; (2)
a nursing soandal; (3) the faggot-voting scandal ;
and (4) the child-voter scandal. None of these
have been thoroughly dealt with. The women
on the committee have a rare capacity for
making nasty remarks that are entirely beside the
issue, but when it comes to settling anything they
blunder every time. Dr. Rowan challenges them
to an investigation over the election business.
They avoid the challenge by saying that they will
not enquire, but will assist him if he enquires.
But how is he to do it without machinery? Few
scandals occur with regard to any of the other
large Melb. hospitals, but the woman-managed
Women’s Hospital is perpetually in disgrace.
Why?
“Dr. Helen Sexton, one of the first and per-
haps the brainiest of Melbourne’s petticoated-
‘faculty,’ secured one of the out-door billets
at the Women’s Hospital election. Probably
the tabby committee were less shocked at the
thought of permitting Dr. Helen to prescribe for
her own sex than if she had been a younger and
less masculine party, with possible matrimonial
designs on the rest of the staff. Anyway, she is
the first woman to get a professional footing in
that woman-managed institution, and she’ll need
all her strength of mind to carry her through the
ordeal.
“Mrs. Best’s Salon.tea (Monday, Sept. 18th)
was bright, like most gatherings at said feminine
trysting-place. Dorothy Vane and Mrs. Henry
Bracy supplied celebrity element. A popular
member of the club, just back from her honey-
moon, came in corn-flower color with cream
ostrich boa, and millinery of blended periwinkle
shades with blue berries under the brim. Those
girls of the Bendigo Brigade, Lili Sharp
and violinists Knarhoi, garbed in grey, helped
with the programme. The former has nice dark
eyes and hair, but, like many of her sister towns-
women, is shortish and ‘sallow as Autumn.’
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
All the principal ironmongers, or at least those
that are “ up to date,” are now carrying stocks of the
“ Albatross Lamp Wick.” If anyone tells you they are
no better than ordinary wicks, you may be sure he does
not know what he is talking about or is too greedy and
doesn’t want to lose the immense profit on the old wick.*
Competition among medical men has about
reached its limit in London. At a dispensary at
Stepney this notice is posted up : —Advice and
medicine, 4d. ; for the week, Is.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
<£202,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager.
Agents Wanted.
JUST A MINUTE, PLEASE!
Tired men, whether suffering from physical or
mental fatigue, delicate women, growing girls and
little children find Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa a
unique beverage of inestimable benefit. The
nauseous drugs and disagreeable medicines associ-
ated with ill-health are, in Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa,
replaced by something which is pleasant and nice,
with a distinctive flavoring of its own which will
appeal to the fastidious and over-nice palate of
the invalid, and its soothing effect renders it an
ideal “ Pick-me-up. ”
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, by taking the place of
stimulants of an ardent nature, has made happy
many a home which otherwise to-day would have
been wretched, and the ultimate effects of which
it is impossible to foresee. Eor breakfast, dinner,
supper—indeed, at any hour of the twenty-four—
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be found light and re-
freshing ; it leads the way among all beverages,
and nothing can equal it.
The unique vitalising and restorative powers of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa are being recognised to an
extent hitherto unknown in the history of any
preparation. Merit, and merit alone, is what is
claimed for Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Coooa, and the pro-
prietors are prepared to send to any reader who
names The Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-
paid.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Coooa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 209 George-street, Sydney.*
Arthur Adams’s book, “ Maoriland and
Other Verses,” to be published by The Bulletin
on Sept. 28, will definitely place him among the
first flight of local poets. The book contains, in
addition to those published in The Bulletin,
many charming pieces not previously printed ;
and is issued in dainty style. Price 55., post-free
from Bulletin office.
The smoothness, delicacy and uniformity
of flavor have made Zetz Spa Water a table
favorite with those suffering from indigestion,
dyspepsia, &c. Be sure and ask for ZETZ.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOI7NTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SEND
YOUR
ORDERS
to
Pun CTUALITY
AND
Excellence.
Tel. 2288.
NEWMAN,
CHEMIST,
82 King Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
W. P. Crick will be a candidate for the
Federal House of Representatives.
Ben Tillett, according to English reports,
pets £7 per lecture from the Queensland Govt.
Mayor Harris (8.A.), of Sydney, regards
Art as superfluous. He never buys a picture un-
less it be a modest reprint well framed and —a
bargain.
Sydney D.T. says certain members of the
Lyne Ministry are “personally presentable.”
Evidently their “face value ” is here vouched for.
But what about the “ substantial cheek ” and
“enduring chin ” of the Cabinet ?
lie the proposal to testimonialise ex-
N.S. W. Premier Reid, a correspondent of Sydney
D.T. grimly remarks that the civil servants alone
would be only too pleased to present the ex-Pre-
mier with a house— one brick at a time /
W. J. Lyne becomes N.S.W. Premier
after 19 years’ service in the Leg. Assembly.
Other long-deferred debuts in that Premiership
were Parkes, after 14, Jennings, after 16; and
Famell, after 18 years—counting from their first
elections.
A MELBOURNE TH[?]RNA
A GREAT SURGEON.
The head
of the N.S.W.
Waddells was
buried in Wa-
verley Ceme-
tery last week.
The old man
was an uncom-
promisi n g
battler all
through his
long life he
died at 82. He
was a grazier
in the days
when cattle-
duffing and
bushranging
were in their
prime, and, as
a magistrate of
the territory,
gave these gen-
try many a
wholesome
score. Though
he never en-
tered Parlia-
ment he was
a vigorous
politician, and long before responsible Govern-
ment was a drastic land reformer. He leaves
three sons—Rev. J. A. Waddell, Colonel Waddell,
and T. Waddell, M.L. A.
The Vic. powers have been altering names
along the Gippsland coast. Dead Man’s Bluff
becomes Turner Point, another sandbank becomes
Best Point, and a Wollaston Bay is provided.
Duffy’s Straits, Taverner’s Bluff, and Peacock’s
Neck will next be added to the map.
N.S. Wales is “giving the young men a
show.” Gov. Beauchamp is the youngest Governor
of the crowd; new Minister for Justice Wood
the youngest Cabinet Minister, and Col. Mackay
the most juvenile Vice-President of the Executive
Council. Wood is 28 years of age ; Mackay 38.
N.S.W. ex-Shoriff Charles Cowper, now
m commerce but periodically threatening to
explode anew into Parliamentary life, is the only
survivor of the third Cowper Ministry. He was
clerk of N.S. W. Executive Council, but at that
time the office made him a member of the Govt,
without a seat in the Cabinet.
This is the age of old men. There are 19
men in the present British Cabinet—one aged 45,
one 48, one 50, one 51, two 54, one 57, two 59, one
61, two 62, one (Chamberlain) 63, and then come
six patriarchs aged respectively 66, 68, 69, 71, 74
and 76. Some day Britain may, perhaps, find
that its old men are a little too old.
Suggested that as barrister Gregory is
absolutely sound on law, and as Melb. University
authorities have never struck him off their lectur-
ing-list, it would be to his advantage and to the
country’s to allow him to continue his lectures at
the University on real property law, under the
■upervision of the asylum authorities.
Speaker Abbott, whose birthday fell yes-
terday (Sept. 29), was elected to N.S.W. Speaker’s
ohair 22nd Oct., 18h0. W. M. Arnold is the only
N.S.W. Speaker who exceeded that term in office,
and that by only about five months. Abbott is,
therefore, likely to make a record. He is the
third N.S.W. native who has occupied that chair,
and is in his 57th year. .
Where long-parted friends may meet: A
Sydney journalist, for the first time in his life,
climbed to the top of Watson’s Bay revolving
light-tower one day last week. One other man
"tood there peering over the Pacific. They spoke.
After a while they discovered they were brothers,
who had parted as schoolboys and had lost all
knowledge of one another’s whereabouts. And
both are now old men.
A she-Philistine’s opinion of Victoria’s
“ only Genius,” loudly expressed at a recent con-
cert : “ Ugly as sin, rude as a bear, but clever
enough to have the Devil up his sleeve. When
poor Mre. Fat went to arrange about her girl’s
music-course, says he: ‘ Won’t you sit down,
Madame? ’ Says she: ‘ Thanks, Professor ! but —
er—there’s no chair ! ’ ‘ Oh, the floor’s pretty
strong,’ says the cheeky brute.”
N.S.W. Supreme Court etiquette. Time,
2 p.m. Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson: “Before I
proceed with this case I regret having to call
attention to a very unpleasant matter that has
just occurred. During the luncheon-hour I saw—
-1 regret having to allude to it—a member of the
Bar, a senior member of the Bar—l won't mention
his name—in Phillip-street, guilty of most un-
professional conduct. I—ah —won’t say what he
was doing—l trust it will not occur again.” Mr.
C. B. Stephen: “ Your Honor’s remarks no doubt
refer to me. As your Honor will not mention
what I was doing perhaps I may be permitted to
say I was merely smoking a cigar outside my
chambers.”
Bishop Broughton, Sydney’s first C.E.
prelate, then sitting in N.S.W. Leg. Council, is
responsible for the river Murray being the divid-
ing-line between N.S.W. and Vio. Lord John
Russell’s despatch to Gov. Gipps made the Mur-
rumbidgee the dividing-line. The matter was not
referred back to Lord John ; the Bishop, backed
up by a small party, some of whom afterwards
said they didn’t know that the despatch had
settled a line, fixed the Murray.
Viscountess Canterbury, who died re-
cently, was more than a mother to the Duke of
Edinburgh when in Victoria. The Viscountess
insisted upon the “ young man ” keeping early
hours when not out at functions. To please the
lady the young man apparently did keep early
hours, but when Canterbury and wife had re-
tired, Edinburgh, Elliott Yorke and Newry left
the shelter of the Vice-regal roof and made a
night, or nights, of it elsewhere.
Died recently in Sydney, John Dowling
Brown, ex-police superintendent at Deniliquin
(N.S.W.) and one of the first boys at King’s
School, Parramatta, in the thirties. Brown had a
great hatred for the late Premier Parkes. Having
after repeated calls been unable to see the latter
at his office on departmental business, he waylaid
him in Macquarie-street on his way to the House.
Parkes glared at him and said: “ ’Ave you the
himpidence to haccost a Minister of the Crown in
the public street, sir ? ”
E. W. O’Sullivan, N.S.W. Minister for
Works, has resigned the editorship of the Free-
man’s Journal. Theeditorshipisa troublous billet,
but O’Sullivan worked it as he works his political
constituents —waving alternate hands and telling
both parties to most controversies that they are
bricks. Butler, in the early years of his editor-
ship, made the paper (what a denominational
paper rarely is) a power. But Dailey was then to
the fore, both as part-proprietor and contributor,
to back-up and egg-on Butler.
James Brand Ritchie Robertson, a brother
of “old Jack ” Robertson, died last Saturday at
his residence, Oakhampton Park, Maitland, N.S.
Wales, aged 89 years. He had been paralysed for
about three years. Some years ago Mr. Robert-
son was a well-known figure in local public life.
He was the oldest magistrate of the district, and
was chairman of Oakhampton Public School
Board, chairman of the old Hunter River Steam
Navigation Company, and returning officer for
Morpeth electorate. He was a colonist of 79
years’ standing, was twice married, and leaves a
family of 23 children.
Judge Casey, contrary to expectations, is
back in Victoria, and is said to be going to take
up his duties in the County Court. He is much
disliked by many members of the Bar, and one
leadipg practitioner avows that if Casey goes on
the bench again he will lay certain specific
charges against him. As a matter of fact, a
number of barristers who have consented to co-
operate with this gentleman held a meeting the
other day when a protest to the Crown Law Office
was spoken of. So far, nothing has been done,
“ WHAT'S IN A NAME?"
but it is pretty certain that Casey will not be
allowed to go for long without some action being
taken by the dissatisfied barristers. If a protest
is lodged against him it will be the second of the
kind in Victorian history.
Fourteen or fifteen years ago one of the
‘‘oharaoters ” of Wellington (M.L.) was “the
Hermit of Island Bay,” an eccentric who dwelt
in a rock cave some miles from the city, and
whose supposed career Wakefield, when edit"
ing Wellington Evening Press, turned into a
novel. Some years ago the Hermit mysteriously
disappeared, and only a few weeks ago was recog-
nised in Sydney by an erst Wellingtonian. The
Hermit was attired in costly raiment, and said
he had just returned from a visit to England.
N.S.W. Premier Lyno has been returned
for the Hume at nine consecutive general elec-
tions, and reckoning the occasions when he has
gone for re-election on assuming office, he has
appealed to the constituency at least 13 times.
Also he has come out at the top of the poll every
time, generally with a three-to-one majority. At
last election Reid, beaming through his super-
cilious eye-glass, asked his opponents to have
courage enough to attack him in his electorate of
King Division. But neither Reid nor any other
big Freetrade gun ever ventured to attack Lyne
on his own ground. Some small man is sent there
to be slaughtered, as a matter of form, or else
William John comes back unopposed. Reid and
Lyne both entered Parliament in Nov., 1885, and
Reid has also stuck to the same constituency all
along.
The death of Bishop Cani, predecessor of
Sydney’s Auxiliary Bishop Higgins in the diocese
of Rockhampton (Q.), leaves only two foreigners—
Torreggiani, of Armidale (N.S.W.), and Salvado,
of New Norcia (W.A.)—in the R.C. hierarchy.
Foreigners never had much show for Australian
Bishoprics. The tendency and intention in early
Australia was to keep the bishoprics in the hands
of Englishmen or Italians. The late Archbishop
Polding, of Sydney, wrote to the Vatican exhort-
ing the authorities there to fill Australian vacant
sees with Englishmen, and when he required a
coadjutor he specifically implored the Pope not to
send him an Irishman, as Irishmen were so turbu-
lent. The Pope sent him Vaughan, an English-
man. But this letter slipped out of safe keeping
and got into the hands of the Irish bishops, with
the result that an ecclesiastical row ensued, the
outcome of which is that Dr. Moran succeeded
Vaughan, and nearly every see since has been
filled with Irishmen.
Lieut. “ Bob ” Gordon, who probably goes
to China as Commissioner for Police' over Prit-
chard Morgan’s concession, has just returned
to Townsville, from Manila. Gordon was with
the Gordon Highlanders throughout the Tirah
campaign, after Dargai, and he is good enough
soldier to make his remarks on the form of the
American troops in the Philippines worth quoting.
He went to Manila with the idea of applying for
a commission in one of the Yankee regiments
there, but, after seeing the wonderful want of
discipline of the troops, he “ wasn’t taking any.”
Gordon told the writer that American privates
were using revolvers on one another on no provo-
cation, and the officers who attempted to use their
authority to stop the shooting were driven back at
the revolver’s point, and told not to interfere in
private quarrels. Gordon further relates that a
row started in a bar between an American private
and a sailor. The sailor dodged the revolver-shots,
but ere the crowd in the room disarmed the
private he killed one soldier and shot another
through the arm. The punishments inflicted on
the aggressors by their officers are of the most
trivial kind.
“ Ancient ” : Recent Bulletin par.
relative to the caretaker and messenger of
Hobart Post Office, reminds writer of the
original who occupied that position. He
was a discharged soldier of the 21st.
Every two months, with the monoton-
ous regularity of dinner-hour, he went
on a howling drunk and took charge
of the whole place. Used to walk
around with rum ooziiig from every
pore and defiance of all things, mortal
or otherwise, on his tongue. For
lurid language O’Brien was not to
be beaten. After the fit had eased
off, he would slink into the sorting
room with a ludicrously repentant
air and take to stamping letters for
his life. He was never rebuked by
Captain F. C. Smith, who, indeed,
was rather afraid of him. “What’s
that, what’s that ? ” Smith would
say, when a hyena-like howl rang
through the air. “O’Brien, sir.”
“ Hum, ha ! Foolish man. I think,
Mr. Hardinge, that—er —I shall not
bedown for a day or so. Send to my
house if you need me.” And the old
fossil would trot off shudderingly as the
yells of a lost soul, under hell-test,
clambered through the office window.
For nearly forty years O’Brien was an
“ institution ”of the Hobart P.O. Those
were indeed the good old times.
Q Leg. Council is verily an “ upper”
House. Three-fourths of its members would
have to walk home were it not for their free
railway passes.
A. R. Fraser, whose “ patent automatic
railway-door fastener” was mentioned in the
cables, the other day, as having been successfully
tried on an English line, has had a hard seven-
years’ struggle to get the invention to its present
stage. Young Fraser, clerking in Melb., failed
there to raise the funds to give his idea a local
trial, and so appealed to Broken Hill, where his
father was then managing the Junction North
mine. A little capital was subscribed, and he has
been hammering away at it ever since—helped
during the last 12 months in another way: for he
married a wife with money.
A broken-down English barrister, the
dear old champion “ drunk ” of Melb. City Court,
tells the story of how he visited the guard-house
at the gate of Govt. House on Queen’s-birthnight.
“ I saw the soldiers sitting round, and I said
* Where is your beah ? ’ ‘We have none,’ replied
the sentry. ‘ What! ’ I cried ; ‘no beah for the
soldiers on Her Majesty’s birthnight ! That is
not as it should be. I will go to Govt. House and
interview Lord Richard Nevill, whose father, the
Marquis of Abergenny, was one of my dearest
friends.’ I walked up the path and knocked at
the door. ‘Where is Lord Richard Nevill?’ I
asked. ‘He has gone to bed,’ replied the flunkey.
‘ What! ’ I said, ‘in bed at 10 o’clock on Her
Majesty’s birthnight! Go to him and ask him
how it is there is no beah for the soldiahs. ’ The
flunkey looked amazed. ‘ I can’t, sir,’ he said ;
‘and you will have to clear out.’ ‘I will do
nothing of the sort,’ I replied. ‘ Before I leave
I intend to have a glass of whisky and a cigar
with Lord Richard Nevill.’ Then they called a
policeman, and I was taken back to the gate.
There the sentry approached and whispered the
word ‘ Fedahation ’ in my eah. ‘ What is the
pass-word?” he called aloud. ‘Fedahation,’ I
whispered. ‘ Pass, friend, and all is well ; ’ he said,
barring the constable’s way. ‘ But this man is
my prisonah,’ said the policeman. ‘That is
nothing,’ said the worthy soldiah, ‘you oannot
pass without the pass-word.’ And the constable
had to stay theah.
ANXIOUS TO OBLIGE.
REV. GENTLEMAN : “Go away, loafer! If there
was a policeman here I would give you in
charge. ”
LOAFER : “If yer give us tuppence I'll go an’ fetch
one.”
“G. 8.” : John Roberts, solicitor, who
died the other day at Hobart, aged 87, was, bar
Adye Douglas (who will never die), the oldest
practitioner in the island. Came to V.D.L.
in the early thirties, landing with 15s. in his
pouch. Walked into the Freemason’s Tavern,
and called for a glass of ale and a biscuit. Sat
down in the coffee-room, and got into talk with a
middle-aged, white-chokered man, in a blue
claw-hammer, brass-buttoned coat. With the
frankness of youth, Roberts explained that he
had come out to seek his fortune, and wanted
to find it before his 15s. ran out. Said he
had been brought up to the law. Middle-aged
gent invited him to go along with him. Took him
to his office. Asked him some questions ; found
he kuew a heap more than he did himself, and
thereupon engaged him as clerk. A year or so
afterwards he offered him a partnership, and the
old firm of Allport and Roberts was founded.
Roberts was clever, well-bred, iibera'ly educated ;
a keen sportsman, and a right manly fellow.
That he lived so long was attributable without
doubt, to his admirable temper and the easy way
in which he fought the battles of life.
R.C. Archdeacon Hogan, who lately ctied
at Westbury, Tas., had been there 50 years, and
had never officiated anywhere else. He was a
Kilkenny man, but was ordained in Hobart.
Many efforts were made to shift him to Hobart or
Launceston by way of promotion, but the old
man said he meant to live and die and be buried
in Westbury where years ago he selected the
grave in which he was at last interred. He and
Dan Burke, M.H.A., helped John Mitchell, the
’4B Irish “rebel” to escape from V.D.L. where
he was “ sent ” for 14 years. The old Archdeacon
used to tell with great glee the part he had in
Mitchell’s flight. For some days Mitchell was
hid in the belfry of Launceston R.C. Church, the
guest of Dean Butler. The exile had grown
weary of futile attempts to get away from the
north end of the island, and he chafed under his
incarceration in the bell-tower. So he said he’d
boldly travel down south and escape via Hobart.
He remembered that one of his compatriots, J.
B. Dillon (father of John Dillon, of present Irish
politics), escaped to America in the garb of a
R.C. priest after a certain memorable fizzle, and
he asked Father Butler for a suit of clerical
clothes. Mitchell tried on Butler’s, but they
were too small, and a messenger was sent to West-
bury for a suit of Father Hogan’s. Hogan and
Mitchell were men of about the same size.
Mitchell, with his full black beard shaved off,
looked a “ Father ” of the best brand, and was so
absolutely disguised that his old chum and
fellow-* 4 convict ” Dr. K. I. O’Doherty, of Bris-
bane, travelled with him from Bridgewater to
Hobart without recognising him. Also, M‘Dowell,
Attorney-General and Crown Prosecutor, rode in
the coach with him the whole way across the
island. “Father Blake ’’ read “his office” the
whole way and couldn’t be drawn out by the
lawyer. From Hobart, Mitchell got away in
secular clothes by a boat to Sydney, and thence
to the States. Thus two R.C. priests let the
Protestant lawyer-rebel loose from his gaol in
Vandemonia.


WOLFE’S
CHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
Superlative
Diuretic
Anti dyspeptic
AND
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEW YORK;
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
for
Wolfes
Schnapps
t rnx ' a Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOR, and See that Ton GET,
Franz J osef Pilsener Lage
Haa by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Morgan and Smith, sole agents - - - 211 Clarence - street, Sydney.
WATSON'S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Australia has been built
to please everyone who desires
the luxury of living in the best
style, at a cost that is strictly
moderate.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manas**,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“ Eyewitness ” : Travelling recently by
train from Walkaway to Geraldton (W.A.) there
were four of us in a smoking-carriage, when a
lady got in. After a time my friend Dickson lit
his pipe, but hardly was it under way when
the “lady ” snatched it from his mouth and threw
it out of window, saying: “There’s nothing I
detest more than being where a man is smoking a
filthy pipe.” “ Beg pardon, Miss,” said the
astonished Dickson, “ but this is a smoking-
carriage.” “That doesn’t mattor,” was the re-
tort, “ you shouldn’t smoke in any carriage when
there is a lady in it.” Dickson ruminated for a
bit; then, catching sight of a fat little pug the
woman had wrapped in her shawl, he grabbed it
by the neck and hove it through the window.
“Nothing 1 detest,” said he, “more than being
where a woman has got a nasty little coddled-up
pup.” We expected motions when we got to
Geraldton, but the lady cleared out as soon as
the train stopped.
* • * *
“W.E.R.”: Teamsters’ horses wearing
earrings, or with holes punched in their ears for
suspending weights, are not common in Australia.
It is done to steady rushing horses. Another
way is to fasten tips of ears together. To control
loose horses that are bad to drive, such as those
that break or gallop away, fasten a strap fairly
tight around their necks —makes ’em think they
are being held, particularly if they try to bolt and
get winded.
• • * •
“ Chummie ” : Re the mendacious legend
about squatter Ogilvie, of Yugilbar, keeping a
supply of dress-suits for visitors at “the Castle ”
to dine in. A man who once came up from Graf-
ton to tune Ogilvie’B piano—being a bit of a swell
in his way—brought along a brand-new dress-suit,
ON OUR SELECTION.—IN QUEST OF
FRESH MEAT.
Arrayed in which, after his arrival at Yugilbar,
he proudly awaited the summons to dinner. Pre-
sently, however, came a knock at the bedroom
door, and a maid presented him with a refection
on a tray ! Imagine that unfortunate nobleman
squatted in his full war paint upon the bed igno-
miniously picnicking with himself !
* * • *
“R.A.F.” : Re cannibal yarn 26/8/’99.
During many long and misspent years among
myalls never saw human flesh eaten, and don’t
believe that it ever is—to satisfy hunger. More-
over, no aboriginals would give away their mys-
teries to a casual drover ; and, again, 40 slain
would be a nigger Borodino. Never knew of
such slaughter except upon one occasion, when an
invading tribe, hunting food in drought-time, was
met and defeated by the owners of the soil. In
that case victors did nob eat vanquished, though
food was scarce. Blacks once killed this scribe’s
hut-keeper, tore him to pieces, and spread him all
round the place, but their object was kidney and
other fat to grease themselves with, not cooking-
meat. Am a bit of a liar myself, and should not
have noticed par. only acquaintances are con-
gratulating me on its steepness. Same initials.
• • * *
“ Dominie ” : Has anybody noticed the
prevailing physical inferiority of N.S.W. peda-
gogues ? The cause thereof is this : Still growing
young fellows of 18 to 20 years are sent direct
from the training-school and decent city food into
the wild bush, where they have to eat what they
oan get, cooked anyhow. Just when they need
abundant and nourishing food to make men of
them, they are stinted in both quantity and
quality, so that those who survive do so more or
less as weaklings. It could not be otherwise
under such conditions, supervening upon a year’s
hard study and the worry of a stiff exam. Then
as to their sleeping accommodation : One young
fellow was told : “ Yis ! we can kape ye here, but
ye'll have to slape wid ather Patsy and Moike, or
Barney and Tim.” Ho selected B. and T. mainly
because they had shorter hair than the others and
wore cleaner socks. Same hapless youth was in-
formed that when the lady had female visitors
“ he’d have the ould man also in wid him and the
bhoys. ”
* * * *
More Spartanism. A man, felling timber
recently at Mount Whee, Queensland, was struck
by a falling branch, which tore off half the scalp
and smashed his right ankle so badly that the
bone protruded from the flesh. The unfortunate
fellow swooned and came-to again, when he found
himself covered with leeches from the scrub.
Picked them off as well as he could, and started to
drag himself along upon his back and side. The
accident happened at 2 p.m., and by 8 he had
dragged himself a mile and a-half, coo-eeing at
intervals. Then he was heard at a timber camp,
and six men started to carry him down the
mountain over a fearful road. As it was pitch-
dark and raining hard, they didn’t get to the
township till 9 a.m. Yet the injured man kept
up his spirits all through. He was sent by train
to Brisbane, and 24 hours after the accident had
the leg amputated. He is doing well—thanks
principally to the stoutness of his heart.
* • » •
“ Pelican ” : Not generally known that the
platypus, although it suckles' its young, has no
teats. The belly-skin of the female is porous, and
through it, by grasping a fold in their “ bills,” the
young extract the milk.
* * * *
“K.A.” : Re the mysterious rumblings,
&0., said to be heard on the Western Tiers, Tas.,
writer thinks they may be classed with
the bunyip legends and tales of the
little green men of Ireland. Dr.
Thompson’s theory of carbonic-oxide
fumes being accountable for the des-
truction of the pine-trees in the lake
district is decidedly erroneous, as it is
well known by old shepherds and
others who were on the spot that during
the year of “ The Great Frost ” in the
forties almost every pine for miles
around was stricken dead. One man,
who is still living, assured writer that
the sounds of the bursting pines re-
sembled rifle-reports, and that the
great lake was frozen completely over,
so terrible was the frost. And who
were the young men lost in the lake
oountry ? And when were they lost ?
* • *
“C.H.R.”: “J.P.,” in Bulletin
26/8/’99, questions the allegation that
gum-leaves form part of the opossum’s
food. Present writer has had many
opportunities for observing, and can
state positively that the opossum eats
the young shoots of all eucalypti—
when he can’t get anything better.
He devours, also, the young leaves of
the myrtle (fagus), leather-wood, musk,
wattle, blackberry, wild raspberry,
every variety of fruit tree, the berries
of many mountain shrubs, nearly every
kind of vegetable (beans one excep-
tion), dough, bread (burnt for choice),
cakes of every sort, fat, cooked meat,
tea-leaves and sugar.
A tough, relating his style of
isking manager for a job:—“Sailed
up to the blanky spree ; tapped him*
for a flaming oollar. I cried ‘ Grafty.
He cooked a deaf-’un. I said, * Lor-blime ! ’
and left.”
“ W.K.A.” on a ’possum-matter :
The game-laws of The Land of Sleep-a-lot may be
classed with the weird and wonderful. If the design of
their compiler was the proteotion and preservation of the
island’s fauna, he has failed miserably. June and July is
the present open season for the brush opossum ; and it is
in those two months that the majority of the does carry
the naked, and therefore helpless, young in the pouch •
and in which there is consequently the most useless,
ruthless slaughter. Ignorance, no doubt, prompted the
tired law-grinders of this weary isle to imagine that the
B timulating powers of early summer act on the repro-
ductive faculties of the opossum—and other marsupials—
in the same way that it does on many beasts, and almost
all birds and insects in Tasmania. But it is otherwise.
Nature has provided that the newly-furred opossum shall
reap the benefit of the first grass and leaf-shoots of the
early Spring. The translation of the young brush to the
pouch—correctly described by “ D.G.S.” in Thb Bullstin
(26 8/’99)—takes place in the months of March, April, and
May ; and it is, therefore, in the mid and late summer,
when every other living creature in Dreamland—exoept
the Chinaman, the bookflend and the lawyer—is in a
state of langour and collapse, ihat the wary old-man
’possum woos his bright-eyed love amid the myrtles, and
prepares for a precarious honeymoon in the mighty gym-
nasium of the bush. Again, if preservation was the law-
makers’ aim, the exclusion of the (so-called) tiger, moun-
tain devil, platypus, ring-tailed opossum, wallaby, and
the whole family of marsupial rats and cats from the
olose-season list is inconsistent with the idea. The three
first-named animals evidently remain unprotected in the
interests of the fat-sheep-breeder, farmer, and angler. In
fact, the whole Game Act appears to have been drafted
by a distressed party of fatmen, whose only acquaintance
with their country’s fauna was in examining a stuffed
’possum in a glass-case or stirring-up the smellful devil
in a zoo-cage with their walking-sticks. What the coun-
try wants is a brass-bound man, with steel legs, to rise up
and violently move for a portion of the island to be pro-
claimed a game-reserve for evermore. An imaginary line
drawn from Port Davey to the Arthur River would en-
close a magnificent forest-reserve for game, with a great
ocean-frontage. This portion of the island teems with all
kinds of game; and here, also, the sheep-breeder and
farmer trouble not, and the marsupial is at peace. If
something of this kind isn’t done soon there won’t be any
animals left to preserve ; for, as long as the average Tas-
maniao is not too tired to hold up a gun, he’ll shoot —in
spite of all the laws.
“Boko”: Re hot potatoes, straw fires
underneath the horse, and other methods of start-
ing jibbers : Riding one day across Canterbury
Plains (Maoriland) came across a team that
had stuck-up and absolutely refused to move.
The waggon was loaded with miscellaneous
stores, including kerosene. The teamster
had tried everything he could think of, in-
cluding the worst language on earth ; and,
when I came up, was just preparing to
light a fire underneath the jibbers.
Tried to persuade him!not to. He said
the fire would shift ’em, and he flung
an armful of straw under them. There
was a strong wind blowing, and when
he threw the match into the straw it
flashed into flame. The horses started
with a jerk, and as soon as they were
clear of the heat, and the waggon was
nicely over it, they sat back in the
breeching. The bags beneath the wag-
gon caught; the teamster flogged and
cursed and danced about, but the
horses wouldn’t move. He threw
himself under the waggon but was
glad to heave himself out as quickly.
He had no water, and in a few minutes
his load was blazing merrily. He rushed
to get his horses out when the flame curled
up from under the load and caught the
shatters’ tails and sent them off at a
gallop. We rushed after them and succeeded in
spragging the wheels and getting the horses loose,
but the load was beyond hope, and while I
watched it burn the infuriated teamster murdered
the two jibbers that had caused all the trouble.
• * • •
“Ben Sun ” : Water may be obtained in
the bush by burning one end of a green stick while
keeping a billy under the other. Fire not too
big, nor stick too long. Have thus got a half-pint
in an hour. It doesn’t taste well, and is highly
astringent, but these things can be overlooked at
a pinch.
• * * •
Was playing Nap with a pool out-back, a
Chow being one of the party. Someone presently
called “Nap,” whereupon John carefully counts
his cards, and holds them up. “Me gottem six
A STAUNCH UNIONIST.
CUBBY (a baric-stripper getting sixpence a sheet , after hearing shearers talk about
getting “ their ” pound a hundred for sheep-shearing) : “My word ,
boss, I mus’ have my parn a ’und’ed! None a yer damn zixpence a
sheet for me! ”
cards. Later on another man went “ Nap,” and
again he was stopped—John had six cards. Pre-
sently John had a hand, and he asked me: You
gottem sic cards? ” I said “No.” He repeated
the question around the table. No one had six
cards. ‘All li, said John. “Now me know
you all gottem fii cards, me go Nan 1 ” And he
went.
It is not generally known that the natives
of the islands in Torres Straits are men of ex-
ceptionally fine physique. No tribe of mainland
natives can compare with them for a moment.
The physical superiority is attributed to the fact
that they are descended from a blend of Papuan
and aborigine.
* * * *.
“ A.R.” : Know an out-back cookie who
overnight puts away the harness and chains in his
men’s sleeping quarters. Dawn comes, and with
it Mr. Cookie. “Oh it’s all right, mates—don’t
mind me 1 ” he yells, “ I only want the harness ! ”
Then he rattles said harness about in a way that
effectually rouses the men out.
“STAVING HIM OFF."
SONNY SMITH (sent to intercept bush-missionary):
“ Dad says granny ’as th’ hinflooensy, the baby
’as th’ measles, all th’ last killin’s gone bad, but
there’s a noo verandah-room and ’eaps of corn-
fed bacon at Broum's, jes’ up to yer left a bit.”
“Billy R.” : Two new-chum Pats were
opening up a prospecting show, and at about 40ft.
it became necessary to put in a charge. Both
Pats being too frightened to go down and
light the fuse in the ordinary way, I found them
trying to do it by throwing blazing bushes down
the shaft.
Before
the days of
the “Woods”
and “ West-
inghouse ”
brakes, a
plucky, cool
thing was
done by a
Vic. railway-
man. The
gang had
been “beer-
ing,” and,
rolling along
on a trolly
on a down-
grade
through a
rocky cut-
ting, didn’t
see following
“special”
until it was
within a few
rail - lengths.
Time to
jump, but
all, except
one, were
too drunk.
The engine-
driver, by
frantic use
of hand-
brake, had
slowed-down
somewhat,
but held his
breath in
horror as the
front of the
engine shut
the trolly
from view.
To his sur-
prise, there
was no
bump, and,
when he
managed to
pull up en-
tirely, the
trolly rolled
merrily
ahead. The
sober man
had held his
trolly - lever
against front
of engine, so
that his arms, acting as buffers, had eased-off the
impact—then, pushing hard, he had maintained
the margin between engine and trolly.
* * * »
“ Werrimie ” : There is a cat at the Royal
Hotel, Tibooburra, which has one tailless kitten


3007 Newspapers
Rbcommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
CHARMS
without
meaning
ARE TINKLING SYMBOLS.
We are showing the latest Birth Month Gem Charms.
is the Gaß.NET—Constancy, etc.
is the AMETHYST—Prevents passion,
is the BLOODSTONE—Courage,
is the SAPPHlRE—Repentance,
is the EMERALD—Discovers false friends,
is.the AGATE—Prosperity.
is the RUBY—Corrects evils of mistaken friendship
is the SARDONYX—ConjugaI felioity.
The Lucky Gem for September is the CHRYSOLITE—Sadness.
The Lucky Gem for October is the OPAL—Hope.
The Lucky Gem for November is the TOPAZ—Friendship.
The Lucky Gem for December is the TURQUOlSE—Prosperity in love.
The Lucky Gem for January
The Lucky Gem for February
The Luck}' Gem for March
The Lucky Gem for April
The Lucky Gem for May
The Lucky Gem for June
The Lucky Gem for July
The Lucky Gem for August
They are each in above design.
7a 6<L
We alf“> have the Lucky Rusty Horse Shoe Charm with the above gems in them.
Fairfax # Roberts,
(THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY)
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY).
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
JL LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter into
Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
SUPPLIES at FOURPENOE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
t low prices :
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner £l6 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping
Brackets, complete ... ’ 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address , 010 fl
Carnage Lamps, per pair 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
with every litter. The oddity is always a frisky
little creature till half-grown, when it invariably
takes fits and dies. A parallel case was that of a
slut on Oonnulpie Downs (N.S.W.) in whose
litters there was frequently one pup stone-blind.
* * * •
Jack and Tom were red-heads of about
the same build, and there the resemblance ended.
They made good cheques together in the back-
country and then Jack went on the spree at
Boulia, while Tom went to Rockhampton,
married the girl of his heart, and settled. Six
months later, Jack also struck Rockhampton with
the dust and yoke of the woolly West thick upon
him, and was met by his old mate, who insisted
HOW MR. REID FEELS.
“ The remarkable combination which displaced him had taken
five years to work up, and, having downed him, the combination
went down with him. So they were going to start afresh. He
hoped that they would start good-naturedly. There was no good in
life if they could not meet it with a smile. He believed that adver-
sity was sometimes one’s b,est friend. It all depended on what use
they made of it. There were some men who, when they ran up
against a stone wall with their heads, would not admit that the wall
was stronger than the head. He did not make mistakes of that
sort. It was his principle if he met a stone wall to try and get over
it, or around it, or under it, and all these failing, to lie down and
sleep peacefully in the shade. (Laughter.) That was the way of
taking those awkward obstaoles. When the battle went against
him, he just believed that it was the best thing that could happen.
(Laughter.)”—Ex-Premier Reid.
on his eschewing all pubs, and staying “ with me
and the missus.” “Well, let’s have a drink,
anyhow,” said thirsty Jack. “Not at a pub.,”
answered Tom, the knowing one. “ Come
right along home with me, and while
you’re having a wash, I’ll get a bottle, and we’ll
have an appetiser before dinner. The “missus”
was out, but Tom showed the Westerner into the
bathroom, and then went for the promised whisky.
Jack soon peeled off everything but a much-
shrunken singlet, with which he was struggling
frantically—stooped nearly double and looking
like a naked photographer, with the confounded
thing half over his head—when he got a series of
sounding smacks on the end of him next the
door, and a laughing feminine voice cried,
“ That’s the gong, Master Tom. Dinner’s
ready ! ” Just then, Tom came bounding in, and
the ourtain and a lot of other things fell.
Mitt MAUD M'CARTHY, the promising violinist.
Photo., The Anthony Studio.
“F.R.”: The nature of the “homoeo-
pathic remedy ” mentioned in Dr. Fraser’s book
about N.S.W. aborigines, and inquired about by
“T.H.V.” (8., 29/7/’99), may be gathered from
the native term therefor—“ Cumbone gum”—
which signifies a woman pro bono publico. As
soon as a gin runs away from her husband, she, in
fact, becomes the lawful property of every man in
the camp, married or single.
Dear Bulletin.—The Calcutta English-
man (‘‘Malle” B. 22/7/’99) errs in calling the
white tiger recently shot in Assam the only one of
the kind known. The “white or clouded tiger,”
as he called it, was described and figured 100 years
ago by Cuvier, who wasn’t sure whether it was a
distinct species, a permanent variety, or an indi-
vidual “freak.” It is now known to be a per-
manent variety common enough near the snow-
line on the Southern Himalayas. Have myself
seen three, and shot one in those parts.—D.G.
[But the “ clouded tiger ” of the Himalayas is not
white, and there seems little reason to doubt that
the Assam animal was white—and an albino].
• • * *
“ F.C.” ; R ecently
struck place of a Gippsland
cockie, whom I had known,
and from whom I had
reason to expect welcome,
and was astonished to be
received with copious pro-
fanity. He cooled down
later on, and explained
that, just before my arrival,
he had received account-
sales of five trucks of po-
tatoes which he had Bent
to Melbourne, with cheque
for same, for the gorgeous
sum of ss.—just Is. a-truck !
But further conversation
showed that there were
compensations, and that he
had put in 200 acres of
potatoes that year, on the
strength of having, the pre-
vious year, cleared ,£lOOO
off 100 a. !
* • *
B.S. : That “ mounted
policeman’s position out-
.back ” is just what he
makes it himself. If he
hasn’t a conscience, ac-
commodates himself to
oiros., and doesn’t hanker
after promotion, he’s a
“ blanky fine fellow ” all
round, whereas if he is
energetic and impartial he
soon gets the local J’s.P.
“agin” him. Vic. “oops.”
used'to get 2s. 6d. out of
every fine on a wood-
splitter for being found,
minus license, on Crown
Lands. Knew a trap who
in this way nearly doubled
his screw. Sometimes an
energetio cop. would make
a descent on a tired ditto's
district and profit much thereby. Matrimonially,
plain “ Bob ’ is a splendid “ collar,” and the
hooking of a “sarjent ” is an absolute triumph.
* • * *
An Illawarra yokel says he can’t think
who keeps sending him so many pretty little books
“ all about your inside,” unless it is a man for
whom he onoe did a good turn. Patent-medicine
ads., of course.
* * * *
“ Waif” : Foxes are getting very plenti-
ful and destructive in this far west N.S.W. dis-
trict. Last week I found numerous dead lambs
with tongues eaten out, but otherwise no mark to
show how killed. Some say this is the work of
eaglehawks. Any Bulletin reader settle ?
“Fed.”: Be the difficulty of kill-
ing a native bear. Passing a seleotor’s
homestead, the other Sunday, I was at-
tracted by the sound of a steady bombard-
ment, and found a “ bear ” gazing down in
wonder at a stolid German farmer who was
shattering the atmosphere with a Winches-
ter. Not wishing to spoil sport, I awaited
developments. The G.F. fired two more
shuts, went back a few yards, leant against a
tree and fired two more ; went still further
back, rested his rifle on the fence, and fired
twice again. Then he got a forked stick,
sat down on a tree-stump, planted his stick
in the ground, rested his rifle in the fork,
and, after aiming for a full minute, let fly.
This time down came the bear. When
•Hans started to skin tue brute, I ' ventured
to observe that, after such a riddling, the
pelt wouldn’t be much use. “Oh, dot vos
all righd ! ” he said. “ I vos make to him
only von bull-ed-hole ! ” Which was true ;
he’d only hit the bear once. Apropos, with
most shooters it is sheer cruelty to attempt
to kill a bear with a shot-gun, but, in any
oase, the time to fire is when the animal is
moving. A stone or a stick thrown up into
the free will start him; then let fly when
one of his fore-paws is raised.
* • • •
Bill had seen life out-back in the
early da,ys : Jackeroo was his favorite spout-
ing topic. Says he, over the quart pot :
“ Poor Dobson was a nice lad, but it hap-
pened this way. He oame back from town
with a pair of indiarubber boots, which he
used to wear all the time. I believe he
even slept in ’em. One night he asked me
to go out to the Scrubby dam with him to
get an eagle-hawk’s nest we knew of. Got
out within 2ft. of nest on top branch of
old-man gum when, orash ! and down
came Dobson. Landed on indiarubber-
soled feet and started bouncing. Bounced
for three days, and then I had to shoot him
to save him from starving. ”
NOT LIKELY .
REV. SINSHIFTER : “ What are you doing here, my good man? ”
STRETCHER BILL: “Looking fer work."
REV. S.: “ Well, this is not the place to And it."
S. B. : “I know that! Yer don't suppose I'd be lookin’ for it here if it was, do per? ”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No‘liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
A.O. : There is nothing in N.S.W. law to
prevent a man marrying the daughter of his deceased
wife’s sister. The marriage is perfectly valid
R.E. : You have muoh pleasure in informing us that
a school of arts has been established at Boggabri, and
as you hear The Bulletin is sent free to suoh institu-
tions, you will be glad for your institution to reoeive it
“on the never.” Great heavens 1 who has been pulling
your leg ? Sam F. : But The Bulletin didn't say Dean
was innooent—it only said he didn't get a fair trial. And
that is all it lays of Dreyfus ; its suppositions are another
matter O. Miles : But then we personally have known
two miners (in far-separated localities) known as “ Bare-
footed Peter.” And doubtless there are others. They
are probably about as numerous as “ Greasy Bill,” the
man who never washes himself O.P. : “ Hair-splitting
won’t get you around a great law of nature.” A
begging of the question—that your “law” ex-
ists ; and an unwarranteed oonclusion—that those
who think otherwise are “hair-splitting.” Go to.
Ako : The “ styge ” didn’t “ hurt the lady’s morals ’’ —
’cos why? She hadn’t any morals, as you would know if you
read the report of her first divorce case . E.G.M.
(Perth): 11 Fedralia” is a poor, barren idea for a Federal
capital. There are 16 federated nations in the world, but
none of them got down so low as that A.T. (Wilcan-
nia): Glad to hear that Wiloannia is so excited about
Dreyfus. And when an equally glaring wrong was done
in your own country to your own countryman, Suffield
(only he didn’t wear a gaudy uniform and a sword), Wil-
cannia didn’t turn a hair Neo : Allusions to this paper
as an “old blood-bound Bible,” and to its “ old crimson-
covered carcase ” are duly noted .... A. (Violet Town):
The “ married woman who gave birth to a child when
her husband had been absent three years” isn’t immoral
enough to call for publication T.J.D.: Very nearly
inserted both of them. Didn’t quite insert either
J.S.G. : Received, but we don’t undertake to ack-
nowledge paragraphs. We’d want half the paper to do
it in; .... Snooks : We knew what we’d got when we
found that you “ bowed to your angle.” What was it—
-45 or so ? J. Oowan (M.L.) : Brightly written, but four
times too long for the interest Pipe : “ Happiness ”
and “ Bridle ” both miles away from “ B.” in style. And
without style there is no salvation, except for alluring
originality Old-Timer : Grievous lack of spirit Ada
G. : Not much promise ; and 10 times too long for
us, in any case. ..Ben Sun; Neither “Rumination”
nor “Pump” quite up, though latter is improved
O. : Lacks melody R.8.D.: But you can’t even put
words grammatically together. You want to be a liter-
ary workman before you’ve provided yourself with the
necessary tools Malle: Have had that goat-yarn
before in prose . ..N.A.V. : Not dash enough Vic-
torian : Not devoid of promise, but such a well-worn
situation would need a more powerful hand J.M.D. :
Not well enough worked-out Malua : Too windy and
watery Reele S. : Too long, and preliminary part un-
necessary D.E. : Prose sketches too orude. Of the
verse, “Sceptio’s Carol ” is the best, and may possibly be
used .. A.G.W. : A thrilling experience poorly told
Doon ; You lack the dramatic force necessarj r to deal
adequately with such a situation; M‘G. : “ Dead-to-
Rights” rather unequal. Will weigh A.D.E. : May
“travel” on its terseness Walter G. : Very strong
situation. May amend handling somewhat, and use
P. : “ Banana Bill ” may see the light Spem :
Rather crude of workmanship Zingara : Locale is a
drawback, but will consider ...Tippo : Desperately prolix.
....S.T.: Worthless E.F.L. : Stick to the stove Joey
B. : Dam that flood of twaddling rhyme G.H.G. :
“ Mul. J.” has points ; but it is far too loose and long
Weppaa: Not wildly humorous S. the W.: “Laird’s
Mates ” has no thrill . “G ” ; Thoughtful of you to ex-
plain that your sketch was perhaps “ too dramatic."
Expect the dramatic element fell out in transit... Rally ;
Dog story rejected .. .Snakejuice : Thirteen hundred
and fifty-five millions F.H.F.: Quinn’s “Drovers of
the Deep ” appeared as “On a Day by the Sea,” March 11,
’99 .. A.G.O. : Will d 0... Eldred R. : No chop
Francis E. : Too long and heavy R.W.S.: Doubted.
F.W.T. : Unusable Papyrus : Ingenious ; too
straggling and not much melody ...B. : Dull
quip ~ M.B.R. : No capacity whatever • Gus. H. :
Looks too imaginative Maddy : Will print
Splur : “M.C.” joke old and putrid A.G.W. :
“Tige” ludicrous enough,- but not up to mark.’
Stonebroke : Hardly general interest enough ... Banool:
Verses not up .... Jack Ham. : Received .... Meteor : No
fun in merely crediting the birds with acting like
humans Pintara : Not worth printing R.R. : Same
to you Ellen H. : Interesting, in a way, but not in
Bulletin way Ryto : Yes, received, but none usable ;
you don’t seem to get the “hang.” Eller: You're a
lot too “ subsequent ” on the seat- 11 jumping ” question.
Flabby P. : That Chow story already printed in Bul-
letin Jilpah : Too long and thin. The pug ought to
have been able to get through with the squatter in about
half-a-hundred words Pelican: 11 Holt sD.” has stuff
in it, but the handling lacks life and movement
Becky: Implication too vague, but suggests something
unprintable... Nomad : Hackneyed theme, unredeemed
by any novelty of treatment .. Marshall H. (M.L.): We
thought we knew the worst a “ pote ” could do, but we
know better now !... Camille: No literary quality. ...
G.Y. : Well enough written, but that head incident has
been used before... Andrew S. (Melb.): Full address,
please.... Ed. Duer : Unique in its way . Bao-hic : Too
labored Soott: Reid appointed new M’s.L.C. to ensure
passage of Federal Enabling Bill Ironbark : Subject
dealt with J.8.M.: Good but middle-aged R.J.M. :
Too long and heavy... Count Bren. : Jingoistic yell
promptly basketed . Alf. Kas.: Letter sent you
at St. Kilda P.O. returned unclaimed. Address?
Joe R. : Object, to abysmal Dorothy : Flat Les O.:
Too stiff 11 mild S. : Found wanting .... Aurifer : The
local editor v\:mts them? Let him take them . Aus.
D. : Not good enough M.A. : Spring poem carefully
squashed J.W.O. : Very juvenile Novus C.: It
amounts to nothing after'all Alec. Sale: Not bright
enough C.E.F. : Take more pains J.J.H. : Oblivion
hath it Agros : Lame as four broken legs. 4TitR :
Verse far older than that —Noah wrote it when drunk.
Narranghi : Several loose emotions fixed in basket.
.. Recamier : Noted D. O’R. : “Sea-gulls” has good
lines, but is stiff as a sonnet G.O.R. : Poetic; not
skill enough The Pipe : Still bad tobacco.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Leo L. : Good idea, but needs re-drawing. R.E.L. :
One, as suggestion, perhaps. Drawing has good feeling,
but is spoilt by lack of boldness Mac. l 11 Bent” sub-
ject acceptable Poppy D. : Handed to artist. Un-
available : Magnet, Amateur (but you should persevere),
A.S.M., D. M‘G., R.E.L., D. Boil, (via D.), H.A.M.,
H.A.H.N., Bro., Traveller, Dolly, Dab, J. 8., F.A.L.,
T.G.B.
♦
Writing to Sydney Daily Telegraph to ad-
vocate the sending to South Africa from N.S.
Wales—not of an offensive contingent—but of a
complete field-hospital-organisai ion, Dr. Knaggs
points out that the restoration thus to effici-
ency of even two per cent, of the 50,000
men who will probably be engaged would
be equivalent to sending along a thousand
swashbucklers of our own. The suggestion
combines humanity with plain horse-sense.
With Britain hard-pressed it would doubtless
be Australia’s interest, right or wrong, to
strike in with her; but Bull, going calmly
and deliberately to work to smash-up absurdly
inferior odds, needs none of our assistance, and
is more than half-inclined to laugh at us for
tendering it.


THE ART TREASURES OF GOVERNMENT HOUSE
Three rye fragments of Egyptian papyri now in the possession of Lord Beauchamp
JL ” 3*-
le hat is being passed round to
I. buy G. H. Reid a house. The
- above design, with suggestion a
for a name of the house, is S
Hop's contribution to the *A
m
PLATE I.
(Translation of the hieroglyphics) Here you have a youth at a ball given by a
Pharaoh of the XVth dynasty, treating a lady to refreshments affably dispensed by
the Court Aide-de-Kong.
PLATE 111
Sore is the construction placed upon the incident by Pharaoh’s subjects . “ You've
already had more than is good for you,” the Aide seems to be saying.
THE BEAM THAT IS IN THINE OWN EYE.
At a public meeting held in the Rue Mftnt de Rougemont,
Paris (Field-Marshal D’Horineur in the chair), the Chevalier
Hyppolyte de Bouillon moved the following resolution ;—“ Zat ze
conduct ov ze Neu Sud Wales General Staff in refusing M’sieu
Suffield ze new trial is infamous. If Neu Sud Wales will give
M’sieu Suffield ze new trial as we did Dreyfus all will be well.”
Seconded by Citoyen Du Chat and carried by acclamation.
"■ 1 PLATE II "™ r »
And here you have the same youth who has escorted another lady (probably
daughter of the first) to the refreshment-room for the same purpose. This time he
is coldly received by the Aide-de-Kong, who telk him austerely that he can’t have
refreshments twice in the same evening—not if he (the Aide) knows it
CARTOONLETS.


r
■ h l u
11 '
6t>c e<j
When Mr. Best rose to reply he was fon some
time, through excess of_ emotion, T 1 ’*® ” n »
give articulate expression to his thoughte. H
confessed that it was a sore. blowJo
one solitary member of the Chamber
him ffuilty of' conduct which would make an
honest cnan blush.
r,?° * ****■
.Wfyjarsfe
tyfciV 6ot Bes'T: -
a cu S e
afevjje yey.
r'evii'&ii? 'ifpey . .
2\ U^jer
Well &$ 2\
l *7
X**jPj *
X (hfe*Ks
>i&»)
. Mr 1
I Th».3rjS““Ss*
; Graves tofi the H appointtu ent ro th the |
! prove the Beet’s brother-in Graves
‘pertinent »»*>*.
heads of sen B eB t has broug ticeB 0 f
i alleges **F?*j£i o[ the be en-
! public service soin &g he says, n Depa rt-
S the past, and con duct of two g eno ugh to
trusted with the » faaß teen rnariy and «,
Graves must sign j
Minister.
4, ife Y u ■ J.—.
KSM- ,; A w JK/Jr
/fr^
« “ D
N 15
o<ioo^
(V, '
' s£s&*’
*s&*■
*'
V
A »7^
' f ntry of British fmbjocts to T’ 0 " 8 0,1 ‘ f he
he was prepared J f s t ° Australia #hcn
u^a ”-* «SS&?
\v 1 *1 is T'ntpati.e^
, litrle. . Vjurrbcj S*?rltf itfeyi*
n/is his \*yj(is $< Se#ii>cr 'ere
soer ??
Jog
lor A'gecK eW l
'%%?!?,
tfOnjryer fuWes '. — JDuri
iON/cavrs ex|>e/'e»7cc sV?e
oli , Coyefy y*hr
Kyo atf 1 'lo tA\e rT
auMe. so Seriously before, L*yo>ioy»J
ac-liotf iipbi'oVcs wi4sr ,' ] j\r)tS —
MELBOURNIANA.


A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE: —
f O-E P-OP-E O-E D■S* N Y. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object ef in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Weeleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 2fi/4/’99.
Dear Sir.—l beg to acknowledge receipt of Watoh and
Chain, and am pleased to state that both are very
satisfactory. Yours truly, M. COCK.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
ANTHOS
I
»
»
I
I
>
I
I
»
>
FOR THE
•r, chiletepher Mod*. V.L.S., Print* of Wafas' Botadsl
■ot a Grease, purely Botanical.
Da. J. Robert Lee. M. 8.. B.S (Melb. Universlt'
“ ~\obderVi riffled
ktitfie 1 i l >n in' i
ih ( aim It f is wi 11 M sfifei
i" prev<nt> liar aljin
“ Ant
rr t
flop. liottl
d Wo ijhipi
leceirjl p§r
ople
Colonial Repmaentative for the Proprietors:
Fred. 1. B. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Meibom*.
Reynolds’s Newspaper (Eng.) excited by
what it hears about blaok slavery in Queensland,
says the white workers there should soon have a
revolution or make a raid on the employers of
blacks.
Dear Bulletin.—Re Rue-Australia Lane’s
attempt to trade matt in England. When I left
Rue A. six years ago for England I took 1201 b. of
the stuff with me, and it passed the Customs at
Plymouth without duty being charged ; in fact,
the officials didn’t seem to know what it was,
and 1 could have landed a shipload free. — John
Rich.
Missing Friends.
LBERT AUBERY THOMAS MAJORY,
formerly of New York, or London. Left
in schooner named Yerd, bound to Tasmania or
New Zealand, about 1870 or 1871. Anyone know-
ing his whereabouts kindly communicate with his
mother, Mrs. Majory, Fawn-street, Brisbane; or
Miss Ross, P. 0., Woollahra, N.S.W.
“ Cecil F.” : “ Shanghai ” (B. 2/9/’99) is
right about Chinkies reverencing their dead, but
wrong in the reasons he gives therefor. Also they
don’t put coins, good or bad, in the coffin, but
burn silver-paper imitations of “ shoos of sycee,”
and tissue-paper “cash” on the graves of the
departed. The guardian spirits are supposed to
restore these in real coin whioh serves to pay the
corpse’s way into the unknown. “The reverence,”
says one of their philosophers, “is less for death
itself than for the ancestors who are lost through
death.”
A MUSICAL EDUCATION FREE.
A Complete Self- Instructor, enabling any one to play
Pi \no or Organ at sight, and without difficulty brilliant
accompaniments to any song ever written. Pratt's Chart of
Chords for Piano or Organ embraces nearly every major and
mi nor Chord used in music, and is a short cut to harmony. It
IS THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE YE'I SIMPLEST CHART EVER PUB-
LISHED. Endorsed by teachers and musicians everywhere.
FPFF The price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to in-
troduce it into every home, we will send free the
Giant Album of 184 Songs, words and music, containing many
old and new favorites, together with the Chart for ONLY
2/6, posted 2/8, stamps 2d. extra. Address: Anglo-American
I 'ublishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S. W. Men-
tion this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED
The Moonlight Creek Hydraulic Sluicing
and Dredging Company,
iVo Liability. CASTLE MAINE.
CAPITAL: £12,000 in 32,000 SHARES of 7s. 64. EACH.
12,000 Shares fully Paid-up to be allotted to the Vendors.
This is the sole consideration. No cash to be paid to the Vendors.
20,000 Shares are offered to the Public payable One Shilling on Application and One
Shilling on Allotment. The balance to be paid in calls not exceeding 6d. per
month, if and as required.
The Whole of the Subscribed Capital (less Brokerage and Flotation’ Expenses) to be placed
to the Credit of the Company.
Directors:
(To be eleoted by the Shareholders at the first meeting of the Company.)
Bankers:
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Brokers:
Alexander Oliver, 100 Queen-st., Melbourne, and Messrs. Lasoelles and Adams, Oastlemaine.
• Solicitors:
Messrs. Moulb, Hamilton and Kiddle, 65 Market-st., Melbourne.
Legal Manager (pro tem) :
Herbert Wilson (Walford and Wilson), York Chambers, 47 Queen-st., Melbourne.
THE land to be taken up consists of about 64 acres on Moonlight Creek, near Castlemaine, and
immediately above the Forest Creek Dredging Company’s property.
The whole of the property consists of CROWN LANDS, and, being held
the COMPANY CAN COMMENCE OPERATIONS IMMEDIATELY.
under Miners’ Right,
The property has been surveyed on behalf of the Syndicate, and the Syndicate HAS PAID ALL
EXPENSES IN CONNECTION THEREWITH.
Photographs of the ground can be seen, and full particulars and prospectuses obtained at the
offices of Messrs WALFORD and WILSON, York Chambers, 47 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Applications for Shares may be made to the Brokers for the Company, Mr. ALEXANDER
OLIVER, 100 Queen Street, MELBOURNE, and Messrs. LASCELLES and ADAMS, Castlemaine.
Ringer
Rabbit
Poisoning
Machine,
£lO
WORKS;
£ll 5s- f-o-b- Melbourne or Eihuca-
Fumigatora also Sold.
Catalogues and Particulars—
H. B. Maclure, HAY, .Sole Agent for N.S.W.
S. M ‘MILLAN (Manufacturer), Mansfield,
Victoria.
ARTIFICIAL TE E TH .
FULL SETS, £2 lOs.
Without Good Teeth there cannot be thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot be perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Thorough Masticating Power and beautiful Natural Appear*
ance guaranteed ; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rmoRQpyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &«•» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWHC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 2S, 1896, says:
“ If I were asked whioh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Presentation Silver-plate & Jewellery for h|eddil)(J Pr@S6l)tS
.A. Saunders’ Stock is Bright, Effective, and Reliable.
Blindly send your orders to us—we guarantee satisfaction. Do come and see our display,
Entree Dishes, 4 pieces, Pure Silver-plated, 17« 6d.
Others chartre you £4 4s. Try A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver Hand Mirror, velvet back, 30e. Chased
Silver back, £2 Ss, £2 10s, £2 16s.
Pure Silver-chased Hair Brush, 80s. Similar styles, 21s,
255. Silver-plated, 18s 6d. Mirror, 20s.
The 19th Cen-
tury Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham
(patent filled cases),
£2 10s, five years' guar-
m
M
m
1
'ira
antee, extra quality;
£4 4s, 15 years’ guar-
antee ; ditto, 140, Gold,
patent oases, £5 ss, 20
years’ guarantee, “the
same strength as a £2O
watch.’’ Ladies’, beau-
tifully ornamented, same price. Mind, “ the above watches are guaran-
teed with a written certificate from the makers, and we will make them
uphold it." Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watohes.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
JL Saunders*
HANDSOME and USEFUL PRESENTS.
Pure Silver-plated, on Britannia White Metal, 30b.
Other patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20b, 25b, 355, £2.
TEA and COFFEE SETS,
£2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5 ss.
Send for Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Oak Butter and Knife, 78 6d ;
with cover, 8s 6d.
i
A. Saunders.
Oak Bisouit, pure Silver-plated
Mounts, 168 fid ; Fluted Banda,
208 ; Shield only, 12s fid.
A. S tuaders.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Broooh, 16s,
Btrong and pretty. Silver, 6a.
Prooured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Pearl-
set Bird, 18s 6d ; 8 Bird Bell, only 10s.
Pure Silver-mounted Out-
class Puff Boxes, 16s 6d,
very cheap.
18c. Gold, pure Double
Cut Diamond, £5 6s;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
18c. Gold, 5 pure Dia*
monds, £4 10s and £6-
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£3los. Send for book.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Sugar Souttle,
16s 6d, 20s, 268.
m
■ -y\
A. Saunders.
First-class 4-bottle Cruet, 80s;
similar styles, 21s, 255, 85s ;
6-bottle, Sss, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Gold, 3 Diamonds, £2
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphire, £2
extra thick 3 Larjje Diamonds, £3
16c. Gold, 20s, 268, and 30s.
18a Gold Band, Pure Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Sise Card.
v/k
r v
M
L.
A. Saunders.
4 o’c. Teaspoons and Toners, 15s, 20s, 255;
Spoons, without case. ss, 7s 6d half-dozen.
Pure Solid Silver, in silk case, 255; with
Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. Saunders.
Pure Silver-plated Folding (Bioeuit), £3,
£8 10s, £4 ; handsome present.
A Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 16c. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £B. Any Name or
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
Silver-plated Butter, Out Glass, 8s 6d;
Larger, 10s.
A.
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.
The Little Chaps in Petticoats.
To the little chaps in petticoats,
With the long, loose, curly hair,
I’ll drink till all my tin is spent,
And I’m too drunk to care.
O get a long-haired mate, my boy !
O get a long-haired mate !
You’ll never do no good without,
And that’s as sure as fate.
They ain’t like me nor you, Bob :
They’re soft and plump and round ;
They haven’t got no corners,
No bones are to be found.
There’s little mates in Maoriland,
As fair as summer night,
With coral lip and velvet hand,
And heart so pure and white.
There’s mates in sunny Sydney-side
As bright as morning air ;
With eyes as blue as Sydney skies,
And clouds of sun-gold hair.
O get a long-haired mate, my boy 1
O get a long-haired mate !
There’s other fellows grabbing fast,
It’s foolishness to wait.
M.L.
MABSHALL HUDSON.


0(ir« Waters • HaV< » Advertised • US.
OUR SALES AVERAGE 1000 PER YEAR.
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED TO WEAR A LIFETIME, AND KEPT IN
THOROUGH RISPAIR (Breakages excepted), FOR 3 YEARS.
6oldSn>itb£ aQd SilVersnjitbs’ AlliaiK*-^
SPECIAL LEVER WATCHES.
EXCEPTIONAL TIMEKEEPERS,
SPECIALLY MADE TO ST AND ROUGH
RIDING and COUNTRY WEAR.
COMPENSATED BALANCE,
EXTRA JEWELLED and
ADJUSTED.
SKETCH SHOWING FINE FINISHED
WORKS.
GENT.’S SIZE.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING
MONOGRAM.
I 1
GENT.’S DOUBLE-
CASE 14c. GOLD
FILLED CASES,
WARRANTED
TO WEAR 20
YEARS
A REMARKABLE
VALUE WATCH.
£4 ss.
LADIES’ SIZE.
Silver, Open Faoe ... 408
Oxidised 36a
Silver Hunters ... 60s
ENGLISH HALL-MARKED ALBERTS.
9c. Gold, Single
15c. Gold, Single
Silver, Single
9c. Gold, Double
15c. Gold, Double
Silver, Double ...
50s, 60s, 70s
955, 110 s, 130 s
7s 6d, 10s, 13s 6d
60s, 755, 90s
110 s, 130 s, 150 s
10s, 12s 6d, 15s
-Z
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY TIE CLIPS.
Plain Gold, 8s 6d pair
Set with Opals, Pearls, and Turquoise, 15s pair.
GUARANTEED TO WEAR FOR A LIFETIME.
OASES IN TEN (10) DIFFERENT DESIGNS.
The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths’
Alliance
LADIES’ GOLD KEYLESS
WATCHES, '
RICHLY ENGRAVED CASES and
ACCURATE TIMEKEEPERS.
90., 70s ; 140., 90s ; 18c., 110 s.
All articles
sent Post Free
to
any Address.
New Pattern, Gent.’s Hall-marked ALBERT.
Silver, single, 7s 6d ; double, 10s 6d. Gold, single, 70s; double, 90s.
Please send for
our Illustrated
Slips of
Novelties.
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
XOTK—Qiir ONLY Australian Address — 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY.
national Cash Registers.
Storekeepers’ CoCipoi) Register
No. 92.
USERS .
OPINIONS
•
“ All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
“Campbell Bbos.
and Co.,
“Toowoomba, Q.”
BENEFITS
OF USE.
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
•
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
•
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
The Only T rue $ Coupon System
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to
National Casb Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET\ SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
VITADATIO
Herbal Remedy
IS YOUR FRIEND !
Mrs. M. SERGEANT*
LAPIES! tl)€ Following SboGld Ifytercst YoG !
Fslt Better Ip Her Liie !.
Had No Idea VITAPATIO Cotild do for Her wbat it Has Poije.
Redfem, Sydney, New South Wales, April 10, 1899.
“For a number of years I was troubled with indigestion, and what those of our sex know as general weakness in
various forms and ways, accompanied by the usual gloomy forebodings and, of course, as I find now, unnecessary cares of mind,
producing all kinds of discouraging anticipations, in which the common impression would constantly intrude itself that life
was not the flowery bed of ease that one used to read and sing about in one’s childhood hours. My food did not nourish my
body, and 1 carried about with me, much to my discomfort, an emaciated form, and the common remark of my friends was—
‘How ill you always look.’ Although I would not admit the truth of their opinion, yet my own conscious feeling assured me
of the truth of their observation. There were many other ailments which kept in check my former vitality and buoyancy of
spirits, which need only to be hinted at in a note such as this. In this state of general debility I was advised to take a course
of Webber’s VITADATIO. I took it regularly for about six weeks, and took, in all, the contents of six large bottles. These
were from the first a great source of help and relief, and I began to put on flesh at the rate of per week, and I now enjoy
the very best of health. To any of my own sex, especially those who are troubled with ennui, from whatever cause arising,
I verily believe a course of VITADATIO will give them back the blessing of good health, such as I enjoy, and for which I
desire to be truly thankful. VITADATIO shall always have my strong recommendation.
“ Yours gratefully,
“M. SERGEANT.
The Price of this Medicine is:
Large Size, 5/6;
Small Size, 3/6.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2j6 per Bottle •
S. A PALMER, General Agent for Australasia, India, and Japan.
Warcl>o6se :
CLARENPON-ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE
(Late Ferguson and
MitchelVs).
Sydney Office -
- 184 PITT STREET.


SECOND to NONE!
Best Food Products of the Century.
nma and FodLa.il.
Most popular TEAS of the age.
BILLY TEA . . . GOLDENIA.
Purest Liquors Anyhow 1
WHITE HEATHER WHISKEY.
MEUKOW’S CHAMPAGNE BRANDY
NICHOLSON’S DRY GIN.
Finest Wines in the World.
COMMENDADOR PORT WINE.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.’S SHERRIES,
CLARETS, etc., Colonial and Imported.
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Millers,
Manufacturers and Importers,
DEANS PLACE, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE.
fHE Favorite
WHISKEY.
Geo. Roe&C? 1 ?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER &C 9 cvmiirv
82 A mi ST. OILINtI.
ASK
FOR
xe stin
QAV *
D v BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Bristol Circus.
MANAGER WAS IN TROUBLE.
The manager of Bristol circus, writing from
Sydney, explains that travelling with his show in
winter, exposed to all kind of weather, brought
on rheumatic pains all over his body and limbs, so
that it was difficult to walk about at all. He'
says : “ I tried various remedies, but got nothing
to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe Rheu-
matic Cure. After taking a few bottles it drove-
the rheumatics completely out of my body, and
left it only in my feet; but continuing the remedy
it was not long before I was cured.”*
THE BEST IS THE CHEAPEST.
Drink the best only, no matter how expensive.
“ D.C.L.” Whisky is the best product of Scotland
and bottled in Scotland under the supervision of
Her Majesty’s excise officers.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations *
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT6R BRAPLCY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
J3T” Sales Held at the Atiction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
OIL
Tbe Perfect Sbeep-Marlter.
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. . KEPT BY AT.T. MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Governor-General will probably arrive
in Aust ralia not later than next June.
The Lyne Ministry begins with two good
principles of Government: both Attorney-General-
ship and Justice are held by men sitting in the
elected House.
A month ago there were seven record
Ministries in Australasia—every province was
ruled by the longest-lived Ministry on its record.
Now that one has gone, what are the chances that
the rest will comedown in quick succession? The
Bulletin doesn’t mind betting a new hat that
two more of the record Ministries are in their last
year.
S.A. Tories are continually howling at the
Kingston Govt, for its iniquitous interference with
private enterprise, yet this session Rounsevell,
Tory M.P., is urging Govt, to establish experi-
mental dairy farms, and Opposition Leader Solo-
mon moves for a Govt, subsidy of JllOOO in aid of
a private prospecting expedition in the Musgrove
ranges 1 The Tory loves State interference when
the State interferes with a cheque.
The prosecution of Tucker, M.P., for vot-
ing in Encounter Bay, the district which elected
him, although a resident of N. Adelaide, has
caused a small storm in S.A Other M’s.P. are
tarred with the same brush, for Griffiths, M.P.,
averred that, although he has resided in Adelaide
for years, he still votes at Palmerston. “ Very
well then, I will consider whether you shall not
be prosecuted too ! ” said Premier Kingston.
The Australian “authorities”
— i.e., the top-dogs, the people who
enjoy State pay and are out after
titles —have evidently learnt nothing
from history, and are calmly acting
on the assumption that the tax-
payers at large quite concur in the
idea of this country helping the Lon-
don Stock Exchange gang to con-
nimmate its pending South African
prab. The Transvaal business, if
it c- >mes to a head, may wreck
the careers of quite a number of
politicians. Ex-Premier Reid, The Bulls-
Tin predicts, will this time not be on
tit*! wrong side of the fence.
lf Westralia does not know all
that there is to know about Feder-
ation, after reading the debates of
the Select Committee on the
Bill, it is to be pitied. The
clause dealing with deadlocks
was “ up.” Said Crowder,
M.L.C. : “This destroys the
power of the Senate.” Then
Randell, ditto : “ Cripples
it, anyhow.” And that
ardent Federalist Big
John : “No doubt it
is a very bad clause.”
Whereupon Vosper:
“ I take exception,
from a democratio
point of view. It
means delay on the
part of the Senate.”
Not a word from the
alleged People's
Champion to suggest
that a delay of a few
months is better
than defeat, and that
here, for the first
time in any Austra-
lasian Constitution,
express provision is
made for preventing
the defeat of demo-
cratic measures—
though why a Senate
elected on a one-man-
one-vote basis should
want to defeat demo-
cratic measures isn’t
clear.
Premier King-
ston has carried his
Leg. Council Reform
Bill safely through
S. A. Assembly. The
only Labor recalcitrant
was Wood, who was returned
E lodged to the reform, but through
is personal antipathy to the Pre-
mier went back on his hustings pledges.
It is almost certain the Bill will be rejected
by the Council. Then, says Kingston, if his
Assembly majority stands by him, comes dissolu-
tion
Barton’s retirement from the Opposition
is thus explained : He was “too strong ” for the
Opposition, and the Opposition was “ too strong ”
for him. That’s the strength of it.
J. J. Miller, who contests the Hume with
Premier Lyne, was beaten twice by Barnes for
Gundagai, also by Gough for the Lachlan, and by
M'Kinnon for Young. These experiences will
no doubt enable him to bear tranquilly the issue
of the Hume contest.
Sydney Telegraph : “ England has
shown great patience, and the Transvaal a degree
of stubborn evasion and resistance .not to be
borne.” True—most true. England has shown
the very greatest patience in reaching out for the
riohest goldfield in the world, and the Transvaal’s
stubborn evasion and resistance to that reach-out
is calculated to make any true Briton boil with
noble indignation.
“ Honest Tom ” Playford, Kingston’s
former chief and colleague, is “the” oonundrum
of present-day S. A. politics. Playford, once a
sturdy democrat, has apparently been politically
poisoned by contact with the British aristocracy,
and now opposes nearly all the reform measures in
Kingston’s programme, and yet proclaims himself
a Ministerialist. The most amusing feature in
Playford’s attitude is his supreme contempt for
the Tory gang he votes with.
The Reid Cabinet contained four metro-
politan members to four country ones. Lyne
selected nine out of ten from the country—a strik-
ing indication of the city v. country attitude of
the two parties. It is well-known that Lyne
jumped at the excuse of the Fegan amendment to
secure a Newcastle representative. Reid, with
all his protestations of the assistance he received
from the coal city, gave serious offence to the dis-
trict when he passed it over in reconstructing in
1898.
Poor old extinct volcano B. D. Morehead,
ex-P.M.G., ex-Colonial Secretary, ex-Premier, ex-
banker and mercantile potentate, blazed up for a
moment in Queensland Leg. Council over the pro-
posed Transvaal Contingent. A paragraph in the
speech at the opening of Parliament declared,
with battle shining in its eye, that the sufferings
of the Outlanders “cannot but excite sympathy
in the breast of every Australian lover of liberty,”
and old B. D. Morehead offered his chest for
inspection as evidence to the contrary.
“This
shockingly
undemocra-
tic Federal
Bill” has
already been
mainly re-
sponsible for
three things
which had
been unsuc-
cessfully
struggled for
hitherto —it
has produc-
ed One-man-
one-vote in
"Victoria ; it
has resulted
FRXT
st
FREE STABLING.
FIRST WEARY: “I say, Bill, w’y wasn’t we born
bosses?”
in a Ministerial promise of ditto in Queensland,
with other electoral reforms ; and it has broken
down one-class representation in N.S.W. Leg.
Council.
NOT HIS FAULT.
“A shipment of Foster’s “Bugle” brand of ale,
consisting of nearly 10,000 bottles, was destroyed
yesterday by the agents, W. Balchin, Limited,
owing to its arrival in somewhat indifferent con-
dition. The work was carried out at the Adelaide
Bond (Miller’s Point) under customs supervision,
the corks being drawn and the ale run off into the
harbor.”— Daily paper.
“Ah, my poor frigid, drunk again, eh?”
“ It’s like this. Had fish for dinner. The beastly
fish must have been caught off Miller’s Point.”
Murray Smith, in Yic. Assemby, made
some rather awkward comments on the Immigra-
tion Restriction Bill. “ The Bill,” said the re-
lentless Freetrader, “which excludes certain of
Her Majesty’s subjeots from the right of entry
into part of the Queen’s dominions reflects no
credit on Mr. Chamberlain, who suggested it, and
who is now about to go to war with the Boers
because they refuse to give the full privilege of
citizens to British subjects.”
Q. Premier Dickson will have an early
opportunity of proving the sincerity of his pro-
gressive policy. The Leg. Council will assuredly
pass the Federation Address to the Queen —and
almost assuredly kick out the local One-man-one-
vote Bill. If Dickson is in earnest he will see
that both measures become law by drafting a few
serviceable democrats into the Council. The
difficulty will probably be to find honest and
capable men who would accept the “ honor.”
The importunities of private member
O’Sullivan at N.S.W. Works Office on behalf of
his constituents were the despair of the Minister.
O’Sullivan is now “Works” himself. Subject
for a great argument: O’Sullivan, private mem-
ber, pointing out to O’Sullivan, Minister, the
absolute necessity for a morsel of .£5OOO for a
bridge beyant Queanbeyan. In the end, O’Sulli-
van, private member, getting the grant with a
caution to keep away from O’Sullivan, Minister.
One of the most touching things during
the late Anti-Federal campaign in Brisbane was
the heart-felt sympathy of the Anti - Federal
organs for the sugar districts —under the shadow
of impending calamity. It was asserted that such
impositions would be placed on sugar by the
Federal Govt, that the Q. industry would be
practically annihilated. And the sugar districts
showed their appreciation of metropolitan interest
in their welfare by voting joyfully and promptly
for union.
Premier Lyne’s promises that he will in-
crease the road-vote sufficiently to keep the N.S.
Wales highways in decent repair, and that he
won’t make the borrowing curse any worse than
it is, combined with the .£176,000 shortage already
existing in Reid’s estimates, make it dead certain
that more money must be obtained from some-
where. Either the land and income taxes must
be doubled, or a lot of the old revenue duties must
go on again, or some new source of income must
be discovered.
Railway Commissioner Gray (Q.) warns
Queensland concerning the danger involved in the
guarantee-line business. Quite a number of these
railways are just now in course of promotion, and
Gray points out that as they increase in number
the Boards interested in breaking their covenants
with Parliament will increase also, and ultimately
be able to bring such pressure to bear on Parlia-
ment that their liabilities must be forgiven. In
face of the fact that three out of Queensland’s four
guarantee lines are already defaulters, the warning
is well-timed. On the other hand, Gray advocates
private railways, despite the fact that Banana-
land’s State lines will be a handsome and profit-
able asset in the near future.
The last days of the Westralian. Parli%*
mentary Committee on Federation were full of
trouble. For long weary weeks it sat, oalling as
witnesses all the leading citizens who were
known to be against Federation, and ex-
amining them at length. Then it wae
announced that the Committee, in order
to show its absolute impartiality, pro-
posed to give a few days at the tired fag-
end of its session to some Federal wit-
nesses. About six were summoned, ao
that the Committee could say it had
heard both sides and that the great bulk
of the testimony was against union ;
and most of them replied by letter or
wire to the effect that the Committee
was so obviously biassed and one-sided,
and made itself so objectionable when
any evidence came before it that didn't
suit its prejudices, that the writers begged
to be excused. They said it in different
ways but they all said much the same
thing, and Bigjohn swelled up to nearly
times his usual size with rage.
One of the awful discoveries which
the Westralian specially-selected com-
mittee has made is that under the
Commonwealth Bill a man can vote in
two States if he happens to live on the
border. _ If it had pursued the clue
further it might have discovered also
that he might vote in the whole six pro-
vinces if he only distributed himself
permanently among them in sufficiently
large pieces to allow each piece to pass for
a man. And the suggestion is hereby
offered that Yosper and Forrest, who have
made the great find, shall each carve himself
into six pieces for the express purpose of voting
six times, and so proving what a fool of a Con-
stitution it is.
A meeting was held in Sydney to arrange
about “recognising the services” of Yes-No
Reid. Someone, with a fine eye to the girth of
the fallen one, suggested a banquet, but *‘x-Minis-
ter Carruthers said that “ many of those who
owed the most to Mr. Reid were nob of the class
that could attend banquets.” Which is frozen
truth. They are mostly of the class that sleep in
the Domain, and they owe a lot to Mr. Reid — so
much that they can never pay the debt unless
someone lends them a gun.
One of the Lyne Government’s first duties
will be the division of N.S.W. into electorates for
representation in the Federal Parliament; for
failing such division the whole province must vote
as one electorate for both Houses in the Common-
wealth Legislature. The mapping out of these
electorates will largely recruit the ranks of the
sore-headed brigade, for already intending aspir-
ants in the Assembly for Federal honors ere
getting anxious about the probable boundaries.
The exclusion or inclusion of various country cen-
tres will make a vast difference to the prospeots
of the country members in the looal Parliament
desiring to sit in the House of Representatives.
S.M. Herald's championship of Bavister,
nominated against new Attorney-General Wise
for the Ashfield seat, was a beautiful piece of pur-
blind logic. Because Bavister represented Ash-
field for some years, and was only beaten on hie
anti-Federal attitude at last election, and as the
Federal question, on which the electors oold-
shouldered him, is now settled, he should be allowed'
to resume his seat at once, and it is very incon-
siderate of B. R. Wise to endeavour to keep him out
of it! Then Granny proceeds to soft-soap Wise'e
supporters by stating that the defeat of that
gentleman will not exclude him from the Ministry,
as he can be appointed to the Council. Truly a
nice reward for one of the straightest and ablest
of the national leaders.
B. R. Wise, in reply to ex-Premier Reid :
As to Mr. Reid’s charges that I deserted Sir Henry
Parkes, they simply stupefy me. That Mr. Reid, the life-
long enemy, should take upon himself to champion Sir
Henry Parkes 1 And against me ! This is surely, even
for Mr. Reid, a miracle of impudence ! The best answer
is to recall the terms upon which I was privileged to live
with Sir Henry until he died. It is true that I resigned
the office of Attorney-General in Sir Henry’s Ministry in
order to attend to my private practice. I did this because
I thought it better, even in the public interests, that >
should be a politician with a profession than a profes-
sional politician.


The Best and
Cheapest
House
for
Every
Known
Musical Instrument
ORGANS
. f * -. **
BANJOS
FLUTES
PIANOS
MUSIC
GUITARS
CORNETS
DRUMS
CELLOS
High Grade Goods
at Lowest Prices.
We hold the
LARGEST
v ' ' '
Stock
of
MUSIC
in Australasia
Call or Write to us for any information
you require about Music,
Musical Instruments,
or Strings and Fittings.
CATALOGUES FREE. Send for one.
PIANOS
W. H. PALIN6 *C» L TD 338
<SEOR<SE STREET,
SYDNEY
Brisbane
H^wcaStl
'• V*'“ ’ ' ? ■ *—; /, 'V- •
MK
&
m
I
\
’i
*
S 5
m
¥
»3
' .*•:
SS3
••
ms
•SsaSs
...
-
.
Plain
Speaking
If your
If they
don’t,
TELL US!
give you
satisfaction,
TELL OTHERS!
Our aim is to supply a tyre that will give everjr cyclist satisfaction ; and if they don’t,
then we will bo pleased to see any cyclist and investigate his claims, our motto being
“The best tyre and the best treatment.”
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Aus. Ltd.,
and at 486 Kent-street, Sydne
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Victorian politicians appear to have agreed
that they don’t “see their way” to lend their
gorgeous Parliament House to. the Federal Legis-
lature while it is in Melbourne. It is suggested
that the Parliament of all Australia should lead a
scrambling existence in the gaunt Exhibition
Building. One good result will be that the Par-
liament of all Australia will probably make the
greater haste to decide on its permanent location.
If Victoria’s local politicians had a little more
sense and generosity, they would hand over their
Parliament House bodily to the Federal Legisla-
ture (if only as an inducement to stay as long as
possible), and do their local business over the way,
at the White Hart Hotel—where a good deal of it
s done already.
Significant item in Inspector Douglas’s
recent evidence at the Queensland Police In-
quiry
He had no fault to find with Senior-Sergeant Grimshavv,
generally speaking ; but that he was not energetic
enough. Out of 70 or 80 cases which had been put into
his hands he had only secured convictions in 10 or 12
cases. The man was right enough except for that/
Except for- that! But that, from the police-
office point of view, is everything.
That Pretoria German Consul's declara-
tion that if the German fleet were larger than it is
the political aspect of South African affairs would
be different —merely amounts to the statement
that Germany would interfere if she (navally)
dared. “ Her poverty,” in this direction, “and
not her will consents ” to her dear friend Bull’s S.
African scheme.
The most ringing Federal poem up to date
is this, by George Essex Evans, published-m
Brisbane COURIER :
In the greyness of the dawning we have seen the pilot
star, *
In the whisper of the morning we have heard the years
afar.
Shall we sleep and let them be
When they call to you and me ;
Can we break the land asunder God has girdled with the
sea ?
For the flag is floating o’er us,
And the track is clear before us,
From the desert to the ocean let us lift the mighty chorus
For the days that are to be.
We have flung the challenge forward; Brothers, stand or
fall as one !
She is coming out to meet us in the splendor of the sun.
From the graves beneath the sky
Where the nameless heroes lie,
From the forelands of the future, they are waiting our
reply 1
We can face the roughest weather
If we only hold together
Marching forward to the future, marching shoulder-firm
together,
For the nation yet to be.
All the greyness of the dawning, all the mists are over-
past,
In the glory of the morning we shall see her face at last.
He who sang, “ She yet will be,”
He shall hail her, crowned and free !
Could we break the land asunder God has girdled with
the sea ? SL
For the flag is floating o’er us, gm
And the star of Hope before us, “
From the desert to the ocean, brothers, lift the mighty
chorus
For Australian unity 1
Although W. P. Crick has allowed it to
be inferred that he took the N.S.W. Postmaster-
Generalship because of the pressure of his law-
practice, it is averred that his answer to an offer
of a portfolio was, in the first instance, “ Lands
or nothing.” At 3 p.m. on the day the Ministry
was announced it was not known whether he or
Hassall would give way, and the announcement
of the Ministry was to be made at 4.30 In his
election speech at West Macquarie Mr. Crick out-
lined what will, or ought to, be the Ministerial
Lands policy, to which promulgation exception
has been taken by Hassall aforesaid ; even the
Daily Telegraph-being constrained to hint that
the policy of one department should be announced
either by the Premier or by the Minister con-
cerned. The impetuous Crick would certainly
have been a'most popular choice as Lands Minis-
ter.
A paragraph in the Advocate, Melbourne
R.C. journal, reminds one of many similar para-
graphs published in M.A.P. by the enthusiastic
Tay Pay O’Connor. T.P.O’C. never lets a notably
irreligious personage die an unbeliever, but always
suggests that the deceased was a true Catholic,
although nobody except himself and his confiden-
tial friend, Tay Pay, had any knowledge of the
fact. The Advocate started the M‘Coy trouble
by saying—“ Our readers will be pleased to
hear that, though the deceased gentleman was
known as a member of the Church of England,'
he made a profession of faith as a Catholic
before his death, and made his confession.”
Thereupon grandson M‘Coy wrote to the
jubilant newspaper declaring that the old gentle-
man didn’t profess or confess as stated, and asking
for the name of the person who had supplied the
yarn. Next week the C. of E. Messenger got
up and yelled, on behalf of said grandson, that
“ none of the priests who ; called at Sir Ered.
M‘Coy’s house saw him while he was still con-
scious. One of them succeeded in obtaining
admission to his room, during the absence of his
relative, but at that time Sir Frederick was quite
beyond the power of making any profession of
faith. His friends maintain that he died as he
lived—a consistent member of the Anglican Com-
munion.” Which - means, seemingly, that poor
old Professor M‘Coy was consistently unconscious
during his last days. Then the Advocate waded in
again with a snort at the alleged “cheek” of
young M‘Coy and a brief note from Father
Brown, S.J., “ re-affirming ” the statement as to
True Church’s capture of the dying man. To this
the grandson replied with his detailed statement
of the case as follows: One priest had been re-
fused admission to the sick room, but Father
Brown was let in, against the doctor’s orders, by
the nurse. The patient at that time had been
adjudged “mentally unfit to attend to anything,”
but Father Brown got there, anyhow. • The nurse
and two servants of the R.C. persuasion were
promptly discharged. Next day another priest
came to minister to the unhappy “convert,” but
was driven back by the angry grandson, and
Father Brown was likewise repulsed at his next
attempted visit. The detailed statement from
grandson M'Coy was not published by the Advo-
cate, and the injustice of this suppression of im-
portant details was aggravated by a subsequent
paragraph in Melb. Pdnch practically giving the
lie to young M‘Coy. Grandson M‘Coy forwarded
to Punch the story which the Advocate had
carefully refrained from printing, and Punch
took no notice of it.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
Mont do piete Co.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department or entrance.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin * Brid e e - efc -) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
1 Fidelity Guarantees. Knip. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, efc.
W. M ‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Mekks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
A Good Spec. 60s each.
Allotments, 50 x 150.
Adjoining Bishop Gibney’s Estate, Perth,
West Australia. Easy Terms. Torrens’
Title. A Genuine Investment.
Plans, E. C. V. Broughton, Sworn Valuator
under the Real Property Act, 250 Pitt-st. Sydney.
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, (52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoi) $ LafKa&hir?
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New Branch 7 ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, £500,000. Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Agents wanted where not represented.
file Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED, •
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
‘ Mr. A. J. Charkbr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Go. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capita! Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Sat., Sept. 30, 12 Noon.
-Gabo, Tues., October 3, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., October 7, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
•Gabo, Tue 9., October 3, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues., October 3, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH |
ROCKHAMPTON I
BUNDABERG J
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 30, 2 p.m.
• Bunin.vony, Tues., Oct. 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 7, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 30, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 7, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengews and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ TrGstces, €*€c<atorS,
AND
Agsocy Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £89,701 14 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-slreet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amouutof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commemal Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. .. £3,123,555 15 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJfice: 1 liishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford with airency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Colonial Mutual I*ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79.765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, 62,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL EIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROREIfT KKUH, Managkh.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping
TN€ flB£RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London .
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Lalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, 3 Bent Street, SYDNEY,
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Oct. 30 Nov. 17
Nov. 27 Dec. 15
Dec. 25lJan. 12
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe ; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
M‘|luiraith,f[|‘Eacharn&(;o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN _COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL^^-
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
TX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
’’ Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M'Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriebe.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYJDNE Y MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINOHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
rr\HE WAYS OF MANY WATERS.
J. By E. J. Brady. Price 5/-.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to anrl from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE \
ADELAIDE :
PORT PIRIE V
And GULF PORTS I
ESPERANCE BAY J
S.S. Paroo, Friday, Sept. 29.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Oct. 7.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping'at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And ail North West Ports.
S.S. Paroo, Friday,
Sept. 29.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
October 7.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
September 29.
Best <(; Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL and CO., I /i’D., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
for MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 1 65 to £111).
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HO B A KT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through tl.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Forts and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright &Co Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
6 T n
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons’ cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Fort Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE -B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE EA.MOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COU6NS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
3'our medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v.hat an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully, -—- —.”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew' to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I w’as obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only save him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending-for another bottle in case I should want it.--D. M'DONALD, Trinkev, via
Quirindi, N.S.YV.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
0
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.— R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
0-
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
0
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” %
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of inv brief trial.—JOHN c!
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; hut I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklauds, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
0
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchicis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it. to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine; with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Gfklono Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of vour
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELi.IOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
\Y. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong*, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Hlawarra), near SYDUXTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
. . •
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers, of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd
LEAD BULLION
DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food f ° r
9
Food is sold in various sizsi
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, £5, for £1 ss; The Home Physician,
J'2 10s, for 20s; Universal Instructor, £1 15s, for 15s;
Webster’s Household Dictionary, 255, for 10s. I have the
Largest Stock of Second-hand Books in New South Wales.
Write for Catalogues. I have also Three Choice Books,
1 s 6d each, or three for 4s (can only be procured by post).
The History of Australian Bushranging, by White, is 3d.
All books sent post free. Telephone 3043.
Second-hand 1-
Book Arcade, /.
E. W. Skinner
/105 Castlereaph-
street, Sydney.
Valuable Books-
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself.
POSTED FOR 6d. TN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
WU leKl/inf Stephen Street,
■ ■** i)S, , , Melbourne.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 15s.
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
0F RARE, CURIOUS,
ANO LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free front
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.


Dr. LAW'S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
ONLY ONE Quality of
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
The Best we know how to make.
Fac to; ies—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp.
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depdt, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
THAT CRIMSON WHEEL
IS EITHER A
RED BIRD!
or else it is endeavoring to sleigh-ride on RED BIRD reputation. Don’t be
deceived into buying a bicycle “ as good as,” and refuse any but the real thing.
There are many who purchase the products of repair shops and plough fac-
tories through the influence of a friend (f)—who gets a commission.
Experienced cyclists sell “ RED BIRDS,” the wheels of known quality.
Call and learn all about them.
Tb* 6oold Bicyck Co. Ltd
Australasian Brancues
Factories—
Brantford, Canada.
64 King-street, Sydney (Head Office);
261 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic,;
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.;
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The backing of the Kogarah (N.S.W.) trained
mare Mora for Melb. Cup was the sensation of the bet-
ting-market last week. Stable got £25,000 in three pro-
vinces on one day ; half the total being secured in Syd-
ney. Mora now disputes favoritism with Wait-a-Bit and
Le Var. If. appearances counted for anything, she
would be a “ cert.,” for a finer-looking nag doesn’t exist—
but looks don’t win races. Beyond carrying off S A
Cup as a 3-year-old, with 7.8 up, and covering 1 mile 6
fur. in 2.52, Mora’s public form doesn’t amount to much
She hasn’t been placed for two years, and is now a 6-
year-old. Writer knows this mare has (in training) done
little to justify the big splash referred to, and can only
imagine that her owner (cute as they make ’em) wants to
rush her down to a short price so as to lay off profitably.
Same game was tried after Mora got away with Adelaide
Cup, but she went wrong meanwhile, and the anticipated
harvest didn’t occur—the public got to know about it too
quickly.
* • * •
Reported that the Kogarah (Sydney) owned
horse, Australian Star, could have been sold for 1000
guineas, but owner Gollan wouldn’t bite, though the son
of Australian Peer did only cost 40 guineas as a two-
year-old. Like many great performers Australian Star is
not very taking to the eye. Colors (Australian Star’s
dam and the property of Mr. Foy) has at foot a full
brother to Mr. Gollan’s crack that promises well. He is
now two years old, and is a fine, upstanding fellow, not
unlike the recent Randwick performer in appearance.
That game bit of horseflesh, Paris, is home again
from the old country. The Grandmaster gelding is the
first Australian horse to return after racing “down
under." One only needs an atom of sentiment in his
make-up to feel pleased at knowing that the gritty little
chap’s brilliant turf career—which includes two Caulfield
Cups—is to be fittingly capped. He will spend the rest
of his days in the heavily-grassed paddocks of Havilah
estate. To his credit, Mr. H. C. White made this an
indispensable condition when Paris left for England five
years ago.
• * • *
Moonee Valley (Melb.) on a rainy day isn’t the
pleasantest of places for a race meeting, but, all the same,
the Findon Harriers’ Club scored a “ large and fashion-
able attendance ” last Saturday. The Bracelet Stakes,
which offers a bauble valued at £lOO for the nominatress
of the winner, and a couple of minor bracelets for the
runners-up, would probably attract a swarm of best
bonnets to the course, even though the Last Trump were
sounding. Sam Cook’s filly, The Saucy Girl, won the
prize this time for Mrs. George Moir, and lawyer George’s
satisfaction at the success of his comely wife (not to men-
tion his own investment on the gee-gee) was shared by a
lot of people, judging from the cheers that rent the damp
atmosphere. Saucy Girl went out 12’s, the favorite,
Slatin, nominated by Lady Brassey, finishing only fifth.
"There was a bit of unpleasantness over the
Sydney Hunt Club Point-to-point Steeplechase, run last
week over a course from Kensington to Botany, owing to
the two first horses mistaking the course. The winner
turned up in Finbar, ridden by “ Banjo” Paterson, who
doesn’t, as a rule, make many mistakes in the saddle.
* * * *
Re the provision in Tasmania’s Tote Bill that
no tickets or divs. shall be issued to boys under the age
of 16, the question is raised—“ How shall the tote-men
decide the age question?” When one thinks of the
smooth-faced mannikins who seem to live by “ following”
the gee-gee game, it is hard to suggest a reasonable
answer to that enquiry.
* * * *
“Punter”: The vigilant “English buyer” has
been after Dewey. £l5OO offered, but £2OOO wanted ;no
business. Present owner will want a bit more for his
brilliant 3-year-old when the Caulfield Cup is over. Paste
this in your hat.
• * * »
Cricketer Coningham, who has tried many
occupations, has now taken to bookmaking, and calls the
odds on Randwick flat with a bag hung round his
neck labelled “Coningham the Cricketer.” “Conny”
has a “system” and explains how recently he made
£2 15s. on a day that every other bookie lost £8 or over.
Another budding “ bookie ” is champion billiardist Fred
Weiss.
* * * *
The death of Iroquois, the only Yankee-bred
horse that has won an English Derby, revives the ques-
tion as to whether Pierre Lorillard’s champion was an
exceptionally good animal or merely the best of a bad lot
in the classic race. Foxhall, another ’Murkan visitor,
won the Caesarewitch and Cambridgeshire Handicaps,
under big weights, in the same year that Iroquois took
the Derby, so, considering that these 'Bl successes have
not. been repeated, although a pile of dollars has been
spent in a number of attempts since then, it seems
probable that Iroquois and Foxhall struck England in a
weak year as regards horseflesh. The Americans at that
time threatened to put the purely British thoroughbred’s
nose out of joint, but they didn’t. Fourteen years earlier
the Frenchmen, with their Gladiateur, had looked
just as formidable, but Gladialeur, to this day, remains
the only French-bred winner of three-year-old classic
races in England. Hundreds of other French horses
have crossed the Channel, but none of them have been
invincibles. The chances are that Australia will he found
a better place for growing English blood stock than France
or America, which have each of them sent a champion
to take down the “ old country ” crowd.
• * • •
World’s 100-yards’ swimming-record has been
cut again. Cabled that in England, Sept. 18, Derbyshire
(100yds. champion of that "country) beat Australian
Freddy Lane by 2ds. in lmin. 2-ssec. Previous year
Derbyshire won same event in lmin 4-ssec., lowering the
then best by 1 l-ssec. Lane’s close second in such extra-
ordinary time indicates that the climate agrees with him.
His accepted best 100yds. was done at Bronte
Baths, Waverley (Sydney), March, this year, when
several watches made him do lmin. 3 2-ssec.
Lane doesn’t get going properly till 100yds. have
been traversed. It would be odds on him against
any other in the world at 150yds. Up to time of writing,
he has won quarter-mile and furlong championships of
England, and been second in those at half-mile and
100yds. ; also appropriated 116yds. handicap and 880yds.
scratch races, and tilled No. 2 position in 96yds. handi-
cap and 78yds.. exhibition-swim with Derbyshire.
» * * »
Mail details of the English 220yds. swimming
championship, won by N.S. Welshman F. Lane early last
month, in world’s-record time (2.38 l-st,h sec.), reveal that
it was a bigger victory than stated in cable, which said a
gap of 7vds. existed bet ween Lane and second man Lis-
ter. Now transpires that Lane won by 17yds. It is also
asserted that at no period of the race was Freddy 7 ex-
tended.
* • * *
This is indeed a year of. record-breaking at
swimming. Hardly a single world’s “best” in existence
last season remains intact to-day. The mile, the half,
the thousand, 300yds., the furlong, and the 100yds., have
all gone. Late advices from ’Ome mention that early in
August British champion-amateur Jarvis knocked end-
ways the mile figures'(26min. Bsec.) standing in the name
of the professional champion of the world, Nuttall, by
putting up the marvellous time of 25min. 13 2-sseo. at
Abbey Park Lake, Leicester. Nuttall’s mile baffled all
attacks for years, and no present-day swimmer expected
to see it obliterated. The achievement is made even
more astonishing by the fact that the race was a virtual
walk-over—there being no one in it capable of extending
the winner.
* • • •
In the international race on the Seine, at Paris,
wherein Australian Percy Cavill swam second to English-
P} a j 1 n e , sle y- won by a yard, world’s champion
Nuttall third, Cavill swam a bad course ; otherwise, it
appears, he would have won, for Greasley hadn’t another
L eft ’ n h ! m the finish. Promoter of the event
(Oiffard, proprietor of Le Velo, a cyclists’organ) thought
so much of CaviU’B swimming that he at once engaged
him at a high figure (securing a huge ad. at the same
time) to teach the youth of France the art gratis.
* * * *
Tug-of-war championship struggle now in its
final stages at Flying Jordan’s Circus (Sydney) has drawn
an< f a t times caused much excitement.
A.U.S.N., Waverley (which includes the four best, men of
City police team) and Cockatoo Island quarryinen are
left in. First and last mentioned seem well matched as
to weight. A.U.S.N. includes two 18sl. men, and none
under 15, while Waverley’s lowest is 2st. less. One pull
between latter and the stone-hewers, on Monday night,
lasted Hmin., and proved a terrible struggle ; neither
side gained an inch for several secs., then the blue knot,
marking the centre, gradually moved a foot Waverley-
wards only to be shortly afterwards hauled back same
distance into Cockatoo territory. Meantime barrackers
yelled like maniacs. Waverley ultimately won. No
footholds, cleats or other aids, bar regulation cricketing
spikes, are allowed, and men must not touch ground with
any portion of (heir bodies bar the feet. Looks as if
A.U.S.N. will win, Waverley second.
» * * *
At Sydney public schools’ sports, Sept. 22,
Newington College schoolboy A. Brown, threw the
cricket-ball 118yds. Ift. ljin. eclipsing previous school-
boy’s best (115yds. 2ft. lin.) made two years ago. On
record that Ross Mackenzie (Toronto, Canada) cast the
leather-covered sphere 140Jvds. 17 years since. Aboriginal
King Billy, in ’73, credited himself with 140yds. Other
big performances are : Edwd. Crane, at Melb. Cricket
Ground, 128yds. 10|in., Jan. 5, 1889; 124yds. 6in. by
giant Australian cricketer G. Bonnor, May, ’79 ; 132yds.
by W. S. Forbes, ’76; 127yds. Ift. 3in. bv W. 11. Grace,
March 13, ’73 ; 126jyds. by E. B. Fawcett (Eng.), June, ’5B.
* • * *
The 3-miles running championship of N.S.W
at Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday was very slow ;
Robinson (Warringah harriers) getting honie 40yds. ahead
in 16min. 22 l-ssec. Writer thinks previous holder
(“Wally” Yorke), though down with rheumatism for
months, could very nearly have got up out of bed and
won. The mother province is poor in amateur runners ;
bar Stan. Rowley, she hasn’t a champion in the whole
heap, and. yet we hear of arrangements being made for a
team to visit England and France next year. With what
object ?
* * * *
The late Ernest Renshaw—the W. G. Grace of
tennis—was, like his twin brother, a blonde, good-look-
ing, well built lady-killer. Renshaw was horn to fill the
billet of champion in a game which owes the bulk of its
popularity to the dear girls. They came in battalions to
doat upon him, and as a gate-money attraction he was
said to be the most paid amateur of his dny. That was
in the ’Bo’s, and already he is dead. Whom the girls love
die young.
• • * *
“ Old Timer ” : Cabled a day or two since that
Yankee “Kid” M'Coy whipped the whilom Sydney
heavy-weight boxer Steve O’Donnell in six rounds at New
York. Steve was clever, so clever that when both were
here he could have found good backing against ex-cham-
pion of the world Fitzsimmons. Like Dooley, O’Donnell
wanted to be on deck a round or two before he got going
properly. There’s not enough “devil” in O’D. for the
fighting business, so he has been more or less a failure
in America, albeit two or three good wins stand to his
credit. Recent news from O'DonneH was to the effect
that he had placed himself under the managerial wing of
Sam Fitzpatrick (the “Australian Comet”). A big
fellow named M’Cormack fluked M’Coy out in one round
(Aug. 17) at Chicago, which fact very likely inspired
O’Donnell with the notion that he had a good chance
against the “ Kid.”
* • * *
Steve O’Donnell—an electrotyper by trade—
was a handsome, well - built chap, straight as a
rush, over 6ft. high, and a natural gentleman.
He was a boxer of the first order, and had few
equals as an instructor, but should never have gone
in for the willing game ; he was too nervously
strung. Writer saw that big dab Jim Ryan (now
dead) nearly best O’Donnell at old S.A.G. Club (Sydney)
years ago after Steve had been hitting when, where arid
how he pleased round after round. O’Donnell had a
pub. at Yonkers (N.Y.) for two or three years. Probably
failure of biz drove him into the ring again.
» * • *
“Ringsider”: So played-out and broken-up
Peter Jackson has gone under again to an ungainly 16st.
rough-and-tumbler named Jeffords who would have been
a “ cake-walk ” for the black in the latter’s good days.
Those few years at 'Ome with the London Johnnies
flattened Peter out. Writer knows that, night after
night for months subsequent to his sensational defeat of
Slavin, Jackson wasn’t sober three hours at a stretch,
and same state of affairs existed, in a greater or less
degree, for years until he crossed the Atlantic to fight
Jeffries in ’Frisco. Australians late from California said
Peter was a physical wreck, and all the building-up pos-
sible wouldn’t put him in proper fix for a fight. Present
low-down position of one-time man-eater Joe Goddard is
another illustration of how soon the pace kills. Since his
second trip to America he has only won one out of 12
fights, being licked by Sharkey, Jeffries, Maher, Ruhlin
(twice), McCoy, Armstrong, Choynski, McCormack, Van
Baskirk, and “Klondike.” Yankee scribes aver that
Goddard has reached the end of his tether and couldn’t
now live with the biggest dunce in the game, provided
latter had vim and weight and forced things.
* « • »
Vancouver mail brought news that about the
middle of August doctors were confident “ Griffo ”
couldn’t last two weeks longer. He had become a raving
maniac, and his once splendid physique was absolutely
beyond repair. What an ending for the cleverest pug.
the world ever saw ! He was a natural fighter. No-
body taught “Griffo” anything—it came to him. The
old York-street (Sydney) boxing-club had “ Griffo ” as an
instructor and paid him high wages for months, not
because he could l teach —he had no idea of teaching;
couldn’t, tell why he did any particular thing, or explain
why anyone else might go about it; he simply stood up
and fooled with his pupil. The club kept the “Rocks”
phenomenon for match-making purposes—he was always
a big draw, and “Griffo’s” methods were particularly
his own. Nobody ever fought like “Griffo,” and probably
nobody ever will again. Nature intended “Griffo” for
a fighter ; the build was there, also the genuine love of
the game and the necessary combative instinct—a born
bruiser, if ever one lived.
* * * *
“ Sport ” : The term during which Dunn and
Conlon were “ bound over ” having expired Sept. 14,,
same pair have signed to box for the middleweight
supremacy of N.S.W., Oct. 11. Rumored that the police
intend taking a hand in the matter again, this in face of
the fact that over a dozen gory battles have occurred at
Golden Gate Club without interference since Dunn and
Conlon were arrested. Looks as if the same influence is
at work that allows one tote-shop to go on its swindling
way unimpeded for years, and yet swoops down upon a
similar concern only half-a-dozen yards off, almost
directly it starts. The ways of the'Sydney police are
indeed peculiar.
* * • •
Massey-Gorrick pigeon - shooting match for
championship of N.S.W. and £lOO a-side has been fixed
for October 12 at Yass. Many good judges favor Massey’s
chance, but writer will have a bit on “ Chud ” Gorrick—
a consistent good ’un, let it be said, who looks after him-
self and always has his hand in. And Gorrick is con-
fident of the outcome.
Old Bill Beach came up from his farm at Dapto
(N.S.W.) two or three weeks since (bronzed and sturdy
as of yore), and got away with a great heap of oof and
prizes offered by Sydney’s two gun-clubs during A.J.O.
Spring meeting. Bill’s first public appearance at the
game occurred close on 16 years back —soon after he
beat Hanlan. Then he won a valuable handicap right
out, quite staggering a big line-up of champions. Bill’s
latest feats show him to be as good as ever. 22 straight
were grassed by him at Botany on Sept. 15, and alto-
gether 31 out of 32 on same day. A two-days’ reckoning
gave him 49 out of 62.
• * * *
As usual, there was blustering weather for
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta on Saturday. Syd-
ney Rowing Club, which a few years back seemed to have
lost all form, looks like taking the place held by it a
score of years ago. It followed up last year’s victory by
again winning the Champion Eights, finishing in front of
Balmain, Glebe, and University, in the order named.
The Amateur Sculling Championship fell to J. J. Daley,
of the Mercantile Club, who fairly rowed down ex-cham-
pion Lambert.
• • • •
Lord Beauchamp is no better in a boat than in
the saddle. The Gov. has been out in the Bronzewing,
under a sailing-master, and began to fancy himself to the
extent of asking if he was good enough to sail her in a
race. The answer was straight and to the point.
» * * *
Re dispute between N.S.W. League of Wheel-
men and Cyclists’ Union here referred to on 16/9/’99.
Members of first-named body look upon the fact of their
president(Hassall) succeeding Union’s president (Carru-
thers) in Lands Department as a good omen, and are
felicitating themselves accordingly. Present scribe takes
no stock in omens, especially where the odds against are
so big. The Union’s forces must triumph—they’re much
too strong. A similar struggle has been going on in
M.L. for many months.
* * * *
Sydney cricketers, or else the men who control
affairs, curiously misconceive S.A. motives in reopening
the question of proportionate division of gates. S.A. has
made no profit out of interprovincial matches for years,
but the fact that such men as Giffen, Hill, Darling, and
Jones play for S.A. always makes the annual contest in
Sydney a big draw and a big profit to N.S.W. S.A.
claims, therefore, that as the expense of touring is the
same to each province there should be a proportionate,
‘not an equal , division of gates. Victoria has agreed to
the S.A. proposal, but N.S.W. remains obdurate, and
early trouble seems certain.
* * * *
As a consequence of the phenomenally dry
season in England, nearly 60 per cent, of the county-fix-
tures were drawn, which is some excuse for the pre-
ponderance of draws in the Australians’ list.
* * * *
A record was put up in the Yorkshire-Surrey
match. The Tykes set the Surrey team 704 in the first
innings. Surrey replied with §5l for seven wickets—
Hayward (273) and Abel (193) putting on 448 for the first
wicket.
* * * *
Of the three counties which succeeded in beating
the Australian XI., Surrey comes out as champion for the
year. Essex and Kent, the other two, are neither in the
first six. Another tribute to the unoertaintv of cricket.
Australian ”: In reply to question (B. 2/9/’99)
I give the following cases in which cricket teams have
been dismissed without scoring. At Winterton Park,
Eng. (1866) Surrey Militia XI. ; at Moore Park, Sydney
(1876), Undaunted v. Marlborough 0 ; in Victoria (1894),
Darriman v. Prospect Reserves 0 ; in Eng. (1897), Islington
School v. Highbury School 0; in Eng. (1898) Bickerton
School v. Rockley School 0.
• • * •
Majah Poore, the dashing cricketah, is married
to a sistah of the Duke of Hamilton.
• * * *
How times have changed since little Briggs, as
the youngest member of a Shaw-Shrewsbury visiting
team, could say of an Australian eleven on the Melb.
Cricket Club ground—“ We shall set them (after follow-
ing on) about 150 runs to make, and they can’t make ’em
when we are fairly on the job.” Briggs was speaking
simple truth at the time. In the match referred to
Shrewsbury and co., having duly followed on, set the
Australians 170 odd runs to make, and won the match
with about 50 runs to spare.
* * « *
What does England reckon she is going to do
in Australia next year? The Australians have clearly
shown their superiority over the Englanders, on their
own grounds, and how oan the latter expect to obtain
revenge here, unless the luck is immensely in their favor?
Rhodes heads the English bowling against Australia, and
Hirst, the poor trundler who was knocked to glory in
Australia, comes second ! Bradley was perhaps the best
bowler pitted against the team. England is very weak,
and her best bowlers can’t bat. Why not sink all
beastly pride and bring out Albert Trott next year ?
• * * •
Alec Sloan, captain of Fitzroy football club, the
Vic. premiers, is the same game athlete who has stroked
several Vic. interprovincial eights to the first place.
Sloan is also a long-distance runner of top rank, and can
swim with the best of them. Like nearly all athletes of
note, he is a civil servant, and operates a telegraphic in-
strument for a living. The ordinary man has no time to
distinguish himself in athletics.
* • • *
South Adelaide, by beating Norwood, has
secured S.A. football premiership. The “South” was
the chief opponent of the electorate system—only tried
this year—which, it claimed, would decimate its ranks.
The new system has improved the gate-receipts for the
first time for years.
• * • *
Rev. Mullineaux’s youthful outcries against the
wickedness of Australian “ elbowing in the scrum ” and
“ shouting for a pass,” simply resolve themselves into a
charge of comparative amateurishness in the Australian
play. There is the same tendency to “ pointing ’ among
all players—English or Australian —who are not first-class
artists at any game—football or otherwise. The most
highly educated performers on either side are the most
inclined to play with scrupulous fairness. Art is always
pure. The rule holds good even on the Turf, where the
really “great” jockey is rarely, if ever, guilty of foul
riding. The Bulletin advises brother Mullineaux to
think out a sermon on the text, “Art is Christianity,”
with special reference to Rugby football.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—l think that from both specta-
tors’ and players’ points of view, and, as genuine football,
our game leads. It can be at once grasped by the biggest
dunoe. No scrum or heel-out; no handling' of ball; all
play dear and open, rendering foul tactics easily notice-
able ; combines also a maximum of excitement with a
minimum of risk. But the Sydney grounds’ percentage-
grab shuts the game off from tlie public; it is mostly
restricted to open-reserves at Balmain and Pyrmont.
Absence of “gate” is a big hindrance to progress, and
keeps the association in a struggling condition. — Beit.
Ass.
• • » •
At Wilcannia a man named Billy Chapman
once jumped over a cross-cut saw placed six feet from the
ground with teeth uppermost.
• » * *
The biggest wag»r ever recorded in England was
£95,000 to £37,000. The backer, who lost, was a lordling,
and paid the amount in 37 AIOOO-notes. He had the
money on him whilst waiting on Epsom Downs for the
event to be decided. Fancy a punter on Rosebery Park
racecourse on a Tuesday afternoon with 37 thou’ in his
“ kick.” Your money or your life !
* * • •
Cricketers often achieve fame through mere
luck. Cyclone bowler Jones had an insignificant billet
at Broken Hill when South Adelaide Football Club im-
ported him to the pious city to play football. He was
never considered a cricketer. Similarly, Joe Darling
gave up cricket as a youth to go on a farm, and it was
distaste for the life that caused him to make for Adelaide
after having been a stranger to a cricket-field for five
years. The great George Gillen, when he started, made
six successive failures, and was only dissuaded from
abandoning the game by the captain of the famous Nor-
wood club.
*** • •
Turf note: “Everything comes to him who
weights—horses. ”
* * * *
The transparent wiles of the Sydney “ leetle-
double ’’-layer, in view of a possible (but apparently
highly improbable) raid, are most amusing. Many expose
a few cigars and a pile of empty boxes, together with one
or two pipes, as a cloak ; others do this conjointly with a
hair-cutting business. But the latest dodge is the thinnest
of all. Half-a-dozen or more books are exposed on shelves
built to hold a thousand, while round the walls the fol-
lowing legend catches the eye ; “Circulating Library.”
* * * *
The Yankees begin to fear that the time has
come when they are to lose the America Cup. The
superstitiously-inclined do not like the many accidents
that have happened to their representative, the Columbia;
and they think that Lipton’s phenomenal luck in his past
career is not likely to desert him now.
* * * *
Stranger at Flemington (on getting a whiff of
the abattoirs): “ What is the cause of this awful smell?”
Friend : “ Dead birds.”
* * * *
A new “industry” has sprung up in some of
the N.S.W. northern districts— viz., quail-farming. Some
gunmen finding a ready market in Sydney, their sporting
instinct developed into a mercenary one, and a whole-
sale slaughter of game resulted. The pioneers of this
game did so well that landholders were appro»~ned and
offered a consideration for the right to the exclusive
shooting over their holdings, which many were only too
ready to accept. Genuine sportsmen are endeavoring to
put a stop to the practice, which can only result in the
almost total extinction of native game-birds. Already
the ’roo, ’possum, and bear-hunters have nearly skinned
the country of these marsupials, and unless more pro-
tection is speedily afforded by legislation our fauna will
die out as rapidly as did the human aborigines.
* * * *
A Queenslander having recently dreamt that
the Tatts. sweep-ticket held by a friend’s wife had won,
bought said ticket from her for £5, whereupon she
bought another and drew second horse. The buyer of
the other ticket intends to “ pass ” dreams for the future.
* * * *
A Big Scrub football story. Tintenbar and
Newrybar met to decide supremacy. The rivalry was
keen, and heavy wagers had been laid ; but when the
teams were stripped ready there was no spectator com-
petent and willing to referee the game—the previous
referee being s till in hospital—and it was actually agreed
that the crack Newrybar runner should referee and play
at the same time ! The game was evenly contested till
nearly half-time, when the Tintenbar captain got an
opening, and streaked for his opponent’s goal-line with
the Newrybar runner after him. The latter, however,
couldn’t catch-up, but just as the Tintenbar skipper got
within 3yds. of the goal-line a happy idea struck the
Newrybar referee-player. He blew his whistle hard, and
the captain, pulling up just on the goal-line, threw 7 the
ball from him in disgust and trotted back. “ I say, wot did
ya blow th’ w’istle fa, Mister Empire ?” “ Becors ya got
too much bloomin’ foot fa me—that’s w’y.”
• • * •
The mining boom, which has recommenced since
the Boer scare comparatively died down, has distinctly
benefited the Sydney Safe Deposit. Brokers and buyers
alike see the folly of keeping valuable scrip either in office
safes or private residences, and there have been large
numbers of visitors to view the massive strength of the
Deposit vaults, with a proportionate increase in the
number of clients. We are requested to state that the
management freely invite a visit. The Deposit is situated
in Ash-street (back of Paling and Co’s), off George-s treat.*
* * * *
“E. Taylore, on the Parc des Princes track,
Paris, established a new world’s record, riding 36 miles
1144 yards in an hour, paced by petrol motors.” E. Tay-
lore is the middle-distance French champion, and has
during the past year established many new records
behind the Dunlop pacing motors, both in America and
on the Continent. He lately rode 35 miles 698 yards in
the hour on the same track, but that performance has
now 7 been eclipsed by adding over a mile and a quarter
to his previous figures. The merit of this ride can be
better understood when the time per mile is averaged
out, each mile being covered in the fast time of 1 minute
33 seconds, nearly two seconds faster per mile than the
Australian race-horse record established by Djin-Djin in
the Epsom Handicap. The English and Australian re
cords for the hour are respectively 32 miles 1086 yards by
J. W. Stocks (Eng.) and 29 miles 450 yards by T. Relph
on the Sydney Cricket Ground in March, 1898.


GOLEMANE a& SONS
eucalypte extract
THE ONLY PURE IN THE WORLD.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
It is generally understood that the numer-
ous German towns and settlements in South Aus-
tralia were due to the ’4B disturbances. But most
of them were founded years before that —some as
early as ’3B—and were stocked chiefly by religious
refugees. It was these earlier emigrants’ success
which attracted the since-better-known political
refugees to the province.
€igbt HoCir P?ri)OoStratioQ.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS,
Next, October 2i>d.
GRAND DISTRIBUTION OP VALUABLE GIFTS
DEAWN AT THE GROUNDS ON THE DAY.
FIRST PRIZE, VALUE £lOO,
together with a large number of other prizes. Every purchaser of a ticket
will have an equal chance in the Gift Distribution.
Splgpdid Progran?n)Q of Sports For Prizes ValG* £l5O
. Including a large number of comical and amusing events embracing FOOT RACES
COMICAL COSTUME RACES.
TUG OF WAR,
Bicycle Races for Cyclists 1 Union and Teague of Wheelmen
In which the Principal Riders, together with WORLD’S CHAMPION
W. MARTIN, will compete.
ALSO, A GRAND MAYPOLE DANCE.
Introduction with Irish Jig by Pupils of Mrs. L. Forbes, who will give two performances during
the day.
An abundance of Hot arid Cold Water will be provided Free ; and as the grounds have recently been
improved, our patrons will find ample accommodation for Family Parties.
US' DANCING ALR DAY in the Large Pavilion under Four Efficient Ms.C. 12Ji
Tickets Adults, Is.; Children, 6d. Under Eight Years of Age, Free.
Trades’ Hall, Sydney. JAMES STYLE, Secretary.
RIDERS
WHO PUT THEIR MONEY AND THEIR
FAITH in a “ PERFECT ” Bicycle
WILL NEVER BE BETRAYED.
Buyers of the “ DOMINION ”
MAY SAFELY REST IN
HOPE OF ENTIRE SATISFACTION, and devote
the £6 saved to that
CHARITY which begins at home, and stays there
The “PERFECT” and “DOMINION” Bicycles may be obtained through
any Dealer or Agent who is free to handle the best.
FRANK GRIMLEY
{
263 & 265
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY • •
IMPORTER EOR WHOLESALE
OF
Bicycle Goods, Carriageware, Saddlery and Harness.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there Is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,"
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent- for Australasia,
Application. 87 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
Government Notices.
PUBLIC SERVICE BOARD,
60 Young-street, Sydney,
19th September, 1899.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position of
ENGINEERING CADET, Professional Division, in the
Department, of Public Works. The estimated number of
appointments to be made during the ensuing year is Four
Senior and Eight Junior Cadets. Candidates for the
position of Senior Cadet must not be less than 17 nor
more than 25 years of age, and for the position of Junior
Cadet not less than 17 nor more than 21 years of age. A
competitive examination will be held as soon as possible
after the applications have been received, and candidates
will be duly notified of the date thereof. The subjects of
examination will be as follows :
ENGLISH (Seniors and Juniors) —
(a) Composition, parsing, analysis, derivation of
words.
(b) Dictation.
(c) Handwriting. Judged by examination papers in
dictation and arithmetic.
MATHEMATICS—
(а) Arithmetic (Seniors and Juniors). The full course
as is usually contained in a standard treatise.
(б) Algebra (Juniors). Up to and including quadratic
equations. (Seniors.) As for Juniors, together
with proportion, progression, and theory and use
of logarithms.
(c) Geometry (Juniors). Books 1,2, and 3, with easy
exercises. (Seniors.) Books 1,2, 3,4, and 6,
with easy exercises.
( d ) Trigonometry (Juniors). Up to and including
solution of triangles. (Seniors.) Solution and
properties of triangles, and simple problems.
( e ) Mechanics (Seniors only). Elementary statics.
SCIENCE—(Seniors and Juniors). One of the following :
(a) Elementary Physiography and Geology.
(b) Elementary Physics.
(c) Elementary Chemistry. (Inorganic.)
ELEMENTARY PLAN DRAWING(Seniors and Juniors) —
Plan copying and enlarging, tracing, use of scales.
USE OF INSTRUMENTS (Seniors only)—
Knowledge of instruments used in surveying.
Senior and Junior Cadets will be appointed for the first
three months at a salary of £26 per annum ; and at the
expiration thereof they will, if their service be satis-
factory, be entitled to receive salary at the following
rates : —SENIOR CADETS.—A salary at a rate not ex-
ceeding £75 per annum for nine months, and the following
twelve months at a rate not exceeding £125 per annum.
At the expiration of the period of two years they will
cease to rank as cadets, and will be eligible for promo-
tion to the ordinary professional staff, as vacancies occur.
JUNIOR CADETS.—A salary not exceeding £5O per
annum for nine months; for the second year, £7O per
annum ; third year, £9O per annum ; and fourth year,
£lOO per annum. At the expiration of the period of
four years they will be considered eligible for promotion
to vacancies on the ordinary professional staff, as
vacancies occur.
Applications to attend the examination must be made
on a form which can be obtained at this Office, and must
reach the undersigned not later than 31st October.
By order of the Board,
J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
0a 23.
Owing to the location of Government
House and the Government offices in Sydney, it
generally happens that the fallen Premier, stand-
ing grim and dejected at his office window, can
see the new Premier going jauntily by on his way
to Government House to be “requested to under-
take the formation of a Ministry.’’ Parkes rested
his tangled mane on that window, and saw Dibbs
go past with martial stride and prospective great-
ness in his eye. Dibbs towered up there three
years later, while podgy little Reid danced by
with an uplifted soul and his glazed eye reflecting
the sun. And, later on, Reid rested his tired,
sick stomach on the window-ledge while Lyne
stalked gloomily across the field of view, looking
like the headsman in his best clothes, on the usual
errand. It should come under the heading of
cruelty to animals.
The case of Herbert Ingram Low v. the
proprietors of S.M. Herald, heard in Sydney last
week, is important as being the first definition by
an Australian Supreme Court of the status of a
journalist. Low, who had been for some years on
the Herald staff as a writer of leaders and other
important matter, claimed damages for breach
of agreement. The case would have been
remarkable under any circumstances, as plain-
tiff undertook to prove that most diffi-
cult form of agreement known to lawyers—
the parole agreement—which, moreover, had ad-
mittedly not been insisted on by himself. To a
certain extent, he had slept on his rights. Further,
plaintiff undertook this difficult task on his own
single testimony. Two of the proprietors swore
that they had no knowledge of the existence of the
agreement, and at one period it looked as if it
were any odds on defendants securing a nonsuit.
Plaintiff, however, produced the press copy of a
letter referring to the agreement, and which he
swore had been seen by the chief proprietor
of the Herald. “Mr. James” was not put
into the box to deny this and the jury sat tight
and made up its mind that plaintiff had proved
his case. The verdict was for .£294, including
three months’ salary in lieu of notice. Judge
Stephen left it to the jury to say what was fair
notice under the circumstances —thus adopting
the English precedent that juries in the absence
of usage should establish one. The effect of the
verdict is that a journalist is entitled to a
minimum of three months’ notice in the absence
of any special period being fixed by agreement.
Cassell’s Saturday Journal (London)
on a prosperous British industry :
It is little short of amazing how many of a class we call
“ property-jumpers ” flourish, year in, year out, by
boldly taking possession of houses, furnished and unfur-
nished, the owners of which have gone away—gone away
without appointing any agent, in most cases. Not long
ago there was tried a man who had actually pulled down
two complete villas in one of the busiest residential parts
of London, and sold every stick and stone of the materials
for a handsome sum without the owner having the faint-
est idea of what was going on. All London builders and
agents could tell you of one man who, some five years
ago, artfully chose, with his confederates, nearly a score
of houses and buildings that were empty, sold the
materials of these for ready money to various house-
demolishing firms, and then disappeared. The demol-
ishers had so little idea that they were not working for
the real owners that quite half the properties had been
levelled with the ground before the swindle was dis-
covered. The two things that give the property-jumper
his chance are the present mania for travelling among the
well-to-do and the existence of vast numbers of small
property-owners with just enough to live upon—people
w r ho live almost alone. One of this class takes a sudden
fancy for change, or gets an urgent message, and then
at once leaves for the seaside or abroad, simply locking
up the home. To show you that these thieves work in
gangs in most cases, I must mention that the police
found on one of them, who Was caught raiding a flat, a
regular index containing the names of hundreds of
people who periodically go into the country or abroad,
leaving their houses or flats unprotected by caretakers.
When the real occupier of the house has gone,
the thieves boldly take possession, and even if
any neighbor should call in, they . have a per-
fectly plausible tale. Once in possession, they
either remove all the furniture and contents of the
house at once, or they have the effrontery to let it off—
money in advance—and, after getting all the credit they
can from tradesmen near, decamp. This sort of furniture
stealing is even done when a smart agent has been left to
let the property for the owner. Caretakers cannot pos-
sibly be left in all thesmall furnished houses that are to
let, and sometimes an agent does not even send one of
his men with people of good address and apparently un-
exceptionable references who want to look over a house.
One of the gang gets ihe key, sees the extent of the fur-
niture that is worth stealing, and ascertains that no one
lives on the premises, goes back to the agent with the
key, which he has taken an impression of, and says that
he will consider, and then with the utmost ease the other
members of the gang obtain entrance to the house in
broad daylight and clear it in an hour or two.
Divers employed in connection with
dredging recovered nine bottles of whisky and
five of rum from the bottom of the Yarra the
other day. For 30 years it has never occurred to
anybody to go to the Yarra to raise a drink.
A most charitable priest died last week in
the person of Rev. W. H. Quirk, of West St.
Kilda (Vic.). In his funeral sermon Bishop Cor-
bett expressed the belief that the dead cleric had
not left even enough to pay funeral expenses.
Eight-Hours’Demonstration takes place on
Monday next at Sydney Agricultural Ground.
The programme embraces a wholesome variety of
sports, particulars of which appear in advt. on
this page.
The widespread sympathy with the Johan-
nesburg Ooflanders proves how utterly unthinking
and illogical is the man in the street. Britain is
being called upon to plunge into bloodshed for the
sake of a few thousand individuals who, at best,
were too cowardly to go out and help the man
they had egged into starting a revolution. Of
course, everybody knows now that the Jameson
raid was a Stock Exchange move, worked by the
Johannesburg crowd, who coolly sent Dr. Jim
and his gang out to face the Boer bullets.
Murderers or deserters of their own people, these
are the poor, ill-used Ooflanders for whom Britain
is asked to spend millions of money and thousands
of lives.
Dear Bulletin. —Your idea of using liquid
air as a motive force is intensely absurd. Liquid air
is about the coldest thing going. It has been
used in surgery, as a substitute for the cautery.
Liquid air introduced into a room will bring the
temperature down to 100 degrees below zero F.
If you were to let a drop fall on your hand it
would destroy the tissue like a red hot iron. It
has never been tried as a motive force. As for
storing it in the hollow frame of a bicycle, which
is presumably what is meant by tube, the man
who touched the machine with his bare hand
would probably leave the skin behind.— David G.
[Also, the idea of using steam as a motive force is
intensely absurd. Steam is about the hottest
thing going. If enough of it is introduced into a
room, it will kill every living thing therein quite
as surely as liquid air would. If you let it stream
on your hand the hand will be boiled. A few
years ago it had never been tried as a motive force
either. This discussion is now closed for good.—
Ed. B.]
Editor Bulletin. —The Australian meet-
ings to sympathise with Dreyfus are a curious
example of mob-infection. Of the merits of the
Dreyfus case, absolutely nothing is known is
Australia —beyond the fact that thousands of
partisan columns have been printed for and
against the spy—or the victim. Yet hundreds
of people are found quite ready to accept
hundredth-hand hearsay as sufficient evidence for
declaring the Dreyfus judgment wrong, and—
beautiful mob-logic ! —for boycotting the whole
French nation because a French court has
given a judgment in a case which the mob knows
nothing about. Even if Dreyfus be innocent—as
he apparently is—he may have to be sacrificed to
the community as every individual is more or less
sacrificed in every community every day. If to
find Dreyfus innocent meant practically a revo-
lution in France —Paris swamped with blood, civil
war in the provinces, the temporary ruin of a
country which has always the invader at her gates,
then the final court were quite right to find Drey-
fus guilty. Justice to the individual is purchased at
too high a cost if it is purchased at such a cost as
that —and many competent observers say that
such results, or some of them, would have fol-
lowed a Dreyfus acquittal. Truly, the nation
which has to deny individual justice, if France
has had to deny it, is in an evil and dishonorable
plight. But when irresponsible asses in Australia
sit in ignorant judgment upon the French Minis-
try, or the French people—tethered to an omni-
potent army—they might at least judge in private
and not go out in public to bray. There is injus-
tice enough in Australia for loose enthusiasm to
combat.— S.
When a landing-stage at Circular Quay,
Sydney, collapsed, and some 70 Sunday-school-
picnic children were thrown into the water in a
struggling heap—two, sad to say, being drowned
—a cute Australian 10-year-old shouted to a
rescuing constable, “ Lift me out first. My leg is
broke.” He was promptly picked up, but had no
broken leg. It was only his way of making sure
that he would be taken in out of the wet.
In satisfaction of the judgment obtained by
him, in Q. Supreme Court, John Hoolan bought
in the Eagle (the Towers paper that libelled him),
and resold it immediately to the old proprietary
for ,£230. Hoolan should be an authority on the
libel question, for he was once intimately
associated with Thadeus O’Kane—about the most
vigorous libeller Queensland has yet known.
In the middle of winter in Scotland, ice
is collected and stored away for use in summer ;
but as this cannot be done in Australia, a small
hand ice machine has been invented by Messrs.
Brandt Bros., lamp manufacturers, of Sydney and
Melbourne, in which small quantities of ice can
be made at a moment’s notice. The cost of the
machine is 50s. The same firm also makes ice-
cream freezers, entirely doing away with the old
style of turning a handle.*
Editor Bulletin. — Be the “Batman
plate” at the A.M.P. Society’s Melbourne office,
permit me to say, in reply to “Scribe ” (Bulletin,
16/9/’99), that the inscription, to the effect that
“John Batman, Founder of Melbourne, built on
this corner,” will be found in its original place,
cut out of the ledge of stone underneath where
the plate was first located—the plate itself has
been removed to another place on the wall, but is
still in close proximity. Robert B. Cameron.
Sydney, 26/9/’99.
Every member who voted against the
Reid Govt, prepared himself for a message from
Opposition leader and prospective Premier Lyne.
It did not matter on which side of the House the
legislator had previously sat and voted, he felt
that, having aided to oust the Govt., he had
brought himself near range of a portfolio. From
this list is, of course, to be excluded the Labor-
party, which must only accept a majority of port-
folios. Country members would not Lave town
as had been their practice for years. City mem-
bers stuck in their offices and would not even run
out to take a drink, in order to answer a call
promptly and fix matters up at once without peril
of delay. This gave member Sleath his grand
opportunity for 30 to 40 practical jokes. He
utilised the telephone to some purpose. “Is that
Mr. Smith?” “Yes.” “Well, will you see Mr.
Lyne at the House at once ? ” Rings off sud-
denly. The cabmen weren’t asked for change.
Brisbane Telegraph in its leading article
of 12th Sept. :
If the people have said anything, they have spoken
AGAINST THE BILL.
And in the same issue appeared the referendum
figures up to that date: “For the Bill, 35,181 ;
against, 28,965 ; majority for the Bill, 6116.’’ It
was really 6216, but the illiterate Telegraph
doesn’t know simple subtraction. Then in its
issue of 15th Sept., the same old Cowligbaph
broke into this new scream :
One of the things that will be attempted by the lying
Billite spirit is this : To show how many thousand square
miles of country are in favor of the Convention Bill. . .
As distinguished from the thousands of people who are
against it, as compared with the few who are in favor
of it.
The grammar isn’t up to much—and what a
pathetically crude lie it all is ! The individual
whose brain can’t produce anything better than
that should be painted black and made a natural-
ised kanaka in the canefields.
Looked at from a distance, the huge White
Star liner, Medic, does not seem much larger than
many of the big steamers one sees lying in
Neutral Bay, and not so large as some of the big,
top-heavy-looking German cargo ships. But
when one stands on the bri ge and looks back-
wards and forwards from stem to stern across a
wilderness of deck, the colossal proportions of the
new steamer begin to dawn upon the mind. A
walk from the stern to the stem and back to the
starting-place again convinces that the Medic is
very long indeed. Down below the chief im-
pression is that of cyclopean strength. The
great girders that run across the vessel, the wide
flanges on the stout steel doors through the thick
bulk-head compartments, mark her as a ship built
to wrestle with the almost almighty ocean. The
passenger accommodation is severely plain,
but there is an enticing “ general room ”
with library and piano. It is oak fitted,
and has a steel roof with white frosted paint.
The dining-saloon is not seen to advantage in
harbour, as the opening to one of the holds is
through it, and during discharging and loading of
cargo it is battened off. When the hold is closed
and the wide saloon can be seen at its best it must
appear very roomy and comfortable. Up above
the expanse of deck is glorious—no cramped-up
feeling on board that ship. The space taken up
by the passenger accommodation is a mere spot
in the wilderness of cargo space and yet the Medic
can seat 350 passengers simultaneously. Every-
where one goes among the cabins are life-belts —
they seem to have provided life-belts enough to
keep the great liner herself afloat. Also, there
are Bathrooms all over the ship, every second door
seems to lead to a bathroom.
Alterations in names and addresses for
Sands’ Sydney and Suburban Directory (1900)
may be forwarded to the Compiler not later than
the second week in October next.
About a quarter-century back a newly -
married German couple mysteriously disappeared,
when tramping from Mundooran to Coonamble,
N.S.W., and, though murder by an aboriginal
was suspected, there was no actual proof of death
till, eight years later, the woman’s skeleton was
found—identifiable by the remnants of clothing.
Not till the other day, however, was the man’s
skeleton discovered in a hollow log. And now we
shall have the good old wheeze that “ murder will
out! ” —regardless of the many skeletons that will
lurk undiscovered for ever in their hiding-places.


HAIR
EALT
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction is
secondary to
it.
If your hair
is too thin or losing its luster,
get—
Growth
becomes
vigorous
and all
dandruff is
removed.
AYW3
N&ir
visor
It always restores color to
gray or faded hair. Retain
your youth; don’t look old
before your time.
Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
COX ON & CO.’S
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DKONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto,‘2os
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24- 6d.
Coxnn’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d ; ditto, 2
stops. 6s 9d ; dil to Faunt-
lero.v ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 46,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.
745 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
COLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
Mrs. Em
JLYNN
LINTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Mauvern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your‘KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
g KOKO p
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing ior the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless. Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating',
and its unique testimonials prove itto be
undoubtedly the Best" Preparation for the
Hair, 1/-, 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists',
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD., ■
16, Bevis Marks, Bondqu, Bng’nud.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtliu constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
FER BRAVAIS
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and intereiting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“ltfca* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion, and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS ALL THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
SECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best equality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
JLI Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully :'jO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georgy st. (3 doors past liuuter-st.), oYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
AIDS TO BEAUTY. —Dr. Hardy’s Face Bleach
(removes all skin blemishes), 36; Freckle Lotion, 3/6;
Astringent Lotion (removes wrinkles and closes open
pores), 3 6 ; Acne and Blackheads Lotion, 3 6; Blackheads
Cream, 2 6; Hypatia Cream (skin food for beautifying the
skin), 2/-; Dipilatory for removing superfluous hair, 2/6.
ENGLISH FACE MASSAGE SALON, 72 Strand, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
Mr. Justice Real.
1893—N0. 106.
In the matter of the Estate of THOMAS
HEN DERSON ANNETTlateof George-
street Brisbane in the colony of Queens-
land Civil Engineer deceased intestate
Between
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES Limited
Plaintiffs and RICHARD CHARLES
FRANCIS ANNETT Defendant.
WHEREAS by a Judgment of our Supreme
Court the following inquiries were directed to be
taken : (1) An inquiry as to who were the next of
kin of the abovenamed intestate living at his death
and whether any of them have since died and if so
who are their respective legal personal representa-
tives. (2) An inquiry whether JAMES JOHN
ANNETT the lawful brother of the said intestate
is living or dead and if dead when he died and
whether he left any and what will and whether he
was ever married and if so when and to whom and
whether there were any children of the
said marriage and who are his legal personal
representatives. And by a further order
of the said Court the said inquiries were
directed to be taken by advertisement. This
is to Notify JAMES JOHN ANNETT if
alive or any persons claiming to be interested in
the abovementioned estate through the said James
John Annett if dead or any other person claiming
to be the next of kin of the said THOMAS HEN-
DERSON ANNETT deceased that they are on
or before MONDAY the thirtieth day of OCTO-
BER 1899 to come in and prove their claims at my
Chambers Supreme Court Brisbane or in default
thereof they will be peremptordy excluded from
the benefit of the said Judgment. Any person or
persons who can supply any information concern-
ing the said JAMES JOHN ANNETT or in any-
wise relating to the inquiries above referred to are
requested to communicate with me before the date
abovementioned. FRIDAY the third day of
NOVEMBER 1899 at eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon at my said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this twenty-sixth day of August a.d. 1899.
(Stamp) J. BLOOD SMYTH
Registrar.
W. H. Wilson and Hemming
Selborne Chambers
Adelaide-street Brisbane
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
CUT RATE
Consulting and
4§*§|>>
<5.9^
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS-Regular Price, *1; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Db. CLARKSON’S
HEIN V IG ORA TOR.
A Concentrated, VITALISING, NERVE, BRATN,
MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT: a remedy
known to Dr. Clarkson only. As a Tonic for the NERVES
it is unequalled. It is the most powerful of all BLOOD
STIMULANTS and Muscle Developers.
READ Til ESI? FACT’S.—Its action in recuperating
the exhausted substance of the brain-cells is simply elec-
trical. The REINVIGORATOR is as necessary in brain-
work as sleep is to our existence. The brain-cells of per-
sons who have died during periods of great exhaustion
from over-exertion are found to be considerably changed
from the condition of the normal cell during health and
vigor.
WATER ON THE BRAIN.—The cell of the ex-
hausted brain, instead of being plump and full of nervous
matter, is vacuolated, a cavity within its substance having
formed and being filled with water. This means that a
part of the cell substance has been consumed during the
time of brain-activity.
DR. CLARKSON'S REINVIGORATOR, by its action
on the circulation of the Blood, replenishes all this wasted
substance. You can no more hope to go on working
successfully without this REINVIGORATOR than a loco-
motive can steam on indefinitely without fresh supplies
of fuel.
POPULAR FALLACY.—PeopIe run away with the
idea that exercise recuperates the brain. This is a mis-
take. While exercise may rest Ihe mentally-overworked
part, it exhausts other portions of the brain and leads to
utter fatigue. No exercise can take the place of this
REINVIGORATOR.
£lOO. We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot cure.
Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle—three bottles for £l—Post Free
any part of Australia.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
T?IT I} A Regular Price—
Uj ljjjilj Illllj DiV i> I/h One Guinea,
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
Every man and woman should wear one of these world-
famed Electric Belts. No more GOLDS, no more INFLU-
ENZA, no more BACKACHES, no more RHEUMATISM.
SCI KNTIFJCALIj V MADE.- This Electro-Band is
made on the most scientific principles. The electro-gal-
vanic current from this BELT passes through the body
and along the nerves for hours at a time in a GENIAL
AND CONTINUOUS STREAM, infusing new life and
vigor and toning up the entire system in a speedy and
permanent manner.
BY MEANS of silk-covered metallic electrical conduc-
tors the current is conveyed to silvered discs, and through
them into the body. The more animal magnetism or
electricity a person is possessed of, the more life and
energy there is in the system.
STOMACH ANT) LIVE!?.-The remedy most re-
quired to afford speedy arid effective assistance to the
digestive organs, and give energy to the muscular and
nervous systems, is this Electro Band. The electro-gal-
vanic current prevents the food from being a burden
rather titan a supply to the weak stomach. We have the
utmost confidence in their efficacy—in fact, we consider
them Nature’s own remedy lor many of the most common
complaints.
WOItTHI/ESS BEl.'l't-'.—Don’t throw money away
on worthless belts. Get the genuine article. You will
never regret the small outlay. Preserve your htalth and
strength for 10s. Prolong your life. Postpone old age.
PAMPHbET POST FREE.
Pr. NU6N€S’S FITSEPIL6P.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to he one of the wonders of theatre.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects--'
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PVIWIID PILE CORE.
Tl l '® ’ s latest specific for CURING HKMORRHOfDS. The most, chronic anrl obstinate character of
IN WA KI) or OUTW ■' ItD I*l UKR readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. (id. per box. or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage 6d. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give
ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS FREE OF CHARGE.
On all 1 lesciiptions Dispensed through, this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address s
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDER RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
While the average daily paper pokes fun
at Emperor William’s jaunts to Timbuctoo, the
North Pole, or other impossible places, there seems
to be a very considerable amount of method in
that gentleman’s madness. His recent Palestine
visit and his theatrical poses on the ruins of
Baalbec have given Germany a very important
railway concession in Asiatic Turkey, and a decent
chance of acquiring another India in Asia Minor.
William 11. may be mad, but he is modern. He
talks navy, but relies on the merchantman. He
trains soldiers, but his invading armies are com-
mercial travellers. He is himself a glorified sort
of national drummer, and a very successful one at
that. Which sums up the requirements of an
end of the century monarch.
A Bulletin correspondent down in M.L.
is moved by the ardent influence of Spring to
write as follows :
Legislators at Washington are pretending to be ter-
ribly shocked because a gentleman with several wives
has been sent to represent Utah in Congress. The hypo-
crisy of the Yankees shows they are still part and parcel
of the chosen British race. What does it matter whether
polygamy is concurrent or consecutive ? —whether a man
drives his matrimonial team tandem or abreast? And,
apart from the tandem process which is made so con-
venient by American divorce-laws, many virtuous Con-
gressmen have “ non-legal wives’’ as numerous as the
“sealed '' spouses of Mormondom. Certainly Australian
legislators are not afflicted with squeamishness on the
matrimonial question. In moral Maoriland the broaden-
ing tendency is particularly apparent. In the House of
Reps.—or Rips —at Wellington there is one burly
member who drives his matrimonial team (brown
beauties) four-in-hand and abreast, but nobody is
shocked. They are Maoris, you see, and a guile-
less, aboriginal race is not to be judged by high
civilised standards. There is, by the way, a white
member of the M.L. House who has a Maori wife,
while a white member of the Council has had three wives
from the same noble race. Of the 75 members of M.L.
elective chamber it is somewhat remarkable that only
five are bachelors—wealthy squatter Buchanan, who is
old, Scotch, and hopeless; aged goldfields member
M'Gowan, who is spoken of as likely Liberal Minister;
the canny and rich M‘Nab, an Adonis under 40, also with
Ministerial aspirations; the sombre and youthful Mont-
gomery, for Akaroa ; and the dark and dashing Maori
Narcissus, Hone Heke, who speaks broken English and
better sense than nine-tenths of the other members. The
only other “single gentleman” is Tom Duncan, of
Oamaru, who is a widower, and the best-looking and
best-mannered man in the House. The puzzle in Wel-
lington society is to find out which of these “ eligibles ”
the women crowd to the House nightly to ogle and ad-
mire. The front row in the ladies’ gallery is reserved for
members’ wives, but it is remarked that this row
is usually occupied by a bevy of damsels more or less
“ soulful. ’ The fact is that members from a distance
generally contrive to leave .their wives at home; and
some people are unkind enough io suggest that, certain of
the ladies who at times fill the front seats may he tem-
porary substitutes for the absent dames. The matri-
monial locum ienens is indeed a recognised institution in
some of the swell boarding-houses where legislators
domesticate in session-time. Apropos of absent wives, a
rather cruel joke was perpetrated the other day on a
member of M.L. Upper House. A waggish fellow-legis-
lator assured him that he was entitled to receive El a
week extra honorarium, as he had not his wife with him
in Wellington-the difference, presumably, being that
between the cost of the legitimate and the illegitimate
article. The senator went off post-haste to the Speaker
to put in a claim for the extra money. No one was
present at the interview, but its purport was gathered
from anew book of “ Lamentations’’ subsequently spoken
by the senator. Sonic of the moral crowd in M.L. are
objecting to the island entering the Commonwealth be-
cause of the danger of having “ loose divorce laws” forced
upon it by wicked Australians; hut what with Mormonism
among the Maoris and something not unlike it among
Parliamentarians, there appears to be little occasion for
moral “spazzumsl”


NirrßaSSnjtiSScQ’S Alfalifye Herbal Remedies-
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
•
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
'V •
M£m
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ot the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Atinandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ' ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
llerr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had fried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
L
< i
Po st oTfiT k.\\\W
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A LFaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A LFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AX.F ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs any where.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
ffil ead Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIXIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDTMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby' solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously' believing- the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoulest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, uousumption, t-rnnchiti-i,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing Lire Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and mouslaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Build? up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmissen's Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., S!IDDE!I,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: * *
BRISBANE IGO Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. 1 (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Rundle-street (near York Hotel)


Concerning a Brisbane trouble :
When a politician, Chiet-Justice Griffith, of Queens-
land, was never a success as an administrator. Now that
he administers Brisbane Girls* Grammar School, as chair-
man of its board of trustees, his incompetence seems
even more signal. The head-mistress, Miss Fbwinos, has
practically been expelled from the school at five minutes'
notice, and the school thrown into anarchy. Miss Fkw-
ings is a lady with a splendid record; and the trustees
allege against her nothing but hearsays and general dis-
satisfaction with the organisation of the school If their
dissatisfaction is well-grounded, the trustees had a right to
ask Miss Fkwings to leave on reasonable notice; but their
incapacity is evident in the scandal which their abrupt
and high-handed action has caused. Better men would
have found a better way out of the difficulty than an
eviction, with the consequent damage to the status and
prestige of the school. The action is all Griffith’s own ;
for over most of the other trustees his professional or
pei sonak influence is dominant.* One is his brother-in-
law ; three others are barristers who may at any time
appear in his court; one is clerk of Parliament;
one is a doctor. Griffith is first, and the rest
nowhere ; he appears to have listened to the tales of
an under-mistress, and the board appears to have listened
to him ; and now the crew are relying on Griffith’s
authority to beat public opinion down. The occurrence
should stimulate Govt, to make Q. grammar schools an
integral part of the educational system—like the High
schools in N.S.W. At present, Govt, liberally subsidises
the Grammar schools without controlling their expendi-
ture or examining their results. Nobody knows what
those results are ; since the system of inspection applied
to other schools does not extend to the Grammar schools.
They are an excrescence on the State school svstem, and
should be lopped off, to be superseded by Govt.-controlled
High schools in the regular course of education from
primary school to University.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth theii
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
iESSOH « GO. tTD„
Manufacturers of
Brass Band Instruments.
Trade Mark 4 4 Prototype.”
BANDS and BANDSMEN residing in the
Colonies of
VICTORIA
TASMANIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Are hereby NOTIFIED that they can obtain
SUPPLIES of the abovementioned cele-
brated
“Prototype” Instruments
from the undersigned, who is the Authorised
Agent of
Besson & Co. Ltd.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
Catalogue forwarded on Application.
A P. SYKES,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT IMPORTER,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
{nee BOLQER).
Amusements.
gYDNEY TOWN HALL 1/- “POPS.”
SATURDAY EVENING at 8 o’clock.
| NEWBURY-SPADA 1/- “ POPS." |
Splendid. Success of the Maori Chief, ItANGIUIA,
Who appears in Maori fljrhting dress and plays original
1 selections on the pianoforte and <ruitar.
Wjegand, Voll.nar, Perry, and the Musical Elit6 of
Sydney. Reserved seats at Nicholson’s.
The plying jokdans’ circus.
Redfern Station, Sydney.
Every Evening! Every Evening!
GREAT LONDON HIPPODROME.
100
STAR ARKNIC and AERIAL ARTISTS
All in Friendly Rivalry,
100
Forming the Greatest Amusement Enterprise
of Modern Times,
And Absolutely UNSURPASSED in the Southern
Hemisphere.
S3T- PEOPLE’S POPULAR PRICES.
HK If M A.I ESTY’S 'l'll EATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 ; WED. AFTERNOON, at 2.
Will be Repeated
“TN€ CHRISTIAN.”
Adapted from Hall Caine’s famous novel by Mr. Wilson
Barrett, and re-arranged for Messrs. Williamson and
Mr.sgrove by Mr. Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. Ifc®’"" PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
ft RITE It lON THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
CALI€D BACK.
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as “ PAOLI MACARI.”
Miss LILIAN WHEELER as “ PAULINE.”
And an Exceptionally Powerful Cast.
Prices: 35., 25., Is. Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.45.
*|IHE WORLD-RENOWNED SOPRANO
Mdlle. TREBELLI
NOW TOURING THE COLONIES.
ADELAIDE—EarIy in October.
BROKEN HlLL—Early in October.
SYDNEY End of October and November.
y ii’EIJM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Jj Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !'
TOMMY ATKINS.
Presented by Messrs. Holloway and Anderson’s Famous
Dramatic Company.
Saturday, Sept. 30, Six Nights only, “1000 Reivard.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
Amusements.
IJIOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
I9&'“ Tuesday, 10th October.
(Under Distinguished Patronage.)
Miss FANNY BAU€R
(The Brilliant Young Sydney Soprano)
GIVE HER FIRST
Assisted by Sydney’s Leading Artists.
Box Plan at Paling’s. JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
PALACE THEA T It IS. SYDNEY.
Mr. Harry Rickards Tivoli Coy.
Reappearance for a Farewell Season of the World’s Marvel
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. &. "W. HxiMLter.
SPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alina Gray, Paul Pelham, George C. Dean,
blorrie Ranger, Keenan Bros., Howard Chambers,
Neva Carr Glynn, Jas. Mooney,
CHAS. W. COGILL, and all our Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
TJIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
A WONDERFUL ARRAY of VAUDEVILLE STARS.
Appearance in Australia of England’s Greatest
Character Comedian, Mr. TOM COSTELLO.
Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
™^P WARD and ST - CLAIR, VIRTO and IRENE,
Wallace King, Will Whitburn, Arthur Hahn, Lulu
Aesoh, Alice Jeffries, Little Fannie Powers, Frank
Rowen, and all our Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
DANTE THE GREAT.
Princess Theatre, Bendigo, till Tuesday, Oct. 3.
Deniliquin, Echuca, Kyneton, Charlton,
Inglewood, Dunolly, Donald, St. Arnaud
to Follow.
“ HE IS ALL RIGHT.”— The Bulletin.
HE AT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING 1 THRILLING TRIUMPH OF
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Company in Benjamin
Landeck’s Latest London Success,
“A Soldier and a Man.”
Prices 35., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s
"PR IN CESS TH EATR E, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mvsorove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
“THE CEISHA.”
Written by Owen Hall; Music by Sydney Jones.
SATURDAY, Sept. 30 —IOLANTHE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
J^xhi bltion building, Melbourne’
THE A() UAIiIUM !
THE MUSEUM!
THE IEHN ERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10—5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING ; Children—SIXPENCE.
- Legal - Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
Mr. Justice Chubb.
1899—N0. 96.
Between THOMAS HERBERT BELPITT
Plaintiff SARAH ANN BELPITT De-
fendant and EDWARD JOSEPH
CAHILL Co-defendant.
TO the abovenamed defendant and co-defendant
who when last heard of were residing at Morri-
son’s Bore Camp near W.ilcannia in the Colony of
New South Wales but whose present whereabouts
is unknown to the plaintiff
TAKE NOTICE that Thomas Herbert Belpitt
of Elmina in the Colony of Queensland the above-
named plaintiff has commenced an action against
you Sarah Ann Belpitt and Edward Joseph Cahill
in the Supreme Court of Queensland by filing a
petition on the fifth day of May 1899 and issuing
a writ on the same day by which he claims a dis-
solution of his marriage with you Sarah Ann
Belpitt and that you Edward Joseph Cahill may
be condemned in the costs of and incidental to
the action. And further take notice that the
Court has ordered this notice to be published three
times in the Bourke Banner the Western
Grazier and the Sydney Bulletin and that upon
proof to the Court that reasonable efforts have
been made to effect personal service of the said
petition and writ the publication of this notice
shall be deemed to be substituted service thereof
on the last day on which the advertisement ap-
pears and you and each of you are required to
enter an appearance to the said writ within one
month from that date. And further take notice
that within twenty one days after the time limited
for your appearance you and each of yon must file
your statement of defence herein otherwise the
said action will proceed against you as for default
of appearance as appears by the endorsement on
the said writ.
Morris and Fletcher,
George Street, Brisbane,
Town Agents for Samuel S. Pegg,
Solicitor for plaintiff
Cunnamulla.
Public Notice.
AT a MEETING of CITIZENS, held at the
Town Hall, on TUESDAY, the 19th
September, his Worship the Mayor (Sir Matthew
Harris) presiding, it was resolved that the Right
Honorable G. H. Reid, P.C., Q.C., be enter-
tained at a Public Demonstration, and that a
Souvenir be presented to him, as a token of the
appreciation in which the people of New South
Wales regard the great public services which he
has rendered to New South Wales, and to Aus-
tralia. The Demonstration will be held at the
Town Hall on Monday, 16th October, 1899, at
8 p.m.
All Subscriptions to the proposed Souvenir to
be addressed to his Worship the Mayor (Sir
Matthew Harris), or to the hon. treasurers, at the
Town Hall, Sydney.
Dr. J. GRAHAM
H. S. LEVY
THOMAS JESSOP 1
JOHN NOBBS j
Hon.
Treas.
Hon.
Secs.
Business Announcements.
HOW TO PRESS WELL
AT A SMALL COST.
IyTANY Books have been written showing how ladies
»*ay dress well on £5O a year, £lOO a year, £l5O a
year, and so on.
But to be dressed well does not depend so much on the
amount of money spent, as the place where it is spent,
and the taste of the spender.
Some ladies will dress as well on £5O as others on £lOO
or more.
You may see a lady with a three guinea hat or bonnet
which, instead of improving, simply disfigures her appear-
A lady who wants to dress well, has first to determine
what amount of money she can afford, and then the best
place to spend it, that is, where she may be sure of
getting the greatest value.
The first question is easily answered; the second often
perplexing and troublesome.
Thousands of ladies—and the number is constantly
increasing—have, however, already made the discovery ;
and, when the new seasons come, they go at once to C.
G. Hatte’s, at Newtown.
At Hatte’s they find all that is brightest and best, and
at prices only half what City houses charge.
The superiority of Hatte’s MILLINERY is now a house-
hold word. This department is under the supervision of
Mrs. Hatte, who has made a special study of millinery in
Paris, so that every article bears the stamp of elegance
and true art. •
Hatte’s shipments of SPRING AND SUMMER DRESS
MATERIALS are one of the largest in the colony; the
goods of the latest fashion and design and the selection
so large as to suit every taste.
Hatte’s READY-MADE CLOTHING department is
stocked to repletion, every article well finished and made
of seasonable and durable materials; and the same re-
mark applies to the HAT, MERCERY .and HABER-
DASHERY departments.
Hatte s SUITS TO MEASURE at two guineas (with
extra pair of trousers given in) mark a revolution in
tailoring. There is a big selection of materials ; and the
workmanship is all that can be desired. Patterns and
self-measurement forms supplied free.
Hatte’s BOOTS AND SHOES are noted for their wear-
ing qualities, fit, style, and superior finish. He keeps
none of the rubbish, known as “ tripe ” sold at many
shops. J
1 e's BUILDERS AND HOUSEHOLD IRONMON-
GL i Department contains every article needed by the
trade and for domestic use.
Hatte’s PRICE AND FASHION BOOK for the Spring
and Summer Seasons is just issued, and will be posted
free on application.
Remember that HATTE’S is one of the biggest estab-
lishments in the Colonies—the People’s House, where you
can get everything you want at half the usual prices.
You can save time, trouble, and your purse, by going
for everything you want to
C. <a. NATT€,
—^NEWTOWN.
Business Announcements.
THE BEST
WEDDING GIFT
The
ARTIST
MODEL
[Allan’s Patent)
Price, £3 lOs.
A Tripod Stool of beautiful model (our
registered design), and obtainable
only at our warehouse.
MUSIC STOOLS
In Brass, with plush seats, from 40/-
Bentwood, with cane seats, from 25/-
Walnut or Black & Gold, with leather
seats, 35/-, 73/6
Organ Benches, in Walnut, at 25/
Illustrated Lists post free.
ALLAN & CO.
Proprietary
Limited,
276 & 278 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If tliis in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks - down . the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
MEDICATOR.
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, N euralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?e Catarrh CCirc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Important to Parties Furnishing*!
The Public are daily becoming more convinced of the fact, that to buy in the
CHEAPEST MARKET you must go where the credit
of time-payment system is not recognised.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
... The Cash Furnishers ...
t3T Offer GREATER INDUCEMENTS than any other House Furnishers in Sydney.
Every Article sold is Imported from our London Manufactory, or from our Sydney Works. Every
Article sold is GUARANTEED; Best Workmanship and SEASONED WOOD'ONLY USED
For RELIABE FURNITURE, CARPETS, etc.,
HALL’S Guarantee a Saying of 25 per cent.
HALL’S have the Largest, Stock to Select from.
HALL’S store goods until required, free.
HALL’S pack and forward COUNTRY ORDERS free.
HALL’S New Illustrated Furnishing Guide, Post Free.
HALL’S give Value for Value— 2os. for the JO.
HALL’S Showrooms are open to the Public to compare
Prices and Goods.
HALL’S Tender Estimates, Designs, and Patterns Free,
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS,
561, 563, 565, 567 George Street (just below Liverpool-st.), Sydney.
Telephone, 1155. Valuators for Probate or Assigned Estates.
it
M®
iTTER
EXISTS."-
-London Medical Record.
Hie THIRD
TkßftiEiißUßYi Foods forJ^J 3
MAWC.
tar
&&&SL&SSZ
b. of trul v.lo. •** '•eM *“ " llK |
Zt. for Invalid*. ConvalaKW**
Allen & Hanburys LM-
A ioKOoK. *£%!%**,
.-_ »»■« aior* MOT °g^-l=
MEW STYLE.
THE
S
A Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards.
Tib® 99 F®®d M© o
Tib® 99 F@®<i H© o
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Poods,
needing the
addition ot hot
water only.
A\alted Food M°.3
hitherto known as “Allen & Hanbdrys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application.
The Malted Food has also been found of great value to CONVALESCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.


MAIR
S
SP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulat'd and Ouaranteed 1 year, 2,0.
English Mamsprings, first quality, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Rotherham English Lever Watches,
capped arid jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated.
Guaranteed ft vears, 3ft - _ ,
D. S. Mair for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Rings. Best
qu ilitv Opal. Solid Gold, lf/3. _ . ,
D. S. Mair for Heavy Soli I Silver Pocket to Pocket
Alberts, English Hall Marked, 10 6, 120.
Note address — 634: George Street, Sydney.
Edison-
Bell
Consolidated
Phono[ t %7h
(Albert & Son, 118 liing-st., Sole Agents) Co.
PHONOGRAPHS and RECORDS of the Highest Stan-
dard. Best. Machine for Home Amusements, Hall
Entertainments, Reproducing, Recording, or making your
own Records. Easiest machine to Dictate Letters or Sing
into. Send for Catalogue and Record List to
J. ALBERT & SON,
118 King-street, SYDNEY.
Cheapest Importers of Music, Musical Instruments,
Edison-Bell Phonographs and Records, Musical Boxes
and Musical Toys. Trade supplied.
TO LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Seud
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG- & AITKEN, 03 ' M XSS" E T ST "
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
55*
l---
THE ACME of Mecha
nic il Skill.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “ Home, Sweet
Home," “There'll Come a
Time Some Day,” “ Daisie
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/- ; Carriage paid in N.S.W., 1 2 extra,
any other Colony, 22. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, monev refunded.
11. POTIEIt AND CO.,
Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “Obesity and it.s Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet senr, in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Kddress—L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box ICO, Sydney, lie will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, hut has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EKESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Savers, Ali.pokt & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, iill) Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tbs B. at)d H.Trcatrocot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Boss of Energy, Amentia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recomm tided with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a S ox.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG'S VEGETABLE
CHAIICOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it, themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRIKEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &e. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BBAGG’S CHAIICOAL
POWDUH, BISCUITS,
Of all ChelnieU
and Stored.
“ nd LOZENGES.
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizt'ti,
from
£5 lOa.
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Fest Investment for House, Stock or Garden. Intake
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a Side Show.
Tf
A FRIEND IN NEED
is a FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
"Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
are celebrated for their quality.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
are well known for their elegance.
OTTO HERZ & GO.’S SHOES
never lose their shape.
OTTO HERZ &CQ.’S SHOES
fit the foot to perfection.
OTTO HERZ&CO.’S SHOES
have a 40 years’ reputation.
OTTO HERZ & CO ’S SHOES
form the most comfortable footwear.
OTTO H?RZ&CO.’S SHOES
are sold by all of
JOHN HUNTER & SON’S (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
SAUCE.
THF
TIIE ZASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
0
Lime Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy :—“ I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Rencud & Co.
NEWCASTLE-D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE*
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
S 3
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE & RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FINCKH& CQbB3 YORK ST. SYDNEY.
All WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
&
b
&
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
PLAIN HOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-marie for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easv. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
1)r. Carter’s Triors and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Bkacty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post, is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love,Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Mixer’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Hook or Fate, Dreamer’s
.Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets ok Ancient and Modern Maoic. Is 6d post free.
Art ok Hoxino, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illns. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is lid.
Iron Ned Kelly and llis Gang (only true history).
Is Cd posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is fid post.
Up-To-Date Comic Heciter (newest), ls6d post free.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Eree anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
SYDNEY.
16
PARK ST.,
PLAIN HOtyE TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
WILL
ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP
BOOKS
■ bbJ a
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil's Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is Gd, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/0. The
Kelly Gang (id us.) post 16. Australian Handbook ok Midwifery (illns.), 2/6;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, Gd. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping. Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
0u.7 List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL A.TVDIRADPI,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELT™ ■
GENTLEMEN,sSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fullv explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA."
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in ell
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
i ing current that can he felt
jhy the wearer through
! all weak parts.' REMEM
| BER, we give a written
| guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we saw and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing' we prefer that vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Brice List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances lor BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELESTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
G 3 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Not Heavy to Him.
The man on the elephant’s back is nothing to
the elephant. The big beast doesn't mind him
any more than one of those immense dray horses
you see in London minds the brass ornaments on
his harness. Yet on my back or yours the man
would be a load ; and, if fastened to a lark’s wings
the little brasses would hold him to the earth.
Thus, we are reminded, my thoughtful friends,
that there are no absolute facts. The burden de-
pends on the back. Albeit Samson walked off
with the gates of Gaza, an ordinary garden gate
would, I am sure, prove all that we should want
to lug. It follows that weight or heaviness can,
as the advertisements say, “be supplied in a
variety of styles.”
When, lor example, Mr. Sidney Challanger
mentions in a letter that at a certain period he
was “heavy,” he does not mean that he tipped
the scales at a stone or two more than usual. His
horse would have felt that, in case lie rode one ;
but tbe truth is that at the time referred to he
was actually under his proper weight by several
pounds.
What be wants us to understand is that he was
heavy to himself; it was not an increase of weight
but an increase of weakness, having practically the
same result. His explanation is that in the early
part of ISUO he began to feel ill and out of sorts.
He went about in a mazy way, feeling badly with-
out knowing what the trouble was or how to
account lor it.
“ 1 had, ” Mr. Challanger goes on to tell us,
“a nasty taste in tbe mouth and no relish for
my meals. ” But eat we all must, or starve ; and
eat he did. Not much, though. At best it was
a forced business. Nothing tasted natural or
good, and he took just enough to keep him going
until the next meal time should come round.
“ And even tor that 1 had to suffer, ” lie says.
“ After getting it down I had, almost immediately
a sense of fulness or distension at the stomach
and pain at the chest as if a bit of food bad
lodged there—which couldn't be. ”
No, nothing lodged anyw here. What there was
of it went straight down into Mr. Challanger’s
stomach, where it at once began to ferment and
produce a gas which caused ttie feeling of fulness,
while the irritated nerves set up the pain. It
was not too much food, but food not digested—
food turned sour in the stomach—with tbe whole
body behind it failing of the needed stimulus and
nourishment of food, and wondering what the
matter was. It was this state of matters that
made him, to use his own words, “ heavy, drowsy,
and languid. ”
Any river in England, after a long drought in
summer, looks just as Mr. Challanger feU —heavy,
drowsy, and languid. And for an identical reason
—the Jack of necessary supplies. Wait an instant
though ! Don’t miss the point.
The rain, when it comes, tills the river by a
thousand little channels falling directly into it.
Not so as to food and body. Between them is a
process ; a mechanical, chemical, and vital opera-
tion-digestion. Mark you that, and act accord-
ingly. Whether in the sky or on tbe ground water
is water —the same tiling.
But food and body are not the same tiling. The
first must be transmuted into the second by the
miracle called digestion ; tor of all God’s ways in
nature none is more awful, more amazing, more
glorious. And, w hen impeded or overborne, none
which punishes the interference more certainly and
swift.
“I got little or no sleep, ” continues our friend
“and awoke in the morning tired out, as after a
bard day’s work. Presently I could hardly walk,
for very weakness, and from time to time bad to
give up work altogether. No medicine helped me
—and I tried plenty.
“ After three wretched years of this, Mrs. Bird,
of Tallistorn, told my w'ife about Mother Seigel’s
Syrup and through her, advised me to try it.
She said my ailment was indigestion and the
Syrup would cure it. And it did. One bottle
greatly relieved me. I could eat freely and food
agreed with me. I persevered with the remedy
and got strong as ever. All the pain and heavi-
ness left me, and I felt light and energetic, al-
though I have gained in weight.”—(Signed)
Sydney Challanger, Gladstone Villa, Cwrn, near
Waunllwyd, Mon, August 30th, 1898.
fIIVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
° GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design,
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduce
DR. VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One Inal
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is (id, for which we
w ill forward von post free one box (.three tablets) of DR.
VON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved ou
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydney.
t
ILLUSTRATED.
A VALUABLE BOOK of absorb*
injr interest to every MAN.
A perfect HEALTH GUIDE.
10,000 copies already sold. Send
two penny stamps to
LOCK,
Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


D.Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SPRING SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
AX REFORM
PRICES
EXPERIENCED
CUTTERS 1
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear:
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLE and SOUNO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Curds (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7ICW; and 71S George-gtreet, SYDNEY.
n. L. lICTCIIINSOM, Manager.
it
M
■
.•••• THE
FRIEND
RA.HtRVEY.
71 C.LARENGEST
STABJ.ES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COWSHEDS,
KEF USE 11 Eal'S, kr.., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 pur Ckxt.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at (xl., 1/- and 1,6
each (English rales).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
XJSEJ
S
vRDYAL.IAVV DfIESSIhC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS &. SHOES
OF ALL OESCRIPI lONS
DIRfcC lIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Clean ini; am! I’olishiuir Hoots
and Shoes (in bellies), Cd. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Host Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
THE
“Common Sense
« * Ear Drums ”
Relieve Deafness and Head
. Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
cffoet
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend thorn. Thousands testily
to their perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, and
letters from many.users mailed free
WILSON EAR DRUM CO Arent,
CHALMERS, 229 GollinsSt Melbourna
TWG ORUM
IN POSITION i
(invisible) f
Mention “The Bulletin’’ when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
OR TIIR LIQUOR lIAP.IT POSITIVELY
CUBED BY AD-
MIN ISTKRINO
EUCRiLSY,
TIIE CELEBRATED AXD ONLY SAFE, SURE AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be given in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou, uecec-
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and 'Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-at.reet, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND_-rf*
The Thermal Springs District
tub
Grand Hotel, ROTOR9I.
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
In .New Zealand.
n, V. Gardner Gate of the P. aO. ear-
— vice) begs to inform the
. . Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the al>ove magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
8. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest," “ Kachel“ Poet-
master” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed “manager'
will receive prompt attention.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
ifPP
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—nil prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can l>e paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAKE
Business Announcements.
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Mount ache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
l*rlvc, 10s. (id.
Solk Agents:
&
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gaorge- st.. Sydney
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A astralian Oasliyht Company by payment
of £ I Cash aml 1 Os. Monthly, until paid off.
If iras is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
CSF - Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Cramps\
i Colic, '
\ Colds,
V.
V
Croup,,
Coughs,
Tooth
ache ,
zhe,'
Cats, 1
i Burns,
V Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
"PainKiUet
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test wh.ther my
remedy does or does not cu e
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. A.I you are asked to do sto
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.R00T,28, ENDSLEIQH GDNS.,LONOON,ENQ.
Nervous Disease.
A South Brisbane Lady Reduced
to a Miserable Condition,
BUT NOW STOUTER AND STRONGER
THAN FOR YEARS.
The Case oT
MRS. ESTHER SIMPSON.
(BY OCR SPECIAL REPORTER.)
When our reporter visited Mrs. Esther
Simpson, to find out all about her late illness
and the manner in which she got better, he
expected to see in that lady a thin and
decrepit form, with pale face and lack lustre
eye, leaning upon a stick. What was his
astonishment, however, when a fine, up-
right, hearty-looking lady, still in the prime
of life, and apparently in excellent health,
met him at the door of her house in Cam-
bridge-street, off Vulture-street, East
Brisbane, and declared herself to be she
whom he sought.
“ Oh, yes,” she replied, in answer to the
newspaper man’s questions ; “ I made a
perfect recovery, and am a great deal
stronger and better in health than I have
been for years. But I was in a perilous
state once ; so bad, indeed, that I always
give a little shudder when I think of the
awful times through which I passed.”
“ Tell me all about it,” said the reporter,
“right from the very beginning.”
“ Yes, I will,” replied Mrs. Simpson.
“ Well, first of all, I found one day that I
felt quite tired. I had done no hard work,
and couldn’t understand this peculiar feeling
of weariness that had come upon me. 1 said
to myself, I shall be all right in the morning,
I only require a good sleep; but strange to
say, in the morning I was worse. A feeling
of anxiety and dread of approaching evil
had come over me, and I felt sure I was
going to be seriously ill. How correct I was
in this apprehension you will be able to
judge for yourself.” •»
“I have heard that serious illnesses
usually herald their appearance with a feel-
ing of anxiety,” said the reporter.
“ Yes,” continued the lady ; “it is
Nature’s warning to us. My malady
rapidly developed itself, and it was not
long before it was plain to me that I W'as
suffering from a severe disease of the nerves,
which reflected its ill consequences in every
organ of my body. Daily I grew thinner
and weaker, and the awful tremulousness of
the nerves increased. I could no longer eat,
except on compulsion, and turned away
with loathing from all my food. My tongue
was dry and furred, and there was a taste
in my mouth as bitter as gall. Days to
gether I only ate a few mouthfuls of food.”
“ You couldn’t keep your strength up o.
that?” interpolated the pressman.
“I had very little strength, I can teh
you,” replied Mrs. Simpson. “Even this
food that I forced myself to take was almost
useless. Almost immediately afier eating it
there arose a fullness on the chest, and then
it would commence to ferment, and a lot of
wind formed. You may guess the pain I
suffered from the pressure which this gas
produced, as it swelled out the walls of my
stomach. And windy spasms frequently
came on, producing a sort of cramp in the
stomach, which would cause me to writhe in
agony on my bed.”
“And all this, you think, arose from
nervousness ? ”
“Yes, I thoroughly believe so. I was in
such a shaky, palsied state that I couldn’t
digest my food. I still continued to make
an effort to crawl out of bed, but I was so
giddy that I had to hold on to the furniture
merely to get across the room. If I was to
let go just for one moment, the room would
seem to move up and down just like a ship
at sea, and I should at once fall to the
ground. If, whilst sitting down, I stooped
my head forward, everything would seem
to go black before my eyes, and 1 should
topple right over on to my hands and knees ;
and as for noises, I could stand nothing in
the shape of a sharp sound. The banging
of a door, a sudden knock, the quick bark
of a dog, or someone speaking to me unex-
pectedly would upset me so much that 1
should tremble for long after. My nerves
grew so much worse that I was no longer
able to get out of bed, so 1 had to lie
p opped up with pillows in a half-sitting
posture, unable at last even to turn myself.
A heavy despondency took possession of me.
I thought I should just lie in that bed till I
died. I had wasted away to a mere
skeleton, and peoole who saw me then tell
me I looked terrible. I hardly could allow
anyone to speik to me. Sometimes the
slightest sound would set me off shaking so
fearfully that the very be 1 rattled under
me. My head now ached incessantly day
and night, and I rolled it from side to side
on the pillow ceaselessly, seeking the
temporary lull from pain which would not
come.”
“ Did your nervous disease display any
other symptoms ? ”
“ Yes ; a strange numbness and pains all
over me. I can hardly describe this sensa-
tion, but it seemed something like I should
imagine I should have felt if 1 had been
hammered all over.”
“It’s a long lane that has no turning?”
suggested the reporter.
“ It is, thank Heaven, for I was indeed In
a miserable condition,” said Airs. Simpson,
again taking up the thread of her story.
“ I was absolutely helpless. 1 was so weak
I could hardly raise my hand, and my
daughter was obliged to wait on me hand
and foot. I couldn’t even turn myself in
bed, and when it became necessary to make
the bed, my daughter was accustomed to
gently roll me over from one side to anoi her,
as she made my couch one half at a time.
All sorts of horrible low feelings came over
me as I lay awake night after night.”
“ You slept badly, then ? ”
“ I never slept at all, unless you can call
a heavy doze now and again sleeping.”
“ And >vhat medicine did you take ? ”
“ Don’t ask me about these medicines, for
I took many different kinds ; but they, one
and all, were the same in this particular,
that not one of them had any effect upon my
nerves, in which lay the root of all my
trouble and suffering. There is no doubt
what I had required from the wry com-
mencement was a proper nerve restorative
and stimulant. It was truly unfortunate
for me that I didn’t find the proper remedy
at first. It was my daughter who ultimately
made me take Clements Tonic.”
“Ah !” said the reporter, “what was
the elfect of that remedy ? ”
“ It had almost at once a soothing and
steadying effect upon my nervous system.
I was overjoyed. I felt just like a ship-
wrecked crew must feel when they are lost
on the wide ocean and a savingship appears
in sight. Clements Tonic was m3 7 salvation.
After taking it for only two or three days,
the pain and fullness in the chest began to
disappear, and as I still continued to take
Clements ’lonic, this trouble went away to
return no more. It was then that I began
to eat again. Just a little nourishing food
at first; but I was able to increase the
quantity day by day. My digestive organs
were still weak, but they slowly improve* 3
and I was a few ounces heavier
twenty-four hours.”
“What about sleeping?”
“ Oh, yes; Clements Tonic made me
sleep, too. I felt so restful after a dose at
bedtime ; and instead of sitting up in bed
all night staring at the ceiling, I was now
able to lie down, stretch myself out, and
sleep calmly and peacefully till morning,
like a little child. My head never ached,
and I was able to get out of bed and go for
a short walk in the air. My nerves got
firmer and firmer till I never trembl d at
all, and I could hold a glass full of water in
one hand without spilling a drop.”
“ Ditl it take you long to get back to your
former weight ? ”
“No ; not very long. There is nothing in
the world like Clements Tonic to make you
eat. I had a splendid appetite, and put on
flesh rapidly. In fact, before I had finished
taking Clements Tonic I was stouter and
stronger than I had been for years. All
that feeling of depression and fear of coming
ill had disappeared like a black cloud, and I
became bright and cheerful, and able to do
my work biiskly. You can see that lam in
no way nervous now.”
“ Certainly I can,” replied the newspaper
man ; “and I suppose you don’t mind every-
one knowing what you have told me?”
“ No ; you are welcome »o publish it all.
for every word of it is true.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Estiibr Simpson, of Cambridge Strfet, fail
Brisbane, in the Colony of Queensland, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
five folios and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish the
same in any wav ; and that I do not receive any
payment for the same; and I make this solemn
declaration, vo'untarily, conscientiously believing
the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisi ns
of "The Oaths Act, IS67.’’
Declared at Brisbane, this Ist day of August.
thousand eight hundred and ni e f y-nine, b<
me, TIKK. JTE-A-it OP. .1. I*.
Arnold's Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
-VrOTIIINQ SO quickl v cures Coughs, Colils, Bronchitis,
IN Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest us
this liuham. Where children have whoopingcouirh, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small Dottle often cures.
This is the best expeotorant now in use; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.— Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Hilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2/6, if not obtainable looally.
i-‘OJEI£JIGriV STAMP 9
WESTERN
$
riTFTR
SETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 0 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is Cd ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s Cd; 12 Luxemburg, I*l
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s Cd ; 8 Bosnia, Cd ;
60 Spain, 2s. Backets 30 different,
Cd ; 60, Is ; 100, 2s Cd ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0, or P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES V,
DONNE, 346 Little Colliiis-streel, MELBOURNE.
Fair girls and gray horses-
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.


The London & American Supply Stores
H
nu
j?!
rszs
si
isnumii
SmONDONrAMERICAIfSUPPLY STORES®"
'■'■ p ; ir-
Wl
mb
- l'v' ;
!.• V”
■
p*W
. . FOB . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. & CO., Directors.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
to defy competition 1 .
WINES “* Bat ordv 0) SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Standard of Excellence
The Perfection of Art
The Favorite Instrument
Every Buyer Pleased I
RON ISCH
PIANO.
sxoisrEi'sr.
k
»
r
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and restorer.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Crey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
■k
m
For Preserving Strengthening, end Rendering the Hair Beautifully Sort ; for Removing Scurf. Dandruff, Ac. also for
For Preserving, Mreng RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
" HARUENE " PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions ./or use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 ami (triple 2/6 size, a/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c„ all over the World.
••HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
HOMOCEA
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
and soothes the aching part
Does not harden or change colour.
homocea cures
CUTS,
BURNS,
PILES,
SORES,
BRUISES,
SORE EYES,
ECZEMA,
CORNS,
RINGWORM,
TOOTHACHE, MOSQUITO BITES &e„ &c.
homocea embrocation.
Absolutely the best thing: of its kind in the
World for RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA.
STIFF JOINTS. SORE THROAT, PAINS IN CHEST, SIDE, or BACK.
Put up in Collapsible Tubes in two sizes.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General J)ealers, Chemists.
Jones’s Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jokes was an artist who talked a great deal of
nonsense abo.it art-atmosphere, line, depth, and
soon, lie did a great deal of work that no one
wanted, and refused work that anyone did want,
scorning to " sell his soul.” For so he phrased
ordinary humdrum pot-boiling. He loved his
wife, but he starved her. lie read her much bad
poetry that lie wrote himself, extolling the color
of her eyes and hair, which was comfort of a-vague
kind. Also he painted dreadful impressionist
pictures of her, which she had to force herself to
say were exquisite, but which she loathed. She
shivered as she posed as model, and through her
mind would flit in detail the material comforts
she longed for-hot coffee, hot meat, fires,
flannels, furs. Jones never noticed her shivers
particularly, for he was such an impressionist that
the trifling matter of goose-flesh, and blue tints,
abhorred as a rule, were rather attractive to him.
Mrs. Jones took to going out at night—said she
went to her cousin’s ; and Jones believed her, and
wrote poetry about her while she was away, and
read it to her when she returned, fatigued and
sleepy. He did not notice that food became
more plentiful, that there were frequently fires
that he was given new singlets and socks, ana
that Mrs. Jones had anew dress. She was often
ill however, and this worried him ; also on one
occasion he noticed that her arms were covered
with scratches, and when ho inquired how she
came by them, she explained that she had been
helping her cousin to train a rose-bush, it did
not strike Jones that it was not usual to train
rose-bushes at night, and he was satisfied, tie
was even satisfied when, on another occasion, he
found worse pricks and scratches, and the cat was
made to account for them.
Then one night he followed her, not because he
was suspicious, but because he thought it would
be such a delightful surprise for her to see him
follow her into her cousin’s house. Bvt instead
of turning down the customary street she went
straight on, and Jones concluded that she had
some shopping to do first, and still followed. She
went on, and on, right into the heart of the city,
as if in no doubt of her destination, and Jones
wondered and was half-inclined to catch up and
a§k where she was going, but something prevented
him. And when at length she disappeared down a
lane at the rear of a hall used for fifth-rate variety
shows, he was scarcely suspicious even then, but
still'wondered. That this lack of suspicion re-
sulted more from his overwhelming vanity than
from the faithfulness of love was more than pro-
She opened a door, left it ajar, and Jones fol-
lowed into a dimly-lit, evil-smelhng passage. A
man greeted her familiarly—“ You’re late, missus,
’urry up, it’s the girl from the country to-night,
green as you make ’em.”
Mrs. Jones disappeared into a small room, and
Jones accosted the man. 11 Where has that lady
gone?” he enquired.
For answer the man swore and told him to
mind his own business. Jones grew angry and
insisted, with the result that he was hustled out-
side and the door slammed in his face.
Out in the dark lane he tried to oollect his
thoughts, to reason things out, hut all was
mystery; he drifted round to the street and
entered the hall, miserable and confused. On
the stage a hypnotist and mesmerist was gi v mg
an exhibition of bis power, and around him "ere
half-a-dozen unhappy wretches, whose duty it
was to smilingly drink filthy mixtures on his
assurance that they were beer. Jones could find no
connection between the ghastly show and his
wife’s disappearance. lie inquired of the man
next him if there was to he a ballet or a farce,
lie grinned, expectorated, and shook his head
emphatically. “No fear, it’s just ’im he makes
’em nurse logs o’ wood, an think they re babies ,
’e makes ’em stand on their ’eads ; ’e makes em
run needles an’ pins all over ’em. lliere was a
woman ’ere one night got up, an e run red- ot
needles into ’er, an’ she never turned a air. un,
Vs all right l”
•• Won’t some one else from the audience come
up?” inquired the mesmerist blandly, and pre-
gently, after considerable hesitation, and much
giggling* a tall country girl rose f»nd made her
way to the stage. Jones looked for a moment,
then hurried forward and caught her by the arm.
The girl gave a startled cry, then turned and fol-
lowed him out of the hall. , , ,
He used one word, and she cowered as if he nad
struck her. „ _ n
“ Arthur, let me explain. It was all I could
do ; he gave me a pound a week, and it did not
hurt much. lam plucky about pain. I remem-
ber you saying that you did not think 1 had any
nerves, and we were starving. Forgive me, dear,
I've tried so hard to earn money in other way B ,
and this only took three evenings m the week, and
it did not hurt much. Forgive me. bhe laid a
timid hand on his arm, but he shook it off.
Forgive you ! You, a wanton who paints and
lies who have acted a lie towards me, who trusted
and adored you. Hod, bow 1 adored you! ” Jones
was feeling tremendous sorrow for his ruined
trust and lost adoration. He felt he had the
material for one of his finest poems, but rejected
the idea as being a trifle premature.
“ Arthur, we had no food, no warm clothes ;
tou had only one shirt and no socks. I did it for
the best, believe me. I used to cry bitterly at the
notion that I was deceiving you—— ” ,
4» Yet you continued to do it. Truly a woman s
soul is clay—she looks a poem and remains a
“ Arthur, not that, not that, strike me, but not
that. It was for yon . _ , ~r
“ For me ! Don’t dare say it was for me I Was
I not willing to starve rather than sell myself. 1
trusted you as my soul; you deceive me; Igo into
the street and find you-; ”
lie made a gesture of disgust towards the
“ make-up ” she still wore. . .
She dropped behind a little that he might nob
86,1 It was right for you to do only the best work,
Arthur ; but for me, what matter, I love you, and
we needed tilings. I got Hie money, the price
was a little discomfort ”
“ And the lies, the falseness, the degradation l
“Yes, yes! but what else could Ido? 1 cant
sew, I can’t teach ; my figure is not good enough
(she meant not plump enough) for the stage—
“ Ah, so you thought of that also. Well, you e
broken my heart; but that’s a trifle, so that you
can get food and fires, and frivolity.
He forgave her after a fashion as the months
went by ; that is, he ignored her, and read his
poems to a plrnnp model, while Mrs. Jones sup-
ported the house by laundry work, and in time
grew to forget there had been a tragedy, and that
she had loved Jones to distraction. Her recrea-
tions were found in a gossip over the fence, an
odd number of “The Young Lames Journal,
and a glass of something hot at night, lint what
would you?—disillusion must come some time.
MARS.
He Had not Hurt Her.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SnK was young when Love came —very young 1 .
Life was still hedged round with dreams. At her
age life might be stormy, sad, or lonely, but never
flat and tasteless. Then the world burst into
blossom suddenly and unreasonably—as it does
when one is very young. And, of course, Love
was everything.
For a month they met and gloried in the sun-
rise delicacy of unspoken passion. The month
passed away. He did not speak ; she dared not;
and the world turned into mourning. Yet she
cherished her dream—for seven years.
They met again. What a passionate pulse played
in her blood ! Old ghosts came out and stared at
her everywhere. She looked to the meeting with
unspeakable dread and longing. They met; and
with a great ache she recognised that her lover
had died with her youth. The man who stood in
his place was an alien and a stranger. Ihe faint
mannerisms he possessed in old days had become
decided habits. Where a dimple had been on the
boy’s face a wrinkle lay in the man’s, She had
grown more fastidious and discerning. He had
crown less so. She had ripened and enriched ; he
had ceased growing with her last knowledge of
him, and was perfectly satisfied with himself.
She looked into his changed, shallow eyes with a
breaking heart, and said to herself, “What mat-
ter ? Love is all. For life or death I am his.
He has needed me. That is all. I will take his
life again, and Paradise will come back to the
will surely never marry him ? ” said her
friends, guessing her thoughts. “ T would throw
away your life ! ”
“ Love is all !” she said.
One sweet, dark evening he walked home with
her His manner had the old tenderness, but
none of the old doubt. He drew her hand through
his arm. She permitted it. Then, for the first
time since their meeting, he spoke of the past.
“ J believe you loved me, then,’ he said.
“ And you?” Bhe queried.
“ You know,” he answered, softly. or a thrill-
ing second the past lived again. “And you?
he insisted. ~ ,
Then she flung off her long, maiden silence, and
spoke: " I loved you-God knows I did. lhere
was something of the wail from the dead in it.
Nevertheless, it was the supreme moment of her
life. She soared into heights unguessed—far, far
from the man at her side.
For the first time his complacency was dis-
turbed. “ I was not worthy,” he whispered.
She answered with sweet scorn.
“ A man must be honorable,” he said. xou
heard something about me ?
** rthought you might have heard some gossip.
• • ]\' o »»
“ Well I would have been married, but there
were difficulties in the way. She thinks a great
d 7n °1 "waking-dream she heard such sentences
as • " When a fellow looks for a home,” “ She is
awfully fond of me.” Her senses came back as
she heard him say : “ But I wouldn t like to think
1 had done you any kind of wrong. You see,
women are not like men. They hold on to things ;
but a man forgets. You don t think I have hurt
you at all, do you?” ,
She looked at the familiar scene. The scent of
lilac suffocated her. The past stabbed her. bhe
knew what a paltry lie love was.
“Ko,” she said.
C. W.
A Private Rehearsal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A COWTYIAIj party was breaking up in the street
laughing and joking. Downstairs, the landlord
of the “Castles” was sitting before the fire,
chuckling still over a funny story.. In a room
upstairs a man was pondering the weary old “ To
be or not to be,” problem.
“ Too late, too late ! ” he muttered.
A sharp report rang through the house, fol-
lowed by a heavy fall. The landlord started to
his feet.
“ My God ! ” he cried ; “ that poor devil I let a
room to has shot himself !
Candle in hand, he rushed up the stairs. People
crowded into the room at his heels.
“ What is it 1 ” they asked, breathlessly.
“ It’s suicide ! He is dead! ’
“ Not yet,” said the man on the floor. Men
die many times. 1 was ouly rehearsing my part.
THE PIPE.
Oilfedder, member for Wallace in M.L.
Parliament: —
Our trade hitherto with the Australian colonies has
been advantageous, but they have taken our produce, not
to oblige New Zealand, but because of their necessity.
He thought this colony could get the advantages of
reciprocity of intercolonial freetrade without joining in
the scheme of Federation.
This is the argument of hundreds of other people
besides the comically-named Gilfedder, but it
only shows how people can fail to grasp a very
simple situation by the hair, -though that hair is
Ion" and easily available. At present Australia
may as well take Maoriland’s oats and barley as
Victoria’s, or Maoriland’s potatoes as lasmamas,
or Maoriland’s timber as Queensland s or
Westralia’s —so-it takes a good deal of them, but
after Federation it is almost certain that there
will be a duty to pay on Maoriland’s oats barley,
timber, potatoes, &c., while those of the other
States can go all over Australia without pay-
ing duty, so the situation will be changed. At
present Australia, to suit its own interests and
out of no philanthropy at all, buys Maonland s
produce. And if Federation comes off without
Maoriland, Australia, to suit its own interests,
will probably leave off buying that produce.


Its just the weather for soft, cool shirts,
and you will find we stock “just the thing-.” 500
dozen is a big quantity to carry, hut we find it
necessary to do so, our prices sell them for us so
quickly, lennis, boating, cricketing, cycling,
and knockabout shirts for 3s. (three shillings) and
we pay carriage to any post-office in N.S. W. (send
us postal-notes for three shillings). Queensland
residents will find it will pay them to send to us
for one or more of these shirts, they are most
suitable for Queensland summer wear, and the
value leaves a big margin for duty. Anv reader
r HE Bulletin who is not in possession of one
of our Summer Fashion Books (ladies’ and gentle-
mens ) should write and secure these latest free
P'"’ l . Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 20.), 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
Ik
m
H
i'
m
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
juro/s of the
Fans Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Trice, £7.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own liorue.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records
and spare parts in Australia. Cinemato-
gra phes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE JDEFOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EDlSON ELECTRIC' COMPANY,
IF. IT. Oldershaw, Manager. 162 PITT STREET > SYDNEY (ONLY).
THE BRAND
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
D.C.L. ONE QUALITY ONLY
OF MERIT.
ASK FOR
O.C.L^ 11 *'
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE j
THE BEST.ALWAYS THE -SAME
BLAKE STEAM PUMPS,
For EVERY PUMPING
■ . PURPOSE KNOWN.
Ai. KISH'S IN
AUSTRALASIA :
H. P. GREGORY & CO
ENGINEERS and GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANT’’
Sydney and Mielbourne.
In Sweet September.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J came in Autumn's mellowing -
The nightingales had fled,
The poplars all were yellowing,
The sweetest flowers were dead :
You came when Spring was ripening
And every leaf was green,
The golden wattle blossoming
And crowning you a Queen.
But, Chloris / pray remember ,
We both, came in September.
We came in sweet September—
A sunset lay between ;
But, Chloris, pray remember
This pretty might-have-been :
Had I been born where you were,
I had been born in Spring,
The same day, too, as you were—
What doth September bring ?
Ah; Chloris /pray remember,
I have my own September.
You have your own September :
What doth September bring?
Ah, Chloris 1 pray remember,
You are a flower of Spring—
A snowdrop, chaste and tender,
A violet, modest, true,
A rose of blushing splendour,
Ail these, Chloris, are you.
But, Chloris, pray remember ,
You have your own September.
I came in Autumn s mellowing—
I will not tell the year ;
Perhaps I too am yellowing,
But I will linger here :
The slumbrous airs soft sighing,
The calls of mating birds,
The scents of Spring low-lying,
Run panting into words . . !
And Clitoris/ pray remember,
I love your sweet September.
Here, in the bush, I dally ;
The blue shows through the gold
And in your leafy alley
A tale of love is told ;
And this I would remember,
It may be always Spring,
and no September
. To birds upon the wing.
Sweet Sprin /, Chloris ! remember
Sweet Spriny and no September.
Life s day hath its declining }
Love's day is never done ;
The stars sing in their shining,
And every star’s a sun.
And every sunbeam tarries,
When Love is on the wing—
To Love, true Love, it carries
Some flower, or scent of Spring.
And this, Chloris/ remember,
Love knoweth no September.
Victoria.
ANDREW SARD.
Strawberry: A Love Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jock Condon was over 40 as years count. He was
grey in patches, and wrinkled and fat. His hands
were swollen from hanging listlessly, and bad
weather had distorted his face. By proper
reckoning he was getting old, but, measured by
the standard of experience, he was only a youth.
And all because he was slow; other men had lived
through their l.ves, had tasted of the world, the
flesh and the devil, had married and given in
marriage, and had even made their final bow while
Jock was travelling to that point in existence
whereat statuary ceases to bo uninteresting.
But, having reached that point, Jock began as a
matter of course to court the young girls of the
district instead of the mothers who bore or the
maiden aunts who had nursed them, and he met
with ridicule. Even his experience with Maggie
o mston only acted as a temporary check. He
went on grinning upon one after another in his
amorous fashion, putting the inevitable question
when chance offered, till there was not in the
whole neighborhood a single young woman un-
asked. Wherefore Jock was miserable. He sat
before the fire in his lonely hut and thought, and
thought, and it seemed to him that life was
blacker than the darkness that covered the earth.
No mate was his, and years were going by. Field-
ing was dead, whom he remembered since they
were boys together. Morton was dead and
Joyce. He, too, should be called upon some day
the dream within his heart unrealised. Y
suddenly his face brightened. He stirred the
fire nervously and rubbed his hands. “Take the
sheep round that way to-morrow,” he muttered.
And so the die was cast.
She was not an angel, this newest of Jock’s
chosen. Even be guessed that. Her history no
“Stm k J| e " r ’ » nd J U ‘ r nam « —they called her
Strawberry. Sue came a stranger to that
£hif , m'i ,t ' en r? ° r h °, w no ton - ue told.
Ins only the Dogwood people knew: she pos-
sessed herself of a hut and strip of land in their
midst; she wrought, and tilled, and delved as
men do, and she lived somehow.
Now, Jock was vaguely conscious that Straw-
berry would nos make an ideal wife, but he was
o 8 ° he bor - e "P alon S the bank of the
creek next day stooping to keep under cover, and
made his attack. Strawberry was hoeing a row
of potatoes near the fence. Jock could see the
back of her head rising and falling with every
stroke, and Ins heart thumped. He had often
trod need K 1 * 8 ’ 'i 6 wisl . ,ed now fchat had in-
troduced himself before-,t would have made the
task so much easier. However he crept up to the
fence and on hands and knees spent some time
looking through a hole. Presently he stood up
and whistled but bobbed down again immediately
witu heart thumping louder than ever. Straw-
berry worked on. A pebble was lying at his hand.
lie picked it up and threw it over gently, so that
it would not hurt. But the pebble fell short in
the soft ground, and the hoe came down with its
rythmic beat.
Jock got another stone, and, standing up, put his
best effort into the aim. This time it hit Straw-
berry on the ankle just where there was a big hole
in her stocking, and she wheeled round in time to
■ee a grinning face disappear behind the logs.
I hat was enough for Strawberry. Hoe in hand
she rushed to answer the challenge. But Jock
made-off backwards, grinning and showing all pos-
sible signs of peace. He wanted the lady to
understand that this was merely his playful way
of introducing himself, but he stammered badly
and she was forcing matters.
‘•You damn gorilla,” she called out, climbing
the fence, “ I’ll teach you ! ”
But just then Jock fell flat into the creek with
a sphisli that startled the birds a hundred yards
off He struggled out on the other side, dripping
with hat in hand, only to find his lady-love still
brandishing the hoe.
“ Will yer marry me ? ” he called out across the
water.
The hoe was gradually lowered.
“lCh ! what’s that?”
Jock put the question again, adding—“ that’s
what I came for.” *
idiotr* 11 ’ Why didn t y ° U Bay S °’ yOU £ rinnin £
o ( viri pleased at the compliment.
Who the devil are you, anyway?” she went
He told her.
“ Well, come over here.”
He waded through and stood meekly on the
bank. 1 hen they sat on the fence for awhile, and
hutT ° n J ° Ck ie ped to carr y her things to his
There was not much romance about it as the
wor d judges but poor old Jock was satisfied at
the tune. And even afterwards, when Strawberry
took command and upset all his household arrange-
ments, when she was spending his money freely
on visits to the township and bullying him o"f
’i •? Y a n very P atient - Throughout long
v H e >n T ,n? V ,e sl,wp ' '>« discussed the
matter with his dogs ; but Rover showed plainly
that he had no opinion whatever concerning mar-
riage, and Laddie only wagged his tail.
At length, Jock came to regard his experience
as natural, and this bred in him a kind of help-
less pity for all married men. He began to lung
secretly for Ins lost solitude, and his face grew
sullen. Then, one night, after yarding the sheep
he found a visitor at home. A big, heavy-browed
man! was dark-looking as a Spaniard. He
nodded carelessly as Jock entered, and took no
further notice while Jock sidled into a corner to
Sio 1 •!\ he c. eVer !' n "’ thß stranger talked
familiarly with Strawberry. They laughed and
joked coarsely, and about 10 o’clock he turned
taS'ilf” hVIS’ “ Abuut time !0 " I <>»«>•'
Jock stared like an owl.
\\ w! ,OUt J ir ??. y ? u ? ot ’” seated the stranger.
4< Where to ? Took asked, stupidly,
lo blazes—l don’t care. Ain’t room for three
nere, anyway.”
Jack had come to that conclusion also, yet he
was inclined to protest.
<< ” * le commer, ced.
i f No ,, visitor interrupted, standing
before the fire; there’s a hut down by the creek.
Come on, now—get ! This here’s my missus.”
Jock turned pale, and his eyes rolled.
Her ? ” he asked, jerking his thumb,
b rawberry went towards him and said, more
softly than he had ever heard her speak before,
You d better go. Take a blanket and some
tucker with you.
She made a bundle silently and opened the door,
and when it again the shepherd realised
t lat this had been Ins home for over thirty years,
lheman within laughed harshly. “Strange old
bloke, that,” lie remarked.
1 he vvoirian did not answer for a while, then she
said, He's not a bad sort, Bob.”
INext day Jock met the ration-cart near the
main road. You needn’t go down to—to the hut
to day I’ll carry the stuff,” he said to the driver’
Ihe bag was handed out. “How’s the missusi
'oqi t^le y° nn ff fellow asked with a grin.
>. he—-oh she—the bag isn’t heavy,” Jook
answered, as he hurried away.
So Jock lived in the hut that used to be Straw-
berry s, and cooked his own meals again, and
muttered, and stirred the fire just as in years
gone by. And when about a month had gone a
swagman passed towards the setting sun, and Jock
knew that Strawberry, too, was alone.
1 hen began a struggle. Should he go back to
her. Should he claim his own hut? The dogs
did not know, and while he was still pondering
and wearing himself to a skeleton, came a day
when the sheep were not liberated. Another fol-
lowed, and by noon Strawberry took his place.
She let the hungry animals out and sought the
shepherd by the creek. He was sick —was very
sick. And she set to work to nurse him back to
health. All day she watched his sheep, at night
I® yarded them, and sat beside the bed ; and,
while he lay thus unconscious in summer heat, a
tire broke out. _At sundown it seemed far away,
but the north wind rose and urged it on, and by
midnight the sky was red for miles, and the
woman could hear the crackling grass and leaves,
olie thought of the penned-up sheep, and, single-
handed, burned a strip around the yard. Then,
with set face, she hurried back to the hut and
stood on guard. And later, when the Dogwood
people came they saw against the broad front of
the hre the solitary figure of a woman fighting as
never woman fought before. So she worked and
watched till Jock got well again, and together they
went back to his hut. There she made a garden anil
planted fruit-trees; she helped him with the
Hock ; she saved money. They even enlarged the
hut in the course of years ; and when sickness
ciime again it was Jock who bore the burden of
the,toil and the watching ; and he it was who was
left to mourn.
He came home one day and found their visitor
of years before waiting, his brows even more
b's skin even darker.
Hone ? ’’ the fellow asked laconically, pointing
to the closed door.
Dead ! ’ Jock answered simply.
Ihe stranger started. “No! She was my
wife, he said quickly.
The grave-stone says Missus J. Condon,” was
the response, and there was a touch of pride in the
old man s voice.
J. J. POYNTON.


It Keeps the Blood Pure
Gives Nerve-power, Prevents Nervous Exhaustion,
Keeps up the Physical Strength.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
-Vr
I
L
“I am a Professional Cyclist.”
‘'lam anxious to obtain all the prizes and honors possible. To do this I
know I must keep, my blood and system in good order. For this purpose I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and the results have always been satisfactory.
“Training and racing make an excessive nervous strain and loss of nerve
force and physical strength. To quickly restore this loss of nerve energy and
power I have never found anything equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. The Sarsa-
parilla keeps my blood pure and this tones up and strengthens my whole body.
“Today I have the honor to be the champion cyclist of Forbes, thanks to
your wonderful medicine. I send you my portrait on my good steed that has
carried me with.waving colors over the track.”
This is the testimony and portrait of the well-known cyclist, H. H. John-
son, of South Forbes, New South Wales.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out all impurities from the blood. It changes
thin blood into rich, red blood, such blood as healthy nerves and muscles must
have. “Ayer’s ” and only Ayer’s is called
“Tlie World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
All who are thin and pale need it. All who are weak and easily tired need
it. All who are nervously depressed from a warm climate need it.
AYERS Sar^grifa
it Invigorates the Whole System.
Ayer’s Pills Cure Biliousness and Sick Headache.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDQE’S LUNG TONIC
lias baan curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Bemedy, in all parts of the British
Umpire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
jvrbridge’s
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead, of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bott'es, at I*. \kd., 2s. 2d., is. Hd. y
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors,
Wholesale of a 1 London and
Colonial Hou es.
WIUHt,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
e^CHAM’S
TpOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
. Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos r iveness, Blotches on the .Skin, Dis-
Sleep and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
G DINE A V A 6 BOX ” ° ne B ° X ° f th Pills ’ and they wUI be acknowled f? ed to be “ vVORTH A
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired . Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’a Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9Jd, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
TEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W_ O- ELDBIECIE Sc CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STItEEI’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promt tly
attended to.
S*r- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA AND PERRINS'
OBSERVE THAT TIIE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINiID
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester:
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO K, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN k CO., SYDNEY
~,
-V *•*.
| Sen-Sen (?. \
fFARR\NGPOKAVENUt\
F LONDON. %
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS


SOME POINTS——.
ABOUT OUR
UJaterproof goats.
EVERY GARMENT GUARANTEED ABSO-
LUTELY WATERPROOF.
TAILOR-CUT and SILK-STITCHED IN
EVERY SEAM.
WILL STAND EXTREME CLIMATES.
FOR LADIES OR GENTLEMEN.
NEWEST SHAPES.
Prices: 17s. 6d. to 70s.
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GKOKGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
ABB . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
B
<^HE
BOT
&
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
„ SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUENE.
The (Ijost powerful Driving |eif in the |orid.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
SGO W.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... ... ... Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM S 3 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
A??'
--
mm
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
MO PITEIIT BEITS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the V6ry finest
cream, consequently the butter has a hue aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored blitter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appi eciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-- trcet, Sydney.
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY HOUSE IN THE WORLD
PARKE AND LACY
GATES’ ROCKBREAKER
Company Limited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
ALL KINDS OF MODERN MACHINERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES,
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
STREET,
San Francisco, XJ.S.A.
■
60 CLARENCE STREET,
N.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS LANE,
London, E.C.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
TTg.-rvi aoti «Sz Attwood., Sole JProprietora.
INSOLVENT Estate of Weadon, Thomas & Co ,
Melbourne, Ounmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OB’ THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double 'grip, box. spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£'B, reduced ,fe‘2 17s 6d i
choke bore, steel locks,
complete; 17 D.B. Bri_„,... .* —--- —I . . ... , . ,
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual price ,£l4, reduced £6 each, complete ;18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
marie payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
V
JS.SLA.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (0d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3,6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
8,3 gross. IW SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, ' 8, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 26 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK*
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP,
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
, . Send for Catalogues . .
