

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
» FRY’S HALTED COCOA
GHTAR-A.KTTEBD 3PXJRB COCOA. A.KTD EXTRACT OR MALT.
R. G. WATKINS «SC~CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
; : V' —FOB—'
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and. SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
m
% 6
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES
r S
DN
S'!, SAWS.'S
■ '■■•V
Over 2200 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
CIGARS
a rtßr
'/LD'kttAGftwr
PiMOR
©w 8
fW Is.
f Ateakltafs -.Mjarmn* v sydncy
GIBSON, BATTLE & ’Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Iminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Kibninster for the last
Tvvent.y (20) Years.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MAHLY BEACH.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
c,
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE's GEORGE HOTE L. opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams, barest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
vm — “
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
/
tu
cM
OQ
V
PIONEER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability anrl Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Piices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Purity Warranted. Recommended by Highest Medical Experts
for use in leading English and Colonial Hospitals.
A Sufficient Guarantee of its Wholesomeness.
Two Gold Medals, Brussels Exhibition 1897-
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
=F- ,-'A
Ull
S\4*VN
CiJl
■h?ii
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYAItD SQUARE.
SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
1., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd.,
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildi
, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 20.—N0. 996. j
[Saturday, March 18, 1899.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY.
THE SECOND EDITION
or
Fair girls $ gray Horses,
WITH OTHER VERSES.
By Will H. Ogilvie.
Bound in silk cloth, gilt top, with silk marker; >9O
pages, ks. 6d. post-free from Thb Bollbtin Office.
Sand stamps of any Australasian■ province;
postal note; or P. 0.0.
PUBLISHERS' NOTE.—This is the largest
volume of verse yet issued by an Australian writer,
containing 99 poems. Twenty-three pieces have been
added to those appearing in the first edition, includ-
ing several hitherto unpublished.
Among these additional pieces are the fine horse-
ballad, “How We Won the Ribbon;” the lilting
lines entitled “ The Bush, My Lover,” perhaps the
finest lyric utterance yet inspired by the spirit of
Australia; and other excellent verses.
More than ever the volume now deserves Victor
Daley’s eulogium as “the most charming book of
Australian verse that has yet appeared.”
4
SOME PRESS OPINIONS ON THE FIRST EDITION.
A beautiful volume . . . the real West has never been
so celebrated. — Sydney Morning Herald.
Mr. W. H. Ogilvie has achieved a distinct success, and
elevated the horse to the topmost realm of romance.—
South Australian Register.
He holds his own as an Australian poet, racy of the
soil, with any who has yet appeared.— Freeman’s Journal.
He combines the spirited ring of Paterson with the
more delicate intuition of Lawson and Daley . . . One
of the best collections of Australian verse we have seen
since Gordon. — Sydney Daily Telegraph.
Mr. Ogilvie gives us the brightness, beauty, and
glamour of the Australian uplands, and his ballads are
full of life and the joys of life ... his verses will make
many a bushman’s blood run fast in sympathy.— Evening
News.
There is a sweetness about his work —a passionate ten-
derness —an ideality of conception—an eloquence of poetic
diction—that places him on a fair level with the best Aus-
tralian poets. It is a book of genuine heart-throbs.—
Grenfell Vedette.
Never a man who has ridden a good horse, never a man
who has loved a fair girl, will read these verses without a
quickening of the blood and a firing of the pulses.—Otago
Witness.
The most spontaneous and bubblingly lyrical verse that
has yet appeared in Australia.— S.A. Critic.
There is all the buoyancy, the lustiness of youth, the
joie-de-vivre of the man who rejoices in the fresh air and
the fine, free up-country life—all this there is in Mr.
Ogilvie’s verse, and much more that is eminently sane and
healthy, a characteristic production of a wholesome
mind.— New Zealand Mail.
Every lover of good English, true sentiment, and out-
spoken regard for Australia as a land to live in and be
proud of, should get this volume.— Warren Herald.
A writer of exquisite verse.— Newcastle Morning
Herald.
New milk in the desert. ... If your liver is out of
erder buy a copy of “ Fair Girls and Gray Horses.”—
Orange Leader.
Will last for all time as one of the best contributions to
Australian song.— Richmond River Express.
A charming addition to our rapidly-growing literature.
—Albury Border Post.
THE ARG-OKTA.XJT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
“The Bulletin” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “Argonaut” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors:
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace.” The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper,
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sole at The Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American marl; pric S I. ; posted, Vd. ; mailed regularly
to any Australasian address.
The American Rejection of Poe.
Accepted authors are like those old estates
which were held by the annual rent of a rose
or a piece of fruit: we have nothing to do but to
enjoy them and pay them a passing tribute of
{iraise. A poet such as Poe, however, is like the
eudal tenures which were retained on condition
of service at arms. Every new admirer has to
fight against the prejudices and lingering maligni-
ties which obscure and injure his chief. Burke
oomplained that with all his services to the state
he could get no credence or acceptance anywhere.
At every gate he had to show his passport. In
his own country, at least, Poe’s fame is continu-
ally under arrest, and his friends have always
to be giving bail for him. Perhaps this demand
for defence evokes a love and loyalty which are in
themselves a reward.
Why is it that America has always set its face
against Poe? What defect was there in his life
and art, or what deficiency in the American char-
acter and aesthetic sense, or what incompatibility
between these factors in the case, to produce such
a result ? That to a great extent he is ignored
and repudiated is unquestionable. His life has
been written and his works edited of late in a
spirit of cold hostility. Volumes of specimen
selections of prose or verse appear with his work
omitted. In those foolish lists of American great
men which it was the fashion recently to cause
sohool-children to memorise, he was always left
out. Meanwhile, Europe has but one opinion in
the matter; and whereas Tennyson is domesti-
cated in English-speaking lands, Poe is domiciled
and a dominant force wherever there is a living
literature.
Poe never had a good back, such as the New
England writers obtained, to push him to the
front and keep him there. He was of the South—
the very incarnation of the South ; and the South
has always ordered its authors to move on, for
fear they might die on the parish. The South
wreaked itself on politics—ruined itself by politics
—and has never had the will or desire to stand up
for its greatest son. The North has always had
plenty of plain livers and high thinkers who ought
to have welcomed the martyr of thought and
imagination; but some exotic in Poe, which
hinted of another clime and age, repelled these
cold and clannish spirits. So, homeless in his
life, Poe is still beating about like the Flying
Dutchman, ever seeking and always denied a har-
bour in his country-people’s hearts.
Poe had, of course, a part in this tragedy of
errors and misconceptions—but, as I should
judge, an entirely honorable one. There are
three excellent ways in which a man can
get himself disliked by his fellows: he may
stand aloof from them, he may indulge
in the practice of irony, and he may be
“ever right, Menenius, ever right.” Poe was an
offender in all these respects. He never seems to
have had an intimate friend —anyone who could
do for him what Hamlet craved of Horatio with
his dying breath. Somebody said of Calhoun that
he looked like one who had lost the power of com-
municating with his fellow beings. A like spell
of isolation is upon Poe. Wanting in humor, he
sometimes tried to range his mind with others by
the use of irony : or he assumed an air which I
suppose he thought that of a man of the world,
but which is quite detestable. He wrote an essay
on Diddling as an exact science, and people
jumped to the conclusion that he was Jeremy him-
self in person. He took a grim delight in scenes
of horror, and people imagined he acted them in
life. “The Raven ” has been described as an
utterance of remorse. Remorse for what? I have
read everything that has been gathered about
Poe, and I cannot, for my life, imagine him as
anything but a stainless and chivalrous knight.
The few, trivial, and usually unsubstantiated
smutches which microscopic industry has found
on his armor would not show at all against a
panoply less pure and white.
I remember reading an anecdote of a lieutenant
in the British Navy who entertained Byron on his
ship in the Levant. Byron was proud of his sea-
manship, and the acute officer would carefully have
something disarranged in the top hamper of the
ship before the poet came on deck in the morn-
ing. When the latter did so, he would cock his eye
aloft and immediately discover and point out the
irregularity. The lieutenant would apologise, and
have it remedied. Byron liked that lieutenant,
and men in general like those who give them
something to forgive. Poe, a logic machine, was
absolutely incapable of those pleasing flaws and.-
deficiencies _ which allow other people to have
a good opinion of themselves. He always added
up true. The tradition is that he was a drunkard.
There is not evidence enough against him to hang
a dog. All the testimony actually produced—all
the witnesses who give their names and addresses,
people who lived with him and knew him best,
deny it. That he was easily affected by liquor and
sometimes overcome by it, is possible—and what
does it matter ? That there was any debauchery
is impossible. His poverty proves it—the amount
of work he did proves it; and, most of all, the
quality of what he wrote, which grew in power
and concentration to the last. There is more
plausibility in the accusation of irregularity in
money matters. In a life so harassed as Poe’s, a
few ragged debts might easily be left. But here
again there is nothing definite. Nobody has come
forward with notes of hand or evidences of defal-
cation. On the contrary, letter after letter has come
to light showing Poe’s scrupulous exactitude about
obligations. Practically, he was cheated by almost
everyone with whom he came in contact —and then
these, to shield themselves, cried after him “Stop
thief ! ” He built up two or three magazines
for others, and when, dissatisfied with the pittance
thrown him, he designed a magazine of his own,
he was laughed at and decried. Really, my own
grievance against Poe is that he was too good. He
ought k> have taken to the road and compelled a
just tribute at the point of the pistol.
Poe’s principles of criticism are true, enough
within limits, but they are far from being the
whole truth. His lack of humor, deficient know-
ledge of human nature, and insensibility to that
side of greatness which results from mere mass,
quite incapacitated him from criticising the
mightiest works of literature. But he never
attempted such criticism ; and for the work he
had to do—the appreciation of our modem English
or American masters—he was almost infallible.
And surely no writer has ever praised his
contemporaries and rivals as he did. He seems to
have written with no thought of self, and with
a humility almost pathetic. He may be said
to have discovered Hawthorne, and he crowned
him king of the short story. His article on Bryant
is still a just estimate. The innocently imitative
quality of Longfellow’s genius offended him, but
he speaks of the New England poet otherwise with
respect, and calls him the leading poet of the
day. He fairly returned Lowell’s praise. His
enthusiasm for Tennyson was excessive: it was
idolatry. He pointed out Mrs. Browning’s faults,
but wrote of her with a fervor which no one else
has imitated. His eulogy of the singularly
neglected R. H. Horne sets one in a glow. This
high and generous appreciation of the best in
contemporary literature was coupled with a de-
cided distaste for trash —and, unfortunately, his
calling as a critic compelled him to deal more with
trash than with excellence. He wrote his Dunciad,
and after his death the dunces had their revenge.
Every one of Poe’s greater poems is a distinct
and original effort. He could not repeat himself.
In the case of the majority of poets, the style is
the same throughout—or at most they have two or
three different manners. It would not be difficult,
for example, to piece together, into a seamless whole,
portions of separate poems by Wordsworth or Ten-
nyson. But each one of Poe’s is a vital entity—
born once, and not again. He is not, in poetry, one
of those constellations which spread over half the
sky, which hold their heads in the zenith while their
skirts are obscured below the horizon, —rather, he
is a small compact cluster of stars. If we could
imagine the stars of the Pleiades differently colored
—one red, one yellow, one green, and so forth,
but each one vividly aflame in its several hue—we
should get a good image of Poe’s poetry. He is
not, like Shelley, a poet of the fourth dimension,
yet neither is he distinctly sensuous, and he fur-
nishes but few copy-book maxims or proverbial
phrases. Rather in him imagery, diction, music,
merge into one effect, as fire is a compound of a
hundred different things. His thought, too, does
not obtrude itself. He has, indeed, what I might
call the sentiment of profundity rather than
special precision of thought.
Poe’s tales seem to me the third collection in
point of merit in literature—the other two being
the “Arabian Nights” and “Boccaccio.” He
has not the humor of the one nor the human
nature of the other; but he surpasses them both
in depth and imagination, - and for originality
he is unrivalled anywhere. No one else
has opened so many paths, burst into so
many new regions of romance. Indeed, as one
sees authors all over the world painfully following
in his tracks, each one exploring a single region
which Poe discovered and dismissed m a few
pages, one feels that he was the compendium of
all possible literary pioneers and explorers—a
dozen Columbuses rolled into one.
There is a small group of Poe’s tales, usually
f assed over, which is worth a moment’s mention.
t consists of “ The Power of Words,” “The Col-
loquy of Monos and Una,” “The Conversation of
Eiros and Charmion,” “Shadow, a Fable,” and
“Silence, a Parable.” They are not wanting in a
certain alloy of De Quinceyism which at times
mars Poe’s style of perfect plainness ; but they are
singularly impressive in thought. They have that
manner or sentiment of profundity which I have
spoken of, more even than his poems; and they
lead up to Poe’s final work, “ Eureka.”
“ Eureka ” has, I judge, been less read than
anything else Poe wrote. Certainly it bas
been little discussed. The average critic pro-
bably finds it difficult to place, and so lets it
alone. It is difficult to place. It is too scien-
tific for rhapsody —too plain for mysticism ;
and yet it is. hardly either science or meta-
physics. It might be tersely described as the
ideas of Spinoza in the language of Newton. Poe
as a thinker resembles those old Greek philosophers
—Pythagoras, Parmenides, or Empedocles—who
chanted in verses their luminous guesses as to the
origin and constitution of things, without troubling
themselves as to any analysis of their knowledge.
Coleridge said of Spinoza that if It rather than I
was the central faot of existence, Spinoza would be
right, It and not I was the basis of the Pre-
Socratio Greek thinkers ; and perhaps our moat
modern philosophy has the same foundation.
Schopenhauer’s substitution of Will for conscious-
ness as the final fact, and the Darwinian theory,
both tend that way. Without knowing anything
of Schopenhauer, and anterior to Darwin, Poe’s
thought also tends that way. He has noth-
ing of the mathematical pedantry of Spinoza,
and of course none of the immense scientific
detail of the evolutionists ; but I do not see
why his guess is not as good as theirs. In one
very startling idea he seems to have been antici-
pated. Deducing that the Universe is finite—
mainly because laws cannot be conceived to exist
in the unlimited—he goes on to say there may yet
exist other worlds and other universes, each in the
bosom of its own private and peculiar God. Car-
dinal Newman is authority for the statement that
Franklin used to dally with this idea in conversa-
tion. Poe, while in Philadelphia, may possibly
have heard of Franklin’s speculation. I can recall
nothing like it elsewhere.
I have not space to follow Poe into the other
spheres of his intellectual activity—into his studies
in Landscape Gardening and Household Decoration,
on Versification and the Philosophy of Composition,
and much else. Poe, in my judgment, was the great-
est intellect America has produced—assuredly the
best artist. He reminds me of a sower stalking
down a furrow and scatteringbroadcast seed which
a multitude of crows attendant upon him appro-
priate to their own use and behoof without a single
croak of thanks. In a crude new world, a spirit
was born to whom even the old world, where time
has mellowed and enriched men’s lives by layer
on layer of myth and metaphysic, drift after drift
of legend and history, decay above decay
of citadels and cities and empires—to whom
even this soil and surrounding would have
seemed harsh and strange. The crude new
world could make nothing of this spirit, except
that it was not worth while to waste good provi-
sions on such an uninvited guest, and that it was
best to huddle him into his grave with lies. But
enough ! The little that Poe got is gone. The
much that he gave remains—a glory forever.
CHARLES LEONARD MOORE, in Chicago Dial.
The New Ogilvic.
Roderic Quinn writes regarding the new edition
of Will Ogilvie’s “ Fair Girls and Gray Horses ”
Ogilvie, like Gordon and Daley, is the child of
association. He lives under alien skies, but his
mind is old-world. He is racy of our soil and
something more besides, because no poet worth a fig
is only racy of the soil. He uses Australia
as a canvas for recollections begotten before he
saw these shores, but he would have found
as good a canvas under other stars. And,
talking about stars, his poetry is as strewn
with them as Richter’s path of dream. He
has the Outer Vision in perfection, the faculty of
landscape painting and surface description. But
more than with these poetry concerns itself with
Inner Vision, sounds that appeal to the Listening
Ear a,nd sights that are seen by the Seeing Eye.
In this, too, Ogilvie does not lack.
One day on the Barrier, when the glass had
climbed above the century and the country through
which I travelled began to glitter like broken
glass, I came on a garden green with English
grass. The mulga ridges round about were
crowned with brown, and a bastard mallee in the
near distance drooped sick leaves earthward. A
sense that for countless generations had rested
and refreshed itself on emerald hill - sides
leapt to the spot of old-world green and for the
moment my eyes were glad as a tired fellow who
quits the dusty road to lie awhile in a meadow of
rich clover. Now, the mulga is green after a
certain fashion, and the mailee greener, but green-
est of all the quandong, when it is in season and
the fruit hang among its leaves like many rubies.
But these trees are green with a different green to
those of the old world, and perhaps I am wrong,
but I do not think they affect us quite as happily.
Thus, when an artist or a poet tells me he is going
to England, I do not believe that it is altogether
fame or coin that is calling him. The thought is
sometimes with me that ancient conditions are
sununoning him to their embrace, and that, per-
haps, he desires to see an English lane in June.
When our fathers came here their minds were
hung with pictures of lassies, maids and colleens,
some with a sprig of heather in their hair, some
with a rose there, and the rest with Irish sham-
rocks : not an emotion but suggested something
sweet and green and scented, or something sour
and grey and ugly ; every passion in an appropriate
setting. The pictures passed with them (alas, that
mental possessions are not heritable, like landed
ones !) and we, under new conditions, are some-
times hard put to it to fitly stage the ancient
drama.
Ogilvie knows what old-world green is, and he
knows the Australian green-of-grey, but he is at
best when dealing with themes tinted by the
former. “ The Bush, My Lover,” is a fascinating
poem, but is it quite as true, as convincing, as the
villanelle a half-dozen poems further on :
Last night in Memory’s boughs aswing
When none but I had power to hear,
A wee brown mavis tried to sing.
But ah ! the wild notes would not ring
As once they rang, so loud and clear 1
Last night in Memory 's boughs aswing.
I saw the rowan-clusters cling,
And far away and yet so near
A wee brown mavis tried to sing.
The wee brown mavis and the rowan clusters,
these are only names to us who have not been out
of Australia. In writing this villanelle, one might
have imagined Memory’s boughs, but which of us
born far from where he builds His nest would have
conceived the wee brown mavis clinging there with
tense, chill claws ? Some of us might have heard
or read of the association of bird and bush, but in
that the idea was gained from mouth of man or
book of man would we be poetically honest in
using it ? And if we do not use the mavis, what
bird is left for us to use ? A score of birds occur
to one—birds which we know and are beginning
to love, but none of them will cling so fitly as the
wee brown mavis. I would like very much to
have a mavis and a rowan bush in my garden. I
think, nay I am almost sure, that I would give a
gum-tree and a parrot for them.
Ogilvie is sentiment and recollection. He sings
from the heart, gladdening us like clear water and
fresh air. He is never gloomy. Sunlight and
starlight forever enrich his singing and charm his
sighs. Though like Gordon in his Arabian love of
the horse, he never attempts that ecstasy of the
damned soul which at times lifts Gordon so
sublimely.
Out of the new poems in the new Book of Ogil-
vie, and in the “Fair Girls’” section, read me
“Gold Tresses ” and say how sweet it is. Then for
color and sparkle, followed fast by sadness, take
“ Perhaps To-night.” Of the new “Gray Horses ”
“The Silent Squadron” impresses me most. It
is a. picture of dead men who ride with a vaoant
saddle in their midst—
They keep my place
In their ghostly ranks; and I catch my breath 1
Yet hand to rein
There are better men
Riding to-night with the Steeds of Death.
It is in “Other Verses,” however, that the second
edition lords it over the first. It is in other
verses, also, that Ogilvie is always at his best.
Remember “Rainbows and Witches,” “To a
Bunch of Heather,” and “Bowmont Water.”
Amongst the new pieces are the Villanelle quoted
from, “ The Bush, My Lover,” and “ The City of
Gray Griefs” all of them beloved. “Fairy
Tales ” deserves a sentence to itself.
And now, having read Ogilvie once, you must
read him twice, but when you have read him
twice you will not need reminding to read him
again, but you will be so altogether charmed with
him that his book will be very constantly at your
elbow, like a good friend who tells you pleasant
news.
Lee’s Shakespeare.
Arthur H. Adams writes some stray im-
pressions ot Shakespeare the man, suggested
by Sidney Lee’s new “Life ”
How many people know that Will had three
brothers and a sister ? One is curious about the
obscure lives of these members of his family: what
were they doing while elder brother Bill was coin-
ing money out of a new play called Hamlet? Gil-
bert Shakespeare seems to have done nothing but
live to a patriarchal age, while Richard and Ed-
mond, the latter having followed “the profession,”
each died before reaching 30 years. It is hard to
imagine that anybody could be a brother of
William and not show signs of extraordinary
talent; but probably the Shakespeare stock could
support only its one splendid blossom. Genius
flowers only once, and then the plant is deli-
berately rooted out and thrown on the dust-heap.
The poet’s only son, Hammet, died young, but of
his two daughters, Judith lived to the age of 77,
and—note the sterility of the exhausted stock-
survived all her family; while Susannah, who was
reported to be “witty above her sex,” married
twice, but died without issue. The dream-
children which Shakespeare created had drained
the vitality from those mortal children that were
also his.
Very curious must the poet’s home-life have
been. Forced into a marriage with Anne Hathaway
at the age of 18&, it was only by long absences in
London that Will was able to get along with a
wife ten years older than himself. Two Shottery
husbandmen considerately secured a deed—a kind
of legal Elizabethan “ Why don’t you marry the
girl V’ —to compel the adventurous butchers ap-
prentice to save the reputation of the mature
Anne ; and six months after the marriage Susannah
Shakespeare was born. Will seems to have made
the best of a bad job—the probabilities point to
Will being the pigeon who was plucked by an
Anne old enough to know better—and he left his
wife much alone till middle-age suggested the com-
fort to be found on a quiet hearth-stone. Then, a
rich man, he returned to his native village. But
again one wants to know whether Anne was
ever dimly conscious of the fact that she had
fot for a husband the greatest poet in the world?
'robably not—witness the poet’s best bedstead.
And the mother ? Did she guess her wild son’s
inherent greatness, or did she rather reprove his
adventurous spirit, and regret that her Will had
not settled down quietly to the butchering busi-
ness, where he could have done a solid cash trade
behind the block ? I fancy that during the family’s
troublous times of debt and disaster, Mistress
Shakespeare, senior, must have often deplored to
her next-door neighbor the promptings which had
led her eldest son to go to London town and be-
come a pestiferous player. I am sure that she
never could be persuaded to visit a theatre even to
see her son in Ins most successful pieces.
In one way Will’s greatness seems to have been
thrust upon him—by a sudden departure from
his native village consequent on a little poaching
affair on the preserves of Sir Thos. Lucy. What
a pity that they did not transport for poaching in
those days; for undiscovered Australia might
have seen the gentle Will editor of the First Fleet
Herald, or have had the pleasure of watching some
Wilson Barrett of thelGth century acting “Ham-
let ” for the firs.t time on any stage —one half
Wilson and the other half Barrett.
The return of the gentle Will to his native town
must have astonished the Stratford-on-Avonians.
After an absence of 11 years, he suddenly dawned
on the villagers as the generous reliever of his
father’s pecuniary difficulties, and the purchaser
of the largest house in the town—and, in brief,
Will Shakespeare of Stratford-on-Avon, gentle-
man I Then he applied for a coat-of-arms, and,
after a long struggle and a series of large ■ heraldic
lies, he got it. The “ country-gentleman ” Tenny-
son fades besides the aristocratic leanings of the
country’s greatest poet. Will knew what he was
about, and his creditors knew that if they owed
him money the gentle Will would extract his
pound of flesh to the last ounce in the village law-
courts.
Another hitherto unemphasised fact in Shake-
speare’s life is his enormous riches. His income
during the latter part of his life was £6OO a year,
which, according to the purchasing power of money
in those days, was equivalent to an income of
£4BOO at the present time. Will’s income was
chiefly due to his position in his profession, and to
the fact that he held some shares in the Globe
Theatre. It is grievous to relate that for his
actual literary work he got only a moderate re-
venue. He “pursued literature ” from the secure
vantage of a large professional income. Yet his
plays were immensely popular at the outset; and
the applause of their first nights must have been
something to remember. Hamlet, especially,
was a huge success.


SPEVIf
A pleasantly perfumed preparation which
absolutely prevents the bites of Mosquitos,
Ticks and other venomous pests.
It also cures prickly heat.
In 1J oz. bottles suitable for pocket, at
1/- and in 3 oz. stoppered bottles at 2/•
and 6 oz. 4/-.
Manufactured by
H. C. Stephens,
Aldersgate St., London.
Sold by Chemists & Stores & of
John Sands, Printer and Stationer, 374 George-st.
W. E. Smith
Turner & Henderson
W. C. Penfold <fc Co.
M'Carron, Stewart & Co.
W. Brooks & Co.
Newman & Snelson, Chemists,
26 Bridge-st
18 Hunter-st
183 Pitt-st
44 and 86 Pitt-st
17 Castlereagh-st.
78 King-st
USE
Spooper
ROmNAVYDBESSiKG
' •=£ FOR
if GROWN LEATHER
: ; § BOOTS & SHOES
;; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
jpUBECJIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning-and Polishing- Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
Tne Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
HOW to PRESERVE the EYESIGHT.
We send this little book on application.
It tells of a remedy with 300 YEARS
REPUTATION,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
cures all eye disorders, and nothing better
can be applied. Get a Genuine Pot from any
Chemist, or wholesale of SAYERS,
ALLPORT & POTTER, Sydney.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it. Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address—
R. CORNWALL, Manager Haling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
What is Health?
Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. L.
LA UK Kit, ]45 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
•these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdrae-
Lenormand's ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 35.--
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
is.
(Continental Supply Agency,
r Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4 6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 6 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKEH, 080 Sydney. 1, Sr '*
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
)
buy from us and
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved iu equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO- C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE! of all Mining- Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
BRUSH’S
Mto-ausTßStifln gehts shodi.es
Baustt
HaW
Natural Saffron
AND
Dark Brown.
SAY WHICH
YOU PREFER.
&
7
\ ■'“ i * •'i
'v
v-* +'*'
No. 19. No. 21.
These SADDLES are made with Fine Pigskin Seat, Pigskin-covered Knee and Thigh Pads, with
Fittings in keeping with quality. Each Saddle is stamped —
“Brush, Mahier, Sydney, Registered.”
They are elegant in style, well finished, thoroughly reliable, good for a horse’s back, and fit for
any gentleman to ride on. They are made in nine qualities—AX, £3 5s :A, £3 15s; B, £4:
C, £4 10s; D, £5 ; E, £5 10s, and up.
QUALITY AX, at £3 ss.
Is a MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS, as also is our Anglo-Australian SNAFFLE BRIDLE at 10s to
match Saddle. Our 65s SADDLE is fitted with Plated 3-barred Stirrups, English Stirrup Leathers,
and Web or Leather Girths, as may be desired.
BRUSH’S No. 1 STOCK SADDLE, Hogskin Seat, Plated Bar Trees, 60s, same patterns as
Nos. 19 or 21; BRIDLE, 7s 6d.
If payment is sent with order, we deliver free of carriage to any port or railway station in N.S.W.
When ordering, please state about height and weight of rider, so that a suitable size may be sent, and
say which style of Knee-pad is desired—No. 19 or 21. We shall be pleased to send Illustrations of
Saddles and Harness on application.
John Brush, Son, and Company,
MANUFACTURERS, 403 & 405 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
-4.
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
♦
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest Cat Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s 6d
„ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International) 16s 6d
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s 6d
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)' 14s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s, 7s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod ... 9s 6d, 12s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod " 12s 6d
„ Full Size 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ss, 6s 6d
» Men’s 6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s 6d
BALLS. —Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 5s Od
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best 6s 9d
~ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
„ With pegs, runners, &c., &0., ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS. —Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle 16s 6d
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 16s 6d
~ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto .. . 6/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) 16s 6d
„ Dark and Sons' Patent Corl^-eased^Handle... 15s Od
~ Dark and Sons’ All-oane Handle * ... ' ~ 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
„ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
„ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS ... ... 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS.—Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
„ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ ~ Match, 5J40z., Is; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s 0d
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
4
12-
TiOOK OF NATURE
”* * A XTT\
COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
A complete exposition of the Science of Life. It contains in-
formation of the greatest importance to those contemplatinsr marriage
as well as to those newly married. It contains everything worth
knowing printed in other books," and an immense collection of facts
made known by recent investigations and discoveries. If yon intend
to marry read this book. It will instruct you in all you ought to
know. Study this work and have it from Aristotle to the present day.
There are a great number of wonderful and extraordinary revelations
made in this book that only those seriously intending marriage
should be made acquainted with. Illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s. Write for a full description ; sent
post free to any address.
k.OOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS.
DATE BOOK LISTS POST
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book iur > dung Men,, by ut. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free. Is 2d.
Tub Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each
Plain' Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6<L
Tiie Woman of Fire, posi, 2s. Wedded, Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries of Coubt of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s (id. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s Od. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Madam Bovary, or Loved to the Last, post 2s.
A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty's Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. Tiie
Ar-t of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French, 422 pages. Full-page illustrations by
Gustave DorA 3s. The Vampire, Is. 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
Tiie Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Gay Clorinde, Is 6d.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
Comic Reciter, Is 6d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Bools Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of tile WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3/-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 / -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32/6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15/9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 3, 3. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
m GRAPHOPHONE.
UP
A
USE
oti
PHONOGRAPHS,
RECORDS and
SUPPLIES, from
50s. up.
THE “ ALBERT
GRAPHOPHONE”
Sings, Laughs, Amuses, and
Entertains, being the best
Talking Machine in the
world, complete with nickel
horn, portable cover, 8
selected musical records,
&c., £6 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Representatives for Australia. Agents wanted where
we are not already represented. Send for Catalogues
of Graphophones, Records, Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Musical Instruments and Music. The best Mouth Organ in
the world —“ The BOOMERANG,” 2s. 6d. Trade sup-
plied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
D.S.MAI R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2 6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
foP the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydhey.
FREIHJHS’
The Reform Price
J e wellers-%.
Watches Cleaned and Regulated, 2/0
Best English Mainspring - - - 2/6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jewellery Repairs Equally Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever.
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
FRENCH’S, 632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
Cramps}
Colic,
\ Colds,
Croup,
Coughs,
Tooth-
ache,
Cuts,
Burns,
Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles Is
'Pain-Killer
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. 8. WALES, SYDNEY.
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR! 150 0
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OP
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at t 2 10a.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE: — - Z
T* M * F* R E*E*Y*o*Y
The drily condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, >*tlMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
QUIHELL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health-, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolutionKjf the Baldhead, and is
superior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.


TATTERS ALL’S
.. • Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
In consequence of past complaints, and in order to protect
the interests of Clients, “Tattersall ” will not in future
Voluntarily send Wires to Drawers of Likely Starters.
Tattersall also declines to communicate to Owners of
Horses on behalf of Drawers more than One-Fifth (1 -sth) of
Prize in any Sweep. When, however, any such communication
is requested, it will be sent where practicable to the Secretary of
the Racing Club; but “ Tattersall ” does not take any responsi-
bility on behalf of Clients in such matters.
“ TATTERSALL.”
Specials on Sydney C. & Canterbury Park C
Each 25,000 Subscribers at 5.
Drawn on Morning of the Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Cup.
Name
.shares in the
£
t
Address
BALLARAT C.
March 24.
60,000 Subsoribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address.
s
DONCASTER H. April 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name..
Address^
SYDNEY C
April 3.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in the above.
Name_
A cl dress.
CANTERBURY PARK C. April 22.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
JS
Address
3
TATTERSALLS HAVE NOW OPENED THEIR
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
CAULFIELD C. Ordinary ... 100,000 at 5
» Special ... 100,000 at 5
MELBOURNE C 100,000 at 20
~ Ordinary ... 100,000 at 5
~ Special ... 100,000 at 5
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Tbe
of FaSbioo
ftmiONY • HORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . ■
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY —'
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists —
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden Implements, &o
Fancy and Ceneral Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
it r
m
\
x
\ \
Modern Sawmill Machinery
For Cutting Hardwood, Logs.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Portable and Stationary
. . . Engines and Boilers.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
ARTESIAN DRILLING PLANTS.
Imperial Lubricating Oils.
HIGH-CLASS VEHICLES ALWAYS KEPT
IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
David graham m Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
"THE
lEAF
fIEAE
“Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
,Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
[comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
Igerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
O-CST TO HELL-
IGOLAN!) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real tfood stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st„ Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Australia!) p rrtl/i T“T c ■ f
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ■ ■©V I Cl MJ L O I€ly ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; TIIOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income .. .. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head. Office : 07 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, .Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HIIiLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
rrARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
V AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ why and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
> THE MOST OKUCIOI S SAUCE IN THE WORED.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., iand */- eacli.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New Sowtli Wales:
TII,I,OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
Plum
THB
‘ Plum*
ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor ft
r trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morooco leather ease, 2U,
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful ease, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the loorld.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
IST.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery ]VEanf. Company.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£2O. Buckboard Buggies frcm £9los. Ladies’ Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and SADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Stud us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 15 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£Q 18. 6.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In truth it may be said,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ that the
latest addition to the House of Lords, in the per-
son of Earl Poulett (pronounced Pawlet), has been
dragged out of the gutter. It was in the clammy
murkiness of Islington, but a few yards from the
‘Angel’—that world-famous ‘pub.’ that the
reporter found the organ-grinder peer, and broke
the news to him of his father’s death. For years
Viscount Hinton has ground his barrel-organ all
over London, and been really dependent on the
coppers of the crowd. A card proclaimed his
name and the reigning earl’s unfatherly neglect of
him. The new' ‘ herl ’ looks like a ‘ gone-to-the-
deuoity ’ masher, speaks Cockney thick, chews
cigarettes continually, and has a frail, effeminate
appearance—his most aristocratic point. His
father married his mother because lie had bet
,£5OO he would wed the first woman he met on his
return to England from a trip. The son arrived
six months after the ceremony, and the fight now
will be as to whether the earl or an outsider
‘anticipated the starter.’ The ‘estate’ is worth
many thousands a year, and has the patronage of
three clerical ‘livings ’; the title is two centuries
old. Earl Poulett, when clown at the ‘Surrey,’
married the columbine who now becomes the
countess. So many peers have gone into the gut-
ter that it’s only fair one should come from there
occasionally.”
The Eastern Queen.
There dwells a lady in a land of beauty,
Green are her sandals and a-glance with flowers ;
Her fair face shames the countenance of Duty,
Oft winning men to lazy love for hours.
Sometime in purple vesture doth she dally
To watch her great gold suitor disappear,
And sometimes flocks of white sky-sheep doth
rally,—
Her shepherd winds low-laughing in the rear.
Twain wooers hath she —one a royal rover,
With lovely largesse of down-falling gold ;
And one a dark, shy, silent, silky lover,
Who wraps him round in sable velvet fold.
Day after day with various, violet garland,
And wreathed roses hearted like Red Mars,
The first one robes her, and from stilly starland
The second brings a coronal of stars.
Her minion train, alert to bring her pleasure,
Heaps high her green lap with a laughing host,
While all day long, in deep, delicious measure,
The minstrel sea harps to a golden coast.
Alas ! all things fade fast with our forgetting,
And now that green queen-face seems pale and
dim ;
For, 10, it chanced one day in crimson setting
The red sun summoned and I followed him.
Poolamacca, N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
In the Pace of the Dead.
“ Not the least of Life’s ironies is that there is no
earthly rapture comparable to the joy in the face of the
dead.”
The artist wins plaudits by showing
The loveliest prize of Earth’s race ;
His Helen with young life is glowing,
All human hopes summed in her face.
His name would be borne o’er the oceans,
His fame to the poles would be spread,
Could he add to her play of emotions
The joy in the face of the dead!
Enthroned by the love of a nation
The actor rings clear in his part,
The gamut from grief to elation,
His face is transformed by his art.
What lacks in his strong histrionic
Appeals to the heart and the head ?
Whispers Death, with hoarse accent sardonic,
“ The joy in the face of the dead ! ”
The jockey is thrilled by the thunder,
Sweet as peace after fever and fret,
That hails his great win as a wonder ;
His price above rubies is set.
His face blazons forth his glad story
Whence triumph exultant is shed,
Yet its brightness is dulled by the glory
Of the joy in the face of the dead.
Enthralled by white arms, clinging kisses,
The lover quaffs passion’s strong wine,
Yet, sweet as the draught is, he misses
A joy he can never define.
The rose out of Eden, the fairest,
Would come, with Love’s secret flushed red,
Could he find in the eyes of his dearest
The joy in the face of the dead !
Vic.
ETHEL CASTILLA.
A Dirge.
Come not with sundered flowers to strew her
grave,
Nor be there any curtain but the grass,
Dewed by the night, and by the winds that pass,
Tranced with the slumber of the level wave ;
Or if one cloud of the empyrean nave
Shall float a shadow on her shrouded face,
Be it the shrine of this mysterious place,
Bestowing shelter she for ever gave ;
And if the anthem of this holy rood
Fall from the throat of some forgotten bird,
Faint with the press of heaven upon his wings,
Be it the bruised fragrance that is stirred
In the sad heart, remembering happier things,
That are the angels of this solitude.
HUBERT CHURCH.


WASHINCTON H SOUL & C? *
160 & 26 8
c. WITH EVERY NOVELTY
Br’Us'hes
IliitßS BAKING
-iSiurv
PERFUMERY
CARLTON ALE.
Paixxleaa Dentistry.
THE .. ..
[ondon Qental
Institute.
I)l{. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mh. S. I). ASH Hit, Dentists.
j'W" Modern■ Dentistry in all its .Branches
legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS,- CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., .should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
m
Trade
Mark
C*L
;yi rßopnißTouc r
Company
EDINBURGH.
*» mu,a
- A. , ~ _ ",
ivh, J'fati J.* \nn -/»' n ri '
~r 'P“" ,1 H‘u...../1../ -,/>,„I
UMU All At, iID/<6al
a
fit'fti !iu£ f/tj Prttoi/*‘*y" nJ
I
Brink
IQoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“forthestomach’ssake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.’
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7los ;
or with 11 Records and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ Talking MacbiO* Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
STI6K T©
e?\ME©
eiGSRETTES
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
SOCIETY, in addition to transacting: all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Hon. Sir ARTHUR^ENWIOK^JLD^M.L.O., Chairman ;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
CLUTCH HATCHING.
P«B
RUBEROID.
To Messrs. RICH & 00.
“ Wonbark,” Miranda,
via Sutherland, May 31, 1898.
Dear Sirs,—l wish to draw your attention to the fact that Ruberoid makes a perfect
house for rearing incubator chicks. We have already hatched three clutches by the in-
cubator this last two,months (April and May), and intend hatching all through the coldest
months. The Ruberoid house will greatly help us to successfully do so, being free from
draught, and warm in winter and cool in summer.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) FLORENCE LODWIDGE.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Limited, Agents, Eliza-
beth-st., Melbourne, Victoria.
A. VV. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Boss & Jack, Agents, Hunter-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Burns & Twigo, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & ATPherson, Limited, Townsville, North Queens-
land.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
and Brisbane, Queensland.
HELIDOA SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
THE MARBLE BAR
PITT STREET, SYDNEY 9^9
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading Theatres and G.P.O.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Every Visitor says : “Do not miss The Marble Bar.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.]
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO IDEI'Y COMPBTITIOU.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
yankee Doodle
IN AMERICA.
The Legend.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
general, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Payette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused
them. Marching with drum and fife
was an old man, Jeremiah Wynton, and
his son, and grandson. The old father,
with silvery flowing locks, sturdily strode
through the field. The son with ban-
daged head fifing lustily, the youth,
catching the spirit of his grandsire, rolled
out with him the soul-inspiring rattle of
the drum. Father, son, and grandson
had accompanied the troops as volunteers,
and were ever in the forefront of the
fight. The fierce light of battle was in
their eyes, they knew no fear, and many
a wild cheer arose, as on that fateful
day Yankee Hoodie was heard as never
was heard before or since.
Tobacco Manufacture
in
New South Wales.
Statistics:
TjIXCISE RETURNS show
that during 1898, over
60 Tons more of DIXSON’S
Tobacco were sold than that of
any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf.
DIXSON’S used in manufac-
ture over 149 Tons more than
all the other Tobacco factories.
DIXSON’S Brands are—
Yankee Doodle (Dark and
Bright Aromatic).
Champion (Bright).
Conqueror (Dark).
BONANZA CIGARS.
Machine-made; contain the
choicest Tobacco, and are
placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 20. —No. 996.
SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1899.
Price 6d.
FRANKENSTEIN UP TO DATE.
"I had Worked for years, for the sole purpose of infuring li e into an inanimate bod....... I had it wih an ardor that far exceeded moderation ; but now...the
beauty of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust Jilted my heart."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01* 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
uieelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To AmateurB in Blacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.: Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutler-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Rout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prep>aid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The" Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1899.
The Unification Ghost.
A few years ago, when long Dibbs was at
the head of affairs in New South Wales and
Butcher Patterson was making an incredible
mess of things Victorian, the former submit-
ted to the latter his famous scheme for the
unification of the two provinces. It fell flat
for the sufficient reason that Butcher Pat-
terson wasn't capable of recognising a good
thing when he saw it. A brighter man in
Patterson’s position would have snatched at
the idea with both hands and as many feet as
he had, and driven the long, stumbling
Dibbs into at least an effort to carry it out.
He would not only have snatched at the idea,
but he would have spent his days and nights
on Dibbs’s doorstep, and followed him to the
hotel where he had his ginger-beer, and
called to him through the window while he
was in bed, in order to make sure that he
didn’t forget about it. These remarks are
made because there are only two methods
of Australian union—Federation and unifica-
tion ; and the unquiet bones of the latter
idea are again stirring a little. The lengthy
ex-Republican is digging them up once more,
and presentingtheir bleached fragments to the
public ; and, while opposing all idea of
Federation, the little Dibbs clan and the anti-
Federationists of the N.S.W. Council assert
that theiryearning for unification is something
awful. Also, they begin to beseech the Corn-
stalk people to reject Federation in order
tha,t it may get the greater blessing of unifi-
cation later on. The Bulletin believes
cordially in unification if it could be ob-
tained, but it believes in Federation because
it doesn’t see the slightest hope of getting
the other thing. And its private conviction
is that the Dibbs clan believes in neither of
them, and that it only urges the people to
reject Federation now for the sake of unifi-
cation later on, because it knows that it can’t
possibly get unification later on. Also that
the said crowd, if it saw unification really
coming, would do anything short of murder
to prevent it. In other words, it asks the
country to drop the bone for the sake of the
shadow, because it knows perfectly well that
the shadow isn’t there.
* » * *
If Brown Patterson had managed to
seize and fix his fleeting Dibbs a few years
ago, and the proposed union had come off,
the situation would have been something as
follows : Both Victoria and New South
Wales would have vanished off the map, and
there would have arisen in their stead one
province called something or other—the
name doesn’t matter. There would have
been one Governor, one Ministry, one Par-
liament, one capital, railway system, debt,
deficiency, tariff, and one borrow. There
would have been no border, and the Murray
would have flowed through one province in-
stead of between two. There would no
longer have been any differential railway
rates. Melbourne, instead of being the big
city of a province of 80,000 square miles,
would become the biggest city of a joint
province of 400,000 square miles. Sydney,
instead of being the biggest city of
a great province, would be the second city
of a province not very much greater.
Sydney and Melbourne would have com-
peted on absolutely even terms for the
trade of the country lying between them, for
the railway rates and all other circumstances
would be even, and, in the main, the nearest
city would get the business every time. And
then, so far as Sydney was concerned, the
real excitement would begin.
* • * *
The half-way town between the two big
cities is Junee, in New South Wales. South
of that, when differential rates and borders
and border tariffs and separate railway
managements were abolished, all the
trade would naturally gravitate Mel-
bournewards. So would a very large part
of the western trade. Instead of there
being a large province with its centre
in Sydney and a very small one with
its centre in Melbourne, there would be one
huge province, about half of which would
regard Melbourne as its natural centre.
Also Melbourne, instead of Sydney, Would
be the city which a good half of the popula-
tion would regard as its commercial head-
quarters. Instead of a political boundary on
the Murray, there would be a kind of unde-
fined commercial boundary at Junee, on one
side of which all business would tend south,
while on the other side it would tend north.
South of Junee all new railways would point
Melbourne wards, for a fairly commanding
vote in the joint Parliament would belong to
that part of the population whose com-
mercial interests lay by the Yarra, and it
would object to paying extra charges to go
a longer way round to Sydney when it could
take a shorter road to Melbourne. And if
the joint province divided again any time in
the future the new border would never be at
the Murray as the old one was. The people
of the whole State would have a voice in the
matter, and they would fix the frontier
according to their convenience. It might,
in the event of a unification and a second
separation, be on the Murrumbidgee, but
that would be all that New South Wales
could hope for.
* * * *
This is how things would be if New
South Wales and Victoria were unified. If
all Australia was similarly treated, then not
only would Melbourne become the trading
and social centre of all the country as far as
the Murrumbidgee and even beyond it, but
Adelaide would silently annex a vast slab of
western, and Brisbane a considerable piece
of northern, N.S.W. There would be no
violent upheaval or disruption in the pro-
cess. But in the absence of borders and
border tariffs and differential railway rates
and separate railway managements, trade
would drift to the nearest city, and the
people whose trade went there would natur-
ally come to regard that nearest city as their
capital in a social sense, and to forget the
one which used to be their headquarters in the
separation days. All this would be good for
the south and west and north. It would
give these districts a shorter road to the sea ;
it would put them close to cities that are now
inastate of artificial remoteness, and, by bring-
ing them closer to greatcentres, itwould make
places rich that are now poor, and bring
population where there is now only ’possum
and native bear. But, while it would be
good for the country, it would probably be
not at all good for Sydney. Under Federa-
tion the people of the Riverina can’t join
Victoria, however much they might want to
do so. The possible 150,000 who might de-
sire to separate would be voted down by the
1,200,000 other Cornstalks who would refuse,
like Pharaoh, to let them go. The 1,100,000
inhabitants of Victoria who would like to
shift their border north to the Murrumbidgee
wouldn’t count; they would have no voice
in the matter. But if there was unification,
and years afterwards a new separation move-
ment arose, these latter would count. On
the present figures probably 1,250,000
voters from the Northern Riverina to the
ocean would vote for casting in their lot with
Melbourne, and their decision would fix the
new boundary 100 miles north of where it is
now. And, even if the unification proved
permanent and there never was a new Sepa-
ration movement, Sydney would never again
be the commercial centre of so large a terri-
tory as at present. Geography is against it,
and fno argument will turn 386 miles into
293.
• * ♦ m
Therefore, when a little clan of the bit-
terest Provincialists and counter-jumpers in
New South Wales—men to whom Sydney
and its trading interests are the beginning
and middle and end of the universe—profess
to advocate unification as against Federation,
this paper, for one, doesn’t believe them.
And when they suggest that the present
chance of Federation should be sacrificed in
the hope of getting unification later on, they
are painfully suggestive of the confidence
gentleman at the public-house corner—the
man with the rich uncle, just dead, in Fiji.
Probably, after all, Butcher Patterson
wasn’t such a fool as he looked when he let
Dibbs’s invitation to unify pass practically
unnoticed. It is 1000 to 1 that Dibbs never
really meant it, after all. If he is anything
like the sort of Dibbs whose long figure
wanders around to-day, he certainly didn’t.
The Crown Defender.
The legal expenses of Burgess’ defence, at Toowoomba
(Q.), were paid by a struggling selector near that place.
To the average individual such a statement as the
above conveys no meaning in particular, yet
beneath the surface it concentrates and sum-
marises.a whole volume of injustice and cruelty,
and a bitter curse on the judicial system of Aus-
tralia. The men who have been wrongfully con-
victed and imprisoned in Australia number many.
Those who have incurred tremendous expense in
addition to great mental anxiety in clearing them-
selves of unfounded accusations may be numbered
by hundreds. And those still more unfortunate
wretches who, having no means, were incapable
of incurring expense, and so have taken what
chances they might get and battled through—
successfully or otherwise—as best they could, are
more numerous and more to be pitied still, It
is not only a want of common justice but
a hideous want of common-sense on the
part of the community that permits this
system to continue. Any man is liable to find
himself any day an object of suspicion with re-
spect to some crime or alleged crime. Scores of
cases have occurred in recent years where men
have been charged with crimes which not only did
they not commit, but which Were never committed
by anybody, and, if they succeed in proving their
innocence, a Weary and ironical community merely
remarks over its beer that they were lucky, tb get
off. It does not seem to have occurred to the
community aforesaid that it alone is directly re-
sponsible for these outrages upon some of its indi-
vidual members. For it is just as much the duty
of a people, through its Government, to provide
the money and legal machinery for the defence of
accused persons as it is to provide means for their
prosecution and punishment. The history of this
as well as of every other nation shows it to have
been exceptionally alert to find means for the pro-
secution of the accused, but the proper defence of
the said accused is nobody’s business. It is one of
those ideas for which the country “is not yet
ripe. ”
* * * *
If a murder is committed ; or if a giddy damsel
in short skirts tearfully makes complaint of some
bold, bad man ; or if a paunchy citizen, proceeding
homewards with somewhat uneven gait of an
evening, worries the weary policeman, resting his
generous feet on the suburban pavement, with a
dream of violent robbery; the law skirmishes
round impetuously until it arrests somebody.
Often it arrests the handiest available man who
seems to be nobody in particular, or to have no
friends. Then the whole police and detective
force is available to make the man fit the crime,
and should that consummation seem at all likely,
sundry law clerks and a Crown Solicitor arid a
Crown Prosecutor are also available to further
work up and prepare the case for a Judge
and jury. Meanwhile, the accused is care-
fully shut up. If he has no money he can’t
hire a solicitor to defend him, or to hunt up evi-
dence in his favor. He can’t get out to hunt it up
himself. He isn’t allowed to see newspapers, so
that he doesn’t know what evidence he has to con-
fute ; a little of it certainly becomes known to
him when the police are procuring his committal,
but only a little. Therefore he doesn’t know what
witnesses he should call to demonstrate his inno-
cence. If he is a penniless man, and no strug-
gling selector puts up the money to hire the
necessary lawyer, he has no one whom he can
send to interview these witnesses and collect
their evidence—except, perhaps, his enemies, the
police, and their interest lies rather in getting his
witnesses out of the way. For if the prisoner does
demonstrate his innocence, then the police are
thereby found guilty of being a set of incapables,
who have arrested the wrong man and let the
right man have abundant time to get away. Until
close up to the time of his trial, in fact, the penni-
less prisoner has no semblance of a defence, and
then he often has only a semblance. A per-
functory and poorly-paid (if paid at all) lawyer
is provided at the last moment only in
case of murder, be it noted; in other cases
prisoner has to go undefended. The perfunctory
lawyer has no time or money to scour the country
looking up possible witnesses and working up the
details of his case, nor has he any police or detec-
tive force to do it for him. As often as not he
merely cross-examines the witnesses for the prose-
cution, and says that the prisoner has an alibi, and
there the perfunctory business ends.
* » * •
What the great perfunctory community seems
utterly unable to realise is that it wants for
its own protection a Crown Defence Department
as elaborate as the Department of the Crown
Prosecutor, supplied with money, legal talent,
a detective force of its own to hunt up evi-
dence for the defence, and all the other
accessories of the business. In this matter the
public can’t trust the police, for the public’s
interests and those of the police are not identical.
When a sensational crime has been committed the
interests of the force lie in getting a conviction
against somebody. The average bobby, being
human, would rather convict the right man than
the wrong one. Still, if he is too stupid to find
the right man, he has to find somebody, if he can ;
his reputation, his prospects of promotion, of
kudos, of increased salary, are all at stake. If he
fail very often he may even lose his miserable
billet as an ordinary constable ; and, so far as the
interests of the police (as apart from its con-
science) are concerned, it answers quite as well to
get the wrong man and persuade the public that
he is the right one, as to get the actual criminal.
But the public interest lies in quite a different
direction. If there is a homicidal maniac
about, the public wants the right maniac
caught and caged, so that it won’t have
its skull staved in as it goes home at night.
The policeman may get as much promotion
for capturing some harmless nomad and convincing
a jury that he is the real homicide, but that doesn’t
make the public’s skull any safer. It would be
better for the public that twenty policemen were
“fired ” for incapacity, providing the twenty-first
caught the real criminal, than that the first bobby
was promoted for hanging the wrong suspect, and
the real danger was left at large. But it would
not be better for the twenty policemen.
• * * *
And similarly when the short-skirted damsel of
romance tells her hysterical tale of assault, the
detective’s most obvious interest lies in coiivictin?
somebody of the alleged assault. The public’s
doesn t at least not always. If the story is true,
the male public wants to find the real assaulter if
it takes ten years to do it, for the safety of ’its
female belongings. If it isn’t true, it wants the
short-skirted romancer put away in a safe place
lest she brings a similar charge some day against
Itself. In short, what best pays the police is to
get somebody convicted—the wrong man if the
right one can’t be found. And the only thing that
pays the public is to convict the right man, or else
get the detectives who can’t find the right man
fired out for incompetence.
* * * •
Every time the police get a conviction against
the wrong person they let the right person escape.
If there was a real crime they let a real criminal
escape ; if there was no real crime they let a false
accuser escape. In either case the escapee is a
public danger. And for that reason the public
wants a State Defence Department to be a check
on the police, and to do its best to present the case
for the accused, and to prevent the police getting
convictions against the innocent and thereby
securing the escape of the guilty. In this nutter
Burgess is a case in point. For a little while,
when only the police case was known, it looked
more than even betting that Burgess would be
hanged. If there had been no struggling selector
to do what a State Defence Department should
have done, and provide him with legal aid and some-
one to look up witnesses for him, it is quite possible
he would have been hanged—whereas now it is
nearly certain that he is innocent. It would have
been to the profit of the police to convict and hang
Burgess in any case ; whether he was innocent Or
guilty, they would thereby gain the credit <qf
solving a great mystery, and save themselves much
further labor, and escape the further gibes bf the
press and the public. It was rtot tp the profit Of
the community to hang Burgess if he was inhO-
cebt, even if the police walked .themselves into
permanent cripples hiiiiting for the real offender
h,nd the jeers of the press drove them into a lunatic
asyluni; for then the public would still be liable
to be mysteriously butchered at night while driving
hoiAe from Gatton, and the public doesn’t want to
be mysteriously bu tchered. That wide discrepancy
bf interests is just where it comes in that the
public badly want a thoroughly-equipped State
Defence Department—and the police badly don’t.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Poems of Jones.
Sydney Telegraph has invented something
new :
On the 28th July last .... the electors of N.S. Wales,
by a practically unanimous vote, declared that certain
principles of the Convention Bill were such as, even for
the sake of Federation, this colony should not accept.
Let’s see. On that occasion Reid went to the
country as boss of the New Bill party and
Barton as leader of the Old Billites. And
Reid lost three of his colleagues in the practi-
cally unanimous vote, and all his majority ; he
came back with his personal following so badly
licked that his own party and the Labor men
together only showed about four votes more
than the Barton crowd alone. There is the
germ of a great idea hereabouts. Some day
the present writer will start a new daily paper,
and run the Telegraph for the Ananias cham-
pionship. Ho will persistently state that a
short, stout person named Gibbs was Premier
from 1891 to 1896, and that he was then suc-
ceeded by Pumpkin Smith—John Haynes and
Gormly and David Storey having ineffectually
attempted to form a Ministry amid great
tumult, during which Parliament House was
set on fire on eight occasions. And thereafter
Pumpkin Smith went to England and be-
came Prime Minister there. As for Reid he
will simply be mentioned as the man who used
to clean up Parliament House and scrub the
front steps. The writer is thinking of invent-
ing a perfectly new Premier, to be called
William Jenkins Crump, K.C.M.G., and, by
persistently alluding to the many years covered
by his six successive Premierships and all the
bad things done therein, he will probably make
Crump a much-detested historical character
in the end, and efface Parkes altogether.
When a paper goes in for inventing new his*
tory, it is as well to do it on a grand scale, not
merely go pottering around with small inven-
tions. The new organ will talk enthusiastically
about the great things that were done under
the Hogsflesh Ministry, till N.S.W. will at
last begin to believe that there really was a
Hogsflesh Ministry once, and will go round
looking for Hogsflesh to form another Ministry
like it and save the country again. And it
will point out that the only Australian poet
ever worth reading was Samuel Jones, and
hire clever people to write extracts from the
soul-stirring lines of Jones till the booksellers
will be besieged with demands for Jones’s un-
published volume. There is a great future for
the organ which invents its history and its
politics and its murders and its literary idols
as it goes along—if the thing is only done well.
But the D.T.’s half-hearted way of doing a
small, mean invention here and there has no
grit in it.
N.S.W. Travelling-Stock Reserves.
Ed. Bulletin. —Riding down a Western river
one hot day last year, I met 12,000 sheep.
They were not pleasant to behold, and their
march was something like Napoleon’s from
Moscow, for many dead and dying littered the
bare lane behind. The 12,000 were divided
into three classes. The strongest were in the
lead ; then a feebler division ; and, lastly, the
“ hospital,” a smaller mob, with a bigger
“spread” and a longer “tail,” consisting of
the utterly destitute. The latter drifted piti-
fully through a mirage, a mile behind the second
mob, and were obviously doomed—young sheep
—mostly maiden ewes and four - tooth
wethers —some of the best from a big Bar-
won run where they breed good sheep.
Drover stated that they were travelling for
grass, and that he hoped to get some
above Narromine. Meanwhile, was keeping
the mob alive on myall and wilga, doing three-
mile stages. Pointed to a belt of hazy scrub


across the plain, and said he hoped to stay there
a day, because he knew of old that it was a
good, thick scrub, and plenty of it. Having
but just come through it, however, I was a > e
to tell him that two small boys were actively
engaged lopping as much as they could get a •
for about two thousand sheep, the properly o
an adjacent “cocky”; whereupon the drover
got down from his horse blaspheming furiously,
and stating his opinion unflatteringly or t le
Deity, the country, the chief inspector, the
drought, and the Government. But most un-
flatteringly of the Government. This by way ot
introduction. Now, it is the law of the roads that
every man travelling thereon must look after
himself. To get “feed” —if possible, legally,
but still to get it—is the instinct of self-pre-
servation. No man who is anything of a man
can see his stock starve without exhausting
every legal and illegal means in his power to
provide them with food. He will cut fences ;
he will argue wordily that a man’s house-pad-
dock, or his wheatfield, is a reserve ; he will
get his sheep “ boxed ” with the station sheep.
He will do all that he can to save his charges,
and, personally, will be thought little the less
of, even by the men whose grass he raids.
Without animus, they will proceed to make
existence a burden for the drover. They will
hunt him in to the half-mile, and threaten
him with the Courts, and bring him
back to burn his dead, and chase him
with summonses, and lay informations
against him, and deal it out to him generally.
That is their idea of self-preservation. There
is no need of the little tin-plate, with T.S.R.
painted on it, that the C.I. causes to be nailed
to the trees in order to let you know that there
lies a stock route. It is only necessary to look
about you. You cannot confound a T.S.R.
with a cultivation-paddock. The point of that
cocky’s feeding his sheep upon the wilgas of
the Reserve was that he was within his rights,
for he holds a lease of the land from the
Government. So why shouldn’t he take what
he can get out of it ? Nearly everyone con-
cerned is agreed that the leasing system is a
bad one. But what to do ? Whether the
Reserves are leased or not they are invariably
eaten out, and, if unleased, generally
more so. The lessee takes all he can
get for his money, but at the same
time does not want to see the country
utterly destroyed by indiscriminate scrub-
cutting, etc. When there is no lessee, all the
neighborhood swoops down on the least ves-
tige of grass, and there is no one to prevent
damage and destruction. A suggestion was
before the Central Board of Advice of the Stock
Boards to the effect that a rate should be levied
on all travelling stock, from the proceeds of
which caretakers should be paid to look after
the reserves and generally prevent abuses.
That is better than nothing, but why should
not the general revenue be called upon to pro-
vide funds for the carrying out of such a
scheme as this ? The humble but necessary
sheep keeps the wolf from the Australian door,
and the encouragement he gets for so doing is
about as helpful as a word of advice to a
drowning man. There are scores of things
that the pampered province of N.S. Wales
could better do without than an efficient system
of supervising the T.S.R’s. There are the
Premier, the Chief Inspector of Stock, the
George-street tramway, the Victoria Markets.
But we eat mutton, and we wear wool, and we
buy drinks and other necessaries of life with
the money that other people give us for these
commodities—and we starve and neglect our
stock, seeking a mark' >r an existence, because
we don’t see them coming, or are too stupid to
recognise that it does not pay to overlook them,
or too callous to understand that it is miserable
cruelty.—A.
-
A Cry from Par Back.
Far-out Wilcannia, sick of placing dependence
upon the River Darling, w'hich seems to have
been more frequently unnavigable during the
last half-dozen years than for the previous
generation, has renewed the agitation for the
extension of the railway from Cobar. Cobar’s
sudden mining activity was a bad knock to
Wilcannia. The Nyngan to Cobar line was
authorised and built as a section of a railway
via Wilcannia to Broken Hill. But when the
section became payable in itself the idea that
it was a section was lost. Wilcannia, there-
fore, is now a voice crying in the wilderness ;
and until the drought breaks up its principal
occupation will consist of privately cutting
mulga for its starving stock and publicly de-
claring what a splendid district it has got hold
of. The Wilcannia line is described in the
Sydney dailies as “impossible,” and it is just
about impossible on the present system of rail-
way construction. A possible railway is one
that will pay about per cent, to cover the
interest on the money borrowed in England,
and while it is an article of the Australian
faith that the money for railway construction
must be borrowed, and that it is a blighting,
soul-destroying sin to think of building rail-
ways without borrowing the money, most of
the lines that Australia badly wants are im-
possible. If N.S. W. proceeded to raise another
•£1,500,000 a year revenue, however, for public
works purposes—as that lightly-taxed province
could easily do—the situation would be entirely
different. The Wilcannia line would be a
cheap one to construct. The construction of it
would find a lot of better work for the unem-
ployed than sand-shifting and rail-painting.
It would, probably, pay 1 per cent, on the
cost of construction. It would add to the
value of local lands and thereby increase the
land-tax revenue and the revenue of the Lands
Department. It would enable a lot more
people to live in the district, which would mean
more income-tax, and Customs and excise, and
postal and telegraphic, and probate revenue
and dog-tax, and fines for being drunk and
other income. Among them all the line would
probably pay, directly and indirectly, fully 2\
per cent. And this, combined with the fact
that every increase of population, and every
increase in the means of communication, make
the country stronger for defence, would almost
certainly make the Wilcannia line worth
building—with N.S. W.’s own money. But it
is difficult to see how it would, either directly
or indirectly, pay the full interest on borrowed
■, i„„,v iih borrowing is Australia s
corn pie te"gospel Wilcannia’s prospects are the
thin edge of a shadow.
Truckling to tie 'Tecs.
Police influence in the law-courts would be
Sin the soul of the Victorian Democracy
just now if that docile body hadeerasoul to
agitate. Two or three weeks back Ihe Bulle-
tin published a complaint from the would-be
prosecutor of conspirators Dungey and Brom-
LEY that two leading Melbourne barristers had
refused a brief “ as they say they cannot afford
to offend the police.” Last week a glaring: case
of legal truckling to the ’tecs occurred at Melb.
General Sessions. A young man was charged
with stealing a watch under extraordinary and
decidedly hazy circumstances, for it was not
even proved that the man who missed his
watch had lost it whilst the prisoner was in
the same building with him. Two detectives
made the arrest and they swore that the
prisoner said to them, “ I don’t think you 11 find
the watch ; it’s in a boiling-down shop —which
suggestion would have been by no means an
admission of guilt, anyway. Also, the detec-
tives stated they tried to trick the prisoner
into a confession by saying—“ Mr. Nettleshlp
does not wish to prosecute if he gets his watch
back ... if you can get the watch no doubt it
will do' a great deal in your favor, and we
might be able to have you dealt with at the
lower court.” All of which the prisoner de-
clared to be false. The story of the conversa-
tion between himself and the self-alleged in-
quisitors was a fabrication, said the prisoner,
and it would seem that the jury believed him,
for, after a short retirement, they found him
not guilty. During the jury’s brief absence
Judge Casey took the opportunity to reprimand
the detectives for having—on their own show-
ing-attempted to bounce prisoner into an
incriminating statement. Therefore the detec-
tives stood between two fires whilst the court
was waiting for the verdict. The accused man
charged them with bearing false witness against
him : the Judge charged them with being re-
prehensible “ traps ” if they had told the truth.
Here, then, was an opportunity for the pri-
soner’s lawyer to make the best of the situation
for his client by laying much stress upon the
fact that his client had accused the two police-
men of perjury. Or, if the lawyer didn t care
to make this point, he might have preserved a
diplomatic silence, instead of which he spoke
as follows :—“ If I may be permitted, your
Honor, I would like to say I’m quite convinced,
from what I know of these two detectives, that
there was no wrong intent in what they did—it
may have been done through excess of zeal, but
that is all. Your Honor willrecollect that I didn’t
refer to this phase of the case ”11! ! The unen-
lightened reader will naturally wonder why the
lawyer hastened to make himself so pleasant to
the detectives whom his client had denounced
as perjurers. And the explanation—theonly con-
ceivable explanation —is well worth noting. De-
tectives are to a considerable extent bestowers of
patronage upon police-court lawyers. Thej 7
advise prisoners and prosecutors in the matter
of engaging lawyers, and consequently these
learned amalgams and barristers “ can’t afford
to offend the police.”
The Painful Heretic.
One among the many—the awful many—of
Melbourne’s Presbyterian parsons happens to
be before the general godless public just now
on a charge of heresy, and the g-g.p., in its
usual fat-headed manner, barracks for the
alleged martyr on the supposition that he is a
fine, broad-thinking fellow who has seen the
error of his absurd dogmas and become truly
penitent. When a hard-shell church starts to
“persecute” one of its preachers for not
preaching and teaching strictly according to
contract, the outside worldlings rarely give a
thought to the real merits of the case. Know-
ing the “ persecutors ” to be full of arrogant
bigotry and theological foolishness, the ordinary
sinner sympathises with their victim and en-
courages him to hold tight to his “ noble
cause ” by cutting small jokes at the expense
of the church that wants to shunt him. Never-
theless, the Heretic, as a rule, is a rather
more ridiculous religionist than the unyield-
ing professors of musty dogma. There
is method in their argument, whereas he is
clumsily endeavoring to reconcile certain
reasonable beliefs which have formed them-
selves in his mind with a number of hazy
theories which he wishes to hold sacred in his
suppositious soul. Orthodox religion states, in
effect, that God wrote—or, in any case, edited
—the Scriptures for the so-called Christian
world. Heretical parsons state, with equal
positiveness, that God didn’t quite exactly
write all the Scriptures, but merely intended
them to give a sort of general idea of the Truth
in such a way that it would be open to various
constructions. Heretic parsons are not less
wise than orthodox Scripture-idolators in their
own conceit. Take the Melbourne heretic of
the moment. He is accused of dabbling in the
doctrine of purgatory, such dabbling being un-
doubtedly a breach of contract in his case.
When asked to explain the meaning of his
dabble, the self-satisfied apostle tootled as
follows :
God in His mercy may find ways to extend salvation to
those who are outside the ordinary pale of salvation. If
the savages, therefore, are to be saved, there must be a
spiritual world. The savages are not fit for Heaven at
once, because nothing unclean can enter there. If they
go neither to Heaven nor Hell, the Presbytery, perhaps,
will be good enough to tell me where they go.
The perky heretic is just as cocksure of his new
terewth as the dour old gentlemen are cocksure
of their old terewth. He knows all about the
manner in which Christ rose from the dead,
and can bring seven points along to prove his
case, he says' He has an infallible system for
getting anybody to Heaven, or Hell, or the
other place. He can draw up a plan with the
pale of salvation outlined in red ink if neces-
sary. In short, the evangelical heretic is a
parson of the most dangerous description.
♦
The Cabbage-Tree Creed.
The loud cry of the anti-Billious Dibbs, at last
week’s anti-Billious meeting in the Australia
Hotel, Sydney, “I, for one, refuse to trust
Victoria,” is the whole gospel of the Cab-
bage-Tree Mob in a sentence. Ever since the
days when old Jack Robertson created the
Cabbage-Tree cult there has been, to it, only
two places in the world—its own place and
Victoria. In its short and simple creed every
bad thing that happens is owing somehow to
the amazing cleverness and world - wide
machinations of Victoria. Queensland and
Tasmania put almost prohibitive duties on
N.S.W. coal, anJ Jack Want assured an excited
anti-Billious meeting that the conduct of Vic-
toria in shutting out N.S.W. coal was simply
shameful. When Queensland took the unpre-
cedented step of putting a heavy export duty
on wool to prevent it going to N.S.W. ports,
the general impression was that Victoria was
at it again ; and the fact that Queensland, at
Separation time, quietly repudiated its share of
the common debt has made the Cabbage-Tree
Mob feel ever since that Victoria would
swindle anybody and grab anything. The rivers
question, wherein South Australia battled with
N.S.W. for joint control over the streams
which feed her only decent river, the Lower
Murray, was another thing which showed the
grasping nature of the Cabbage-Garden pro-
vince in the worst possible light; and the
heavy tariffs of Queensland and Tasmania —
about the most heavily-tariffed provinces of
Australia—have made the N.S.W. Foreign-
trader hold forth about the evils of Victorian
Protectionism till he nearly burst with fury.
Even Queensland’s insistance on having a
separate mail-steamer service which wouldn’t
touch any N.S. W. port moved one Cabbage-Tree
orator to state that Victoria’s futile attempt,
some 20 years ago, to establish a similar service
was a most disgraceful proceeding. The why
of all this undignified terror lest Victoria
should do something dreadful to its big neigh-
bor is very hard to comprehend, but somehow
the southern state is to the aboriginal Dibbs
and Want crowd what the bunyip was to
the previous aborigine. Victoria is a very
small place, just about one-fourth the size of
N.S.W. Through sheer want of space it is
bound to fall very far behind in the matter of
population. About a fourth of the little space
it has is unusable and practically uninhabit-
able, which makes it still smaller. It is far
inferior to N.S.W. in mineral resources, which
gives the old province a further advantage in
the scramble for population. Considering all
these circumstances, the unmanly terror of the
Dibbs crowd of anti-Billites lest the little place
next door should hit them is a trifle ridiculous.
And their constant scream about the virtues
of their own province is suggestive of the in-
toxicated lady with her hat over her eye, who
deafens the street with her cries that she is a
“puffick lydy and has always behyved as such.”
One Turnip.
Sydney Telegraph’s newest provincialist
bogey :
WHAT FEDERATION WILL MEAN.
Letter of a Queensland resident.
Brisbane, Friday.—A letter was received this mornina:
by a merchant of this city from Mr. R. M. Stewart, of
Messrs. Scott, Dawson, and Stewart, dated Sydney,
March 8, in which Mr. Stewart says“ I have just
heard this morning, through Mr. A. B. Webster, of
Messrs. Webster and Co., merchants, Brisbane, that Vic-
toria and the other colonies have no intention of admit-
ting our sugar or meat free in case of Federation. We
had it from a man who is one of the three, I think, of the
committee appointed to report on the financial part of
Federation ; so he ought to know. If this is the case,
what are we to get for the extinction of our wine, wheat,
and farming industries? It is stated that Sir George
Turner has spoken with no uncertain sound on the sub-
ject of these duties. If so, the sooner the people of
Queensland ascertain the facts the better. It is also
stated by this expert that New South Wales cannot join
if Queensland holds out. I hope it is not true about the
sugar and meat, although I am assured it is. But, if
true, our Government and people should get at the truth
before it is too late.”
As a tozer, that effort isn’t worthy of the
Telegraph. Seeing that the Federal Constitu-
tion abolishes all interprovincial duties, and,
under Federation, “ Victoria and the other
colonies” can’t prevent Queensland meat
and sugar coming in free, the statement
that they are going to do it all the same
should have been backed up by better evi-
dence. There is something very unconvinc-
ing about the statement that an alleged man,
name unknown, in Brisbane, received a letter
from Stewart, in Sydney, saying that
Stewart just heard from Webster in Brisbane
that he thinks Webster has heard from a man
who was on the Federal Finance Com-
mittee (name not given) that something
impossible was going to happen. And how
they all knew it was because “it is stated,”
by persons not mentioned, that Premier
Turner (who will be only one individual in
the Federal Parliament after all) had said
it to persons not mentioned, though no one
else seems to have heard him doing so. At
all events, the Queensland farming industries
have got on all right despite the duties levied
by the other separated provinces ; though the
news that Stewart received from Webster
assumes that the same duties, if they could be
levied by the federated provinces (which they
can’t), would mean extinction. Under which
circumstances the unknown person in Brisbane
wants to know if the letter that Stewart wrote
him about what the other unnamed individual
told Webster he had heard parties unknown
say that Turner said is a terrifying fact or
only a hollow turnip with a candle inside?
The Bulletin reckons he may rest in peace.
It is only a turnip—and not even a plausible
turnip at that.
— : ♦ —
Queensmongreland Elections.
The first batch of the Q. elections —duly faked
in the interests of the Ministerial Animal with
the movable head and immortal boodle body
instead of a soul —came off last week, and re-
sulted in the “ overwhelming triumph” of
the Animal, as arranged for. For the electoral
rolls have been so elaborately “ purged, and
the constituencies have been so heavily bribed,
and the “ first batch ” was so judgmatically
chosen, and Q. public spirit and public con-
science are so dead and fly-blown, that ten times
the “ triumph ” might not unreasonably
have beeu looked for. The seats won
for the Ministry were all held by that
nondescript Animal previously, with one
exception. Labor lost one seat, at Brisbane
South, where Turley gave place to Luya—
thanks to vote-association with a nonc-too-
popular pal. Labor gained four seats —at
Cairns, where the traitor Hoolan was beaten
by Givens ; at Fortitude Valley, where
WoRKER-editor Higgs replaced M'Master ;
and at Gympie, where two Labor-men, Fisher
and Rylands, took the Ministerial seats by
a small majority. Hoolan will presumably
now scoot back to Burke, where he came from,
and where there ought to be enough white
manhood to reject him in spite of his ingratiat-
ing bluster. For the defeated at Gympie and
Fortitude Valley there is no hope, unless the
contingent vote helps. It is certain that the
Ministerial Animal will see its strength con-
siderably reduced when the elections close on
March 25, though unluckily not enough to
ensure it being thrown out on the dunghill to
rot as it deserves. After a dozen years of dirty
politics Q. public life has become so corrupt
that three-fifths of the people are not fit to
carry on “representative government.” The
country wants an honest Bismarck to despotise
it for a dozen years, till the decomposing old
generation is wiped out.
Barton Keeps Reid in Office.
The spectacle—rare in Australia, not un-
common in England —of the Premier being kept
in office by the Leader of the Opposition for the
good of the country, was last week witnessed
in N.S. Wales. Now that there is a reasonable
prospect of Federation really arriving (if Aus-
tralians come out of their apathetic tents and
fight for it, as they will most assuredly need to
fight), all the anti-national forces are being
brought to bear upon Parliament; and, since
Reid espouses Federation, a determined effort
is being made to throw Reid overboard.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, champion of Sydney
monopoly at the expense of N.S. Wales and
Australia, is working all the harder because it is
as yet working underground, and has not had
the courage to come out in the open as the
enemy of the nation. Federation frightens the
Sydney-property-owning shareholders of the
Telegr.aph directly, because it will mean pos-
tage on newspapers, and the Telegraph syn-
dicate’s private enterprise will no longer be
subsidised out of taxpayers’ pockets. It
frightens them indirectly because anything
which tends to loosen Sydney importers octo-
pus-grip on N.S. Wales will tend to lessen
their rents and reduce their dividends. If
Sydney Telegraph can help it, the Sydney
property - owners will not let one sucker
go. And Federation —the triumph of Aus-
tralia—has struck fear into the bowels of
the mean-souled little mediocrities who com-
prise three-fourths of N.S. W. Parliament —the
men on the make and the men on the keep ;
who see themselves shorn of influence and
reduced in numbers and salary—at ,a big saving
to the community, indeed, but to the lasting
loss of the politician who lives on the game.
So last week saw the singular sight of the
Ministerial party endeavoring to betray its
chief, and prevented solely because Oppo-
sition - leader Barton refused to take one
step to office at the cost of imperilling
Federation. The shifts and antics of the squirm-
ing Anti-Federalists were grotesque indeed.
“ We can’t move a censure on Reid,” they
said, “ but for God’s sake let the Opposition
move. Any excuse will do—so long as the
country is hoodwinked. Jack Wants trip
the city railway—take any mortal pretext
and we’ll support you.” And the Opposition
wouldn’t—thanks to Barton ; though some
Opposition-men would only have been too glad.
So now the traitor Reidites, at their wits end,
are colloguing with the Telegraph and the
Leg. Council, and praying for any stone, any
stick, to beat the National dog with—any ex-
cuse to prevent the Federal question from going
to a fair vote of the people.
Yet more extraordinary disclosures about the
treatment of Westralian niggers by their sup-
posed protectors. At Roebourne, John Her-
bert Church, J.P., a squatter, of course, was
charged with having assaulted and half-mur-
dered one of his natives, “
Church struck him on the forehead, and then
hit him in the mouth with a heavy whip-
handle, splitting the poor devil’s lip and
breaking a tooth —
The native was covered with blood, and the medical
testimony was that he had on the right temple a wound
three-quarters of an inch long and about a quarter of an
inch deep, a jagged cut on the lip, a broken tooth, and
an abrasion of the chin. The defence was that the native
had been neglectful and impertinent, and that defendant
would not have struck him had he not thought that he
was about to be struck by the native. Defendant was
fined Is., with costs (fcl 6s. 6d. in all). The native was
then charged by Mr. J. H. Church, J.P., with a breach of
contract, and with having absented himself from woi k,
and was sentenced to two months’ imprisonment, with
hard labor.
In a word, Church, J.P., is let off with Is.
fine for half-killing a blackfellow who in turn
gets two months for a breach of contract with
his inhuman “protector.” Only a month pre-
viously two ot her squatter J.P s, in the same
district, were fined £5 each for the same
offence ; but Church was tried before a brother
of one of those previously prosecuted.
The Anti-Billious party in N.S.W. is trying
its hardest to rouse up the animosity of Syd-
ney against the country districts over the 100-
mile limit. There are 680,000 people inside the
100-mile limit, it says, and 666,000 in the
parts of N.S. VY. outside it, and so “ half the
population of the province has been deliberately
shut out from having the capital among them.”
And what, in the name of goodness, has become
of the old hypocrisy of the apostles of “ Decen-
tralisation ” about “opening up the interior ”
and “ attracting population to the country ”
and “settling the people on the land ? ” Is it
all hypocrisy"? The capital will attract popu-
lation,'therefore it should be put where popu-
lation is wanted, not where there is too much
already. Though the capital itself will be on
Federal territory, still the N.S.W. country
around it will fill up with people, and accumu-
late wealth, and make the province richer and
greater. Does the fat hog want all the grease,
so that it can’t spare any of it for its own full
brother, the thin hog ?


The Leading Insurance Company of the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
OP NEW YORK
ASSETS, DEC. 31, 1898, NEARLY £57,000,000 STERLING.
About Four Millions greater than those of the next largest Company.
Results for the Year ending 1 December 31, 1898
(Just Received by Cable):
ASSETS exceed... ... ... ... ... .£56,985,000 Increase ... ... £4,873 000
CONTINGENT GUARANTEE FUND (com-
monly termed “Surplus”) exceeds ... ... 8,673,000 Increase ... ... 1 382 000
INSURANCE and ANNUITIES IN FORCE ... 199,530,000 Increase ... ...
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT :
Z- 0- KENNIE, General Manager, Company’s Building, Martin-place,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES:
NEW SOUTH WALES... ... ... ... Company’s Building, Martin-place, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA ... 289 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND... ... ... ... ... ... 210 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 73 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA ... ... ... ... ...St. George’s Terrace, PERTH.
TASMANIA ... ... ... ... ... ... 93 Macquarie Street, HOBART.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE
AND
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
for Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
01 Pitt Strbbt.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &0.
Before taking: your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing: List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Geisha.”
Royal “The Shadows of a Great City.”
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Shilling Pops.
Opera House “ Round the World in 80 Days.”
Fitzgerald’s Circus—opposite Redfern Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Brough Comedy Co.
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather."
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
The “ Shadows of a Great City ” tailed out
its shuddery length at Sydney Royal on Saturday
and the people there assembled appeared to
receive it with much satisfaction. The
“Shadows” is a good old-fashioned melodrama
with that slight flavor of decay about it which
belongs to all old melodrama; and it isn’t more
ridiculous than the average. All melodrama is a
S’ddy joke, more or less. The escape of William
ourlay, who is in for stealing a watch, and
Inman, who is falsely accused of prigging jewellery,
when they burst out of their paper dungeon, looks
effective enough. The former is found in the
river and taken back to finish his sentence, but
Inman gets away with a wet infant in his arms,
and lives happily for 15 years, just adjacent to the
gaol, without being discovered. The wet infant
grows up to be a nice, kissable woman, and seeing
that she and the man are deeply in love with each
other the story might just as well end there. But
all this time the person who had annexed the wet
infant’s money, and ejected her mother, and put
the diamonds in the good man’s pocket, is living
in ill-gotten affluence, and the author thinks it
necessary to demolish him, which is done labori-
ously and rather clumsily, and with many compli-
cations, and in a way that is a dreadful shock to
Mr. Gourlay’s nerves. That person being out of
gaol again, and drunk, and very much bowed in
the legs, goes burgling the safe of his old partner
in crime, and when he gets the door open there
falls perpendicularly out of it a long straight white
object that drops on the burglar and then drops off
the burglar on to the floor. It is the heiress who
had bean put in there to die of starvation, and Mr.
Gourlay knows her and flies howling, for she is
the same wet infant that he agreed to drown for
cash 15 years previously—the night when he was
found in the river and taken back to finish his
sentence. Just about here it transpires that
Inman, who has again been put in prison over the
diamonds, and has torn a hole in his dungeon and
escaped a second time, never stole them after all,
and it is agreed not to put the heiress back in the
safe any more. Then the hero starts the weary
old tag to the effect that the sun is again shining
and the calf wobbles over the green grass as of yore,
and the clouds, etc. —but the rush of the feet of
the escaping audience drowns the good old saying.
The audience loathes that tag.
* * * *
A certain Biddy Rooney, played by J. P.
O’Neill, is the brightest character in the
“j3hadows.” O’Neill is a rich, oily, Irish come-
dian, with a mouth whose vastness would take in
a gum-tree crossways, and as a comedy Irish-
woman his only rivai, within this writer’s experi-
ence, is John F. Sheridan—the Widow O’Brien.
Biddy is a big, promiscuous woman, who flies
round on the outskirts of the tale to no definite
Eurpose, but it wouldn’t be much of a tale without
er. Her chief occupation consists in losing the
wet baby, and letting out boats with a hole in
them. John Gourlay, the person whose legs have
got warped in gaol, varies between good comedy
and wild burlesque. John is a spidery person of
immense activity, with a tendency to overdo his
spideriness. Robert Inman does a steady,
respectable piece of work as the hero, but there is
nothing large or lurid or remarkable about
Inman; and Miss Ida Gresham, as the damp
infant grown up, is a nice girl all through —much
too nice to fall out of any safe on to so dilapidated
a burglar as William Gourlay. Making due allow-
ance for the fact that the rest of theco. —especially
Geo. Chalmers —does its work well enough, and
that the drama is carefully staged, and isn’t more
foolish than the average drama, and that Biddy is
a fortune in herself, the verdict is favorable on the
whole.
• • • *
The Holloway co. closes up at the Royal
on the 18th, and reopens at the Lyceum on Ist
April, when proceedings commence with a
perfectly new drama, “ Our Guardian Angel. ” In
the meantime, that rather decayed establishment
is being scoured, and washed, and scrubbed, and
boiled, and disinfected, and painted, and re-
carpeted, and the insect which some pre-
vious patrons forgot to take away with them is
being extirpated. Also, the old drop-scene,
with the saddening boot-advt. on it, has been
scorned and rejected, and will appear on the
premises no more.
«* * *
The ever-welcome Dante returned to
Sydney Palace on Saturday night, and with him
came his Burnt Woman and his other mysteries,
all of which got a warm reception. His pro-
gramme contains a number of new items,
each of them cleverly and neatly done, but the
incinerated female is still the prize feature of the
bill, and when that combusted lady blazes up
suddenly and leaves only a bone and a skull and a
tatter behind her, the audience feels that it has
got good value for its money. Sydney has come
to associate the frizzled sister with Dante’s show,
and if the fried person wasn’t there it would pro-
«k ,
bably rise up and demand its conflagrated virgin,
or its money back. The principal difference
between the present show and the last one is that
the affable American who used to stand by the
gaudy portal and be a long-lost brother—through
his nose—to the passing pressman is there
no longer. Instead, he is going on something
awful in the law-courts, where he is demand-
ing injunctions and conjectures and objurgation!
and such-like against the professor. It is under-
stood that he charges Dante with breach of con-
tract, or dynamite, or criminal procrastination
with violence, or something of the kind ; at any
rate, there are expensive law proceedings between
them, and, at time of writing, the parties file 15 or
16 affidavits against each other daily. Barrister
Knox, on behalf of Dante, assures the court that,
“We have no intention of leaving Sydney ” to
evade anybody—which is the curious barristerial
way of putting things. Knox speaks as if he
were the Burnt Woman in person—which he isn’t.
But why Dante, with his remarkable capacity for
making things disappear into nothing or appear
out of nothing, doesn’t simply meet the American
gentleman in the street, and shake something at
im, and make him vanish —all but his bell-topper,
which would be found unaccountably on the Post
Office tower —and then make a new and friendly
American out of the ruins, is a question that wants
answering.
#* * *
“ The Geisha ” is now well on its fifth
week at Her Majesty’s, and the public books its
seats a week in advance very much as it did five
weeks ago. If the Firm has no other engagements
in the way, and can play out the Japanese show
to the bitter end, it seems possible that that
jumpy little trifle will put up a record for the
longest run in Australia. Last week this writer
mentioned that he knew fat, responsible people—
the kind of people who want the land-tax taken
off and who believe in putting all the unemployed
in gaol—who had been to see “The Geisha” as
many as six times. One of these parties went
twice more last week, which makes eight times.
In the face of such proceedings it is evidently no
use asking the cause of the boom. The sufficient
fact is that the boom is there. The loss of bright
Lily Titheradge, who has departed for the foggy
land of Bull, is a regrettable circumstance, but the
“ Geisha” seems able to survive even that.
** * *
The long-negleeted Sydney Opera House is
to open again on Saturday, March 25, under the
management of Charles Maurice, with Jules
Verne’s story, “Round the World in 80 Days.”
The Firm tried its hand at this spectacle some
years ago, and a hard frost of public disapproba-
tion set in—still, the public is a variable animal,
and that bygone snowball is no earthly reason
why the show shouldn’t boom on a second appear-
ance. There are great spectacular possibilities in
it, and it is to be produced at low prices, and the
management alleges it has gone to vast expense in
renovating the old house—though it is difficult to
imagine that any amount of renovation would lift
the gloom off the Opera House. The red and yel-
low bill contains particulars of a large co., mostly
people whose names The Bulletin never heard
before—but that is probably owing to its miser-
able ignorance. And there are a good many
characters in it that Jules Verne never mentioned
in his story, so, apparently, the book has been
renovated as well as the Opera House.
** * *
No person of any special importance has
arrived at or left Sydney Tivoli during the last
seven days, but some very pleasing girls are near-
ing the end of their engagement, and as usual some
other nice girls are about due to take their places.
Horace Wheatley and Travers and Faning are
still on hand, and the fact that Sampson no longer
breaks his dreary ironmongery at the Tiv. makes
the programme feel a good deal lighter than it did.
Sampson was a rather heavy wonder, and the
present pessimist has felt better since his de-
parture. He made him feel as if some one had
put a very wonderful and expensive fender on his
chest while he was asleep.
** * *
The Fitzgerald Brethren are also due in
Sydney on 25th March, when the big tent will go
up again in the old spot. The latest addition to
the programme is a tiger that rides on horseback
in a perfectly friendly manner, and without eating
up the horse. This is recommended as an item
specially suited to the rather dismal Good Friday
season.
*# * *
“The Brixton Burglary,” the latest of
Brough’s productions at Melb. Princess’s, on
Saturday, is yet another narrative of the respect-
able husband who gets off the chain during his
wife’s absence and shouts oysters for a gutta-percha
girl. There are two girls this time—the Bounding
Sisters of the Air—and the difference between
them and other painted heroines of farcical-comedy
suppers is that they don’t appear upon the scene.
They are merely represented by a photo, which the
harmless profligate brings home in his pocket at 7
a.m. and hides in the same old drawer of the ever-
lasting breakfast-table (farcical-comedy furniture
was ever eccentric) in order that somebody
may loot it from the drawer and use it in
evidence against him. Brough plays the
harmless profligate, and is inhumanly afraid of
his wife knowing what happened to him on the
one night when she wasn’t at home. Also,
Brough has a father-in-law who lives in terror of
his wife discovering that he went for a bike-ride
during her absence ; likewise Brough is afflicted
with a parlormaid who borrowed master’s bike in
the silent watches of the night, what time Brough’s
valet had gone razzling in his master’s clothes.
THE LATE Dr. MAURICE O’CONNOR.
The parlormaid collided with the father-in-law’s
bike on the Brixton-road, and they both ran away
to avoid the police ; therefore Brough’s bike, bear-
ing the name and address of its owner, is arrested
on suspicion of being concerned in a burglary.
* m * *
The arrivals and departures of Majeroni,
as an impossibly elegant police-sergeant, provide
a lot of necessary excitement. The aforesaid
burglary took place at the lodgings of Brough’s
friend who helped him to have supper with the
Bounding Sisters, and the father-in-law is dis-
covered wearing the friend’s clothes, which he
borrowed from Brough’s valet, or else the friend
only thought they were his clothes, but in any case
Majeroni arrests the father-in-law and releases him
in the next act, when the old gentleman swops more
garments with the valet —and all because he can’t
let his wife know that he went for a ride on his
machine. Brough meanwhile is aiding and abet-
ting his friends, relatives, and servants in all
sorts of inane difficulties arising from the bikes
and the burglary. From time to time Brough’s
timid little wife (Miss Noble) remarks that she
can’t quite understand what has happened, and
then Brough turns pale and pours forth a further
torrent of untruths—all for fear of being revealed
by his parlormaid as a husband who went out for
the evening and came back with a photo, in his
pocket. Farcical-comedy humor depends entirely
upon the assumption that a married man must
pretend to be the sort of tame Joseph that no
timid wife would tolerate. Brough, strange to
say, is not held in much subjection by mother-in-
law. She is a sprightly, bouncing person, who
reckons him 90 times wickeder than his real self,
and respects him for not having got found out.
Mother-in-law is the one touch of nature in the
show. Being buxom and festive, she objects to
her husband riding a bike, lest he should fall off
and break himself. She rules her lawful comforter
with a rod of iron, and takes great care of his
health.
• * * *
“ Theßrixton Burglary” weakens towards
the finish, and the final efforts of the author are
pathetic in their desperation. The parlor maid
has to sport the long, baggy bloomers she went
biking in, and Brough closes the list of complica-
tions by appearing in Miss Temple’s pink print
dress and apron. The Bulletin hasn’t much
faith in the future of a farce which puts a muslin
cap on Brough’s head. Besides, it isn’t smart in
dialogue, and Miss Temple is a not-sufficiently
light and airy Perkins, and the male persons in
the cast are mostly unconvincing all the time.
Miss Bessie Thompson scores in the casual part of
the mother-in-law, but Miss Noble has merely to
look nice and perplexed. A change of bill is
likely to happen shortly.
** # *
At Melb. Royal, the death of stockbroker
Brown and the disruption of Walter Baker’s air-
tube are proceeding with great vigor, and Bland
Holt’s habit of turning money away on Saturday
nights appears to grow upon him. Nevertheless,
it is understood that “ The White Heather ” will
be withdrawn in a fortnight or so. The manage-
ment has another huge drama waiting round the
corner, and this will rush to the fore at Easter
unless the public applies for an injunction to delay
Lady Godiva’s departure. All parts of “The
White Heather ” are more impressive than they
were on the opening night, but the item that has
caught on with the tightest grip is the rehearsal-
scene where the nine young daughters of a hundred
earls are instructed in the dramatic distinction
between jiggetty and wiggetty.
** * #
The Rickards show at Melb. Bijou has
shaken off the cold that onetime threatened to
settle upon its chest, and business of late has been
quite up to the old Opera House traditions. Peggy
Pryde is scoring heavily on the new pitch. The
Lorenzis, assisted by the “ Sisters ” dressed in
blue,, put in a cheerful 20 minutes with their
nautical pantomime, and Pope and Sayles seem
none the worse for wear. Moreover, things in
general look brighter since Peggy’s expansive
smile came along. The gaiety of that bustling
little patterer is in the very air of the Bijou, and
time travels quickly during the silent periods
when the stage waits for somebody’s next song.
** * *
A concert at the Town Hall on Saturday
night introduced to notice Miss Bertha Bird, a
light soprano singer who will probably follow the
lead of Miss Ada Colley, and get to Europe in due
course. As a vocal gymnast on the high trapeze
register Miss Bird is already a skilful performer,
although not a finished artist. Her singing
doesn’t appeal to the public soul, but it strikes
one with astonishment and fetches the same kind
of enthusiastic encore that is awarded to Lem-
mone’s marvels on the flute. A new contralto at
Saturday’s concert was Mrs. Leonora Bailey. Her
pleasant voice comes from England with the repu-
tation of having been born in Victoria, and it
might have grown into a larger voice if the lady
hadn’t left her native land when she was a child. 3
At Poverty Point.
Wallace Brownlow has found the Westralian boom re-
coil too severe to withstand, and has quitted his Kal
tfoorlie hotel amid general regrets. He goes he doesn’t
know where for certain ; but quite likely he will soon
again begin to professionally warble. Of course the gold-
fields farewelled him handsomely.
“ Willie Perman’s wife had a pretty voice,” said some-
one. “Yes,” said Mrs. Perman, nie Isabel Webster, “and
she’s got a pretty baby now.”
“Bargo”: Notice the stiff “Britisher” pose of Pauli
listening to Florence Perry’s love-song in “ The Geisha”*
A typical Englishman can never show admiration till he
gives a lordly “ Thank-you ”at the finish. A Frenchman
or an Italian can evince his delight by pose and manner
right through the song.
“ J.P.” : Where is the significance in stating that Ada
Keeve has only ‘ got up top' since she was starred by the
Firm ? If Australian successes were things to conjure
with in the Old World, Nellie Stewart wouldn’t have had
to wait for a Drury Lane panto. -engagement to send hr
up top.”
Some English papers flatly contradict the stories of
Irving’s monetary embarrassments and abandonment by
Ellen Terry. “ Irving,” the Sketch asserts, “ will return
to the stage in the company of Miss Terry, the Lyceum is
not to be sold, and it is not proposed to raise any public
subscriptions for the great actor.”
Mawwormous Melbourne, having ’eld up its ’andsin
’oly ’orror over Bland Holt’s “ White Heather ” picture
cards of Lady Godiva clad only in her tresses, Bland has
had an amended edition put out with Godiva clothed
making her about twice as suggestive.
London County Council has sat on the Gimlet, the
Anti-Joy, the Snufflebuster, and other societies. By a
large majority Sunday concerts are to be permitted at
the Alhambra. The Council regulates prices of admission
number of hands allowed for working the house, and to a
certain extent the music. Only high-class melodies
songs, and compositions are to be given, but there is joy
amongst the musical masses, and corresponding dismay
in the camp of the plate-harpies, prudes, and holy Joes.
Will Australia ever throw off the parsonical yoke and
follow suit ?
Last file of London D.T. has a timely interview of Sar-
dou re the play of Robespierre, which he is writing for
Irving. Sardou has more relics of Robespierre than any-
one else, even including Robespierre’s autograph note to
warrant the execution of Danton, with remarks upon it
penned by Saint Just. He has exactly located the humble
place in Paris where Robespierre, at the height of his
power, lodged with a carpenter, and this will be reprot
duced on the Lyceum stage. Coleridge wrote a blank-
verse play entitled “ Robespierre.” It was not this, bu-
Coleridge’s “ Remorse,” which Phil Beck recited complete,
without book, in London, before a distinguished assem-
blage, including Chief-Justice Coleridge.
Ed. Bulletin.— Be “faculty of distinguishing musical
pitch.” For 30 years I have had a close business acquaint-
ance with professional musicians in London and Aus-
tralia, yet I have only met three who could at once tell
the pitch of a note, blindfolded, without adventitious
assistance, and these three could name not only single
notes but discords of several notes struck simultaneously.
The “ infant Mozart,” of Melbourne, a prodigy of 7or 8,
was one. Probably Mr. Kenningham could tell a some-
what similar tale. “ B.” is wholly at sea when he states
that this rare faculty can be imparted. I happened to
possess this gift at the age of 6, when barely master of
the five-finger exercises, and so, with aforesaid experience
in business, can speak with some show of authority.-
0.E.0.
Purser Dennis, whose death at Port Said was lately
cabled, was for many years in the Orient service. He was
a most excellent officer, and a tenor voice of great range
and unusual clearness gave him a strong claim on lady-
passengers. In ’97, when purser of the Austral, outward-
bound, Mr. Dennis and a well-known Westralian had a
set-to in the first saloon. The Westralian had got more
Moet than he eould carry, and the late purser, more than
he wanted, as his band was broken.
A terrible incident was the death of Wm. Sinrfjson,
comedian, at Broken Hill, last Saturday night. His cos-
tume caught fire as he jumped over the footlights, and
he was roasted to death.
“X - Ray ” : There is reason to believe that the
reports that Clement Scott intends lecturing in
Australia are unfounded. Those who heard his
lecture in England some years ago on “Thirty
Years of the Drama” agree that it was about
the sickest thing in lectures they ever endured. He
would certainly be a huge frost here. Besides, he would
find when he got back to London that he had lost more
ground than he could make up in many years. Even
Sala, a much cleverer man, found that, after his long
Australian tour. There are so many first-class young and
vigorous writers waiting for chances in London that an
old, jaded stager who drops out for a time is apt to find
his footprints on the sand filled up.
On a sweltering day, 100-and-the-rest in the shade, in
Rockhampton, Q., some members of an opera company
made a visit to the swimming-baths, and were all broken
up to read —“ Closed during the winter months.” Lends
color to the yarn that a Rockhampton man wanted a
door in Sheol kept closed, on account of the draught.
The members of an opera troupe were en voyage from
Havre to New Orleans. They complained to the manager
that five of them were leading tenors. “ Oh,” says he,
“ the yellow fever may kill two of you in a week, and two
more while we are rehearsing.”
The latest Parisian public entertainment is a cinema-
tograph show of an ovariotomy operation !!
Actually happened to a well-known Sydney profes-
sional. Pianist (to aspiring amateur vocalist): “ What
key shall I accompany you in ? ” A.A.Y. : “ Oh, it doesn’t
matter. My voice is always the same. However, you
might play it in a medium key—say about the middle of
the piano.”
In Dr. Maurice O’Connor, for many years
medical officer of Darlinghurst prison, there died
last week, at the early age of 42, a man who,
under a somewhat irresponsive manner, possessed
much generosity of heart. Dr. O’Connor, who
came prominently under public notice as the friend
and physician of the late Premier Parkes, had a
yet stronger claim to public regard in the manful
way in which he ever maintained his right to treat
convict-prisoners in the gaol hospital on as liberal
a scale as that on which he would treat his
own private patients outside. The remains of the
deceased were followed to the grave, at Waverley
Cemetery, by many friends.


Cheque Bank
Cheques
Taken as Cash
all over the
World. ;
For Travellers to
all parts of the
World.
The CHEQUE
BANK System is
the most practic-
able and conveni-
ent method for
conveying and
disbursing money in an* rfums, however large or
small.
CHEQUE BANK Cheques are cheaper than
ordinary Money Orders for remittances of money
to all parts of the world.
Handbooks and all information on application.
. JAMES MALCOLM,
General Agent.
Sydney Agency:
135 PITT STREET (near G.P.0.)
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
ami particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
3.0-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(o/o S. HOFFNUNG & GO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
The Australian Turbine Co., of 352 Coll ins-
street, Melbourne, guarantees that its High-Efficiency
Turbines and its Pelton Wheels will develop more horse-
power from a given supply of water than those of any
other makers. *
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne."
Jaques Bros., engineers, Ooppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
6 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; - wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
Grilfillan and MeCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.
The splendid Compound Condensing Engines
lately made for the Ballarat Woollen Mills by the Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, have been
formally started on their useful career by the Hon. Com-
missioner of Customs, and christened “The Progress.
The engines are fitted with a modified Lulzer type of
valve gear, and indicate 700 horse-power, the fly-wheel
weighs 16 tons, and the total weight of the engines are up-
wards of 120 tons. They are now working in a most satis-
factory manner. The Otis Co. deserves every credit for
turning out such a fine sample of the modern steam-
engine.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38V.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv. Mark Wald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
IlPitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z-
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This is how Dr. MacLaurin, M.L.C., the Anti-
Billite boss, professes to prove the impossibility the
Federal financial scheme (daily paper report): —‘ ‘ Dr.
MacLaurin came to the conclusion that ‘ without that
abominable book-keeping system’ a tariff of £7,717,000
would suffice to cover all requirements, and he then pro-
ceeded to show how, under the book-keeping system, a
tariff of £7,717,000 would affect the different States. New
South Wales would have a surplus of £1,011,000 more
than she needed, but all the other States would have
deficiencies: South Australia of £65,000, Tasmania of
£136,000, Queensland of £187,000, Victoria of £228,000,
and West Australia of £395,000. To make good those
deficiencies would run the tariff a long way over an im-
possible £9,000,000, and he held that to impose direct
taxation to make them good would be virtually impos-
sible likewise. That brings out the utterly unworkable
nature of the financial compact entered into.”
As a matter of fact, the figures in question show
beyond a doubt that the Federal financial scheme is
simple and perfectly feasible. Westralia, the worst way
the Anti-Bill man can show things, would be £395,000
a year short of its last year’s revenue. Well, since last
financial year closed Westralia’s revenue has declined at
the rate of £315,000 a year, and the expenditure has been
cut down to the extent of £185,000 in the last two months
—£92,500 a month. Westralia has got to face the loss of
revenue whether it federates or not, and it is doing so.
And W.A. has neither land nor income nor dividend tax
at present; so it has plenty of means with which to make
up the deficit. Tasmania, when interprovincial duties are
abolished, is to be £136,000 short of last year’s revenue.
The island can raise £20,000 a year by increasing its land-
tax from to Id. in the £, and another £25,000, or
perhaps £30,000, by raising its maximum probate duty on
large estates from 3 to 10 per cent.—the latter being the
maximum in five of the other provinces. And last year Tas-
mania had a surplus of about £90,000. Among these mat-
ters, its £136,000 shortage can be provided for as easily as
falling off a log. Queensland, it is estimated, may want
another £187,000. The banana State has neither land nor
income tax, and can raise £300,000 under these heads
quite easily to make up for its diminished customs
revenue. Victoria, it is assumed, will want £228,000 to
make up for the loss of interprovincial customs revenue, and
to keep its income up to last year’s level. Victoria at present
levies no land-tax on estates of less than 640 acres, and
none even then unless the estate is worth over £2500 ; also
if a man has a dozen 640-acre estates worth £2400 each,
they all go free if they are more than five miles apart—
therefore all its valuable town and city properties go free.
It can easily raise another £200,000 by re-organising its
land-tax on N.S.W. principles. Moreover, last financial year
its ordinary expenditure was £208,000 less than its ordi-
nary revenue, which leaves another big margin. And in
the eight months since then the revenue has increased
£218,000 —which is a third margin of no small size. If
N.S.W. has, as alleged, a million surplus, that will just
about enable it to pay the regular expenditure on roads
and bridges and the like unproductive works out of
revenue instead of charging them to loans, so it
has nothing to lament about. It needs that million
badly enough. South Australia’s little prospective de-
ficit under Federation of £65,000 is the only one that
looks like a real difficulty, and that is the smallest trifle of
the lot. The Federal Govt, has absolute power to levy
uniform land and income taxes and probate duties if the
States won’t raise the needful direct taxation themselves,
so there is absolutely no difficulty in the way. The people
who pick dismal holes in the Federal money scheme al-
ways start by remarking that Queensland and W.A.,
which have practically no direct taxation, are so heavily
burdened with direct taxation that they can’t stand any
more, and anything can be made to look true if the pre-
liminary lie isn’t inquired into. With sufficient lack of
inquiry into the preliminary hypotheses, The Bulletin
could demonstrate that Dr. MacLaurin, M.L.0., is the five
Books of Moses.
• » * *
One very curious feature about the Reid
Government’s hastily-muddled-together Advances to
Settlers Bill is the proviso that every Govt, loan shall “ be
a charge on the land in respect of which the advance was
made in priority to any encumbrance, transfer, or deal-
ing.” There are some quaint possibilities here. If the
Bill said that the State would only lend on land that was
unencumbered so that it would have a first mortgage, or
that any previous encumbrances should be paid off out of
the State loan so as to make the latter a first mortgage,
the position would be intelligible enough. But it doesn’t.
It merely says that the State loan will be a first mortgage.
So far as the exact letter of the Bill goes, a man with £250
worth of land and a £2OO mortgage on it may still borrow
£2OO on his land from the State. The State’s
mortgage will be a first mortgage, and the previous
first mortgage will become a second mortgage, and
therefore absolutely worthless, and the previous mort-
gagee may call to the four cold winds for his
money. Whatever the Reid Government meant, that is
how its Bill puts things. Another remarkable point is
that the Bill doesn’t say that advances will be made to
half or two-fhircjs or three-quarters the value of the
property—it says nothing about that. So far as the Bill
is concerned advances may be made to three times the
value of the property. This matter may be provided for
in the “ regulations ” to be made by tbe Governor, but
there is nothing on the subject in the Bill itself. The
business is to be looked after by a Board, and its fees are
not fixed in the Bill—they are likewise left to the Gover-
nor. And very careful arrangements seem to be made
to prevent the public knowinsr how the scheme pays or
doesn’t pay. The simple method would be for the State
to raise the £500,000 and entrust it to the Board, the
Board to collect the interest from borrowers and pay
interest to bondholders, and if the interest received from
borrowers doesn’t cover that due to bondholders the
deficit to be a charge on the revenue. But instead the
interest on the £500,000 will simply be part of the
ordinary payment on account of the public debt, and the
interest' received from borrowers will be paid into the
Treasury, and thus no one is likely to notice very
definitely how things are getting on.
V * * *
The profits of the Union Bank of Australia
failed to keep up to the increase of February, 1898—the
rather-behind-time balance-sheet for the six months ended
31st August, 1898, shows a profit of only £42,578. Still,
with two exceptions, this is the best yield shown since
August, 1894, as the following list of profits will demon-
strate :
February, 1893 .. £69,609 February, 1896 .. £37,996
August, 1893 .. 60,295 August, 1896 .. 58,837
February, 1894 .. 44,132 February, 1897 .. 37,578
August, 1894 .. 44,676 August, 1897 .. 37,436
February, 1895 .. 37,172 February, 1898 .. 47,696
August,'lB9s .. 36,063 August, 1898 .. 42,578
The profits equal £3 Bs. Id. per cent, per annum on the
'ssf’ ss
contingency fund, £260,000). !ne ueuai
6. Per °ent.pe- r *n ,nakeB
oSif profit and loss During th,
increased HjU
SSStf oTan UabiHties Bft8 ft Jg?^
If there
i« mv tendency either way it is towards a decrease. Lhe
faS-off in profits as compared with the previous half-
year fs set down to the Drought almost everything in
Australia is set down to the Drough t or to Der-rink ; and
as the Union Bank is a mighty lan Hold, and a shepnera
and bullock driver on a stupendous scale, the lmpioied
harvest in four of the Seven Provinces may make things
look better next balance. #
Montgomerie’s Brewery Co. (Meib.) finished the
year to 31st December, 1899, with a loss of £4194. home
of the recent fortunes and misfortunes of this co. have
been as follows : r r ., ci . A
June,’92 .. Profit £3520 Dec.,’96 .. Loss £1660
Dec.,’92 .. „ 3559 June, 96 .. „ 1110
June,’93 .. „ 1921 Dec., 96 .. „ 3037
Dec.,’93 .. » 1540 June, 97 .. „ 15041l 5041
June,’94 .. ,> 922 Dec., 97 .. » j
Dec.,’94 .. „ 178 Jtfne, 98 .. » U 194
June,’9s .. ~ 49 | Dec., 98 . . ~ S
Montgomerie’s Brewery does a very small business the
entire sales for the ‘ year were £9640, and the re-
ceipts from all sources £10,847. And it is staggering
under a fearful paid-up capital of £141,000 the results
of ridiculous inflation in the boom-days—so that even it
all its sales were clear profit it couldn’t pay 7 per cent,
dividends. Also, it has an overdraft of ±75,158--so if it
made 10 per cent, clear profit on its output, instead of
making a heavy loss, it would take 75 3 ears to pay
off the overdraft, and then there would be a prospect of
about 15s. per cent, per annum for shareholders.
Apart from the fact that there seems no possible
hope of Montgomerie’s Brewery 00. covering its expenses
unless it can at least double its output, and very little
show of earning l a 5 per cent, dividend unless it can mul-
tiply its output tenfold, the main troubles are that the
assets are visibly £37,402 less than tiie liabilities. This is
made up of the accumulated shortage of £10,720, and
two purely bogus assets—“ Incidental purchase expenses,
£1682,” and “Goodwill, £25,000.” It takes an awful
amount of assurance to put down the good-will of such a
concern as worth anything, let alone £25,000; few solvent
individuals would take over the concern and its liabilities
at a gift. Another £156,000 of assets are put down at
what they cost in the good days that are gone—
probably they are now worth about ±70,000.
Taking one consideration with another, the con-
cern doesn’t look as if it was worth the £ 1 5,000
overdraft, and the whole capital appears to he lost. And
it is such a very small affair, doing a business of barely
£2OO a week, and tottering under a capital suited to a
brewery of ten times the dimensions, that there is very
little hope for it. The management thinks of trying to
recover by process of law some of the money paid to the
promoters when they passed their obscure little brewery
on to the confiding co., but in most cases of the kind the
promoters have long since lost their profits in other
“ cats,” and law proceedings are usually a throwing of
good bottled beer after bad.
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. realised a profit
of £15,760 (partly, it would seem, by making no allow-
ance for depreciation) for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1898. This is the best half-year’s return up to date
as shown by the following list of recent profits :
June, 1894 £7,844 December, 1896 £10,077
December, 1894 5,076 June, 1897 13,365
June, 1895 4,882 December, 1897 15,705
December, 1895 12,901 June, 1898 11,779
June, 1896 6,686 December, 1898 15,760
The usual dividend at 10 per cent, per annum absorbs
£9325, and the other £6435, added to previous accumula-
tions, leaves £24,956 at credit of profit and loss. This
seems a very appropriate time to suggest that the B.H.
Water 00. should do a huge writing-off by way of putting
its accounts straight. The second largest item among its
assets is a purely paper one—“ Water Bights, Leases,
Parliamentary Bills, etc., cost £25,194.” These in-
clude all manner of expenses incurred in engineer-
ing the co.’s scheme though Parliament, getting its
leases in fact, all unavoidable “grease” that has
to be done to get a big concession. There are no
assets to show for all this money, not even anything per-
manent in the way of goodwill, for the co. has only a
comparatively short-dated concession of its rights and
leases, and when it expires the lease won’t be worth good
waste-paper price by reason of the accumulated germs
and finger-marks on the documents. For a whole lot of
reasons, that fictitious “Parliamentary Bills” item of
£25,194 should be wholly written off, and the profit-
balance of £24,956, with a few pounds from next half-
year’s profits, would just suffice to do it. And after that
the co. should start a steady writing-down of its other
assets. The biggest of them, “Construction account,
&c., £158,768,” is still put in at cost, with no allowance
for depreciation, and everything in this world depreciates
more or less —generally a great deal more. And, apart
from the hard facts of the case, a co. which strains things
in this way in order to show large paper-profits doesn’t
know what is good for it. It is these same large paper-
profits which make people dream of starting a rival
system, or getting the water-rates compulsorily reduced by
Act of Parliament, and otherwise focus the public eye on
the bloated monopoly. No wise bloated monopoly goes
out of its way to advertise its bloatedness—especially it
doesn’t try to look more bloated than it is. It rather
bloats unobtrusively, in a cool spot, all by itself where it
won’t excite the envy of the hairy-toothed multitude.
The Broken Hill Co. has to surrender the whole
lease, plant, machinery, reservoirs, &c., without com-
pensation (in other words, to lose its entire capital)
when its concession expires, and for that reason it
should steadily write down the value of all its works and
plant till they get to nothing. Despite its apparent
affluence, it is a very humble and not too profitable affair
when the temporary nature of its monopoly is considered,
and should behave as such.
* * * *
The Scottish Metropolitan Assurance Co.
announces that its Sydney office has been removed to 247
George-street, opposite Bridge-street.
Apparently it wasn’t Victoria’s former com-
mandant, Major-General Alex. Bruce Tulloch, but a
different Major-General Tulloch who was the mighty
guinea-pig that made such a very bad showing in the
London courts re certain smellful Westralian companies.
The cable simply described him as Major - Gen.
Tulloch, and the daily papers took it for granted and fell
in, and The Bulletin fell in on top of them. This paper
now climbs out again with what dignity it can muster,
and apologises to the wrongfully-maligned Major-General.
f # * •
An attempt is being made to float the “ Gul-
gong Gold-Mining Co.”; capital, £6OOO in 12,000 shares of
10s. each. Nine thousand shares are issued to the publio at
3d. on application, and 3d. on allotment, paid up to 7s. 3d.,
balance in 3d. calls if required. Prospectus says “ No
brokerage will be charged. The whole of the cash
realised, less necessary initial expenses, will be expended
on the mine.” The block proposed to be floated is part of
the late Shellback property. If the 9000 shares are taken
up, the co. will start with £225, less initial expenses. The
new shaft will have to be sunk 140 ft. before the reef is
struck, and then there is only a 4-head stamp-battery on
the field, which may or may not be available. It is also
stated that, “Preference is stipulated to be given to
the shareholders of the Shellback Co.”; but, judg-
ing from the recent experiences of those gentlemen, this
offer will, perhaps, not be very much rushed. At the
very best the co. has only about £lBOO of available capital
(12,000 shares of 10s. each issued as paid up to 7s. 3d.
leaves a very small margin), and to start any kind of a
mine with £lBOO available capital is, as a rule, as feeble
and ridiculous as starting a big war with six men and a
goat. It is hardly possible that it oan lead to anything
except a few month*’ salary for a few people, and then a
breakdown. Furthermore, the practice of issuing shares
on which nothin* is paid as paid unto 7*. 19 j’
lid. or any other sum, is one that should be suppresses
Every co’s shares should appear in the share-lists as paid
up Jno more than the sum paid on the«n cash,
or in assets that are worth cash, so that the public will
know exactly how things stand It w '? uld '*
to get a hardened mining-promoter of the N.B. W. pattern
into a court of law, and lay him flat on his solemn oath
and ask him what is the exact purpose of this is. id. paid
up idea. , . .
New Bushman’s mine, N.S.W., lock, stock and
barrel, knocked down at £162.5. At least four tunes the
amount spent in plant. At one time a big offer (
£60,000?) was refused. As a rule men who won t sell a
mine are bigger fools than those wanting to buy it.
Often the latter have other fish to fry—generally buying
for a crowd, whereas the former always sell for them-
selves. „
* * *
Girilambone, N.S.W. : <£50,000 cash said to
have been refused with contempt. The amount was
described as “only £50,000,” and shareholders were
assured that the directors were not going to give the
mine away.” Why are the shares so low if the holders
are not prepared to sell at this price ? Price of shares is
not always proof of value, but a low price in open market
proves beyond doubt a want of confidence and that
Girilambone must pass through much tribulation before
becoming a div.-payer. Writer has always regarded the
Girilambone as a good mine with good management and
a sad destroyer of cash without. To try to open a big
low-grade mine with very troublesome ores, in a dry
country, without a working capital worthy of the name,
was a cruel if not a dirty piece of business. They have
tried different managers and methods and with all failed
to make money. They have issued debentures to pay off
old debts, and, under representations which have not been
borne out, issued new sh . :-js which can be bought for
much less than paid on t! u. Shareholders have never
had a clear idea of the loss that necessarily takes place m
concentrating the ores they have to mine, and if they had
the faintest knowledge of the amount of money it will
still take to put the mine in right shape, they would jump
at the chance of getting some of their coin back.
Depend upon it the people offering £50,000 are ready with
another £20,000 to make an entire change in the present
order of things. If not they are as big asses as the
present owners. * » *
Copper has come back to £7O a ton, and the
market is described as flat. Indications point to a further
fall, and the chances are it will run between £6O and £7O
for a long time. Admitted now that the Anaconda, the
biggest producer in the world, turning out about one-fifth
of the world’s output, has weakened, and the life of the
mine as the champion is said to be within measurable dis-
tance. This the main incentive to the extraordinary rise.
The heavy buying by the Standard Oil 00. and other
people in Calumet and Heelas is a second cause ; and, as
to the third, writer is told that a few months ago some
strong men in London and America thought the time ripe
for a pool to buv copper stocks and productions. Some
of the big mines took the bait by selling their outputs for
six and twelve months at a big advance on then ruling
price. Offers were made in Australia, but up to date this
scribe has not heard of any being accepted. Thus a com-
bination of causes sent copper up £2O a ton in a few
weeks —a rise that could not be accounted for in Aus-
tralia at the time. The pool was only made for six months.
* * * ■*
Beacon Gold Mines, N.S.W., is petitioning
Govt, to put up half the money needed to sink another
100 ft., and in support claims to have employed an average
of 100 men for 2£ years, and disbursed £lOOO a month in
wages. Strange such a document should be published.
It could have gone in the usual way, have been
treated on its merits, and no one would have been
the wiser. The Beacon was formerly known as
Taylor’s Reward. First bonded to Charlie Garland
for something considerably under £20,000, then
to Mr. Nat. Cohen for about double, and, finally,
the Exploration Co. of London got hold of it through
Gibbs, Bright and Co., and it was capitalised at a quarter-
of-a-million. A 10-head mill was got going in a few
months, and about £25,000 profit was made during the
first year’s run. What writer predicted all along has since
happened. It was good enough at the price asked by
the owners, but the subsequent capitalisation was un-
warrantable. Only one of many glaring cases of mining
for big quick profits in London. And now that the har-
vest has been reaped, and the boomsters’ victims have
been more or less ruined, the practice is j'umped on by
Vic. Mines-Minister Foster, seconded by N.S.W. Mines-
Minister Cook in an assemblage of persons, some of whom
have been living on the game for years, and they had the
cheek to signify their repentance by loud applause.
* * * *
Cobar notes.—Some Cobar scrip-holders are
moaning over remarks here made. Nothing so awkward
to fight as the truth, and, as usual, the only weapon at
hand is abusive language. One local weekly, formerly
almost wholly a sheet of advts., has jumped into a state
of positive activity on the subject. The present scribe
happens to have never “ dispraised ” any local mine, but
he has frequently found fault with managements who
take a year over six months’ work, put up mills for the
sake of looking at them, and break promises made to
shareholders.
A shower fell the other day, but mainly con-
fined its attention to the copper-mine tank, which now
has water enough to keep the jackets going for nearly
three months—thus cheating Cobar Gold Mines Co. out
of £lO a day, which it hoped to collect from the Copper
Syndicate for the use of “ Lake O’Gorman.” But the G.M.
00. need not weep. It has a fine mine, which could
be made to pay with milling alone. With the addition
of the cyanide plant now in course of erection it
should make a huge success. Several improvements
started months back are now completed. The two big
boilers and a host of other new plant nearly ready for
work. Now waiting chiefly for the cyanide plant, which
must be finished some day.
• * ♦ *
Lake George Mines, N.S.W. : Feb. returns
show an improvement in copper values. Cost of mining,
handling, and smelting, inclusive of all fuels and fluxes,
said to be 14s. Bd. per ton. Month’s output, 5420 tons.
Time it was known how much must be added to total cost
for carriage and treatment of matte, &c., and if it would
not be better to refine the matte on the mine instead of
carting it over 30 miles of heavy roads, then some 200
miles by rail for shipment away. Doesn’t pay Cobar or
Burraga to do this. Then why Lake George ?
* * * *
Shamrock’s, Bendigo, was a short-lived boom.
Three or four weeks sent the shares from 3s. 6d. to 14s,
Taken about the same time to send them back again.
Last week’s crushing, 94 tons, 24ioz. ; previous week
about the same. Makes shareholders wonder if the Mac-
duff is going to act as treacherously. Last week’s crush-
ing, 37 tons, 224f0z., and a div.—£l3oo.
* • * *
Campbell’s Creek dredging, Vic. : Still cleaning
up, and now intimated that it is only a partial clean
representing \ acre of ground. Said to be over an acre
in another report, and that “it is tedious work scraping
out all the nooks and crannies of the bed-rock.” No
doubt this cleaning-up business has been quite overlooked
in the yarn published several times every week that
ground can be broken down, lifted and sluiced all by
water for 2d. a cubic yard.
* * *. *
Mr. William Thow, chief mechanical engineer
of the Railway Department, has recently returned from
an extended trip through the United States and Europe.
It is understood that whilst there Mr. Thow, after making
most exhaustive inquiries as to the latest and most im-
proved pneumatic tools and means of operating same,
purchased for the Eveleigh workshops an Ingersoll-
Sergeant duplex air compressor, with compound air
cylinders and inter-cooler. The local agents for this
company are Parke and Lacy Company Ltd., Sydney.*
Mt. Mercer, Vic. “ Yield for the week, 12oz.
19dwt.” It would not pay for the guzzle given at the
opening a little while back, when big things were fore-
shadowed for this mine by reason of good management
and wine. Changed their manager, but they can’t get
back their champagne.
* • * *
New Moon, Bendigo: Pulling from 18 levels at
one time and preparing to sink to get some more ready.
Is there any other mine in Australia doing this ? Work-
ing a big but disjointed reef —generally a mass of spurs
which average all the year round about 7dwt., out of
which fully half goes in divs. Manager, Bill Bentley,
with whom the writer did some hard graft, as youngster,
trucking, beating an occasional “upper,” and otherwise
learning the miner’s business at £2 5s. a week^
Spring Gully, a claim at the long-neglected
Fryer’s, outside Castlemaine, is turning in comfortable
divs. to a handful of Bendigo men. Six months’ work :
32880 z. from 3986 tons; 7s. 6d. divs., equal to £9OOO.
Battery, &c., have also been provided out of earnings.
Emu Bay railway, Tas. : Less than half the
100,000 preference shares to find extra capital taken up ;
hence the line to Zeehan not yet undertaken, but direc-
tors have got an advance to take the line to Rosbery.
• * - * •
The old-time Blinman, for years one of the most
reliable .of S. A. copper-mines outside the Moonta group,
has answered to the resurrection trump, and arrange-
ments have been made to send off 2000 tons. Blinman’s
distance from port—it is in the Far North —is against it;
on the other hand, it is cheaply worked. As at the
Burra, much of the work will be done by open-cut, which
Broken Hill has popularised.
General-manager Stewart, of Broken Hill, will
take charge of Ohiliagoe next month.
* * * *
From Copperfield, Clermont, Q., 5/3/ 99 :
" Have had good rains ; dams full. Nearly all the reefing
claims are either registered or abandoned. The ‘ Ida
Orompton ’ has crushed 32 tons stone for 7dwt. per ton ;
this has put a damper on things. Stone heavily mineral-
ised and no appliances for proper treatment; reef is from
3 to 4ft. wide and deepest shaft less than 200ft. Several
fresh reefing claims are being worked on Macdonald’s
Flat. Nothing fresh in alluvial; a few shafts going down
in deep ground. Peak Downs Coal and Copper Mining
Co.’s mine has been unwatered and retimbered, and if
reports are reliable, with copper at its present price, this
should be a good thing. The work is being carried on by
a Sydney co. and the mine is expected to change hands
shortly."
Queensland Mining and Prospecting Co. —the
next best copper organisation to the parent co. (Chillagoe)
—is sending one of the founders, Revel Johnston, to Lon-
don to form a co. which will be good enough to provide a
working capital of at least £lOO,OOO, and give present
holders cash and shares. Stated that Mr. J. leaves with
the “ fullest confidence ” that he will succeed.
• * • *
Gvmpie’s February record ran : -9961 tons
crushed for 64550 z. Cyanide treated 1194 tons for 2360 z.
Calls for the month totalled £10,823 ; dividends, £1192
15s.
Queensland gold output for February, ’9B, was
69,2360 z. ; for Feb., ’99, 64,4530 z. Decrease of 47530 z.
Of this output only 17320 z. were alluvial.
* * • *
More J. Bull capital invades Australia.
The old Queensland Smelting Co., of Maryborough,
is being taken over by a London concern to be called
the Queensland Smelting Co., Limited. The new co.
is a comprehensive affair, its object being “ to acquire
the business, properties, assets and liabilities, &c., of the
Queensland Smelting Co., Ltd. (incorporated 1888), and to
develop, deal with, work and turn to account the same ;
and, further, to acquire any other mines, mining, water
and other rights, grants, leases, claims, concessions, op-
tions of purchase, metalliferous land, alluvial ground,
&c., in any part of the world, and to carry on the busi-
ness of a mining, milling, smelting and metallurgical
company in all or any of its branches.” Which seems to
give the co. all the latitude and smelting it could possibly
want.
* * * •
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, etc., has just com-
pleted at his engineering works, Footscray, Melb., one of
the largest planing machines every made in any part of
the world. It weighs about 100 tons, and is the machine
to be used in planing and thickening up the edges of
28ft. x Jin. plates required in manufacturing the patent
Lockingbar pipes for Coolgardie water supply contract. All
the steel bars for this contract will be supplied from the
Earl of Dudley works, Eng., but in order to get prompt
delivery the order for the steel plates has been divided
amongst four German firms. The first shipment, of 500
tons will be dispatched by the Maori King, now loading.*
• * * *
Boulder milling-plant has shut down, the funds
placed at Koneman’s disposal are exhausted, Koneman
has gone to London to consult the directors, and a
ghastly failure is practically admitted. What a nice time
Koneman and the directors will have! Whew ! Their
turn now to go through the mill, to be so well crushed as
to leave nothing in the tailings. If it should so happen
that they are smart or cunning enough to charm or delude
the shareholders into thinking that in this queer-loo,king
business they have been as innocent as babes unborn,
then writer must regard the conversion of Bull collec-
tively, not as a matter of time, but eternity.
Cyanide returns from the S.A. Govt, works
have encouraged the erection of a private plant at the
Westward Ho, on the often-tried and often -abandoned
Waukaringa goldfield. It is the district’s best hope.


ORIENT .
"---s CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First. Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. )
SYDNEY,
ARE YOU AWARE ?
that PHOTOGRAPHY as a pastime need not
be expensive if you purchase your supplies
from
Harrington & Co.
Limited.
Cameras
Lenses
Chemicals
Plates Sc Films
Papers and all
■A-ppliances
at Lowest Prices and of best Quality
Harrington & Co. Limited,
_Piiotograi'hic Merchants, 66 King-street, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Branch:
34 Queen-street.
Melb. Agents:
Graven & Co.,
179 Collins-street.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J4-Plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
OUR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
MAILED FREE ON
APPLICATION.
SOCIETY
The gossip recently to hand about N.S.
Wales’ new Governor reminds The Bulletin of
the lines
“There’s no such thins: in nature Gand you’ll draw
A faultless monster which the world ne’er saw.”
“ Simple a,nd unaffected. ... A really handsome
fellow, with a pleasant smile, showing perfect
teeth. . . . Hobbies about art, education, philan-
thropy, and agriculture. . . . Always religious,
his devotional temperament at one time nearly
landed him in Holy orders. . . . Taking periodic
trips to France to study art.” (“Hum!”)
Rich, not only in pictures by Reynolds, Romney,
and the rest, but also in an unequalled collection
of bijouterie obtained by his canny great-grand-
mother on the cheap in Paris when, after Water-
loo, the pockets of the old nobility were as low as
their hearts. Then, as an entertainer, Beauchamp
Q.E.D.
BLACKS: "Why do you think she is a woman with
a past? ”
CHEQUES: “ Well, I have seen some of her
presents! ”
bids fair to figure in N.S.W. annals as the “Let
’em all come ! ” Governor. As Mayor of
Worcester he used to invite to Madresfield
an odd 8000 or so at a time, and has
thus prepared for himself an ordeal which
The Bulletin cannot contemplate unmoved. “It
was,” said his lordship (when 10.000 guests repre-
sented an expected 7000), “a trifle disconcerting,
but we managed to give them all tea.” If he
manages, without some system of artificial respira-
tion, to give tea and a hand-shake to all the people
who’ll rush him at Sydney Government House,
he will have the satisfaction of knowing that he
has broken his own record.
Beauchamp is evidently going to be a Popular
Governor. He is going to out-Carington the
Baron - with - the - Eyebrows ! “ Let ’em All
Come! ”
• * * •
Newspapers say it is characteristic of Sydney
to tender handsome farewells to departing Gover-
nors. This was not always so, One Governor
was followed down the bay and hooted. Went-
worth led a chorus of groans at another. But a
group of claqueurs can be counted on generally to
present addresses and lisp valedictories to anyone
who has occupied the post, however unworthy his
achievement. “If Her Majesty could commission
the Prince of Darkness to represent her in N.S.
Wales,” wrote old Dr. Lang, “I doubt not but
his sable Excellency would receive a farewell
address of respect and regret at the close of his
administration.” Parkes and Martin once refused
to sign an address to a departing Governor ; on
the contrary, they drew up a letter for the Secre-
tary of State, pointing out the deficiencies in the
conduct of the august proconsul.
» * * *
Gov. Beauchamp brings out his private
pictures. Duff used to say that the stock lot of
pictures in Sydney Govt. House was probably the
worst in the world. Hampden thought likewise.
* * * *
That strange conflict, of evidence between
the Bishop of Ballarat and the policemen should
be officially cleared up. It is a serious matter
when you find a bishop contradicting policemen
on oath. It is also a serious matter to find police-
men contradicting a bishop on oath.
* * * *
On a N.S.W. military matter :
Premier Reid (writes a Bulletin correspondent) dis-
likes pomps and ceremonies, and the N.S.W. Lancers,
who at one time formed a guard of honor for his P.0.-ship
in London, got rough handling in return. In answer
to a question by a Labor member, the Premier gave it as
his opinion that other branches of the forces were entitled
to as much “if not more consideration ” than the pig-
stickers. Now, the Lancers paid their whack in full
when the Permanent Artillery (the spoilt darlings of
N.S.W. service) and the Mounted Rifles were liberally
assisted by Govt, to go ’Ome and enjoy the Jubilee
junketings, and the present will be the third trip the
Lancers have arranged free of cost to the country. When
Australian natives, chiefly from the country districts,
plank their money and give their time to learn the real
game of soldiering (and this must be played by the book),
then its rough to have cold water thrown on their
effort at its inception. The real moral of the story
appears to be—Never form a guard of honor to an un-
grateful fat Premier 1
* * * •
“ Gleeboy :He recent par. about Gover-
nors. Sir James Ferguson did not marry Miss
Richman until he retired from the S.A. Governor-
ship. The marriage took place in Europe, and
Capt. Hughes, original proprietor of Wallaroo
and Moonta copper-mine (who had married the
aunt of the bride) made a large monetary settle-
ment on the latter as a marriage gift.
• * * *
Melb. ” : A man in the street, who knows
everything, has just cleared up my obfuscation as
to how well-known embezzlers walk about with
nnpumty. A not-very-long-demised soft-hearted
millionaire not Tyson—had a downright mania
for relieving such from their embarrassments. I
am astounded to hear of the amounts he planked
in two notorious cases.
* * * *
S.M. Herald quotes Daniel Southwell to
prove that there must have been a Govt. House in
Sydney anterior to the building, the foundations
of which (with memorial copper-plate) were ex-
posed at the junction of Bridge and Phillip-streets,
the other day. Southwell wrote: “I often dine
with Phillip.” (This at a date earlier than that on
the stone now discovered.) “It is Southwell,
come and have a bit of dinner with A
gossipy old man was Southwell, but the Herald
proceeds to imprimatur him thus: “Southwell
W ?r ~n exa "S era t e > as he was writing to his
wife. And the Herald is a married paper !
* * * *
Premier Reid’s slap in the face of N.S.W.
Marine Board might have been heard by the 13
drowned Atacama sailors rotting in the Pacific
sea-depths. Upon a recommendation of the Pub-
lic Service Board, the destruction of this tribunal
of mental corpses has been resolved on, but it was
somehow staved off during last Parliament.
Meanwhile the odors of the decaying Board are
anything but pleasant, and Premier Reid tried to
introduce a disinfectant in the shape of a new in-
spector, Capt. Mackenzie. The Board flatly re-
fused to appoint the inspector; whereupon Reid
countered by appointing Capt. Mackenzie and
Sam Smith, M.L.A., secretary of the Seamen’s
Union, to seats on the Board. To anyone
acquainted with the personality of Mackenzie and
Smith and with the starched dignity in which the
Mi.rine mummies are gradually mouldering away
the situation yells with farce. Sam. Smith !
Capt. Mackenzie ! If any spark of life was left
in the Board it would resign ; but it is dead, and
will have to he swept right out.
* * * *
Fortitude Valley, Brisbane, which has
returned the two Laborites, Higgs and M‘Donnell
to the local Parliament, got its name from the old
ship Fortitude, which, 50 years ago, carried to Mor-
ton (not Moreton) Bay Dr. Lang’s first load of Pres-
byterian immigrants. The impulsive pastor had
ordered his consignment without previously ob-
taining the approval of Govt., and when his ship-
load of canny ” Scots arrived, the Govt, of the
day refused to recognise them. Temporarily
they were dumped down on vaoant ground which
was given the name of the ship, and the fighting
doctor went for the Government tooth and nail.
By the time the row was over it was found that
the fortitude people had turned their wilderness
of a valley into fruitful vegetable gardens and
LOOKING AT THE “ HIGHLAND”
REGIMENT.
HE: “ Can’t see any need for holding your dress
up in that idiotic way.”
SHE: “ Why, fathead, don’t you see I've got Plaid
Stockings on?”
were quite well able to get on without special
assistance. Prom that day the Valley has been
sturdily assertive in political affairs. It loves
democrats, but it ordinarily likes them to be men
of prayer as well.
* * • •
Re the insufferable controversy as to Mary
“Maudlin’s” morals, The Bulletin notes that
“the identity of Mary Magdalene with the sinner
was first positively asserted by Gregory the Great,
in his ‘ Homilies,’ and the services of the feast of
St. Mary Magdalene were arranged on the as-
sumption of its truth. But a great and growing
consensus of opinion among the most competent
scholars is conclusive against it.” What uninten-
tional humorists are these authorities on Terewth !
* * * *
South Australia lately went half-back on
the standard-time arrangement made a few years
ago, and in May it will put its clocks forward
half-an-hour. And thus it lands Broken Hill in
a dust-heap. For after the Standard
Time Act was passed, Broken Hill
pubs, had to shut up at 10 p.m.;
at any rate, since the trains and
mines adhered to Adelaide time,
that was the reckoning that pre-
vailed. It was an awful affliction,
for Broken Hill hasn’t more than
half got rid of its thirst at 10 o’clock.
So its teetotal M.P. rushed through
a Bill, giving Broken Hill an hour’s
grace for drinking and polling pur-
poses ; and this revised time was
called S.A. standard time. Now,
however, it isn’t certain whether
there is any S.A. standard time;
and the Barrier beer-puller has dis-
cussed the riddle until he is des-
perate. At present it looks as if
the weary town were going to have
at least four times—Sydney time,
which the banks and telegraph
office, and some other Govt, offices
observe; the old Adelaide time,
which the hotels will observe ; the
revised Adelaide time, which the
railway and possibly the mines will
follow ; and the local time, which the
man from way-back who goes by the
sun will stick ito.
A quaint circumstance is that at
Ross, Tasmania, where each little sect has
its own burying ground, the Anglicans and
Roman Catholics, whose grounds adjoin,
have a stone division fence plentifully sown '
with broken glass—evidently to prevent any
over-the-garden-wall business on the spirits’ parb
* • * •
;S.M. Herald ad. :
ANTED, 2 Youths—one to keep books, good
* f writer, and references; hours, 6to 9. Also, one
good Counter-Hand, smart and energetic ; hours, 6
to 9.
It will soon be necessary to put the whole of
N.S.W. under the Shops and Factories Act.
Youths 15 hours a day, and probably salary to
match. And one must be book-keeper, good
writer, and produce references !
* *
A bi-weekly mail - contract on N.S.W.
Northern line delivers the mail to two houses
only, distance 11 miles away; average number of
letters, 20 per week. Cost, £V.) 10s. per year !
Age advts. (18/2/’99) :
T> ESPECTABLE, domesticated young Woman, 26,
favorable looking*, seeks friendship of honorable
gentleman. Genuine, Hawthorne P.O.
"WIDOW, 33, with incubators, 2 useful boys, wishes
correspond Farmer, with capital, view to matri-
mony. Mrs. Genuine, Asoot Vale P.O.
Phe up-to-date woman, it seems, gives the go-by
to the parson and the ring. She simply desires
tho friendship 9 of an honorable gentleman ;or
a business partnership, she providing a number of
useful boys and certain incubators. “ Incuba-
tions.-—On the 32nd ult., the wife of Mr. Genuine,
of t win sons.”
* * * *
Letter received by elderly spinster—client
of a Melb. registry office—in reply to an advt.
for position as housekeex>er :
Hawthorn P.O. Dear Madam,—Seeing your “ad,” I
thought it possible we might come to some agreement.
I am 35 years of age, and at present am living in lodgings.
In a month or two I am starting business as a dyer, and I
wish to make the acquaintance of a lady as housekeeper
or companion, and should she be willing it might lead to
something better being offered to her. I should like you
to take another situation for awhile, and let me have the
pleasure of your company in the evening. I have no
lady friends, and should like the lady to let me have a
husband’s privileges at once. It should make no differ-
ence to her whatever, as I have every intention of treat-
ing her honorably and well; and if you can agree to this
one thing I am sure you will find everything else satis-
factory, and if you take an interest in the business and
look after the shop now and again I will marry you, if
you wish it, as soon as we get settled down and
see how we get along. You must not think that
I am writing to you like this because I think you are not
respectable, as nothing is farther from my thoughts.
Please let me have a plain answer, and, if you like, you
can make an appointment about 8 any evening, and
please describe the place and your dress, so I may know
you easily, as I am rather backward in speaking to ladies.
In replying, please return this note as a sign of good
faith, otherwise I will consider you are not sincere.—
Believe me to be yours very sincerely, .
And this is “The Way We Love Now ” in the
city of St. Magdalen ! The elderly spinster is
still in hospital, and her condition is considered to
be critical.
* * * *
The woman-vote has brought a revolution
in the working of S. A. election campaigns. King
O’Malley, M.P., recently signalised his advent in
Encounter Bay—a seaside constituency composed
largely of the long, lean boarding-house female
and the W.C.T.U. woman—by a series of coffee-
socials terminating with a dance which “ lasted
until an early hour.” Election agents must now
be young men capable of leading the young ladies
in the waltz and whispering “vote for Jones”
during the polka’s giddy whirl.
* * * *
Notice the slow-going, imitative way in
which changes are introduced into the Argus.
Just lately a column about people has been
opened under the same heading as London Times
uses—“ Personal.” The summary of coming
events, “To-day’s Arrangements,” is a recent
feature, and the heading in that case, too, is bor-
rowed from the Times. And the Argus only
puts into its “Personal” column the sort of dry
“THE RETREAT FROM MOSCOW.”
hash that the Times admits. Imitation is the
poorest kind of flatulency.
* * • *
“Burton” : Be London vet. suing for
prof, attendance on a cat. A Sydney lady, who
owns a very fine pair of “ Persians,” always en-
gages a veterinary surgeon to see that, the cat goes
safely through her family troubles. And the, vet.
charges a guinea every time.


A large proportion of the second edition
(2000 copies) of Will Ogilvie’s poems, published by
The Bulletin, were ordered in advance. Single
copies will be sent post free, from Bulletin office,
to any address, for 4s. 6d. in stamps. “ The most
charming book of Australian verse that has yet
appeared,” writes Victor Daley.
For a penny stamp will be sent from this
office to any address a specimen copy of The
Bookfellow, a rapidly-growing literary maga-
zinelet published monthly by The Bulletin.
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over fifty years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. Sold everywhere.*
Cabled that at a lecture upon “ Northern
Australia,” delivered at the Imperial Institute,
Capt. Barclay announced that Prince Roland
Bonaparte promised to present the Australian
Commonwealth on his death with Tasman’s
original map of Australia.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Some time ago a mythical nugget known
as the “ Sacred Slug of Kanowna ” was the subject
of some statements by the local priest (Father
Long). The Bulletin’s presumption at the time
was that it was an outcome of the delirium of two
sick prospectors. Now there comes a sort of
sequel-incident, as disclosed in the statement of a
West Australian correspondent that when
Father Long was leaving for Perth en route to
Adelaide the railway authorities grabbed his
luggage, and detained and opened it in search of
the “ sickle ” nugget aforesaid.
A question : Why should we import any mineral
waters when we have at Ballimore, near Dubbo, N.S.W.,
the “ Zetz ” Natural Mineral Water Spring, yielding daily
thousands of gallons of naturally effervescing
taining all the health-giving properties of the best im-
ported waters ? Zetz Spa ranks undoubtedly first as n
Table Water. By its strong alkaline properties it abso-
lutely kills Uric Acid, the cause of so many complaints,
and as an every-day beverage is more pleasant than any
other. Try it with your meals ; it positively cures indi-
gestion ;or with your stimulants. You never will take
any other.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
ACETYLENE 6AS
IS DANGEROUS to the
COAL GAS COMPANIES.
ACETYLENE GAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANIES.
ACETYLENE GAS
IS DANGEROUS to the
OIL TRUSTS.
But it is now well known that
ACETYLENE GAS
is the CHEAPEST, COOLEST,
CLEANEST, SAFEST, and best all-
round Light for the Public.
Hundreds of Testimonials. Write for particu-
lars to the
Acetylene Gas Company
of Australasia Limited,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Patentees of Acetylene Gas and Carbide of
Calcium.
THE PUBLIC ABE WARNED against dealing with
Infringers of our Patents.
THERE are thousands upon thousands of
men as intelligent as you are, and they
drink Sydney Lager Bier, and no other.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Preliminary Advertisement.
Woollahra Point.
THE Grounds surrounding the well-known
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE will be offered
at PUBLIC AUCTION in SUITABLE BUILD-
ING BLOCKS at an early date, with a
FREEHOLD TITLE.
An opportunity will thus be afforded intending
Purchasers to acquire the FINEST WATER
FRONTAGE LOTS ever offered to the Public.
Agents for the Estate —
RAINE & HORNE,
2 Hunter-street, Sydney.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THAT STRONG MAN.
“Yer see Samsin? ”
“Yes; ’n’spoke to’im."
“So ’di, ’ ncarried ’e’s hag wid der weights in!”
“ Morality lets himself loose in a Sydney
daily re the wickedness of publishing Divorce-
court proceedings, which can be read by the small
boy between bites of the green apple. The curious
thing about this raid against indecent details is
that, while each reader is genuinely distressed
about the effect on other readers, he is never at
all anxious about the effect on himself. Thus no
clergyman comes home from touring Italy without
declaring that certain exhibits (sacred to men
only) should be destroyed as too disgraceful, &c.,
&c., and yet no clergyman ever refrains from going
and taking a look himself. A recent number of
the Arena, in an article on newspapers, tells how
the people of a certain American city, especially
the women, arose and declared against impure
details in the daily papers, and how, when one
high-class paper did take the hint and drop into
morality, all the people of that city, especially the
women, went in for the other papers just the
same. The reformed paper had to reform
back again in double-quick time to save itself
from utter extinction.
* * * *
The one thing clearly revealed by the re-
opening of the enquiry into the murder of the
Murphys at Gatton is the strange inactivity, all
things considered, of their blood relations when
the news came to hand. The P.M. and the police
inspector in charge of the case alike complain that
the Murphy family are not doing their best to
assist the inquiry. Brother Bill Murphy sullenly
describes the effect of the gory tidings upon the
Murphy household. “ Witness, continuing, said
that when his brother-in-law, M'Neill, came up
after discovering the bodies he was much excited.
Witness asked if all were dead, and he replied,
‘ Yes, it is something terrible.’ Witness went to
his mother, but could not remember what she
said when she was told. . . . After repeated
questioning witness said that he remembered his
mother saying ‘Oh, my God, my poor children ! ’
Witness went to fetch his father, who was at the
farm, and who asked what was the matter. Wit-
ness replied that Norah, Helen, and Mike had
been murdered. Mr. Murphy, senr., then asked
if they had been shot. When told the facts he
said he was <dad they attended church, on Sunday.”
[The foregoing is more or less contradictory to
what witness had stated at the first enquiry.]
Witness, continuing, said that “ neither he nor his
father while on the way home spoke of the
probable culprit. None of the Murphys had gone
about the country attempting to find out for them-
selves who committed the murder, but M‘Neill
did. Witness’s father had never tried to urge him
to see what he could do. He had never offered to
help the police, or lend them any horses, although
he had heard the police were hiring horses. There
are 20 horses, seven of them draught, on the
farm.” Sticking right out from this queer story
is the fact that the head of the Murphy family
—who “ takes about an hour every evening to say
his prayers ’’—was glad to think his murdered off-
spring had been to church on Sunday; which
suggests that if the enquiry proves fruitless on its
present lines it had better take a religious turn.
* ♦ * *
The Canterbury (N.S.W.) inspector of
nuisances recently, during one fortnight, con-
demned 14 animals for cancer and tuberculosis.
Much easier to believe that inspection elsewhere is
a howling farce than that Canterbury is a special
nursing-ground for these diseases. Satisfactory,
in this connection, to note that one N.S.W. squat-
ter has been fined =£2o for slaughtering a cancerous
beast for human consumption. .£3OO would have
been nearer the mark, of course ; still, the thing
looks like a beginning.
How much per day, and what travelling
expenses, did Q. Govt, allow Burgess for piloting
the police over the mountainous Gatton countiy .
* * * *
“ Perce A.” on a physiognomical point
Your name-crank has omitted to notice that Boot-trunk
Tod is a namesake of Sweeney Todd, the Demon Bar >er.
Dubberke is du Burke, of Burke and Hare, and Thekla is
associated with an atrocity of world-wide celebrity- The
Maiden’s Prayer,” which was perpetrated by Thekla
Badargewska. Many a time in my defenceless infancy,
when compelled to play the ghastly thing did I objurgate
Thekla’s name ! The erotic fools whom you let write of
Dubberke’s “angel face” want suppressing badly.
She has the massive lower jaw of the carnivora—
cruel relentless, and repellent. The comic artist
who ’ draws a burglar or murderer always gives
him a jaw like Thekla, hut it is dotted over with
a week’s growth of stubble, and therefore does
not appeal to the libidinous scribe. It is this stamp of
ordinary sop-head who can’t tell a tigress from a sheep.
In fact, such people rather prefer the pretty tigress, and
when it scratches and bites they wonder how they could
have been such fools. Nun-like eyes have nothing to do
with the ease. The South Sea Island cannibals have most
beautiful eyes. I saw the Peak Hill boy murderer, who
killed his benefactor and mate, and sat alone in the awful
silence of the bush for three days, chopping up the body
and burning it piecemeal. He had large, soft, innocent
blue eyes, hut his lower jaw covered a third of his face
and his upper lip was barely half an inch long.
I have large, innocent blue eyes myself. Of course
many people with weak mouths and big undershot chins
get through life without killing anybody, but let them get
into a tight place, and they have neither discretion nor
mercy.
* * * *
The facts around a certain Melb.
marriage ceremony of two years ago which missed-
fire owing to the absence (so far unexplained) of
the bridegroom at the eleventh hour, are dramatic
enough to form a playwright’s plot. The bride-
to-be, like Dubberke, had a “friend.” He had
occupied the position for a considerable period,
and objected strongly when she accepted an offer
of marriage. But he expostulated in vain. She was
ennuyee (many women marry because they want a
change), and wed she would. However, the
partnership was not dissolved up to the night
before the ceremony, and at nine o’clock next
morning the “friend ” rooted the expectant groom
out of bed and unfolded to him a tale which
nearly resulted in bloodshed. The deceived youth
was, however, compelled to accept irrefutable
proofs, and the two went out and had a drink
together. At any rate, while the bride was vainly
waiting, with fire in her eye, at the altar, the
missing one was moving out aboard a Tas.
steamer, and the “friend ’ was waving a pocket-
handkerchief at him genially from the wharf.
The Primitive Metho-
dists in Maoriland lately
closed the ranks of their
“elect” to non-abstainers.
The Dutch
Reformed
Church at
the Cape
has taken
exactly
the oppo-
site view
SCRIPTURE UP TO DATE
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER : “ Wha
was put in the lion's den?”
"Dan Fitzgerald! ”
of Christian duty. Its Synod declares that members
who unite themselves with teetotal societies be-
come unfaithful to their membership in the Kerk,
and, if after repeated warnings they take no heed,
they are to be cut off from membership. Wesley
and square gin.
Not generally known that the main
entrance to Victoria Barracks (Sydney)
was once captured in day’
light and the fort success-
fully held for several hours
by a single individual. The
invader was an escaped
lunatic, laboring under the
delusion that he was a
large foreign army. Arm-
ing himself with a revol-
ver he boldly charged the
ramparts and potted the
sentry on duty in the
shin. Then he made for
the. guards’ quarters, just
inside the gate, and fired
a few shots through the
window, whereupon the
guards left hurriedly per
back door, leaving the fort
to the enemy, who prompt-
ly collected all the stray
rifles and proceeded to
take pot shots at any-
one who came within
range. The defeated
guards retired gracefully,
invoked the aid of the
local policeman, and
“egged” him on to go
and recapture the outpost.
The daring trap crept up
to the window and called
out the “looney,” who
immediately pumped a
charge of lead into his helmet.
Eventually the “cop” succeeded
in convincing the enemy that he was
one of him, and he got in and surrounded
the invading army and marched it off to “ quod.”
* • * *
“ R.H.” : A. D. Bayldon’s glorifica-
tion of swimmers’ “ lily-like whiteness ” will
find no sympathisers among women. Once, at a
country swimming match, I stood close to two
well-developed young damsels between 17 and 19,
and couldn’t help overhearing the following :
“ Oh, Edith, look ! that’s a nice chap over there
in pink trunks!” Edith, disgustedly : “Him/
Why, Nell, he hasn’t got a hair on his legs ! ”
Neli (disappointedly) : “No ; no more he has ”
* * * •
No man is a hero to his wife's lodger.
New version.
How to secure a cheap di-
vorce in N.S.W. File an affida-
vit that you are not worth
£,25; then leave will be
granted to petition in forma
;pauperis. This will save at
least .£l5 in court-fees alone.
A solicitor may accept
from petitioner a pre-
sent in money be-
fore the petition
is filed, but not
afterwards. The sublime etiquette of the profes-
sion bars recompense after that point.
* m * *
Scene—concert. Amateur lady singing
painfully. Man in the audience, apologetically :
“ She’s not singing so well to-night, she had her
tonsils out lately.” His fair companion : “Pity
she didn’t have her throat cut while she was about
it! ”
THE TROUBLES OF A MUSIC-TEACHER.
TEACHER: “Play your scales, Mrs. O'Mara."
MRS. O’M.: “ Niver moind yer weights and scales—
jist tache me ‘Pathrick’s Day' right away."
(Collapse of teacher.)
A Brisbane Presbyterian Church is deter-
mined to cut out all rivals. Unable to cope with
the attractions of another establishment by ordi-
nary methods, the elders of aforesaid kirk sub-
sidised a ’bus to carry worshippers free to the
door of their particular House of God. If this
goes on, we shall yet see intending church-goers
presented with a tram-ticket and 3d. to put in the
plate—by the zealous kirk authorities. And,
really, a man ought to be subsidised who goes
regularly to listen to a good Calvinistic sermon.
THE A.N.A. ART UNION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One destiny, one mob,
And a fortune for a bob,
Is our screed, we bow the knee alone to boodle ;
Work and graft are out of date,
When a fortune lies in wait,
And the prudent man’s an antiquated noodle.
Parsons run their Godly prize,
An art-union of the skies,
Every weelt on Sunday mornings at eleven ;
Sunday-trading, spite of laws,
And it’s winked at—just because
The good fortune that they offer you is—Heaven.
Yet, the inconsistent Cloth
Grow inordinately wroth
At our yearly A.N.A. Foundation scramble ;
If our sin to them is loss,
Let them meekly bear the cross,
For they taught us in the first place how to gamble.
Vio.
BANOOL.


Tbe AOtOIQO AttractioijS
at MARK FOV’S
PreseQt all tb« AlUirenjeijts of Fa&b'OO
Pear to every Lady’s N«art.
MilliOtry, MaptleS, Press Materials, Frills,
ai)d Ftirbelows-
58
17
m
All Drapers Everywhere.
“The Orange Flower Serenade,” by
Auguste Wiegand, City Organist. Piano Solo,
25.; Soprano Song, 25.; postage 2d. extra. W.
H. Paling and Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and
Brisbane. *
“ The Albatross Lamp Wick” is unlike the N.S.
Wales Premier, Georgie Reid. It “ requires no trim-
miner” and its mission in the world is to Federate, and
add to the comforts of the community. The unanimous
vote of the “female suffrage society” has been given
unconditionally to this “peer of light.”*
Gloves
Gloves
Gloves
AT
REDITCED PRICES!
French Kid Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and Blacks, 1/11^
“ Dent’s ” Austrain Lamb Gloves, in all shades, 2/6
Fownes Paris Kid Gloves, in all shades and black, 2/11
“ Dent’s ” Chevertte Kid Gloves, any color and black, 3/6
“ Dent’s” Chevrette Washing Suede, in white, 1/11
~ „ special quality, broad black stitchings, 2/6
Fownes best Paris Suede Gloves, in any shade, 2/11
The “Merlier” Suede Gloves, all shades, and all em-
broidered backs, 3/11
Superior Chevrette Suede Gloves, in all shades, 3/11
“ Dent’s” Chamois Cycling Gloves, best make, 2/11
White Kid Gloves, with Pink, Green, Heliotrope em-
broidered backs, only 2/6 ; worth 3/11
Long Kid or Suede Evening Gloves, in Tans, Drabs, and
White, new stitching, 2/11 and 3/6
Letter-orders receive prompt and special attention.
W. T. WATERS &. CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS lii>,c wo E,|ual -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 14th, 1899.
My Dear Myek—
As if to paint in still darker tints the sombre
departure from these shores of the Hampdens,
the death of the Dowager Viscountess Hampden
was cabled just after the vice-regal party had
sailed from Adelaide; so that N.S.W.’s already -
troubled ex-Governor was fated to be met at
Albany with the sad tidings of his mother’s death.
Sydney is simply pouring itself out on to the
Pacific this year. Every fifth person has gone, or
is going, Londonwards, and, of course, those who
have never been there before call it “Home ” with
the loudest note of appropriation. So many are
departing that it really looks as if there would be
no Potts Point in Sydney this season. However,
I hear that some of the Sydney people who went
away a little earlier in the year will be leaving
England again somewhere in April. By the way,
Lord Beauchamp leaves in April. A coincidence,
possibly. Still, we mustn’t overlook the marvellous
superiority of anyone who can say “ I came out on
the same boat with Lord Beauchamp.” To say
nothing of the true inwardness of bringing one’s
fair daughters into his Ex. ’s presence on a long
voyage, especially if Lady Mary Lygon- Liggon,
please—suffers from the sea.
It seems that there isn’t much the shops
don’t know about prominent people’s frock-
ing; especially when the dressmaking has not
been done at their own establishments. I
heard a shop-woman spreading herself with
simply superb authority the other day on the
clothes of one who is considered among the best-
dressed women in Sydney. Her audience was a
customer being “fitted.” “But I thought she
got her frocks from Paris,” said the customer
humbly. “Not she!” said the lady, with her
tongue full of pins. “’Er sister made that rose-
pink satin with the flounces out of the frock she
wore last year to Lady Haitches’ ball, and she’s
havin’ it covered this year with spangled rose-
colored toole, and coral belt ’n’ trimmin’s. That
blue frock with the peplum was made in the ’ouse;
it’s lined with green cashmere, and three green
flounces at the foot. I don’t like her in
that. Nor I don’t like her in that little
black toque with the sables. It don’t suit her.
She got that at B’s sale as cheap as dirt and
altered it herself. That’s where Lady de Jones
got her ’ydrangea hat. I know how much that
cost. She’s getting a lovely frock for the races
made at Miss Jayses, but that’ll be her only knot
walkin’-dress this autumn; the others are just
going to be taken to pieces at ’ome, and made-up
in the knoo shapes, but she has two puffickly
lovely ball-dresses.” On, on, she rattled. She
knew all about Society’s stockings, lingerie, hair-
dressing, cloaks, frocks, hats, and never for a
moment did she speak as “one of the scribes.”
How some of the upper-crust would pride them-
selves on superior inf ormation like this ! To know
all about other people’s dresses is quite the third
biggest fashionable-female disease of the century,
and causes more quacking than any other feminine
complaint going. Yet it seems that the dress-
makers, who seldom get a chance of seeing
the frocks they describe so truthfully and
gloatingly, run the upper-circles very hard in the
race for knowledge. The only explanation of
dressmakers’ superiority is that when they get
together they fall into the historic custom of
talking “skirts, not sentiments.”
A visit to Dorothy Vane is like a trip to toy-
land. I went to see her at Pfahlert’s Hotel in
Wynyard Square, the other day, and found her
room packed with toy monkeys, toy parrots, toy
parasols, and all sorts of Jap. and Sydney dolls
and fans. These are all fixed up on a big screen
in the middle of her gay little room, and represent
the offerings of the gods, as well as of the ordinary
theatre-going mortals. The big Dolly, in a pink
wrapper, sat quaintly on one foot in an arm-
chair, and looked as if La Poupee’s move-
ments had got into her blood. I thought
you might like to hear that her stage-hair is
quite her own, and is a short, silky, golden affair
that doesn’t Curl but isn’t straight. By some
strange freak, she looks alternately 16 and 30, and
owes her stage prettiness more to magnetism than
to anything more substantial. About the convent,
she hesitates a little now, and when we spoke of it,
looked as if she had been teased to the limits of
her liking. She will probably play in pantomime
here next year, so the convent walls are not going
to close down on her just yet. Like every actress
God or man ever made, she likes herself best in
sad parts, and wishes she had more of them, but
says, candidly, “nobody will have mein them.”
lolanthe is her next change of character. As
Pitti-Sing she first felt herself getting hold of the
Sydney public ; until then she hadn’t seemed, to
herself at any rate, to catch them. “ It is very
lonely,” says Dorothy, “coming home from the
theatre after a big reception with all your flowers
and fal-lals, and having none of your people to
talk things over with.” Still, she takes very palp-
able joy in her Australian successes, and is neither
too old nor too artful to tell you so.
Another visit I paid last week was to Miss
Theo. Cowan’s studio, a queer little den up in the
roof of one of the Arcades. The handsome Aus-
tralian sculptress, a black-haired, blue-eyed artist,
was working away in a professionally-dirty holland
qverall that reached to her feet. I had a look at
her latest achievement, and even in its unburnt
terra-cotta state was attracted by its bold, yet
tenderly idealistic treatment. A big, modern-
looking angel, with long, wind-blown hair,
ig the centre figure of the panel, and on either
side is a girlish figure, one sleeping, one
wide-eyed, looking away to the rising sun on the
left of the panel. The destiny of this charming
work is to fill a panel in the front of a red “ Hor-
bury Hunt house ” occupied by Mr. F. White at
Armidale, and the two girlish figures are allegori-
cal of a pathetic incident in the White family,
when one sister was drowned in trying to save
another’s life. Such very low relief has been em-
ployed that the figures are almost flat, but even to
an outsider the high imaginative quality of the
conception, and the gracefulness of the composition
must appeal. As for connoisseurs, Miss Cowan
appears to be equal to the most exacting demands.
Her commissions are becoming more and more fre-
quent, and, generally speaking, in Australia it is
only people with a critical appreciation of sculpts
who care to indulge in them. Among her latest
commissions is a bust of Edmund Barton, and
also an important public matter that may not be
spoken of yet.
Pattie Browne is the next to be benefited. I
hear that her benefit is to be a great, big, brilliant
affair. It is an open secret that Pattie’s part in
the panto.—as far as Pattie was concerned—was
chiefly a matter of shekels, but, before she had
time to gather many of these in, her illness forced
her out of the piece.
Last week, there appeared in the papers the
advt. of a benefit to Miss Gwen Dallas, setting
forth in a long column the date, the hour, and
what you would get when you got— where? For
there was not a mention of where the benefit
was to be. I noticed a good many names set
forth as helpers in connection with the benefit;
in fact, so profuse was the ad. that the only possible
detail that hadn’t been made public was the rather
necessary one of “place where.” Now the omis-
sion of this little fact from a benefit is fraught
with dangers. People who never meant to go can
say, “ So sorry, but I couldn’t find out where your
benefit was to be. ” People who meant to go, but
didn’t want to, can squeeze through the same loop-
hole and give the same reason for staying away.
That nobody ever went to a benefit out of pure
love of going to benefits, is a well-known theatri-
cal axiom.
Sydney runs far too much to benefits. In the
case of a lady of good position and decent means,
who is about to start with hubby on a pleasure
tour, there is grumbling amongst the artistes who
are more or less involuntarily contributing to the
benefit programme. Many of these have had
several pounds’ worth of tickets sent to them to
sell, and as they have neither the power nor the
time to dispose of them otherwise, have been ob-
liged to buy them up themselves, as the committee
delicately refuses to allow them to be returned.
In “Shadows of a Great City,” at the
Royal, Mr. O’Neill deserves special commen-
dation for the womanish way in which he
pats Miss Ada Guildford’s sorrowful head,
as this is a place where most men would re-
veal their sex. And the other matter that always
gives away a man in petticoats—l mean his feet—
turned out to be just a trifle too small for your
genuine Biddy. One of the most painful things
in this play is to see the cruel change in Robert
Inman’s handsome face when he puts on a
moustache. Any man who can’t quite make up
his mind to take a clean shave is here advised to
go and see what happens to the beautiful Robert
after his moustache grows. '
Speaking of theatricals, Falk, the well-known
photographer, is going to make a bold try and
shake off the reputation for putting on his best
style for actresses only. The firm now seeks to
establish its fame in a special branch of children’s
photography, and I saw some original ideas of
turning children into angels, with little ready-
made wings, that will delight the heart of all fond
mothers. One of these angel-studies displayed
itself in a show-case to the admiration of two
women, the other day, One mother was heard to
remark feelingly to the other: “It would be so
sweet to have the children taken like that. You
know, if anything happened to them, with these
photographs one would feel that they really were
angels. ” Many people would rather not enter into
considerations like these, and for them there are
charming and natural ways of taking baby’s like-
ness. Another speciality of Falk’s as the lamp-
light portrait, which can be taken by lamp-liglit
alone. I saw several of these in Mr. Brooke
Thornley’s pretty green-and-blue studio, and,
looking round, was struck by the fact that the
well-dressed woman with smartly ondule hair, and
fashionable frock, is a disagreeable failure photo-
graphically. In fact, if you want to get at the
inner ugliness of an extremely fashionable gown,
see it in a photo., and you’ll be surprised at the
way in which the camera shows up the meaning-
lessness of stylish trimmings.
One of the typical photographs of the day is
that of the Madden-Osborne bride, taken for a
Melbourne weekly. It is called “Miss Daisy
Madden’s farewell to Cloyne,” and was taken just
before the bride left for the Cathedral. With the
long tail of her wedding-dress kicked well out in
front, the bride paused on the way to be married,
and had her photograph taken. She stands alone
on the staircase, making a large picture of veil
and orange-blossom, and yards of white satin, and
plump, calm bride. Nobody but Bride enters into
the picture, but it doesn’t need much imagination to
feel the whole of the Madden family hiding away
round the corner of that staircase.
By the way, this portrait has won itself much
fame as a photographic feat. It was taken at
half-past one on the day of the wedding, and next
morning the picture was all over the country. And
to think that we have no photographs of —well, of
the twelve apostles!
A fashionable just-wedded couple proceeded on
their honeymoon per southern mail last week.
The groom reserved a compartment, on the window
of which an “Engaged” ticket was put. Some
wag, however, pasted over this a card similarly
printed, but labelled “ Married.” It was a cruel
joke.
I hear that Woollahra House ballroom is going
to be the fashionable mise-en-scknc of many private
Society dances this season. The snobility who
haven’t ballrooms of their own will here be able
to experience a keener proprietary feeling than
can be worked up over the ordinary, hired floor,
where common clayey feet may have trod awful
things like “The Caledonians” only the night
before.
Told (by Society, with wounded pride) of a re-
cent addition to Sydney’s inner circles. She was
house-hunting, and was taken to see what Sydney
considers a particularly swagger place, whose in-
mates were going off on a jaunt to Europe and
wouldn’t let tneir house to everybody. Instead of
being dazzled by its grandeur, she merely swished
round for a bit silkenly, then remarked with in-
expressible scorn: “Really I couldn’t think of
living in a house where there wasn’t a bath-room
and a dressing-room to every bedroom.” Since
then Society has hastened to find out that the lady
who was showing them all the way they should go
once lived in a Sydney suburb where dressing-
rooms haven’t even yet penetrated.
Of course you can’t believe all you hear, even
about musicians. But the following smart trick
was positively ascribed by many people to a, well-
known music-teacher. He receives pupils at
so many guineas a quarter, cash advance, lady
pupils preferred. When the fee is paid he gives
the lady a few lessons and then—tries to kiss her.
Of course the victim does not wish to create a
scandal, so she simply rises, leaves the room with
fearful dignity, and never returns to take the
balance of her lessons. Thus the cute professional
gets paid at the rate of a guinea or so a lesson.
But stay. She might have been tenderly playing
“ The Way to Paradise ” with both pedals down,
and he may have nearly kissed her to find if that
was the way there. Or supposing she were gal-
loping presto through somebody’s Funeral March,
naturally he would feel that he must stop her
journey at all costs. I wouldn’t be too sure about
the monetary considerations.
Forty horrors have lately happened to our local
Art Gallery. Somebody with a mania for other
people’s old Masters has just presented us with
forty imitation Raphaels, Titians, Murillos, An-
drea del Sartos, Filippo Lippis, Carlo Dolcis,
and other great dead men. Sydney hasn’t begun
to rave over the gifts yet, for people who like
these things at all, like them real. And people
who don’t like these things at all, don’t like the
imitations any better. The thought of coming at
every turn on “St. John as a Youth,” an “Angel
refusing the gift of Tobias,” “Magdalene with a
box of ointment,” and seven “ Virgin and Child,”
and knowing that they are only copies, does not
raise thrills in this uneducated city.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ ‘ Music hath charms ’: A speaker at an un-
employed meeting lately suggested as a new kind
of sensation that the men should assemble at the
organ recital in the Town Hall in the afternoon
and impress the swells with the desperateness of
their earnestness. They entered the hall headed by
their constant friend, Dr. Maloney, and they all
took front seats. But they did not have the
chance of soiling the skirts of Lady Brassey,
&c., with their hobnails ; the nobility climbed
into back seats and let the unemployed have
the front end to themselves. The recital
was listened to attentively, and, at the con-
clusion, three cheers were given by the men, who
did not know why they did it except that the doc-
tor told them to. Thus ended the demonstration.
It did not turn out as anticipated by the man who
suggested it. It was not a bit dramatic. The
music quelled the turbulence. The men came to
jeer and remained to cheer.
“ That newspaper correspondence re ‘ The Aus-
tralian Woman ’ has set carpers raking up past
peccadilloes of local naughty girls. One resur-
rected shocker treats of a society-leader who made
no secret of her weakness for a bygone beauty-
actor. Apropos thereof, Mrs. Giddy-Gout afore-
said, according to not such very ancient tradition,
once engaged, by wire, rooms at a popular resort
for herself and ‘maid’ for Saturday till Monday.
When ‘ Mistress and Maid ’ arrived, latter proved
to be such a tall, strapping Abigail as never was.
And talk about upsetting ways ! Occupants of
adjoining rooms averred that the unaccountably
pampered hussy spent the livelong Sabbath tied
to her employer’s apron-strings, smoking cigarettes,
whistling and lounging, in the fancied privacy of
the latter’s apartments.
“ Another lively matron loved cycling in its day
as a monkey does nuts. She liked to wheel out of
town with a band of merry pedallers of both
sexes, halting at some country inn for refresh-
ments. After a hot and dusty ride, the leader of
the party would whisk off her “stuffy skirt” and
sit down to dinner with her friends in Eton jacket,
starched shirt-front and tweed knickers.
“One used to hear a good deal at one time of
various devoted but not exactly eligible swains
attached to the Madden household, and the ex-
ample of the parents Madden, who began with a
modest establishment, was quoted as a golden rule
for the young ones to follow. However, these
adorers seem to have gone the way of all in-
eligibles, and the two eldest Misses Madden have
bestowed their affections on well-endowed part-
ners. Miss Madden was offered the choice of
seven homes by her husband-elect —it must have
been almost as interesting as choosing the Federal
capital. And the careful girl chose Yass.
“ It looked almost as though the two who set-to
partners last week had crossed over from their
respective corners of religion. An absence of
church-decorations in the case of the Protestant
bride was due to this being the season of dust and
ashes, and yet there was an exuberant spread at
the R.O. rendezvous in honor of the happy pair.
Considering the trouble they had in getting special
permission for a Lenten splice, the tabernacle’s
festive appearance was somewhat incomprehen-
sible.
“Miss Blanche Reade, a pretty little Melbourne
girl who has splintered many hearts in her time,
is to face Hymen’s music on March 28 with a Syd-
ney man, Dr. W. Septimus Hinder.
“ Among the many brides-elect at present in the
thick of trousseau-preparations may be mentioned
the daughter of Mr. Sam "Winter, of Melb.
’Erald.
“ Women rushed into Autumn dresses while the
thermometer was bubbling over the 90’s, and
rubbed shoulders at Flemington with fragile Sum-
mery things in chiffon, chemisettes and muslin
blouses, through which the lace of their linen and
PD’s stood self-confessed. The greatest splash in
dressing there was achieved by the plump young
wife of the Mount Morgan millionaire, for whom
taste and coin have worked wonders.
“Maggie Stirling cleared £360 by her Metro-
politan concert, and £4O by a minor venture,
while several smaller sums were derived from
successful country ‘farewells.’ Her passage to
England, ’tis understood, was the gift of an open-
handed patroness, and altogether the popular
favorite was sent off in a manner worthy of her
merits.
“The religious people were hard enough on
Prof. Marshall Hall a few months ago, hut they
are ready to seek his aid when he can help them.
Two nuns waited on him recently, and asked him
to work a concert in aid of St. Yincent’s Hospital.
Being a good sort of fellow, with a sense of humor,
he consented at once. But fancy nuns invading
the sanctum of the author of ‘ Hymns Ancient and
Modern ! ’ Really, nuns are the only women who,
unquestioned, can go absolutely anywhere.
“Sydney girls, ’tis said, have their ideas re the
present rush of Melbourne spinsters to local
horticultural grounds to ‘learn professional gar-
dening. ’ Considering the hideous striped uniform
prescribed, one must admit that this sudden
yearning for the society of hoes and sprinklers
looks a scrap suspicious, not forgetting, of course,
that much-canvassed cable as to vice-regal bachelor
Beauchamp’s passion for gardening.
“The accomplished and much-travelled daughter
of an old pastoral family played a successful lone
hand at fruit-growing in a local irrigation colony.
When she joined farms and fates with an adjacent
block-holder, she still stuck to the trade of her
spinster days. Thanks to feminine intuition, this
cute cultivator planted sultanas in the nick of
time, a season or two ago, and sold them to her
own satisfaction, while most of her male neigh-
bors conserved their pet crops in the teeth of a
falling market, and, in consequence, feed their
pigs on dried apricots to this day.
“ An old Northern identity, who took his own
life a while back, evidently regarded marriage as
a desperate expedient. A document found among
his papers proved that some years before he had
been strongly inclined to self-slaughter, balancing
long between the alternatives of death and matri-
mony. The attractions of the latter prevailed for
the time being, and the elderly widower took to
himself a young, handsome and devoted wife.
Later on, the exemplary husband and fond father
once more fell a-thinking of his first love—the
grave. Result—suicide.
“The Prince of Wales, according to a London
paper, never franks his letters, as he might easily
do, but pays postage. In this he sets an example
(not likely to be followed) to certain people in
Australia. When a certain Governor was away,
and there was a difficulty about getting franked
envelopes at Government House, an aide used to
go up to the Govt, offices on mail-days to write
letters to his friends at ’Ome, thereby saving
postage.
“ Top-scoring at cricket seems to have been the
death of one of the Emancipated. Mrs. Keir died
at Koroit last Monday at the age of 24 after a
series of brilliant performances on Koroit cricket-
ing-pitch. This young sporting matron, who
secretaried the Women’s Wicket club, was the
champion and ruler of the ladies of the Lake team.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


smoke
THREE CASTLES
□
CIGARETTES,
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. I.— The Baker.
Mr. T. Streater writes : “I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. I am a baker by
trade, which as you know, is very hard work, but
I am pleased to say that when I am done of a
night, I go home and have a cup of your Cocoa,
and feel quite fresh .again, and then I go and enjoy
myself. But before I took to Dr. Tibbie’s Vi-
Cocoa, I used to mess about indoors as tired as
could be. ”
Vi-Cocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted dietetic
value, Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa is at once digestive
and refreshing, nutritious and invigorating. This
is the secret of its phenomenal success. It seems,
so far as we can gather, to agree with everybody,
and everybody is agreed in giving it a good name.
Apparently it is the accepted beverage of a people
who have recognised and appreciated its remark-
able health-giving properties. And certainly, in
this age of rush and worry, wear and tear, when
the energies of mind and body are so severely
taxed, it is an ideal food.
Dr. Tibbies’Vi Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers, and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
As an unparralleled test of merit, a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbie’s Vi-Cocoa will be sent
free on application to any address, if when writing
(a postcard will do) the reader will name The
Bulletin.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post i/4, 2/G,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8, 5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 24(5George-st., Sydney.*
Tlie Famous Freac h
Chocolate.
CHOCBtBT-inEniEß
Obtainable from all Urocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. 31. Cameron & Co.,
240 C>cO)';;r-si.,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lisson has been sent to a lunatic asylum.
Yet certain people wished to send the insane
assassin to the gallows.
Sydney D.T. staff are reported to be
Federalists to a man. However, they are Anti-
Federalists to a man-agement.
Eleven more solicitors added to the N.S.W.
roll—amongst them a great-grandson of the cele-
brated Major Mudie, of Castle Forbes.
Garrard and Gould “ Honorables.” Pro-
bably, in the long run, the most effectual way of
killing the appetite for such distinctions.
T. R. M'KTBBIN, another howler for the XI.
Vic. Minister of Agriculture Taverner was
in early life a coach-driver at Swan Hill. Orator
Deakin’s father likewise drove Cobh’s coaches.
Morpeth (N.S.W.) intends to put forth
its claims as site for the Federal capital. Morpeth
has one strong mortgage on the distinction, for
John Haynes says he was born there.
Arthur Horthun, who, in the early days,
lagged out more of the Barrier than any other
man, but did not succeed in striking anything
rich, died, the other day, wretchedly poor.
Frank Clark, who made way for Edmund
Barton’s admission to N.S.W. Parliament, struck
the public for a testimonial at an apathetic
moment. The subscription-list closes down with
£4O.
“ General ” Booth, on arrival in Adelaide,
looked fit for the grave instead of for a big cam-
paign. He was only able to walk with assistance,
and he seemed 20 years older than when here
last. His illness is attributed to overwork on the
voyage out.
There are points in being “on” a religious
paper. For instance, Sydney Catholic Press, in
announcing the serious illness of a valued lady
contributor of verse, asks its readers to “ pray for
her recovery.” The Bulletin poets, alas, are
past praying for.
Ebenezer Ward, M.L.C., of Adelaide,
joined London Morning Post as a junior at
the same time as Algernon Borthwick (Lord
Glenesk), the present proprietor, and they were
very close personal friends. Ebby talks of going
to England to renew the acquaintance.
What, a marvellous hold Kipling has, fur a
man still young ! No other writer since Tennyson
would have been made the subject of so much
cable fuss when on a sick bed. And yet it is
almost certain that the majority 50 years hence
will be quite unfamiliar with the name of Rudyard.
Barrister St. Leger, who fell before Forrest
and Macdonald Paterson in the contest for N.
Brisbane, was one of the deputies to Sydney at
the centenary celebration of the Irish Rebellion
last year. He fought N. Brisbane in the Labor
interest, and is the type of man bound to be heard
from again.
The fact that. JRudyard Kipling’s grand-
fathers (on both sides) were Wesleyan ministers
induced the Adelaide Conference to pray for his
recovery. The improvement in his condition
occurred immediately afterwards. Unfortunately
the conference did not know of his daughter’s ill-
ness until too late.
“H.R.L.”: People who consider the
character of Thekla Dubberke unique fail to note
its similarity to that of Goneril in “ King Lear.”
Shakespeare—that universal authority on female
character—evidently considered the Thekla Dub-
berke species of importance enough to typify in
perhaps his strongest tragedy.
“It is believed that Commissioner Chom-
lev will recommend that of the boot-box rewards,
.£5OO be given to the man in Prell’s Building, and
probably part of £5O for identification to Senior-
constable Davidson, of the morgue, who suggested
the keeping of the head.” Which strikes Thu
Bulletin as an absolutely logical distribution.
“J.F.”: Apropos that eccentricity of the
Duke of Northumberland, there is a well-known
family in Northern N.S.W. which keeps a vacant
chair on the right of the head of the house at
each meal, awaiting the coming Messiah.
Parkes loved to tell this story about one
of his most slavish supporters, The latter, who
had in former years been a butcher, was addres-
sing his constituents, and in perorating came to —
“I have served you, ladies and gentlemen”
and then paused. Then a voice at the back
yelled, “ With sausages ! ”
“ Hermes ” : It is an awful thing to live in
even the same terrace as a poet. In print he may
be more or less charming, but in the flesh he is
generally a horror. If you try to take him
home he falls down in the street and makes
libellous remarks about your mother. This
writer knows one, the most decent poet he
has ever met, who celebrates publication-day by
filling-up with strange drinks, buying the first
news-boy’s entire stock, a few second-hand books,
and four tins of lobster. About 2 a.m. he hies
him to a cab-rank and deposits the papers in the
first cab, the books in the second, the lobsters in
the third, himself in the fourth, and drives home
in procession amid rhapsodies of blasphemy.
Geoffrey Eagar, the tedious anti-Bill critic
and organiser, is a son of Geoffrey Eagar, the suc-
cessive holder of portfolios in N.S. W. Parliaments
of the past. Eagar, sen., earned great praise m
his day for his clear dissection of financial state-
ments —which seems to make Eagar, jun., think
himself a dab on the finances of the Common-
wealth.
Wellington (M.L.) Trades and Labor
Council contributed £2 towards the fund being
raised to erect a statue to the memory of Hon
Grey in Great Britain. Auckland and Dunedin
didn’t subscribe a cent. And nobody is anxious
in Maoriland to give of his substance to build up
any local symbol of his grateful memory of the
old chief—who planted the seeds of Democracy in
the land of the Moa.
Sub-Inspector Musgrove, who died, the
other day, at Bathurst, accompanied Supt. Sander-
son atthequellingof theanti-Chinese riots at Lamb-
ing Flat, away back in the early 60’s. Previous to
that he had been stationed at Rockhampton, when
Queensland was part of N.S.W. Originally he
was one of the Queen’s Guards in England.
Kiandra and Lambing Flat, however, supplied
him with his most vivid remembrances.
Parkes, when in power, got his own por-
trait hung in N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
Dibbs followed suit with a portrait of Dibbs.
Now Reid follows suit with a portrait of Reid.
The national Pantheon is being crammed, in the
name of Art, with the effigies of gods who worship
themselves. The Gallery is supposedly educa-
tional ; but it is becoming a mere hoarding for the
blatant self-advertisement of impudent politicians.
Primate Smith’s leave-taking of the ami-
able Gov. Hampden was affectionate and paternal,
but, on the whole, strictly secular. Bishop Barker,
the much-married, was a hotter soldier of the
church army. His way was to seize the outgoing
Governor by the forearms, drag him to his knees,
and pray with him for a long five minutes. If he
could catch the Gov.’s wife and family at the
same time, so much the better. He rounded all
into a group, and, leading the way in knee-drill,
parted from them in prayer.
ENGLISH UNDEFILED.
Scene —Inside tram; young man gets up to give
young lady a seat.
YOUNG LADY: “I hope I am not depriving you."
YOUNG MAN: “Not at all, miss. No depravity."
The envied M.R.C.P. degree has been
secured by that earnest student, Dr. G. E. Rennie,
ex-N.S.\V. Govt. Pathologist, and youngest son
of the N.S.W. Auditor-General. Dr. Rennie,
who greatly distinguished himself during his
career at London University years ago, proposes
remaining in England for a few years to pursue
his studies in the more obscure nervous diseases,
and will, on his return, be heartily welcomed as a
consultant by the medical profession of Sydney.
“ General " Booth, as usual, tried to con-
vert the pressmen who interviewed him in Ade-
laide, but the reporters, as it happened, were the
two hardest cases in S.A. One of them still has
a testament presented to him by Capt. Guise,
Gov. Buxton’s pious aide-de-camp. Three S.A.
Register reporters, by-the-way, are local preachers,
and one bombards the devil in the park lands on
Sundays.
An Australian Judge has a houseful of re-
lations, nephews and nieces too numerous to men-
tion, living together as one family, and a particu-
larly happy family, too. They are all wards of
his Honor’s, and the existence of the collection is
due to a strange series of fatalities amongst the
elder relatives of the Judge. The year 1868 was
a calamitous one ; the unusual run of fatalities re-
curred in ’7B, and again in ’BB, and so impressed
was his Honor with the significance of the coinci-
dence that he was quite convinced that he must
go under in ’9B, and made every preparation for
the sad event—put all his affairs in order, and was
with difficulty dissuaded from resigning his judge-
ship. Evidently the Fates having his family
affairs in hand were off duty in 1898, and his
Honor is still going well and strong, with a new
lease of life.
“ Locust ” obituarises Tyson :
‘‘What a time he might have had, and didn’t?” But
this verdict depends upon the point of view. He may
have thought he was having a good time ; but we know
better. Enough evidence lies in the fact that each of us,
knowing that he didn’t share our particular rapture,
believes that Tyson had no raptures worth mentioning.
He seems to have occupied most of his days in finding
out things he could do without, and doing without ’em.
The number of things he gave up before he finally added
the ghost to the list, must have been remarkable. It is
definitely fixed that he had onty two habits left —sleeping
out and cutting up and rolling tobacco. Most men who .
live to be 40 spend a lot of time in giving up habits which
they have been acquiring from youth upwards - except in
cases where the habits give them up, which not infre-
quently happen. Tyson never did anything that rich
men do—he didn’t even make a will. He never globe-
trotted or bought pictures, or got himself painted by
Longstaff, or collected autographs or blue china, or kept
a harem, or racehorses, or a yacht. True, he was a col-
lector in his way—of bullocks ; but that was his only re-
deeming vice. A wasted life—quite wasted. Now, if—
but speculation is vain.
The just-deceased ex-Gov. Bowen’s term of
office in Victoria will be remembered by
the famous “ Black Wednesday ” expul-
sion of civil-service incompetents (and
competents), but almost as well by the
amatory excursions of the
large-hearted George. Many
were the unpublishable
yarns in which His Ex.
figured as hero, and, in
the seventies, there were
many in Melb. who knew,
or said, that Her Majesty’s
pi um p r epresen tat i ve ' ‘ did ”
Bon i ke-street on occasion
disguised in a false heard
in pursuit of the frisky
damsel of the period.
Once, when the Govt,
quarters were temporarily
at Bishopscourt, E. Melb.,
George returned home
about 4 a.m., and was
seized by a vigilant cop
as he was in the act of
fumbling with his latch-
key. The reluctant tale
that he was the Governor
was received with a sneer
of incredulity by the
policeman, « ho expected
to be made chief-com-
missioner on the strength
of the capture, for the
false heard stood as
powerful evidence of bur-
glariousintentions. Even-
tually George had to per-
suade the cop to arouse
his butler, an ascetic
person generally believed
to be running in the in-
terests of her ladyship,
and that majestic per-
sonage explained the posi-
tion by throwing the door
open, and remarking, in
withering tones, “Good morn-
ing, Sir George.” But old George
Bowen was so keen a perk-hunter that
when the departmental order went forth
that the Governor’s gas-bill, but not his
coal-bill, would be paid for by the anguished
country, he had every fireplace in the house
fitted with a gas-heater.
Sam. Begg, one of The Bulletin’s first
artists—he it was who drew the old-time elaborate
Bulletin heading—has long been a member of the
staff of Illustrated London News, in which
]>ap r many ixn, ortant drawings of his appear.
Vic.’s cheap Agent-General, the military
Clarke, was once so pronounced a Radical that he
polled the entire workingman vote of South Mel-
bourne. But his opinions then were a mere pass-
ing attack. His father was Governor of Wes-
tralia, and he himself for a time Governor of
Straits Settlements. He is now in his 75th year.
George Barton, big brother to Toby, is
about the most consistent pen-wielder in Sydney.
He practically lives at the Public Library in the
daytime, writing hard from the opening of the
Library until dusk, except at lunch-time, when he
tikes ten minutes in the Gardens. Anything
that smells like Old Australia strikes responsive
chords in his chest, and he has “colonial ” history
dropping ready-made off his finger-ends. Per-
sonally he is very tall and meagre, and looks about
as urdike Toby as even a brother can look.
“ Tui Tea ” tells The Bulletin a Grey
anecdote :
Near Hori Grey’s residence on Kawau stood a great
pohutukawa tree, whose sprawling branches made it easy
to reach almost any part of the trunk. On said trunk
“ distinguished visitors ” had made a practice of carving
their initials. One portion was devoted to alleged poets,
and for long Domett crowned the list with his modest
“A.D.” But there came a day when William Richard
Wills, the bard of Otahuhu, was incited by Grey to climb
the tree and place his initials beside the rest. Wills was
proposing to carve his mark at the foot, but Grey said,
gently but persistently, “No, no, I’/fils ; above Domett-
above him ; you will be famous s vhen he is forgotten.
Wills did as bidden ; and told the yarn to this scribe a t
an evidence of Grey’s prejudice against Domett (purely a
political prejudice) ; for Wilis had enough good sense to
know that Domett was far and away his elder brother in
the Muse. It is more than doub'ful, however, that Grey
would so betray himself. More likely it was a little trap
of his to try the bard’s vanity, and Wills was so busy with
his carving that he failed to notice the transverse
wrinkles on the bridge of old Hori’s nose, which were to
the initiated a sure sign that he was hugely enjoying a
lark. Wills, by the way, wrote an “ Ode on the Death of
Sir George Grey ” at a time when be and Hori were in
the full enjoyment of health ; and, it is believed, he
almost prayed for the Grand Old Man’s death so that he
might paralyse the world with his magnificent ode—just
dashed-off, you know—next morning. But poor Wills
took cancer, and died three years before the Proconsul,
and the ode is still unpublished. Domett is still known
to fame, but many will ask—“ Who in thunder wa9
Wills ? ”
GOT A PLACE IN THE XI.-FRANK
LAVER. 135 v. All-Australia, and 3 wickets
for 49. Bat and howler, and champion field at
point in Australia.
Chief Justice Madden is a bad Catholic, if
a Catholic at all. Which explains the sting in
the tail of Father O’Farrell’s rebuke to his Honor
for having, in his summing-up at the boot-box
trial, imputed harlotry to Mary Magdalene (a
mistake, by the way, into which the almost-
omniscient Gladstone fell long ago). Said the
preacher:—
As Mary Magdalene by her example had been the means
of leading many a poor’ sinner to the foot of the Cross, I
hope she will sweetly revenge herself on those who
traduce her by obtaining for them a like grace, and lead-
ing them to the foot of the Cross, there to repent of their
sins.
Mr. Justice Bundey is far and away the
most popular man in S. A., and if there were an
election for Governor, and he would accept the
position, he would be elected by a thumping
majority. After 15 years’ service on the bench, he
is about to take a year’s holiday, and, in pursu-
ance of his old-time yachting predilections, most
of it will be spent on or near the sea. He is 61
years old, a Crow-eater of over 50 years, and a
barrister of 34 years’ standing. He was never de-
feated during his Parliamentary career, and has
put in several terms as Minister of the Crown.
He is a sweet-dispositioned man who loves
society, but, since his elevation to the bench, he
has lived in the strictest seclusion.
Rev. McEachern, at whose movement
Rev. Hector Ferguson has been haled before Vic.
Presbyterian convention on a charge of heresy,
represents the “auld Scots school o’ kail an’
damnation ” in church government. It was his
sort that frightened Gavazi into the utterance —
“ My God ! I turn from Rome as from a tyrant,
to encounter worse in a Geneva gown.” When
Strong was hunted for his heresy, McEachern
was in the van of the wolves. “It’s eneuch,” he
cried, “ to mak’ a raon believe in a pairsonal
deevil.” He is said to he so strict a Sabbatarian,
that he will hear the agonies of a shooting corn
rather than pare the excrescence down on the
Sawhath day.
“ Annie Fraser ” asks Sydney D.T. to re-
print this, from Melb. Age :
Sydney never had the smallest chance of being the
capital of Federated Australia. In the first place, the
climate is not fit for the home of a progressive people. It
was evolved when Dame Nature was surrounded by her
stewpans ; and it has never lost the character she then
gave to it. It must be the depressing atmosphere of Syd-
ney which has ever lain like a pall upon the energies of
hervitizens, and kept them half a century in the rear of
Victorian progress. For this reason alone —the all-dis-
solving and infectious limpness in the air—a Federal Par-
liament would never have dreamed of making its capital
in Sydney, added to which any such preliminary condi-
tion would have barred the Victorian entry.”
Which is all pretty true, making due allowance
for the Age’s natural irritation at the jibes of the
Cahbage-tre© Mob. Furthermore, Sydneyites
know it’s true and don't object to the allegation
when it’s made more gently. As thus : Roderie
Quinn, in his coining book of verses, sings of the
Sydney nor-easter, the Handmaiden of Paralysis :
And so on. The other day, a Bulletin man
asked one of the very biggest anti-Federalists
whether he didn’t think Sydney’s advantages in
the matter of coal would, in the long run, furnish
her with an effectual advantage over Victoria in
the manufacturing struggle. “No,” replied the
Sydneyite—boss of perhaps the biggest industrial
concern in N.S.W. “in the Melbourne climate
you can get so much more out of a man in eight
hours.” Which is a chocolate for “Annie
Fraser ” to turn over in her no doubt pretty little
mouth.
Woe to the weak when the sky is shrouded.
And the wind of the salt-way sobs as it dies 1
Woe to the weak ! for a great dejection
Droops their spirits and drowns their eyes.
Woe to the weak who tire of fetters,
Of grim life-fetters that.gall and bind !
For the Sea tells stories of death made lovely,
And a siren sings in the nor’-east wind.
It wanders the coast like a tombless spectre,
And drips dank dew on the drooping leaf;
And the soul grows pensive with dun suggestions
Of grey old troubles and ancient grief.
Tis grave and low, and with woeful plaining
Sighs death-notes under a sky of grey,
And who hath an ear may hear the voices
Of pale men dead on its streaked sea-way.
In fading twilights o’er sullen seascapes,
A lost, wan wind ’neath a dead grey sky,
It swoons to land like a weary swimmer,
Sobs and falters and turns to die.
Seeking a tomb in dark, coast caverns,
Where the wet rust reddens the fretted stone,
The wandering sea-thing sinks to silence—
Sinks and dies with a last low moan.


ThreeGoodThings
MADE IN ENGLAND
Holbrook^
Sauce
rlMs—
Vi
NEGAR
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effkctive.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
Eacket. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
tamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPi
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriginalities.
No man in broad Australia is a better
judge of stock or knows more about station-
management than squatter O’Bullswool. So com-
pletely indeed did the acquirement of this useful
knowledge absorb the waking moments of his
youth and early manhood that he had no time left
wherein to learn to read and write. He was in
Sydney iately and heard of “The Geisha,” of
course. “Oi wint to see that there comic operer
larst night,” he said. “Yes, I liked it very well
in most ways,” he went on ; “ but in one way it’s
a dashed fraud. They calls it ‘The Grazier,’
and there isn’t a word about squattin’ in it from
start to finish ! ”
» * • •
“ Victorian ” : The Federal capital should
be called Eureka, to emphasise the most
prominent landmark in Australian history.
Perhaps there is not enough patriotism handy
to insist upon this just now, bub surely there
is sufficient to give a hard kick in the right
direction. Failing this, “and still in the interest”
of patriotism, the name chosen should have no
rhyme in the language. This would encourage
originality, and prevent the capital being dragged
in the mire by budding bards committing atrocious
“ pomes ” thereon, and sending them to The Bul-
letin. Suggested that it be named after some
politician. Look at the possibilities in the hands
of a bardlet: Brunker —drunker ; boot-trunk,
or ; “ chunk,” or. Perish the thought! Again,
Reid—bleed, greed, weed, feed, &c. Call it Grin-
jeegongongalong first!
* * ♦ *
A correspondent, school-teaching in the
Never Never, on the “ Awful Immorality of Out-
back ”:—
I have wanted to get up for Class 11. for about five
years and have never got a good-enough report. Here,
I never hope to get one. The youngsters are, with few
exceptions, the most miserable and lowest type of kids
that ever I came across. About half of them are the
illegitimate offspring of people who have been bred up in
the hills here like wallabies, and with about as much re-
gard to decency and civilised habits. The other half are
crossbreds between native blacks and the alleged whites.
BIGHT UP TO DATE.
TOMMY THE BUN : “ How are you going to make anything out of the Saddle and Bridle Cup if
you don't bet when you've got a dead bird?"
JACK SPIELER : “Very simple. I spots all the sweeps on the course, and if I don’t get a third of
the winning money I don't start."
The mothers themselves would have a deuce of a job to
determine their paternity. One old cove, of something
over 70, has 14 or 15 children by two wives. It is, how-
ever, a notorious local fact that the eldest son of the old
fellow s wife is trie recti* if not the nomin«il, father or ftt
least several of the numerous offspring of his second
wife ! A lately-married blushing bride brought her hus-
band no fewer than five illegitimates—different fathers—
as her dowry. And so on, &c. In short, I never in my
life believed that there was such a degraded, immoral,
unintellectual collection of palefaces as is to be found
here. What can anyone expect. from children of such
parents? T he result is shown in the offspring, not 60
per cen . P
. * *
“ A.E.G. : Bronnigan was a strongman
—stronger than any of vour Samsons. One day
B. was out on his run. Down in a gully he came
across a dead bullock. Knew he couldn’t get a
dray in for carcase, which was wanted by pigs,
Then he skinned it and took out entrails, got in-
side, and off he went with the lot. You could just
see his legs to the knees, but he could see ahead
right enough, and staggered homewards. Just as
he got out on the road, a parson was driving over
a rise of the hill. Parson’s horse got a sight,
wheeled round, and down the hill again as hard as
he could travel. The parson was thrown out on
hia back, the trap was smashed to smithereens,
and the horse has not been seen since. Must have
gone until he dropped, and then rolled down
somewhere. Parson stayed at Bronnigan’s that
night. He told a strange story of a “ skinned
and headless beast ” he had seen capering about
on his hind legs, but Bronnigan said nary a word.
When ho told the yarn in town, his friends put it
down to drink. The parson was very wild.
* * * *
Delightful specimen of Leperland justice
as administered by Mongrelian <T. J.P. to his pie-
bald compatriots. Prom Mackay Chronicle,
Feb. 27, ’99
Eton Police Court. —At Eton Police-court on Friday,
before the P.M. and Messrs. Ironside and Little, JJ.P. . .
a charge of assault, brought by a Polynesian against a
half-caste woman, was dismissed. At this stage Mr.
Little left the bench. A charge of assault, brought by a
Polynesian against W. D. Little, was dismissed with £1
costs against plaintiff.
From bench to dock. Facilis descensus l “ Floreat
Etona / / ”
* * * *
One of Q.’s leading planters wanted
“boys” for sugar-work, and brought up some
kanakas before the Polynesian Inspector to “ sign
on.” Among them was one named Nulli, who
had, eight months or so previously, been sentenced
to a year in Brisbane gaol. The Inspector, hear-
ing his name called, looked up, and said, “ What
for, Nulli? You been get-em twelve month, and
only eight months gone. What for you no longa
gaol?” Nulla (suavely): “Yes, massa, me
get-em tvvel-low mon’s; but Guv’men’ he been
break-em agreement”
* * * *
“Bush Teacher”: Was appointed to a
Monaro school. Gob there on Sunday morning,
and wife started to SGrub residence —last occupant
left in a hurry. Was just putting up third bed-
stead (iron had been badly twisted in transit)
and was in very bad humor, when a “lady visitor”
arrived, and wanted “to lend ” herself or one
of “ the girls ” for a week. She introduced herself
as Mrs. Somebody, and talked a lot about pigs
and “ poddy " calves. Ere leaving, asked “ what
religion the pair of us was?” Explained that
“George (that’s my husband) wanted to know
particular.” Told her I was a Calithumpian.
She’d “ never heard of that before, and understood
there were only three religions.” Was in hopes I
wag either a “Wesleyan or a Protestant,” and
-w-» ■» , 11 r< «
didn t think I d get on well. Supposed, however,
that they d have to put up with me for a while,
Put up with them—for a while,
„ * „ *
“B.” : Was doing a bit of fencing out
]3l ac kall wa y with a fellow a shingle short and a
Q a i varm yi s t. H e filled in all the time between
sunset and sunrise, and every break-off and set-to,
with trying to effect my conversion. His know-
ledge of the Bible was wide and inaccurate. Of
course we dossed in the same tent, and he quoted
scripture at me every night till he fell asleep—or
j did. After that it didn’t matter. I had a
smart sheep puppy, about three months old, with
me . Xfc used to sleep on my chest. One night it
wandered on to that of Salvation Bill. In the
morning he said to me, “ My word, your dorg is a
’ ar d case. ’E was layin’ on me bosom this morn-
j n > with the devil in ’im. ’E was just like Punch
on Pilut.” Seeing my look of amazement, he re-
marked, with conscious superiority, “ You read
’bout ’im in the Blessed Book.”
IN THE NEVER-NEVER.
A man with a stake in the country,
“6 x 8”: Sheep are very weak in the
drought-stricken west, and a piteous spectacle is a
ewe defending her newly-born lamb against the
attacks of the fiendish crows. The poor animals
are surrounded by the black marauders as soon as
the lamb is born, and the only way the weak
mother can save the eyes of the offspring is to
stand over and cover them.
* * * *
“ R.H.” : The newest of new women lives
on the Flinders,N.W.Q. She drives 12 bullocks—
carrying goods from the line to stations in-
country. Have seen her drive (on her “ own ”), but
would like to see her yoke and unyoke.
* * * *
A shanty on the Emu Bay Co.’s line lately
began to dispense doctored grog to its customers.
One of the gangers, getting a bad head, blamed
the “ snake-juice ” for it. Next evening, along
with a couple of pals, he felled a tree across the
shanty and gave warning that any other estab-
lishment vending “ dynamite ” would be similarly
treated.
* * « *
A semi-civilised Port Lincoln-side black
died in the township the other day. The scat-
tered aborigines in the district were called in by
signal-fires, and next day walked to the cemetery
in couples, each one carrying a bough of mallee-
bush.
* * * *
“ Long-’Un ” : Be water-mallee as a thirst-
quencher. Writer’s experience is that the hard
work entailed is not nearly compensated for by
the small quantity of water obtained. A man’s
usually very dry when he has to start groping in
the earth for a drink, and, generally speaking, he’s
drier still as he dejectedly resumes his journey.
A few years ago, travelling through the Nannyah
country (between the Murray and the Broken Hill
railway), came across waggon-loads of heaped-up
roots, and the remains of ancient wurlies. In the
early days, Nannyah (an aboriginal) murdered a
man on the river. Whilst under arrest, two gins
effected his escape into this pretty wide strip of
waterless desert, and, in the course of many years,
the family numbered 30 or 40, with the grey-
bearded Nannyah as king. White people occa-
sionally saw dusky, naked forms disappearing in
the distance, but the tribe was very shy and timid
(probably owing to the tainted early history of its
founder), and lived almost entirely on “ goanner ”
and water from the mallee. At last a couple of
station boundary-riders rounded up a mob of these
natives, and drove them into Chowilla with a
view to establishing a harem. Some drowned
themselves, others escaped in various directions,
and, in the course of time, the once mysterious
Nannyah tribe became extinct. Its only memento
is the heaps of mallee-roots.
* * * *
“Gr. Mac.”: Be statement of “S.R.”in
B. 18/2/’99 that kangaroo cannot swim. Undiluted
rot! Nor is “ W.C.K.” in B. 4/3/’99 quite correct
as to kangaroo being (necessarily) on bottom when
drowning a dog. Years ago, by Wallamba,
a tidal river up north, I suddenly became aware
of a great “ row ” on the bank, and rushing down
found that a young woman on horseback, with
two big, rough dogs, had driven an “old man ”
kangaroo into the river. My dog, a heavy,
ferocious brute, at once jumped in and joined the
fray. As a dog came within reach the old fellow
gripped it in his arms and held it under, till again
and again we were sure it was drowned. And
without doubt it would have been, had nob the
others kept up the attack, forcing the ’roo, in self-
defence, to release the drowning brute. But he
only let go of one to grapple with another —and
down it went. His style of swimming was up-
right-similar to that of a human treading water,
but that may have been owing to the desperate
fight he waged from shore to shore—about 80yds.
Having battled across he stood with his back
to the steep bank and defied the dogs. On dry
land they would have soon settled him. He was
less than 20min. swimming across, and as . the
depth was nowhere less than 10ft. he certainly
didn’t touch bottom.
* * * *
“ White Eye ” : Ever hear of a pig work-
ing? Knew an old chap who had one that he
used for plantation-grubbing. Used to tie him by
neck to an almond-tree, and, when piggy had
rooted round it enough to suit the old boy, he was
shifted on to another. This man also had a port-
able fowl-house, and kept fowls shut up in it.. He
used to hitch himself on to house and shift it
about the plantation. Saved feeding hens, he said.
* • * •
You will see more Chows than Maoris
riding bikes in Maoriland (writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent). The latter have never cottoned on
to the machine—they’re too lazy. One of the
first principles of Mr. Day and Martin is to exert
himself as little as possible. The old Maoris
consider the bike the latest instance of the white
man’s folly. Logic of a leading chief: “The
man who rides a horse and shoves it along with
his foot is a fool; he might as well walk.”
* * * *
A Shoalhaven black gin has been offering
her services about Sydney. Her qualifications are
reading, writing and harmonium-playing, and she
is the growth of one of the mission stations.
* * * •
“Jimmie P.” : During the mining-boom,
a Big Scrub cane-cockie made a rise in shares.
With part of the proceeds he bought a hack for
himself and another for his wife. He calls the
mokes after two of the mines he specked in ; and
so it is customary for the 8.A., who acts as his
handy man, to hear ; “ Saddul Five-Quart Creek
Extended and Native Bear Reef; me and th’
missers is goan ta taown.”
• * * *
Letter received by Lachlan River station-
manager :
Mr. H Esq.
Will if you want good gardener can you send me letter
at once in Condobolin Loong Lee Chinese Store, if you
no wanted can you reply answer obliged
I know any season sow any seeds if you like let me
answer at once
Ah Lock, Loong Lee, Condobolin.
* * * *
Wire from Singleton, N.S.W. :
A few days since a proprietor of a large estate in this
district treated several of his tenants to a trip to Lake
Macquarie. Several of them, between 40 and 60 years of
age, had never seen the sea before, and one of them ex-
pressed surprise at the sight, with the remark that “ the
water must run up-hill, as it is much higher right out
there.”
*** * .
Sydney, the Geebung Federal capital, is a
place where even the beasts of the field commit
suicide through drink. “ For the last 14 years,”
says Sydney Daily Telegraph, “Billy, a mild-
eyed old ram, has been a resident of New Market
Wharf. Cut off from association with his fellows,
he was made the pet of the men whose work and
business took them to the wharf. So that he
A SPENDTHRIFT.
SPUD MURPHY : “Kin yer lind us a penny,
Bogan?”
BOGAN: “ Strewth, you is pretty swift, you is!
Aint I lend yer a half-penny yestiddee !”
might mix with these men on something like an
equal footing, Billy, at an early age, developed a
liking for strong drink and tobacco-chewing that
more than enabled him to keep his end up when
in company. So fond became Billy of his beer
that he daily marched off to an hotel hard by, ana
as often as he could get anybody to shout for him
he got gloriously drunk. For water he had a
wholesome contempt, and when offered temper-
ance drinks would toss his head in scornful dis-
dain of such trash. In his tastes he was singu-
larly omnivorous, and at any time would prefer a
dish of boiled mutton, tastefully seasoned with a
plug of tobacco, to the best lucerne hay ever


The Union s.s. Mararoa has put up an
interprovincial record. From Sydney to Hobart
39 hours 40 min. ; return journey, Hobart to
Sydney, 39 hours 45 min. This was from wharf
to wharf.
The Queensland police had no scruples in
arresting and detaining Burgess on suspicion of
having committed the Gatton outrage ; and Bur-
gess is still in gaol—for what Heaven only knows.
If they had only been equally quick to lock-up
everyone about whom there was any sort of prima-
facie suspicion, and let them all stew awhile in
their own gravy, the grisly secret would soon have
been out. There can be no earthly doubt that the
deed was done by a person or persons well-known
to the Murphys, and even now, if the police
could find any sort of pretext for locking-up half-
a-dozen people or so, whom almost any idiot could
sort out, it would probably soon be found what
the Gatton outrage was stuffed with.
“ APENTA,”
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
“As a cooling medicine for children it has no
superior, and it is readily taken by them.” —
Practitioner.
Sole Exporters: The Apollinaris Company,
Limited, London, W.*
A young Bendigo miner, Edward Richards,
lately had a fair run of luck for one shift. Shaft-
sinking is going on at the J. R. Exploration Co.’s
Black Forest mine. There is timbering down to
500 ft., the shaft being divided into three compart-
ments ; and Richards and his mates were sinking
25ft. lower. Five fuses were put in and lighted ;
then the men got into the bucket and the haul-up
began. But somehow Richards’ head and shoul-
ders got into one compartment while the bucket
was going into the next one. In half a second he
would have been dragged out. Instead of waiting
he grabbed the timbers and got his legs free. His
only hope was to drop nearly 25ft.. among the
fired charges. But he did it; and then, in the
dark, he groped about and got out the five burning
fuses. Then he signalled to lower, stepped into
the bucket, and went home.
It’s the same in Melbourne as Sydney—
only three weeks to Easter. To those about to
travel: We are cheap for Trunks, Gladstone
Bags, and Travelling Requisites. Do you fish ?
Try us for Tackle. Do you shoot ? —Look us up
for Guns, Cartridges, Powder, Shot, &c. Easter
Gifts, Presents, and E.P. Ware in large variety.
McLean Bros. & Rigg, George-street, Sydney,
and Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.*
Donf
let
any one
deceive
you:
There
can
be
no
Siibstilult
for
fW
WolfesSchnapps
Hotel
Australia——^
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
A few of
THE AUSTRALIA'S
attractive features
Fireproof
Telegraph Office inside
Elegant Drawing Rooms
Handsome Dining Room
Splendid Table and Table
Service
Healthful Position
Hot and Cold Water in
every room
Perfect attendance
You touch a button, and
the whole hotel ma-
chinery is in motion, if
need be, to fulfil your
wishes.
“ Once a guest always a guest.’
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
Hurralx !
for George Adams —
THE MAN
WHO
BROUGHT
WHITE LABEL LAGER
to Australia.
grown. On Sunday Billy got quite unde
influence,’ and calmly walking into Darn g
Harbor brought his career to an end.
« * * 0
“ Coogon ” : A well-known Murray River
character (call him “ Muldoon ”) would do well-
nigh anything for liquor. Have seen him on
cold morning in winter get into a norse-troug ,
clothes and all, submerge himself m the water,
and crawl under an iron bar —for a pint °
swanky. t
Gov. M‘Gregor re his Papuan police .
“ Of their perfect loyalty to the Queen there can
be no doubt.”
The Melbourne poet, Purtell, on the boot-
trunk situation :
But how about, on resurrection-day, the bard who
has rhymed “ Gold ” with “reward ”?
BACKBLOCKS SATIRE.—“THE FIRST TRAIN TO HILLSTON”
Hillston (Lachlan) people have been agitating for a railway. As a parting and hopeless shot at the Govt, for not granting the line from Carra-
thool some local farmers devised the Hillston street procession above depicted—“the first train to Hillston,” a “one-horse” affair. The costumes
are typical of the drought times now prevailing. The loco, engine is fired with tarred rags and clothed with ditto. The driver and guards are
dummies, and perform their duties well. The “fust"-class compartment is unoccupied (also in accordance with the times), but stock traffic is re-
presented by two goats. The admiring residents in the foreground belong to
the stone age.
He’s a great big bouncing nigger,
And he cuts a curious figure,
For he’s mostly hair and cudgel, and he’s seldom very
clean ;
And he runs ’em in by dozens,
All his dusky, dirty cousins,
And he downs ’em with his bludgeon —for he’s loyal to
the Queen 1
He may not look quite romantic
May this peeler-man gigantic,
But his presence adds a glamor and a glory to the scene,
He’s a sort of living sermon,
For we know, beneath his vermin,
He’s a Briton to the backbone —and he’s loyal to the
Queen.
And we gaze at him and wonder
As he daily grows rotunder —
Was he really once the cannibal that dined upon the
green ?
Did his mem’ry make him grateful
To the race that filled his plate full :
Did his love for British thigh-bone make him loyal to the
Queen ?
Dubberke, who stands on the lowest of fame,
Dubberke, who ought to be blushing- with shame,
Dubberke, the laihj whom no one could vex,
Dubberke, who is a disgrace to her sex,
Dubberke, whom no honest woman would own,
Dubberke, whose heart is as hard as a stone,
Dubberke, accomplice of dear Mr. Tod —dy,
Dubberke, who said she’d rip open the body.
Dubberke, who looks at us straight in the face,
And tells us she crammed the poor girl in the case.
Dubberke, whose heart pumps the coldest of blood,
Dubberke, thank God, she is nipped in the bud.
Dubberke, who dresses in stylish of pink,
Whose conscience and morals are blacker than ink ;
Dubberke, who don’t know what purity means,
Dubberke, who scarcely is out of her teens,
Dubberke, who thinks not of death or of dying,
Dubberke, who laughs where she ought to be crying,
Dubberke, most callous, despicable, mean,
Deserted her mates and turned for the Queen ;
Dubberke, who fears neither Heaven or Hell,
But to save her own body decided to tell;
Dubberke, the worst of the whole blessed three,
It seems most outrageous that you should be free.
Dubberke, you may not get punishment now,
You'll reap it hereafter, I certainly vow,
On the day of atonement—a lovely reward—
From the Judge of the Universe, Almighty God.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contnbu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post 01
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
A.W.E. : That mysterious crime was possibly
founded on incest. Ten thousand to one no stranger had
a hand in it Malola . Now, which private enemy are
you trying to get level with ? 2A.H. : One will do, any-
how. Don’t admire your pen-name, though. It always
arouses suspicion that you may really be 3Z.8. or
1174Q.X. in disguise The Mug: One verse out of the
eight:
The man who makes “lesson” rhyme with “stuffing
must be lost to all sense of the horrors of a
Dod : Simple little child-story. No use to old, hardened,
sin-blasted paper like this J.B.H. (Dunedin) And
supposing the Federal capital was called “ Albion (an-
other stupid steal from England), would the inhabitants
be called Albs or what ? By the way, why doesn t some-
one suggest Gomorrah for the new city ? Good, resonant
name, and no one else seems to want it. ... J.D. (Oobram):
Little Billy’s death declined. Been full of the deaths of
small people since we saw little Eva peg-out at a certain
theatre, and carried to heaven by three angels, two of
whom, we knew, had nine weeks’ salary due them . ..
Orann-e : Under an ordinary policy the co. must pay the
whole loss as far as the amount insured will cover it.
With an “ average clause,” if the policy is for £1001) on
£l5OO worth of goods, the co. is liable for two-thirds of
the damage Valodio : “ Barriekin” (made up of a bit
DOCTOR AND CONFESSOR.
Dr. Shields, Vic. Govt. Prison Doctor.
of Barton, Reid, and Kingston) is your Federal-city idea,
is it? Doesn’t sound promising. “ Kingston ”or “ For-
rest ” might do, but Barton, Reid, and Turner have
names that won’t fit in anyhow. And you couldn’t call
the new city “Dickson” or “ Fysh.”. Wandering
Jew: Avaunt! pedestrian Israelite O.W.A. : Never
knew any man to write anything worth a curse who
self-addressed his envelope-for-return “Smith, Esq.”
A.Y. : Suppose an Australian Governor does spend more
than his salary while he is in Australia, his estates in
England are being administered on a reduced scale of
expenditure. He lets his residences and farms out his
preserves. The saving effected in that respect alone often
comes to more than’ the whole Australian salary
Bango : Yes, the drawing of “ Tatteisall’s ” sweep is
supervised—very strictly supervised—by Tas. Govt. We
know, because we have seen a “ Tatt.” sweep drawn in
Hobart. On application, you can get orders for yourself
or your friends to see the drawing of any sweep or
sweeps there. The Bulletin, we assure you, holds no
brief for “Tattersall” “because it prints his advt.”
C. : Not so. Prof. Thomas Butler graduated at Sydney
University, and is now Professor of Latin there .... Eroko :
Hell isn’t a dry place, as you think. It is hot and moist—
the Sydney north-easter blows there.. O.W. : Yah!
Intelligent’readers—especially city readers, who have the
best chance of seeing the game—regard all such stuff
with suspicion. The man who gets an illuminated ad-
dress generally engineers it himself, and often pays a
canvasser to collect signatures ; just as the fellow whose
portrait appears in the papers alongside a shovelful of
jam usually writes the jam himself, and pays for the
printing of the portrait, for which he has cold-bloodedly
and with malice aforethought sat at the photographer’s.
Mazin : Some of the songs at that place of entertain-
ment are certainly rather unsavory ; but, per contra, no
performer is ever allowed to joke about anything
Jewish there. That ought to be a fair set-off
F.K. : “ Swag. D.” contains too little incident to the ton
of verbiage Kelvinside : Verse contains fine lines and
striking images, but workmanship shows immaturity.
What do you mean by “ a weary crowd of rich, full-
flooded foam?” Yar. : Water-melon joke feeble
D. : “ Range Finder” has too large a head for its very
small body. A gill of wine in a horse-trough Juno:
If there were no other obiections to “ Was it Best,” and
there are a number, it is too long by leagues, W.M.F.:
“ Drought ”is powerful, but very long. Many droughts
are A.A.A. : Pars, received A.E.G. (Albion Park):
Will use Bective : Even if one of Mary Magdalene’s
“ seven devils ” was not the ordinary luring, tempting,
beckoning woman’s imp, and she was as chaste as Caesar’s
wife wasn’t, it doesn’t matter much. What is certain is
that Father O’Farrell’s own church, and all the other
churches, have chosen to take her as the type of a class,
and to found maternity hospitals labelled with her name,
and “ refuges ” decorated with her imaginary portrait;
and all through literature “Magdalene” has been accepted
as a convenient synonym for mealy-mouthed people to
shudder by. The original Magdalene is merely a wraith
of legendary mist; but the current conception of her is a
living fact. When practically all civilisation decides
that a woman of the year 30 or thereabouts was
a fallen woman, then she was a fallen woman
to all intents and purposes of common parlance
Arquebus : In “Game of W.” soliloquies are capital, but
the story concludes nowhere in particular. “ The Mar-
ket ” a well-treated variant of a very ancient theme
The Lizard : Your poem on “Flea-ology” unprintable.
Why not call it “ Itchthyology ? ” Shearers’ Ovens :
You send neither name nor address. Episode of station-
life too long-winded H.S. :“A Study” would be more
convincing in prose Glenview (Vic.): No original vein,
as you imagine, in “ Written Thoughts.” Subject flogged
to death in Philip Hamerton’s “ Intellectual Life.” It is
all a matter of temperament. Rousseau couldn’t dictate
unless his head was being half-baked in torrid sun-glare.
See Lombroso, and other writers on genius and cognate
lunacy Tim Bobbin: Good points in “Our First
Quarrel,” but isn’t it somewhat foolish to make a marvel
of a woman’s inconsistency? ...Imray : “ Echo of Past ”
is imaginative, but tails off at finish Chilcat :
Good mining pars, always welcome L.F.T. (P.) :
“ Second Thoughts.” Should have indulged in
them before sending screed to this office... .K.E.A.:
“Sundowner Yarn” weary, dreary, rough. Declined
with tears A.E.S. (Mogil Mogil) : A cloud of witnesses
in your dist. assert that the kangaroo can swim. Right !
O.P. : “Perishable Goods.” We think so, too
H.M.T. : A pun is the meanest of things, and your pars.
are nearly all pun W.H. (Grafton): “Our Tutor”
neither bad nor indifferent. Try again Potts: May
use . ..Ken. M. : Respectably told, but lacks snap
G. Mac. : Oh, yes, the kangaroo can swim W.A.B. :
Jokes old and moss-grown. “Mystery of D.D.” should
fit the publishers of the “Deadwood Dick” series. . .H. Ing.:
May use F.H. : Story condensed : Govt, clerk won’t
take his sister, household drudge, to ball. Sister in re-
venge, marries Chow cabbage-hawker. Convincing,isn tit?
Raymur : Religious item a hideous chestnut......
F.B. : Couldn’t you write your little Federal pome with-
out dishing-up again the old Anglo-Saxon myth ?
Sylvanus : “ Old Brigade ” routed with great slaughter.
Senex : Thanks Sorta : “Prisoner of Gender” a
harmless chunk of gloom The Madmen : Too heavy ; a
100-ton yarn T. Smith : The spectre is ready but the
beef is debilitated A.C.H. : Two stories about girls
with cataracts of brown hair. And neither cataract-girl
is quite up to the mark.... White Clover: Painfully beaten-
out in real daily-paper style Thoronga : Well, “ Anti-
podea ” really'was a stupid suggestion as a name for the
Federal capital; but Thoronga would be equally hopeless.
Gumleaf : Don’t see any harm in the Judge’s asking
the jury whether they withdrew their recommendation
to mercy after he had told them that prisoner (convicted
of wounding with intent) had been twice previously
punished for assault. Also, although the police-treat-
ment was undoubtedly brutal, O’Connor had been too
often in trouble to have a song made about him
Taylor (initials illegible) : MS. quite unfit for any
well-occupied man to read .. .Geo. L. (Vic.) : Cannot un-
dertake to decipher hideous pencil-scrawls .. Mick O’H.:
No time to read other people’s shorthand. Are no longer
stenographic enthusiasts -once got our living at it, by 17
hours daily work months on end ... B. F.H.: Story too
thin. Selector would have wanted to see the stuff that
had been taken out to make the dam Seudo : Life too
short to enter into the Maiden-Turner feud, which will
probably end in a libel-action and the financial ruin of
both parties.. .J. J. O’M.: Will print “Belinda.”.... J.F.:
Ver3 r pathetic ; but we know’ of a disabled Sydney barrel-
organist who lends money on good security and made a
pretty big foreclosure the other day .. .Condah : Yes, we
have settled it: the ’roo can swim... M.T.I. : Might
be a shocking libel: with the assistance of one of
the numerous attorneys out of work, she’d pro-
bably turn up to say her story was all true, and
that the man drowned himself to escape being hanged.
Leo. : Variants w’on’t help. Three funerals never
raised a corpse W.P. : “ Haunted ” doesn't poetically
express idea ;“ As Usual ” not bite enough .....Carbine :
Write again w'hen further news F.M. : “Mixed Com-
pany,” “Pendente,” unusable P.C.C. (Melb.): Rude,
crude promise in it; no more Myall: Tame .... Stan.
W.: Not up this time. Try again Boomerang : Missile
duly returned to you J.C.J.: What are you giving us?
...‘.E.F.C. : Not up as literature ; give it to some charac-
ter vocalist L.M.D. : “ Rejected ”no good. Get better
ideas and take more pains Kurilla : Tyre burst
W.F.S. : Sorry, but it’s “otherwise.” Hatari: Con-
sidering T.W.C. (Albany): Poem seemed timid: it
rushed off as soon as we set eyes on it A.G.W. : New
hash for old, you unlucky magician ! Max : Thanks
W.P. : “ Defence” and “ Errands” declined .Camille :
Ancient; you stole consciously or unconsciously
D. : Surely you know Ogilvie’s much better version ?
C. Martel: When last seen it was travelling straight
for Sirius at 95 billion miles per second Fossicker:
You write verse as if you w'ere hauling in a cable, with a
pleasing consciousness of nine fathoms of slack ahead
E. : Duff was the only N.S.W. Governor who died in
his term of office E.R.D. : Premier Kingston, we
understand, is not an absolute teetotaller, but he is most
abstemious in the matter of alcohol, and usually confines
himself to claret and water Embryo : Many thanks
Sorta: Small incident much spread out Oily Jimmy :
Illustration idea trite .... P. the Dodger : One man asked
“ what is capital ?” and the other man said that John-
ston had been stealing fowls ...L. : “ Summer’s Memory,”
a vast conventional nothing in four chapters...... Colonist:
You want the Federal capital named “ Bartonia.” Why
not “Smithia?” Queensland’s Native Born: Very
clever, but too blue and precipitous for this calm, domestic
paper Pilliga : Two bobbies trying to haul two dogs
apart might look funny, but it would read like low-
spirited Corinthians .. N.R.M. : Decent, mild sketch
too mild Hermit: And in all these many pages of
Fijian lament you don’t once suggest what should be
done to put things right H.I.J. : Can’t afford
space at this late hour to argue over the burn-
mg of the Alexandrian library a dozen centuries ago
John H. (Shearer): Would never dream of “casting doubts
on your veracity ’’—even supposing you have any R.L.
(Glenaibyn) :He can certainly claim the amount. At the
same time he should hunt up Che best available evidence
re his birth and get the co. to admit age on policy.
Otherwise there may he some delay, it is no good
making loose statements like “ the society said it would
be all right.” The general manager and board of direc-
tors might have power to say so, but he probably got his
assurance from some mere agent J. Newman : Two
lines of your poem impressed us very much :
“ But near them was some bush,
And close behind it was the overseer, Macintosh.”
Waiting : Barrett came out under engagement to the
Firm, on certain sharing terms, and with the guarantee
of a certain sum of money in any case. He provided his
own co., and brought his own business-manager with him,
but the man who says that the bare-legged Roman was
not under engagement to the Firm loses his bet. Bar-
rett’scase wasquitedifferentfrom that of Sarah Bernhardt.
She came out under engagement to Abbey and Grau, who
ran the show by arrangement with W. and M., and took a
fixed sum weekly from the receipts Trotter B. : The
raffling of Scotty’s “ camp ” was duly perpetrated by the
Bazaar management, no doubt Long-’un : Thanks ;
par. re shepherd’s-companion rather thin Texas : Un-
palatable S.J.H. (Yerilla) : Life “out-back” full of
the weird coincidence of the day too soon, or the day too
late. Every chapter in Fate’s book begins with an “ if.”
...D.E.F. : Gardener’s Road. Thanks for enclosure
A.E. : Mr. Podney’s family is uninteresting. After get-
ting your characters on the stage they do nothing, and
you ring down the curtain O.P. : Will try use some
Jack S. : Aren’t these spieling stories very thin apd soft ?
M.T.I. (Angledool) : Thanks for interesting narrative.
Ben Sun : “ Late Reflections” is the best of your bud-
get, but the name is impossible. Two lines in “ Norman
Magee ” embody a piece of practical philosophy crudely
expressed :
O sympathy big will make many men free,
But it reaches to figures with Norman Magee.
Jimmie P. : Your chill-room “ swaggie ” hardly in-
teresting enough for such extended treatment. Parson
story a chestnut White Eye : Good pig yarn ...
Flabby Paul : Your man was a consistent anti-alien and
an ineffable fool Vera : Among other things, “ Jack’s
Last Ride” is too long, the “Conversazione” too femi-
ninely spiteful, and your “ All-round Joke” too tearful.
But the costless consolations of hope may still be yours.
John Hawke: Theme hackneyed H.S. : Briefly
stated, you assert that you know of a red-headed abori-
gine of full-blood living at La Perouse, and that newly-
born aboriginal children are hardly distinguishable from
white babies O.P. : Don’t much care for B.E. :
“ Underworld ” more melodramatic than literary
C.O. : No case of a policeman using a revolver has at-
tracted public attention in Melb. of late.
TO ARTISTIC CONTRIBUTORS.
L. Tol : Quite unavailable A.W.K. : A purely-per-
sonal puff W.B. : Poor drawing and hideous pun
T.R.D.: “ Billy ” may do ; the other presumably of merely
local interest R.H. : Sketches far too stiff.
The third (March ) number of that growing
magazinelet, The Bookfellow, will be published
from The Bulletin office in a few days, and will
be as much better than the second number as the
second number was better than the first. Three-
pence in stamps sent to this office secures this
little literary magazine for three months.
At unemployed meeting injJjMelb. First
Workless (loq.): “I see they’re going to spend
.£2OOO on sending a rifle-team to Aingland. More
waste o’ good money. I’m going to move that in
order to ameliorate the condition of ”- Second
Workless : “ Hold on. Let’s shame Gover’ment
by going round with the ’at, serious like, can-
vassing for subscriptions to despatch a team of
rope-quoit players.”
With faces pale and anxious look
I hope ’twill prove a lesson,
And when they next a horse do get
To leave alone the stuffing.


A MALODOROUS JOB.
ATTORNEY-G ENERAL ISAACS : “ Lucky for me my nose isn’t so big as it might have been. This is a most unpardonable stink !”


/The Attomey-
iGeneral's absence
in Egypt satisfac-
torily “ explained."
From an ancient sculp-
ture*
"Mb. Sydney Swellhead (ad-
dressing Anti-Billious' meet-
ing) : “ Gentlemen, I think
that I have hit upon a plan
"by which, our glorious city I
may hope to be the capital of
Federated Australia without
, _— further amending the Bill. Loti
- u ® aho L hs h the name ‘ Sydney.’ Call it, say, Pinch-
gut, which then would not, of course, be within 100
miles of Sydney (because, you see, there would be
. M ® ore Sydney) and therefore eligible.” (Pro-
longed and tumultuous applause, in the midst of
hld^l bust’® iOUd report- The s P feaker ’ s bead!
In spite of the provision in the Conference:®!}'
which stipulates that the Federal Capital shall
be at least a hundred miles distant from- Sydney,.
there are folk at North.. Sydney.-: who are ,not dis-
couraged. • All. through , the Federal campaign
they have advocated -the claims of“Ku-ring-ga!
qnase and the Crown lands, adjoining. The site,
it is pointed out, is healthy and accessible, and it
possesses an outlet to the ocean by way of the
Hawkesbury River, the mouth of which could be
easily defended. Moreover, it .j»; next door.-to
Sydney. .
A SIGN OF THE TIMES.
How agriculture has flourished
under Freetrade.
Moreover, it? would keep the Attorney.
General and his money in the country,
as there is excellent fishing in Cowan
Creek—the very back yard, so to
apeak, of the proposed capitals
(No charge for this
suggestion.)
Country Pig : “Hello, niate ! how did you leave everybody in Sydney?”
to j all right. By-the-bye, how? 1 did you know I was from
7 Ugh I
Country Pig : “ Ugh !by your robust condition. We don’t fatten like that in
the back districts. Ugh ! ”
NEWS FROM THE LANCEIIS.
SINGLETON, Monday.— A. letter from one of
the local Lancers tells of an accident which
occufred to the kangaroo being taken to England
with the homeward bound contingent. The
marsupial pet was running about the decks when
it ererbalanced itself and went headlong down
the hold, a depth of 40ft. When halfway in its
descefct it struck a sailor, who was climbing
the ladder, and carried him down also. _ Strange
to say, however, neither'was very much injured.
$
•fg
/-/
-A® $
S'
S 5 j&‘
s?
LONDON, Friday Afternoon.—“jChe clreuia
tion of Mr. WO T. Stead’s new paper, ‘‘Wai
Against War,” lias been' prohibited in Rus-
sia,
“ St. Patrick’s day in the
morning.”
There is something typically Austra>
lian in the above item. Note, that
the “ accident ” was not to the sailor
but to the kangaroo. This kangaroo, by-
fche-bye, bids fair to. live in history as the
rival of the Soudan donkey.
&t. Patrick’s day the. next morning.
Editor Stead (on -receiving a “blacked out "<tcopy of his paper frond
Ptussia): “My goodness ! what will Julia say when she hears about ifj
(Stead has asserted that everything he writes is dictated to’ hixn by a
spirit called Julia.)
THINGS IN GENERAL.


“Tha punishment for too muoh love of
tho sex is that it oontinuas.”“-«/oW&<Jrfc
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,”
says
“ Most
decidedly ,
use KOKO/
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO*
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. t2*6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS C 0„ LTD,.
x 6, Bevis Marks, London, Englaii#.
VISITORS TO
THE OLD COUNTRY.
mmv
Lifts.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout
KENSINGTON
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished wit'-* a.
Modern Luxury . Two minutes from the Pork, Kejv.
S'ngton Gardens, imperial Institute, and in th-s rikist of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIEE
Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
E XJ WAR XJ S'
i
*
WORLD-RENOWNED
pair producer # JJedtorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
Tiie World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the H \ir beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It'S?” It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
| /-, 2/6 and (triple 2'6size)4'6 per Bottle—from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ "HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
BARON BERZELIUS
B UCHU BITTERS
Baron Berzelius’ Report.
These Bitters I recommend in DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
NEOUS AFFECTIONS. The action of Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant; and it also assists persons suffer-
ing from Skin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
Head What Medical Men Say About Them.
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
D ECKSTROM, M.D. BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
Tonic, being pure and strengthening ; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Digestion. I therefore
thus recommend them.
G-. B. WOOD, M.D. :—lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar influence over the
Li ver.
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS
Invites Special Attention from the Public to
his Newly-Imported Up-to-Date
ART JEWELLERY & SILVER-PLATE.
2-Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest st3 r le.
18c. Gold,
5 large Diamonds,
£2O, £25, £3O.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 265; 15c. Gold, £2.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3. Any Name or
Motto Free. Six different patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
Pure 18c. Gold,
.Double-cut Diamonds,
or Emeralds and
Diamonds, £7 lOs.
18c. Solid Gold, 17 Diamonds,
£lO.
18c. Gold,
Pure 5 Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
8 Emeralds and 2
Diamonds, £5 10s.
Jj
18c. Gold, 4 Diamonds,
Opals, Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Send for size card. We
cut and polish opals.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d
15c. Gold, 255.
15c. Gold Band Bracelet, Pure Double Out Diamond,
1 or 8 stones, £5.
18c. Gold Band, Pure dia-
monds, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
Plain, with Name,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
9c. Gold, 10s 6d; Chased,
12s 6d ; 15c , 22s 6d; Silver,
2s 6d and 3s.
All Articles Post Free.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting Kej'less, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Key, 255, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Solid Gold Charm that
charms, 10s. Procured only
at A. Saunders.
New Gold Bird Brooch.
Bell, 68 6d; Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
Gold 2-bar Bed Stone and Diamonds, 20s.
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold 3-bar Amethyst, 455.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
cfl
&
0
0
AfAC^
(D
20s
20s
A. Saunders.
Unrivalled, Keyless, Non-magnetic, Lever, Perfect
Timekeeper, 12 months’ written guarantee ; last your
lifetime. 20s.
Pure Solid Silver, 355; Double Cases, £2.
Other styles, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B.
9c. Gold, Heart Amethyst Brooch,
10s.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies, and
Sapphires, £2 ;
or 3 Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold Brooch. Bell, Chain,
Red, White and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Hand-mad e Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9r
Solid Gold, fis 6d, ,s 6d, 10s each ; 15c.CoM
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; ISc. Cold. 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
18c. Gold,
Pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
18c. Gold, Pure Dia-
mond Buttercup Ring,
£3, £4, £5.
LADIES nowadays want to see a display and
assortment worth seeing; the old-time prices and
small stocks are a thing of the past. LADIES—We
can show you £20,000 worth of JEWELLERY and
SILVER-PLATE—a display seldom seen like it.
A personal visit only will convince you of the
MAGNITUDE OP OUR STOCK. DO COME!
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 l&s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
Sword and Sheath Brooch. Red and Blue Stones and Pearls, 21s
15c. Gold, 80s. Latest Style.
Gent’s Amethyst Kief'S,
Diamond Cut, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller, Sydney,
WILL PROVE XT !
015 GEORGE STREET (nearly opposite Railway Station).
Thorough 1 S.M. Herald advt. : —
■VTOTIOE.—I, Patrick , of -—, will not be respon-
Bible for any Debts contracted by my Wife from this
date. Also, wanted, an elderly Woman, as Housekeeper.
John Farrell has been visiting Tasmania,
and now writes charmingly in Sydney Daily
Telegraph concerning the old house at Both well
where, almost 50 years ago, lived John Mitchel,
the Irish exile :—
I cut a branch from the dying apple tree in front of
Nant Cottage—the apple tree under whose shade in sum-
mer evenings Mitchel wrote much of the Jail Journal, or
taught his children, while his wife, Jenny, sang about the
house, in the current happiness of great, success as a
dairywoman. To her, the grey-haired widow yet living
with her one remaining child, a widowed daughter, in
Brooklyn, U.S.A., I have sent some of its leaves in token
of reverential regard for her and for the memory of the
brave dead man whose helpmeet she was. I looked long
at the place and its surroundings as one notes things
made sacred by the past. Here was the hill with its
eucalyptus and honeysuckle trees that Mitchel has made
known to us ; here the slopes on which he and Martin
often reclined immersed in thought of what had been and
might have been. All about here pattered the feet of
children lying in graves, separated by the seas and con-
tinents. Private William Mitchel, the youngest boy, lost
in the frightful slaughter of Pickett’s division at
Gettysburg; Captain John Mitchel, the eldest, killed
by a shell while commanding officer of Fort Sumter;
James, who passed through the war unscathed,
fighting, like his brothers, against the North;
and Henrietta, the eldest daughter, who became
a Roman Catholic nun, and sleeps in a French
cemetery at Montparnasse. This Nant Cottage was the
peaceable half-way house in the passage of John Mitchel’s
public life, from the storm in which it began to the
greater convulsions to come. It seemed hard to believe
that in this mouldering tenement far away in quiet Tas-
mania once lived a man who afterwards became the lead-
ing press champion of the South for separation from the
North, who was imprisoned with Jefferson Davis in Fort
Monroe, and whose death was publicly mournpd by every
State in the Union as that of a powerful friend or a noble
enemy, as well as, notwithstanding the dead man’s
errors of judgment, by Irish people all the world
over. And poor “ Jenny ” , in the terrible
experiences of the after years, did she not think regret-
fully of the placid sufficiency of life at Nant Cottage? To
her was given the burden of being a militant reformer’s
wife, which she never sought to escape. But when she
was left marooned, with loss of all worldly possessions,
on the desolate shore of North Carolina, after running
the blockade in a heroic attempt to bring succour and
comfort to her soldier husband and sons; or while the
houses burned all round her shell-shattered home when
Richmond fell; or indeed often before and after in the
painful vicissitudes of her sorrowful life, did not the
heart of this sorely-stricken woman turn longingly back
to the years passed here unanxiously by the sweet Tas-
manian Clyde?
The evidence in the Queenscliff shooting
case shows that Pollock was subjected to some such
badgering as Simmons was in Kipling’s fine story,
“In the Matter of a Private.” Pollock “had a
rat,” and was reminded of the fact pretty often,
and eventually the mnn who monkeyed with a
man who “ had a rat ” when the latter also had a
gun, died—as was quite in the natural order of
tilings. Moral: Never consider a man ridiculous
when he holds a gun.


Ulhat the Devil has to do
thfl woes of suffering humanity is an open question,
S ' h ,, t Bt KER & ROUSE Proprietary Limited have to
do witt the wants of the photographic community is an
acknowledged fact.
They keep a fine assortment of FRESH and ™ST-C L ASS
GOODS in every line, and supply them at a fair p
They have for many years been the RECOGNISED LEADERS
in Photographic Merchandise throughout the c ol°mes, and
recent shipments now enable them to pjJONO-
thereto, the very latest specialties m
GRAPHS, COLUMBIAN and EAGLE GRAPHOPHOJNES,
GRAMOPHONES, RECORDS, etc., with all requisites for
Public Exhibitions or Private Amusement.
Send for Catalogues and particulars.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary Limited.
260 Collins-streeb,
Melbourne.
375 George-sfcreeb,
Sydney.
81 Queen-atreet),
Brisbane.
66 Rundle-sfcreetj
Adelaide.
||o Bogus or manufactured Testimonials..
A TESTIMONIAL DATED 18th of MONTH-
Mr. D. H. M‘Guinness,
Local A,jpent for Webber’s Vitadatio.
Dear Sir,—Uhave much pleasure in testifying to the merits of your Vitadatio.
I was suffering for some considerable time with lung and liver troubles, also rheumatism m
my feet, and was attended by two doctors without any good effect.
I was recommended to try your Vitadatio, and after taking six large bottles am pleased to say
that I am restored to perfect health. .... „
You are at liberty to make what use you wish of this in the interests of fellow-sufferers.
GEORGE POWLEY, Proprietor Horse and Jockey Hotel, Wangaratta.
18th February, 1899.
Honest [Testimonial Worth Studying.
Mansfield, Victoria, 3rd February, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Australian Agent for WEBBER’S VITADATIO. , .
Dear Sir, —You will remember that I wrote some time ago, telling you how ill I was with
Rheumatism. It quite disabled me, and I had to give up a good situation m consequence. I, was
in despair when I wrote to you, and, acting on your instructions, I took VITADATIO three times
a day after meals ; but now I am able to get about as actively as ever, and am working hard every
day of my life. I have taken seven bottles, and I must say it is a splendid medicine, and worth
its weight in gold, when it puts a poor man on his legs again, so that he can get a good living, as it
has done for me. I used your Indian Oil of Cream for rubbing my limbs, and this took the
stiffness away wonderfully. I intend to take the _ medicine a little longer, so as to make sure of
never having the disease again, as I feel certain it is taking it right out of my system. I have
suffered from it for many years. _ _ ... .
I write this letter of thanks to you for your interest in my case, and if it will do any good m
inducing others to get VITADATIO you are at liberty to publish this letter, for it is a genuine
medicine, and I am most grateful that I found it out. Everybody in Mansfield knows low
bad I was.—Yours very truly, „ ..
3 W. KITTO.
It has been stated through jealousy that VITADATIO is too general in its claims. Our reply
is that what we state is TRUTH. .
HONEST PEOPLE’S TESTIMONIALS cannot be bought; that’s where Vitadatio differs
from many others. Price, 3s. 6d. and ss. 6d. Every Testimonial unchallengeable.
S. A. PALMER, General Australasian Agent.
SUB-AGENTS EVERYWHERE; also GROCERS AND CHEMISTS.
When a Testimonial appears, it is Truthful, Honest, and Reliable. We emphatically assert
Truthfulness ; it is unfair for insinuations to be made when absolute proof is tendered. .
VITADATIO has caused envy, but why should truth be perverted ? VITADATIO is par
excellence.
HEADQUARTERS:
VITADATIO INSTITUTE, 45 -47 Bourke-st, Melbourne, Vic.
S.A. INSTITUTE—RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
W.A. INSTITUTE—HAY STREET, PERTH.
N.Z. INSTITUTE—TAY STREET, INVERCARCILL.
TAS. INSTITUTE-ELIZABETH ST., LAUNCESTON. W. WEBBER.
Depots in all the Chief Towns, Townships, and Country Districts ; also,
Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers Generally.
S. A. PALMER, GENERAL AGENT.
“ WEBBER’S FAMOUS VITADATIO ” has cured Thousands (bad oases). Will Cure You.
BOTTLES, ss. 6d. and 3s. 6d.
BOOKS YOU WANT!
31
J.
Moll Flanders,
Her Fortunes and
Misfortunes, genuine
reprint of De Foe’s
original edition, “un-
faked,” Is 6d post
free anywhere.
Silent Friend, or Sci-
ence of Life and
Marriage, Is 6d; post
free.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaugh
prosecuted book, Is;
by post Is 2d.
Law of Population.
Annie Besant’s famous
book, Is; postl/2.
Wife’s Guide and
Friend. Illustrated
edition, Is ; post 1/2.
Cards, Women, and Wine. Post, Is 3d.
Plain Home Talk about the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 engravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1/9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby. Post free, 2s.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron of Navarre,
Rabllais, Zola’s Novels, Balzac’s Droll Stories. All
Cheap Editions. Rosario, the Female Monk, post 2s 6d.
Buckley, Escaped Convict, his 32 years’ adventures as
a wild white man among the blacks, is ; post Is 3d.
Crisp Tales from the French, by Daudet, fully
illustrated, Is ; post Is 3d.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc.,
by Robert Heller, the Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post Is 3d.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
for miners, clerks, wage earners, etc., Is ; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to
Educate One’s Self; post free, Is 6d.
Tommy Atkin’s Mary, by Paul de liock; post
free, Is Bd. How to Mesmerise. Post free, Is 6d.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasts, ready made. Is 6d, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. '
Is; post free, Is 2d. Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post
free, Is 2d.
Australian Handbook of Midwifery, illustrated;
2s 6d, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the Fauborg, from
the French, Is 3d post.
The Ballet Girl, with 22 Racy Illustrations, de- ‘
picting her Theatrical and Domestic Life. Post
free, Is. The Life, Adventures, and Confessions of ‘
a Sydney Barmaid. Post free, Is 6d.
How Gamblers Win, or the Secrets of Advantage ‘
Playing Exposed, post, Is Bd.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems. Post, Is.
Australian Prospector’s Pocket Book and Miner’s
Guide, post Is 3d.
Five Hundred Ways of Making Money, post free 6d.,
t)R. Beanry’s Private
Book for Men, post 2s 6d.
Book of Nature and
Marriage Guide, 50 en-
gravings, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Full description sent post
free.
House Decoration:
Whitewashing, Paper-
hanging, Painting, etc.
79 Illustrations, 1/3.
Cycle Building & Re-
pairing, with eng’s, Is 3d.
Our List of Special
Books post free any-
where.
Books sent to any colony at above prices on receipt of P. 0.0., Postal Notes
Stamps. Booksellers, Hawkers, and Storekeepers should write for trade list.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
WILL ANDRADE,
Opposite
Waxworks.
201 Bourke st„ Melbourne.
WILL
ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
k IMPORTER.
CHEAP
BOOKS
BEALE &
LIMITED.
BJ
IRON-FRAMED PIANOS
FOR HOT CLIMATES.
. . . THE CELEBRATED . . .
HAPSBUR6 PIANO, New Style.
. . . THE HIGH-CLASS . . .
-sSiF. ISCRMANN PIANO S
Here Are a Few Condensed Testimonials
FROM MANY THOUSANDS.
.Each has been voluntarily Sent to Us..
PLEASE WRITE TO US FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS,
No Matter where You Live. Kindly Mention “The Bulletin.”
PIANOS OF MANY MAKERS.
The late Chas. S. Packer, Royal Academician: “ Ex-
tremely pleased with sweetness, fulness and power. Tone
and finish all that can be desired. Unsurpassed.”
Madame Charbonnbt-Kellerman : “ Aussi charm4e que
surprise de la douceur exquise de leur toucher, unie &
une ampleur et une sonority remarquables.”
Monsieur Henri Kowalski : “ Good tone, easy touch,
durable, every element of conscientious work and careful
making.”
Signor Roberto Hazon : “ Purchased one. All respects
very perfect. Suited to climate. Splendid finish, faith-
ful workmanship, tone and power. Cannot be excelled.”
Mr. J. A. Delanbv, of St. Mary’s: “Tone powerful;
extremely sweet and clear. Touch elastic and sympa-
thetic. Depend on remaining well in tune.”
Sir Wm. 0. Robinson, Gov. of S. Australia, gave his
unqualified approval.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Queensland. Purchased “on ac-
count of its special sweetness.”
Rev. W. G. Lawks, New Guinea: “ Stands this trying
climate remarkably well.”
Rev. J. Levy, Sydney : “ Highly toned. Entire satis-
faction. Confidently recommended.”
Rev. J. Hornsby Spear : “ After six long journeys and
eight years’ constant use, has been only tuned once.
Perfect order. Condition and tone as new.”
Rev. Hy. Jobson, Cowra : “ Every satisfaction. Very
pleased with it."
Very Rev. J. T. Marriott, D.D., Dean: “Has given
satisfaction. Much admired.”
Rev. R. Thomson, Tenterfield: “ Every satisfaction.
Exceptionally economical in tuning.”
Rev. Jas. S. Scott, Woodburn : “ Cannot speak too
highly. Never heard a better-toned inst. than you sup-
plied me. Retain surpassing brilliancy.”
Rev. Chas. H. Gibson, M. A. : “ After many years entire
satisfaction. Very fine inst., sweet tone, easily kept in
tune."
Rev. Jas. Moss : “ Constant use in school six years,
thus proved good and durable.”
Rev. Walter Lucas : “All who have seen mine are in-
clined to break the tenth commandment 1"
Ven. Archdeacon Mathbson : “Such an instrument is
a real treat.”
Rev. J. 0. Warner, Warwick : “ Very muoh pleased.
Can speak very highly.”
Rev. Dr. Murphy, St. Patrick’s College : “ Greatly ad-
mired for sweetness and purity.”
Rev. Hy. Plume, M.A., Townsville: “Well calculated
to stand the tropics.”
Rev. Matthew Maddbrn, Orange : “A charming piano.
After many years use improves in sweetness and mellow-
ness of tone.”
Rev. Fathern Doran, Oberon : “ First-class in melody
and durability.”
Rev. C. Hamilton Shbddbn, Bourke : “ Wonderfully
sweet; perfectly elastic. Touch full of sympathy.”
The Rev. Mother, Convent, W. Kempsey : “ Given
great satisfaction, as they all have.”
The Mother Rectrbss, Bega : “ Satisfaction with the
beautiful instrument.”
The Sisters of the Good Samaritan : “ Recommend for
durability and usefulness.”
The Rev. Mother, Coraki : “Greatest satisfaction. A
splendid instrument.”
The Rev. Mother, Lismore : “Clear, full tone, free
action, stands wear-and-tear better than pianos by other
makers at same price.”
The Mother Superior, Wagga : “Purchased years ago,
gave satisfaction ; still in good order. ”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Sunny Corner : “ Con-
stantly used. Needs no tuning. Sweet-toned, after
years, as when first arrived.”
The Sisters of Mercy, Townsville : Your Pianos give
us entire satisfaction. Withstand admirably tropical
climate.”
The Presentation Sisters, Hay: “Piano given un-
bounded satisfaction, although in constant use for seven
years.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, O’Connell Plains : “ Recom-
mend for durability and sweetness.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Perth : Good instrument.
Great satisfaction.”
Holt Cross Content, Cooi a: “ Recommend Haps-
burgs for schools, as very durable, Particularly suited.”
The Sisters of Mercy, Parramatta : “Hapsburg giving
every satisfaction.”
The Sisters of Mercy, Emmaville : “ Greatly pleased.
Highly recommend as well-toned, good, strong and dur-
able.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Wattle Flat: “Beautiful
piano ; after several years’ use, preserves its sweet tone.”
Mr. Thos. J. Fitzpatrick, Organist, St. Patrick’s, Bega:
“ My 60-guinea Hapsburg, after several years, gives every
satisfaction. Excellent tone."
Mr. R. H. Lansdown, Station-master, Quirindi : “Every
shape and form an excellent instrument. Very highly
pleased. Honestly recommend to everyone.”
Mr. W. S. Watts, Asst. S.-master, Millthorpe : “ Mag-
nificent instrument. Exceeds expectations. Tone and
touch excellent. Certainly recommend.”
Mr. Gus. T. 0. Miller, M.L.A.: “ None to surpass ;
splendid tone, volume and thoroughness.”
Mr. Marcus Hume, Bega : “ After many years’ experi-
ence, have bought a second Hapsburg in preference to all
others.”
The Sisters of St. Joseph, Cargo : “ They cannot be
excelled.”
An.n’is Montague-Turnbr, Vocalist: “ Had one in con-
stant use. Every satisfaction. Resonant and powerful,
yet easily modulated.”
Saml. Geo. Benson, R.A. Music, London : “ I testify to
excellence, power and durability of Hapsburgs. That I
purchased is a really splendid instrument. I prefer them
to those of any maker I have met with.”
John Radcliff, Premier Flautist, Her Maj. Theatre,
London: “The Hapsburg is an unrivalled instrument.
To the flute soloist nothing is more important than
quality of piano accompanying.”
Fred Maccabe (the Evergreen) : “ Excel in touch, tone,
equality, rapidity of hopper and hammer, but above all
in the singing quality of each note. These, united, I
have not met with in any other piano.”
School of Arts, Hinton : “Piano gives every satisfac-
tion.”
School of Arts, Wickham : “ All first-class pianists
speak in highest terms of its brilliant tone and suitability
to large hall.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Granville: “ Well pleased,
entirely satisfied.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Hillgrove: “ A splendid in-
strument.”
Good Templars’ Lodge, Newcastle : “Great pleasure to
speak highly.”
Ancient Order of Foresters, Macdonaldtown : “ En-
tire satisfaction."
Bachelors’ Club, Hillgrove : “ Satisfaction in every
way.”
School of Arts, Townsville : “ Rich, full tone rarely
met with."
School of Arts, Ipswich : “ Utmost satisfaction in
every way.”
Burwood Mechanics’ Institute, Newcastle : “ Tho-
roughly satisfied.”
Mr. Lewis T. Garnett, Australian Star : “ Great
approval.”
Mr. Fred. B. Gipps, Ashfield: “Rich tone, excellent
construction.”
(Late) Prof. K. W. Goergs, Woollahra: “ Most satisfac-
torily stood test of wear and climate.”
Dr. W. Cleaver Woods, Alburv : “ Combines brilliancy
with mellowness of tone. Unusually sympathetic touch.”
Mr. H. Headley, Brewery, Albury : “ Complete satis-
faction ; keeps in tune wonderfully well.”
Mr. Chas. Clark, school, Araluen : “ After years of
use, perfect tune. Unrivalled as an accompaniment to
voice.”
Mr. M. O. A. Marsh, Lands Dept. : “ I have had several
pianos; prefer yours to any, and am sure will stand any
climate.”
Mr. Fred. Hamilton, Pub. School, Donald : “ I like the
Hapsburg very much.”
Miss Lliza Ella, Pub. School, Spring Vale : “ Every
reason to be highly pleased.”
Mr. Jas. Thompson, Dep.-Gov. Berrima Gaol: “ Every
satisfaction.”
Allowance Made for Old Pianos.
Kinclly Address :
BEALE & CO., Limited,
4:84: George Street, Sydney;
OR 13 STRAND.
Branches and Travellers Throughout the Colony.


PLENTIFUL RAIN. Bountiful SEASONS.
A PROPHESY! FLOODS!!
TF we could only get PARLIAMENT TO PASS A BILL
x FOR GENERAL AND PLENTEOUS RAINS, Parlia-
ment might shut up for five years. We would never
miss the Floods of Talk.
But, if BLESSED with BOUNTEOUS RAINS, then
Granuma would be on every Breakfast Table.
Billy Tea— Bigger Sales than ever.
Ding Dong Baking Powder would go up.
White Heather Whisky be taken down.
Electric Cleanser be in every wash-tub.
Weymouth’s Vinegar in every kitchen.
—AND—
James Inglis & Co., Sole Proprietors,
and Wholesale Agents, Millers, Merchants, &c.,
be busier than ever in Dean’s Place, Sydney ;
and at Brisbane.
Yes ! Give us COPIOUS RAINS and GOOD GRASS, and
you may put the FEDERAL CAPITAL where you like.
—— • •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
He was Reprieved.
In France, a man sentenced to death is not told
in advance on what day he is to die. The first in-
formation he gets is from the officers who prepare
him for the guillotine. Between sentence and
execution the prisoner’s life is full of terrors, for
any footfall outside his cell may herald the mes-
senger of death.
_ So free and honest men suffer agonies of irngina-
tion when they learn that they have diseased kid-
neys. They may live for years. They may die
before another sunset. Kidney trouble is more
deadly than consumption if neglected or im-
properly treated. It is a great mercy that one
sure remedy exists.
The many old frie.nds of Gf. H. Wood, Esq., ex-
J.P., in Queensland and New South Wales, as.
well as. the newer ones of New Zealand, will read
of his good fortune with interest and pleasure. In
a letter dated Dunedin, 15th July, '1)8, lie says :
“I have much pleasure in bearing testimony to
the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills.
Over five years I had suffered from derangements
of the liver and kidneys, so much so that at times
I felt unfit for business, iny whole system being
affected, but more particularly my head. Some-
times I thought I had congestion of the brain, and
then I was told I had Bright's disease. Even-
tually I found my liver and kidneys were out of
order, and that was the cause of my troubles. I
was recommended by a friend to take Warner’s
Safe Cure and Safe Pills. After the first four
bottles I felt as well as ever I did in my life. I
am quite confident of the good effects it has had.
I take this first opportunity of sending an un-
solicited testimonial, of which the proprietors of
Warner’s Safe Cure can make whatever use they
choose.”*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture <fe Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent stalf.
|3P“ Sates Held, at the Auction lioonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and I nventories carefully prepared.
Walter I'k wiley & Co., 3iG George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N’Yestor of Australian politics —
Reid-
There are nine open enemies and 99 secret
enemies of Federation in N.S.W. Assembly.
Practically the whole N.S.W. country
press barracks for the amended Federation Bill.
The Queensland elections are a duel
between Labor and Leprosy.—Tasmanian Fede-
ralist.
On the discussion re the Federal Enabling
Bill in N.S.W. Assembly Labor-leader M'Gowen
said —nothing.
M‘Gowan, N.S.W. Labor-leader, travails
in spirit. His small party drifts to the rocks, and
the old wheel won’t work. But G. H. Reid lately
assured him of a seat in the Federal House of
Representatives.
Over-confidence may yet be the undoing
of the federalists. G. Republican Dibbs, Dr.
MacLaurin, Jno. Norton and Geo. Pile’s dog are
starting early, and may yet work up a vigorous
crusade against the Bill on the Capital cry.
Sydney anti-federalists at their big meet-
ing the other day found themselves corporeally
possessed of only one M.L.A., the dubious
M‘Laughlin. That should have told the meeting
that the people were going up another street.
Spruson, M.P., in N.S.W. Assembly, re-
ferred to the half-empty galleries as a proof the
public did not want Federation. Premier Reid :
“ The hon. member is out of order in speaking of
the galleries. But, go on ; I perceive he is speak-
ing to the galleries.”
Certain N.S.W. Opposition members, who
regarded as rosy their prospects of portfolios, fear
a total eclipse of hopes as a result of Federation.
One portfolio is worth 40 Federations to them.
However, one Federation is worth 40 million office-
seekers to the people.
The fiscal red h irring again. Sydney
Daily Telegraph: -‘lt 'is believed N.S.W.
National Protection Union will recommend the
acceptance of the Bill.” Now, N.S.W. National
Protection Union, like the N.S.W. Freetrade
Association, is practically defunct.
Melb. Trades Hall Council occasionally
resents the success of the Anti-Sweating League,
and its occasional encroachments into Trades Hall
preserves. A vice-president the other day alluded
to the League’s presiding genius as “ the man who
tried to start a new Trades Hall in Melbourne.”
You can tell a paper’s policy by the letters
it “leads.” When the O’Sullivan writes that
“suspicious people might be pardoned if they
imagine that Premier Reid would barter away
Sydney Harbor or pawn the Blue Mountains to
retain office,” Sydney D.T. “bumps it out.”
Poor Joss !
JOR DON v. ALL-COMERS (simultaneously).
Some sketches at Sydney School of Arts.
Ex-Opposition-leader Lyne is averred to
have prepared a long and elaborate speech against
the new Federal proposals. His contribution to
the debate was an unimportant interjection.
There is hope for Lyne. The politician who
remains silent after charging himself with thunder
is not altogether lost.
The Cairns Chinese assembled lately in
their chief joss-house and decided, on account of
recent ructions, to give neither sleeping nor board-
ing accommodation to Malays. The heathen is
good on the boycott—the Jap carrying the system
to a high degree of perfection. Some day the
white may learn a lesson.
At one time no S.A. public service secre-
taryship carried less than .£6OO salary, but Gar-
diner, the new Public Works sec. and one of the
ablest men in the service, takes the billet at A‘sso.
And S.A. heads of departments complain that,
under the Kingston rSfiime, not only are salaries
sweated, but independence of action is frowned
upon.
In all his speeches Q, Premier Dickson
starts by weeping over his predecessor, “whose
loss was a national one.” Certainly! Any cir-
cumstance, from the death of the Premier to the
marriage of a kanaka, which results in making so
hideously commonplace a property-agent as Dick-
son into a Prime Minister, may well be termed a
national loss.
Hie population of Melbourne inside the
ten-mile radius was estimated on 3lst. Dec ’9B
at 469,680, an increase of 11,196 for the year.’’The
Yarra-bank city is now nearly up to the figures of
the gorgeous boom-days again-provided the esti-
mates are correct. But suspicion always attaches
to estimates, especially when there has been no
census for eight years.
S.A. Laborites intend to run several candi-
dates for country districts at the general election
next month—a decision that has caused much
annoyance to provincial Liberals who agree with
the Labor programme. The party has, by the
way, got out of its delicate position on the
federal question by making it an open matter.
Of prominent Laborites, leader Batchelor opposes.
Brisbane’s nearest approach to a comic
paper is undoubtedly the Courier. It appears to
be edited by a person who would make an admir-
able figure-head for some Little Bethel for
kanakas. Ihe wind-up of a column on the black-
labor question :
i and Japanese have to be kept at arm’s
length, and the kanaka must be cot rid of by decrees ;
but until the millennium comes it will be impossible to do
more than fight the mischief step by step.
Cardinal Moran is quoted as being of
opinion that Sydney should be the Federal seat of
Government because it is “ the key of the Pacific ”
The expression has a good ring about it, like the
noise of a big door-key falling on a brass image of
bt. Peter But the Pacific is pretty large, and
Auckland, Manila, Callao, Thursday Island,
bhanghai, ban Francisco, Valparaiso, Vancouver
and lots of other places are all keys. The place is
full of keys. And what does the Federal Govern-
ment want to sit on a key for?
During the absence of the Q. Dead broke
Cabinet on the serious work of trying to save its
political neck in the electorates, nearly all the
departments are being run by two Leg. Coun-
cillors—Barlow and Grey. Barlow is the bleak-
faced earthly god of the local Yellow Pup, and
Gray is now chief political flunkey to the R C
faction. Had the Bill attempted by the late
Byrnes—giving full executive powers to council-
lors temporarily holding portfolios—been passed
Barlow and Grey would have made things hum in
the Oivii berviee.
It is often asserted in Bananaland that the
Govt, officials in Papua have been using their
opportunities to pick the eyes out of any lands
thrown open. It is alleged that they also do a
large and flourishing trade with the natives in
rubber, sandalwood, and other articles.
Ibis matter would bear looking into.
The scheme of Federation dominat-
ing the minds of Australians 30 years ago
embraced a partitioned Queensland, much
as the residents in the Northern and
Central parts of that province now con-
tend for. Westralia was then a Crown
colony, and, of course, stood out, but
still, in the theories of the time, a Federa-
tion of seven provinces—Tasmania, Vic.,
N.y.W., S.A., Queensland to the 25th
degree of latitude, Captieornia to the 20th
and Carpentaria to the Gulf—was con-
sidered not only feasible, but quite within
practical reach. The residents in the pro-
posed separated territories, supported the
scheme, and were well pleased with the
names suggested for their use, Caprieornia
being the coinage of Sir Thomas Mitchell,
and Carpentaria the invention of church-
man and Parliamentarian Dr. Lang.
At a “Colonists”—quaint old-time,
designation anti-Federation meeting
held in Sydney the other day, Chicago
Dibbs, talking about the proposed Federal
capital, referred to his visit to Canada and
stated that when about to see Ottawa,
Canada s i ederal capital, he expected to
learn some great lessons from it, but found
it a small place, the platform of the station
not being as large as those of some subur-
ban stations around Sydney. He said
further that there was not a decent hotel
in the place, and gave other illustrations
of its insignificance. Which all goes to
prove, if it proves anything, that the
question of the Federal capital is not
worth yapping about; and that the racket
about the ruin of Sydney through not
getting the Federal capital is bosh—all
there is to lose is a handful of people and
a sleepy dog, or thereabouts. Not that
the anti-Federalists believe this, but in a
storm any port will do.
The Yic. Women's Political and Social
Crusade, a lately-formed women’s organisation on
broad democratic lines and free from the holy
element, has created some stir in Melb. by assert-
ing that sinall-boy labor is employed in certain
large factories in defiance of the Act, that children
with their fingers nipped off by machinery are
quite common in some suburbs, and that children
are hidden away in cupboards when inspectors are
sighted.
Why should not a town like Rockhampton,
that returns a Labor-Separatist at the head of the
poll, make an attempt to put in two Demo-
cratic supporters of autonomy ? At present that
sultry city sends in one Democrat and one Con-
servative, who are always, and naturally, at log-
gerheads before they get decently into Parlia-
mentary harness. Every other double electorate
in Bauanaland regularly sends up its two Pro-
gressive candidates, and why not Rockhampton ?
-Looks as if Q. Opposi-
tion—if it doesn’t capture
the Treasury benches—-will
be a most heterogeneous mob
in the next Parliament. Most
of Glassey’s followers are
“full up” of him, and the
A.L.F. members returned
will fight like devils for his
scalp. Then Drake has in-
curred the displeasure of
arrogant young Lilley, by
refusing to support him as
Opposition candidate for
Oxley, and has fallen out
with WoRKERHiggs, through
starting an opposition paper
and talking rather straight
in it. The Opposition will
be made up of members who
received, and others who
were refused, the Labor Exe-
cutive endorsement; loyal
Progressists who will follow
Drake, and bogus Demo-
crats who will lead them-
selves ; anti - Ministerialists
who will creep in to grind
private axes and Indepen-
dents who will emulate Dick-
son in ’96 and straddle the
fence. The man capable of
uniting all these political atoms into a concrete
whole has not yet shown on the horizon.
Dear Bulletin.— You say that Barton’s
luck is in “ because nobody is attacking him.”
Really, the fact is deplorable. When Barton was
working like steam to effect Federation, and shone
as the greatest man in Australia, there was a sting
for. him in nearly every political tail. Premier
Reid gets all the venomous little digs now, and
Barton—sleeps, or awaits a golden opportunity,
or something.—T.D.
Another N.S.W. Laborifce, Ferguson, of
Broken Hill, grabbed at the first chance to get off
the fence and declare for the Commonwealth Bill.
He, of all the Labor-men, made perhaps the most
violent speeches against the Bill, and had ascribed
the worst motives to its supporters ; but a couple
of amendments which some of his fellow-solids
declare to be quite valueless induce him to accept
the measure. Also his constituency, despite his
yells, accepted the Bill without any amendment
at all.
BIS SHARE.
BOY: “ Pound o’
butter, please."
GROGCER: “ Where’s
your plate?”
BOY : “ Wrap it up, please, ’cos mother always lets
me lick the pyper!”
Premier Reid sneered at O’Sullivan,
M. for making disparaging references to the
holidaying Attorney-General Want, and W. J.
Lyne a little later sneered at Reid for disparaging
the absent O’Sullivan. “It’s unfair to speak ill
of a man behind his back,” was the burden of
both. But is a man who occupies a paid public
position ever absent in the sense that should
shelter him from public criticism ? While he
holds an office and takes public pay he is officially
befpre the court of opinion, wherever his unim-
portant body may be.
No one who reads in last week’s Truth
John Norton’s parochial blast and curse against
Australian union and Australian nationhood in any
shape, would dream that but a few months ago
John was a candidate for Fitzroy division in the
Federal and Bartonite and Old Bill interest. And
the Old Bill wasn’t nearly so advantageous to
N. as the New Bill is. One of the joys of
the Federal movement is that it gives amusing
people like John a chance to explode in so manf
new places—and John’s explosions are like an
immensely long beer in a dry land.
T , ■ n-j i. • \ •-i .
Premier Reid, hoping to avoid personal
embarrassments—how his Ministry does evade
personal responsibility ! has placed N.S.W.
Supreme Court Judges—their claims for leave of
absence and pensions, their retirement and ap-
pointment—in the Department of the Attorney-
General. In these respects the change is directly
in the face of the often-expressed opinion of the
late Parkes. The appointment of a Supreme
Court Judge he held to be solely in the Premier’s
province, and contended that to make it even a
Cabinet matter was derogatory to the judicial
position. Iso real embarrassment is avoided by a
barrister-Premier turning over the duty to a
barrister-Attorney-General. In either case a
practising barrister appoints and otherwise con-
trols the Judge before whom he is likely to plead.
If, indeed, the power of appointing, etc., were
given to some layman of the Cabinet, the cause of
the embarrassment referred to would be removed.
HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“ D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excellent flavor, which, while
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
THE LOST CHORD.
BUMMER : “I 'was er ’ ard-workin ’ man, mum, an’ at the top of me
professhin until I lost me voice.”
MUM : “Lost your voice! You don’t look like a professional singer .”
B.: “ I warn’t no singer, mum—I war a ‘ bottle-oh'!”
In the old days when “ Braddon’s Blot”
hadn’t one respectable friend in the country (The
Bulletin stood by it all through, but then The
Bulletin isn’t respectable), the old man from
Tasmania was allowed undisputed possession.
Nobody ever attempted to suggest that it was
anybody else’s Blot. Now it has become respect-
able ; six Premiers have struggled with it and
found that they couldn’t invent anything better
among them ; and about a dozen people are rising
up to say that it is really their Blot. Poor Brad-
don feels his Blot slipping. And yet if he had
attempted to offer it to any of these claimants
only three months ago he would have been re-
ceived as cordially as if he was trying to leave a
serpent on the dinner-table.
T. A. Dibbs, of tlie Commercial Banking
Co., says a daily paper, is of opinion that “half-
a-dozen of the commercial men of Sydney could
draft a satisfactory scheme of Federal finance ”
quite easily. But alas ! these alleged men of stu-
pendous intellect who could put everything right
never do it. They are so beastly selfish that
though they know all about it they won’t divulge
their splendid knowledge. Before the referen-
dum of June, ’9B, Attorney-General Want de-
clared at a public meeting that he could produce
in an hour a Draft Constitution which would
satisfy all the provinces, and when some hairy
per.- on asked him why he didn’t do it, he said
wildly that he would do it when the referendum
was over. But he never did. None of them ever
do.
A Bare Majority party is rising in the
anti-Federal interest, whose plaint is that it is all
wrong to let a bare majority put any province into
Federation unless the scheme is so adjusted that a
bar.- majority can take it out again :
A simple majority should be able to do only what a
simple majority at any future time will have the powerto-
undo, and this rule has always been recognised in Parlia-
mentary Government in the fact that Parliament by a
simple majority vote can revoke any of its own or its pre-
decessors’acts.
And the community replies, sadly, “Rabbits!”
The world isn’t built that way—it would be a
great deal better world if it was. A simple
majority passed the law which floated £22,000,000
of N.S.W. loans in 1883-6, but 25,000 majorities
can’t undo that law and prevent the country
owing the money. A simple majority passed the
hanging statutes of N.S.W. and all the majority
in the world can’t unhang the people who were
sttangled thereby. All the best lands in Aus-
tralia were sold' under the sanction of a bare
majority and there is no majority in the solar
system large enough to revoke the fact that they
are sold. The majority couldn’t even undo so
small a thing as the Parkes grant if it raged from
now to Doomsday, for Mrs. Parkes has spent the
mon°y on provisions. As an argument against
Federation the Bare Majority theory is something
awful.


WOOP aQd BRASS
“ They
Have
No
Equal.'
Are extensively used in the manu-
facture of Hand and Orchestral
Instruments. These materials in
the hands of expert workmen
assisted by high grade machinery
are transformed into Clarionets,
Cornets, and instruments of a like
nature.
The recognised leading English
Manufacturers are Boosey and Co.
and Besson and Co. (for which firms
we hold the Sole Agency in Aus-
tralia).
Their Instruments are scientifi-
cally accurate , musically correct,
easy of manipulation and noted the
world over for
PURITY OF TONE
FAULTLESS CONSTRUCTION
HIGH GRADE WORKMANSHIP
EXCEPTIONAL DURABILITY.
May we quote you for them ?
PALIN6 & CO., Ltd.
Are also Sole Agents for
THE
CELEBRATED
PARIS HOUSE
COUESNON & CO.
The LEADING
And LARGEST Manufacturers of
BANP ai)d
ORCHESTRAL
INSTRUMENTS
A
Quotation We can furnish a Band of 14 Performers with
a set of Instruments from £45.
Terms - - - Can be arranged.
Discount - For Cash.
Catalogues and Estimates Free by Post.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 George-st., SYDNEY;
And at BRISBANE & NEWCASTLE.
Monday’s wires re the Queensland elec-
tions showed nothing significant except the win-
ning of the Valley and Gympie seats (three in all)
by the Labor-party, and the loss of South Bris-
bane (one only) by them. Whereupon Sydney
D.T., in a ponderous leader, points out the reasons
which have caused a steady decline in public feel-
ing for the Labor-party on the part of “ the people
of Queensland.” It laboriously traces their fail-
ing fortunes to their bygone trampling upon the
prejudices of the law’norder elements ofQ. society.
The Labor-party only wants to keep On failing
at this rate to be running the Big Sugar province
by the time the present elections are over. But
the proprietary controllers of the D.T., instinc-
tively hostile to labor movements, can’t see it.
The fact that, where the party has got a hold, it
can afford the luxury of running “solidarity”
candidates against independents of the Hoolan
and Cross stamp—and get them in—is not con-
sidered by the D.T. to afford any indication of
anything ; and the name of Bulcock is not even
breathed. The “people of Queensland” express
their views with extreme difficulty through the
medium of electoral rolls, manipulated with as
much exact science as theirs are, but, when the
numbers go up, it will still probably be found that
the Labor-party’s backers run the Government
supporters encouragingly close.
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
The new industry that has arisen in Free-
trade N.S. W. is technically known by the initiated
as “ monniker snatching.” As in most Freetrade
industries, the manufactured product is frequently
adulterated. The signature-lists of the Anti-Bill
petition are by no means all genuine. One mis-
guided and conscientious collector, who had deter-
mined to go straight, was sent out to a popular
suburban resort and scored 15 signatures as his
day’s work—and earned nothing. The price paid
is ss. a hundred (the Anti-Billites are still collect-
ing), but 40 is regarded as a good day’s work.
Indeed, signatures are so hard to get that any
number per diem from 25 up is paid for at the
same rate as a century. For a second hundred, or
portion thereof, 2s. 6d. extra is paid as an incentive
t 6 energy. The collectors present themselves at 9
o’clock every morning, and annex the dibbs —they
can’t be anything else but Dibbs in this connec-
tion. A winey collector, who had festivated on
yesterday’s good fortune, left his list in the
common room of his restaurant. Everybody
signed : Tottie Eewclothes, Snorky Snigger, Lew
Larrikin, &c., &e., over 50 signatures—and they
were paid for in due course next morning. The
writer has seen half-a-dozen demi-mondaines of
the ultra hard-shell variety waiting to give a
“bloke” they knew a lift with his signatures.
The decent men nearly all sign each other’s lists—
several times. Friends who care more about the
price of meat than Federation (either way), and
friends who care very much, all sign; for who
would stand in poor Jones’s way when there was
five bob hanging to it? And, to the man who has
been hungry himself, what plea is more irresistible
than that couched in an apostrophe to the Deity,
and concluding with a reference to the way things
are at home? Besides, any name will do !
“ Sherlock Holmes ” outrivailed. Any
reader wanting news of a missing relative, or a
copy of a will, certificate of birth, etc., or needing
a delicate inquiry made, had better write to J. W.
Holdswohth, the leading Melb. inauirv anent.*
Whoever desires to drink a healthy and
refreshing mineral water is recommended to try
Zetz-Spar, which bubbles up from the stomach of
the earth at Ballimore, near Dubbo, (N.S.W.) —
one of the many places that is going to be the
Federal capital for dead certain. The writer has
just drunk a bottle, and he can confidently say
that he isn’t quite so dead as he was before drink-
ing—and when he begins to feel dead he is pretty
hard to shift, so this says something for the bever-
age. The Zetz-Spa Proprietary hangs out at 171
Kent-street, Sydney.*
Melbourne — i.e., the Collins-street portion
of it —is looking on with a broad grin at the
Rowan-Flanagan fight. Flanagan scored first
blood by means of a “private and confidential”
circular, stating that Andrew Rowan has been a
bad, bold boomster and an awful blot on the
landscape of Smellbourne’s financial civilisation,
and that he (Flanagan) can speak authoritatively
on the subject, because, for twelve years, he drew
a large salary for managing Rowan’s business.
The second round showed Rowan on the offensive.
He slipped in a warrant for the arrest of his
former chum and present antagonist on a charge
of embezzling .£37 10s. seven years ago. Flanagan
was staggered for the moment, but he broke loose
on light bail, and sent Rowan back to his corner
with a writ for £20,000 damages for malicious
prosecution. The fight seems likely to terminate
in a mutual chucking-up of the sponge.
That little Sydney sectarian paper, the
Consecrated Press, is unconsciously adding
much to the gaiety of life. It is run under the
charge of the most holy directorate in Australia,
not even excepting that of the Presbyterian ;
and at the annual meeting of shareholders re-
cently the efforts of the priesthood in pushing the
paper were warmly acknowledged, and special
thanks given to Fathers Bunbury and Timoney
for their gallantry in running the show and
writing the articles. The Bulletin wonders
vaguely whether it was Father Timoney or Father
Bunbury who excommunicated this paper the other
day for permitting a contributor to discuss the
properties of the natural woman. On the whole,
it thinks it must have been Father Bun., because
anybody called Tim would be likely to know
more about the subject. The average priest, it he
is a good priest, knows little about women. No-
body can know a woman unless he takes her home
and studies her, and you can’t know Woman till
you study about nineteen dozen of her. If the
Press directorate could secure the co-operation of
a real connoisseur, like Pope Alexander VI., it
would be another matter. At present it is very
much in earnest, and very ignorant, and shriek-
ingly funny.
A selection of Roderic Quinn’s verses
will be published, in dainty booklet form, by The
Bulletin, on 15th March, under the title “ The
Hidden Tide.” The price will be Is. fid. post-
free, and the collection will include, among other
gems, “ The Camp Within the West.”
COLEMANE’S EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
The world’s standard remedy for all chest
complaints. Used by Earl Jersey, Lord Carring-
ton, etc. Positively th q purest Eucalyptus known.
Rudyard Kipling is reported to be mend-
ing, though still very ill. The world has been as
much concerned about him as if he were a mere
monarch. Unfortunately, his little daughters
have suffered from the same illness—nneumonia ;
and one of them has died
|| [ook Jjhead 1
out of every
cyclists will ride
MULTIPLEX
I
The Tyre that will satisfy Millioxiß.
Reliable,
Light AND
Easily Handled
No cycle will be complete without them.
No cyclist satisfied unless he rides them.
Don’t be out of date. SPECIFY
MULTIFLEX
DunlqpTyres
when ordering
Your machine, or replacing old tyres.
..First in 1888. ever since.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
480 Kent Street, Sydney:
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE UNDERMENTIONED BANKS have
agreed to charge, Half-yearly, a fee of Five
Shillings on all current accounts without excep-
tion whether debtor or creditor.
The first charge will be made on the 30th June
next at Head office and branches, and thereafter
on the 31st December and the 30th June in each
year.
Dated at Sydney this 3rd. February 1899.
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, Limited
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK,
Limited
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Limited
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
THE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
Limited
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH, AND AUS-
TRALIAN BANK, Limited
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA, Limited
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA, Limited
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
Limited
THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND,
Limited.
Rllll. Iflont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
Hyg CASTLEHEAGH ST.,
■ “ SYDNEY ■
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER. MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Y«t
head OFF leg.
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh Streets.^
• SYDNEYv
Established - 1879, , u c
Office inAustrM-'* *
Annual Income and Invested
FundsExceed, £2oo,ooo Sterling.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
TIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Capital Paid-up £38,000
Reserve Liability £213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Oollins-street, MELBOURNE:
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders : 250,000 ... £350,000
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 George Street < facin * aMge-st.) Sydney.
JAMES BURNS, Esq. Dlre | ctois D AM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiavantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Jbiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. VV
Farquhar. J. J, ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jbc Trustees, €*€cQtor&,
AND
Conjpaijy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ...
£150,000 0 0
£73,375 15 0
£150,000 0 0
£6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Slock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,032,511
Directors :
Horn James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P. ; Hon. W. IT. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsr/ote Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES'
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with asrency at Wydng), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Pc licies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
.. 1,200,000 0 0
.. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
Jambs Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon, Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on tlieir behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other hanks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 lOs.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line ; not a Side Show.
m
A FRIEND IN NEED
IS A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send for Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE,
Crystaliseci Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Wanted.
WANTED to Purchase, a Conveyancer’s,
Land, Mining, or Patent Agent’s Business,
or share in same. Particulars to C.8.P., Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'.
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Gabo, Friday, March 17, 5 p.m.
-Peregrine, Sat., March 18, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., March 25,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Friday, March 17, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Friday , March 17, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Sat., March 18, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., March 21, 5 p.:
Peregrine, Sat., March 25, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GEItALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tyrian, Sat., March 18, 2 p.m.
"Peregrine, Sat., March 25, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
lOWliS'l' i'll Kit I! NT FAKES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Win. Howa v d Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
i‘|iisiraith,|lj‘Eacliarn4 go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
To Investors!
DEBENTURE BONDS
from £5O to £‘soo; three
and five years’ currency, and bearing 6 and 7 per
cent, interest, payable quarterly, are issued by the
Universal [and § Qeposit Bask
Limited. Offices, 250 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Incorporated
under the Companies’ Act of 1874. The Company did not
suspend payment during the Building- Society Panic of
1891, or in the Bank Panic of 1893. Further information
from ERNEST C. Y. BROUGHTON, Managing Director.
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eaeharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Cable Address —ItIEMSEIL.
Code—Mo rising & Neat,, etc.
Telephone No. 095.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOKLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can get any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6/6, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
bouth Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Rockton, Friday, March 17.
S.S. Cintra, Friday, March 24.
ALBANY, >
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
March 17.
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
March 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
March 17.
Best & Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. Y U ILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
at nuualt.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £'6s to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Go’s bine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Special Trip
CHI« Ml.
The EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIP COT.
Ltd. will despatch their Splendid New Steel Steamship,
“AUSTRALIAN”
From SYDNEY on the 30th MARCH, 1899, on
the ANNUAL SPECIAL TRIP to CHINA and JAPAN.
The trip to these countries is now becoming a regular
holiday tour, and, on this special voyage, calls are to be
made at interesting points en route, whilst sufficient time
will be afforded passengers to see the beautiful sights
of THE WONDERLANDS OF THE EAST.
Usual Rates of Passage Charged.
For Particulars of which apply to—
Gil)l)S, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Prrr Street, SYDNEY ; or to
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Newcastle.
mm p
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOIITOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenyer Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled. (
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


1 SICKER HRTCI FREE.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 605.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
3'ou will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
ll4a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
53 Years.
ALL GOODS OF FIRST-CLASS QUALITY.
Roofing Felt, in rolls 75ft. long, 32in., 9s roll-over 500
tons; Bolts and Nuts in stock up to 36in. long; Dyna-
mite, taking a few cases, Is per lb. ; best German Fuze,
4J4d per coil, in cases of 500 coils ; best Galvd. Barb Wire,
11s cwt.; Black Barb Wire, 8s cwt. ; Ingersoll’s Rock
Drills, hand-power, 9s each; American Axes, 35s doz.;
Crosscut Saws, 6ft., 6s each ; Pit Saws, 7s 6d each; Hay
Knives, 3s each ; Hay Forks, 2-pronged, Is 3d each;
Wooden Hay Rakes, Is each ; Bullock Bows, Id per lb. ;
Axle Grease, 2s 6d doz. packages ; Chaff Knives, Is each ;
Single-barrel Muzzle-loader Guns, 15s; Double-barrel
Breechloaders, 30s ; Rifles, 7s 6d and 10s; Screw Augers,
J4in. 6d, %in. 9d, lin. Is, ljin. Is 3d each; American
Braces, Is 3d each ; Ratchet Braces, 3s; Smoothing
Planes, 3s ; Mixed Paints from 3d per lb.; Walker’s Horse
Nails, Id per lb. ; Globe Horse Nails (slightly touched),
2d per lb.; Large Drilling Machines for power, £lO, £l5 ;
Lathes for power, £lO, £l2 ; Yellow Ochre, 5s cwt.; first-
class Glass Paper, 7s 6d ream ; and one of the Largest
Stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
CHEAPEST PRICES. . .
JOHN MACINTOSH & [SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SUITS TO ORDER !
MARVELLOUS REDUCTIONS IN
TAILORING !
GOING WITH THE TIMES!
C. 6. Beuitouin
IS MAKING A SPECIAL FEATURE OF HIS *
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
He has purchased a large Stock of the Very Best Mate-
rial, has adopted the Latest Improvements and Appli-
ances, and is prepared to make a Single Garment or a
Suit at Prices which Defy Competition.
You can select from a choice assortment of the best
West of England, Scotch, Kaiapoi, or Geelong Tweeds,
Fox’s Navy Blue Serges, and Sergerettes, and have a
SUIT made in the most fashionable style, guaranteed fit
and superior workmanship, for
TWO GUINEAS,
with an extra pair of Trousers given in.
The Best Value anywhere. Equal to Four-Guinea Suits
at other establishments. Write for Patterns and Self-
measurement Forms.
Place your orders early for the Autumn and Winter
Season.
C. G. HATTE, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
A
%
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
Magnesia
Ckemi^f^
%S£S3
0508
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 3 Cape (triangular), 5s ; 15 China,
9d ; 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Greece, 6d ; 5 Guatemala, 8d ; 9 Borneo,
Is 6d ; 12 Mexico, Is : 21 Heligoland, Is 6d ;
10 Brazil, 6d ; 50 Spain, 2s ; 12 Cuba, 9d.
Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d:
150, 5s ; 500, 21s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
“TV R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. y
Harrison & Attwood. Sole JProprietorß.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
into
POISON
nor any deleterious substance enters into the composition of Clements Tonic. We
make no use in our process of arsenic, strychnia, kola nut, or any such
dangerous or useless drugs. Why should we? We don’t want to kill our patients—dead men
pay no bills. We want to cure them, then they come again, and send their friends
and recommend our remedy whenever occasion arises. That is where we benefit
by supplying a genuine article.
Arsenic is one of the most dangerous poisons that could be used; its quick action on
the human system shows that; but its regular use is bound to result in absorption of the
glands, and wasting away and final destruction of the nerve tissue.
strychnia has a dangerous, stimulating effect on the cerebral tissue, is cumula-
tive in action, and constant use is bound to result in paralysis of the base of the brain,
insanity and madness.
Kola nut has no merit whatever to recommend it. Its sole claim to
recognition as a medicine is due to the small percentage of caffeine it contains,
and it is a very small percentage—only 2 to 2'5 percent. —whereas ordinary tea which
you buy at the grocer’s contains double the quantity, and the best brands of tea contain
up to 6 per cent., so there is more of the active alkaloid of kola in a cup of tea than
in two cups of kola decoction and no dangerous or poisonous ingredients added.
Clements Tonic is no such catchpenny dodge ; it is a process, not a mixture ; has
met with universal praise, and we will send hundreds of local proofs of its merit to any-
one who wishes them.
PUBLIC APOLOGY.
(Hfittfc, JOHN HENRY HAVILAND REYNOLDS, and CHARLES
WILSON, of number 49£ Castlereagh street, Sydney (and late of -16 Glenmore road, Pad-
dington), in the Colony of New South VVales (trading as the British Drug Company)
having in contravention of the rights of F. M. Clements, Pharmaceutical Chemist, of
Newtown, in the said Colony, used the word Cr.EMKNS in connection with preparations
manufacture 1 by us and called
Clemens’ Kola Nut Tonic,
which we labelled as ha ing been manufactured by
Clemens and Co., Sydney,
the same not being the product or manufacture of F. M. Clements, hereby publicly
apologise for having so acted. In consideration of the said F. M. Clements consenting to
forego legal proceedings against us, we hereby undertake that we will not in the future
use the word Clements, Clemens, or any other form of words or letters that might be
construed, or could lead a purchaser to believe that he was getting go' ds of the manufacture
of F. M. Clements We further undertake to deliver to Mr. F. M. Clements all goods
bearing the words complained of, together with all labels, tickets, and other printed
matter in connection therewith. And we also agree to pay Mr. M. J. Brown, Solicitor, his
costs of, and incidental to, the preparation of this undertaking, and the Bond signed
herewith.
The said F. M. Clements is at liberty to
advertise this undertaking as he shall see
fit.
Dated at Sydney this
22nd day of November, 1898.
Witness—
M. J. BROWN,
Solicitor,
44 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
cz , A//u
JAM*
PUBLIC APOLOGY
¥ =====
* GrEORGrE HISLOP, of 52 Palace Street, Petersham, near Sydney, and late of
64 Glenmore Road, Paddington, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, having in
contraventi >n of the rights of F. M. Clements, Pharmaceutical Chemist, of Newtown,
m the said Colony, used the word Clemens in connection with a preparation called
Clemens Kola Nut Tonic, and sold it as Clements Tonic, and which was labelled as
having been manufa tured by Clemens & Co., Sydney, there being no such firm, and the
preparation not being the product or manufacture of F. M. Clements, hereby publicly
apologise for having so acted. In consideration of the said F. M. C’ements consenting
to forego Equity proceedings against me, I hereby undertake that I will not in future
use the word Clements, Clemens, or any other word or form of words or letters that
might sound like, or be construed, or could lead a purchaser to believe that he was
getting a preparation of the manufacture of F, M. Clements, nor sell any imitation of
his preparations
I further undertake to deliver to Mr. F. M. Clements all matter bearing the words
complained of, together with all labels, tickets, and other printed matter in connection
therewith, and 1 also agree to pay costs of and incident to the preparation of this
undertaking, and the Bond signed herewith.
The said F. M. Clements is at liberty to adveitise this apology and undertaking
as he shall see fit. 6
Dated at Petersham this
4th day of January, 1899
Witness—
M. J. BROWN,
Solicitor,
44 Elizabeth Screet, Sydney.
CLEMENTS TONIC lias a record of cures none can rival. Hundreds of base
substitutes come on the market, the 1 plausible advertising resorted to attracts the attention
of the thoughtless and unwary, and they have a sale for a year or two till they are found
out. For a medicine to remain popular for the number of years Clements Tonic has it
must have exceptional merit. The Australian public is too well educated and too discriminat-
ing to be gulled for 1 mg even by clever, if false advertisements, and that is the reason all
the quack nostrums run to the length ot their tether in less than four years in this country
Clements Tonic has been the leader for ten.
ST. PAULI
lull wm
R/u:
ClnL » BRACD
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
6/6—A Watch and Chain for 6/6.
i To every purchaser
of one of our 2s. 6d.
[ “Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent.’s)
we will present, on
payment of 4s. ex-
tra, an OPE N-
PACE KEYLESS
WATCH (as illus-
trated), which we
guarantee. There
are no conditions
or guessing about
this watch. We
send the Watch and Chain registered (any colony) on re-
ceipt of postal note for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage. We
make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our
Price-List, and will send, as a FREE GIFT, a Pendant
Charm Knife to hang on the Watch Chain.
No. I.—PARAGUAYAN Solid Gold Gilt Cuff Links,
with New Patent Attachments, and your Initials en-
graved on each pair, 2s. No. 8. —Heavy Sterling Silver
ditto, 3s. 6d. No. 2.-PARAGUAYAN Solid Gold Gilt
Name Brooches, any name and handsomely engraved, Is.
6d. No. 3.—STERLING SILVER ditto, 2s. 6d. No. 6.
REAL GOLD Fronts, a marvel of cheapness, 4s. 6d. No.
4.—The Latest Pocket KNIVES, German Silver Handle,
stronger, lighter, and less bulky than the ordinary
handles, Sheffield make, with your full name on, 2s. 6d.
BEST Quality “ EYE-WITNESS,”.3s. 6d. (Queensland
orders 4d. extra for postage.)
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
m ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOE TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
7
nJU
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heelCC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and'width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally, take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little mat ters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specialty-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
he following are a few of our leading lines :
GENT’S. Kangaroo E,S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d
best French Calf ditto, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ; F. Calf Kid-leg
Balmorals, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ; best F. Calf WHOLE
Golosh, Kid-leg (neat caps) Balmorals, 20s, for best wear ;
F. Calf Half-Wellingtons, 24s 6d ; best F. Calf Jockey
Boots, sewn, 39s 6d ; F. Calf Riding Boots, 42s (worth
50s); heavy Calf Watertight Shooting Boots, stout soles
for rough tramping, wear 12 months, 15s 6d ; F. Calf
Cossacks, 14s 6d, 15s 6d.
LADIES. Best Glacfi Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, 16s;
ditto High-leg Balmorals, 19s 6d ; Button ditto, 20s;
F. Calf Lace Balmorals, 17s 6d ; Colonial Calf ditto, 13s 6d;
Kangaroo ditto, 15s 6d ; F. Calf or Kangaroo Oxford or
Derby Shoes or E.S., 14s 6d.
Send for Catalogue and Price List — Free on
application.
Thousands of Unsolicited Testimonials!
“ Received shoes you made me, and am highly pleased.
They are a most comfortable fit.” —(Miss) M. S. Tierney,
Freemason Hotel, Singleton. “The boots arrived
safely, and I am well pleased with them. They fit me
perfectly. Will be sending for another pair later on.”—
Miss R. Manns, Karabah, Young. “ The boots you
made me are the best I have ever worn, both for comfort
and durability.”— Fred. T. Berman, Public School, Coo-
namble. “ The boots I got from you have given every
satisfaction, both for ease and wear. Make me another
pair of E.S.” —R. Jones, proprietor Tobermory Station,
Thargomindah, Q.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven daj's, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. Ellis & Co.,
Sydney.
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
and at
173 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Q
UIHULL’S Fluid. Disinfectant clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers”
LJs
AL PALACE HOTEL,
LBOUBNE.^
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMERS, AND CENTRE OE CITY.
TRAMS PASS DOOR TO ALL SUBURBS.
Rooms, 2s to 10s per Night. Dining Rooms, Is and 2s 6d; and Cafe
Boarders, 30s to £3 10s per week-


SoftCaO'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE RRO'I'HERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
“ Burglaree” : “ Not a word too much has been
said about the value of the Sydney Safe Deposit. Take
my own ease : I have rather a nice lot of plate, and my
wife has some valuable jewellery. When we were going
to the Mountains at Xmas we placed this in the Deposit,
and it was just as well. On our return, we found the
place had been burgled, and but for the Safe Deposit our
visitors would have made a good haul. As it was, they
got some second-hand clothes.” The Deposit ; s in Ash-
street, back of Paling’s.*
yz-
; V-
Tv
*
5 * -
*
*
*
-71
The World’s Champion Rider
Rides the World’s Best Bicycle-
• -
.A
■
Champion WM. MARTIN on his Red Bird Special.
The Goold Bicycle Co. Limited .
We can make it interesting’ for good, live Agents
where not now represented.
£
*
*
*
*
A
~^A
Agents in Town and Country.
USE . TZEEJEL
New Sunlight
Sunliglit in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s, 6d,
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Bobadil, after all, has proved himself a stout
horse (on paper) by winning the V.R.C. Leger in fast
time, and subsequently getting home an easy first in the
Australian Cup and Champion Stakes. But there
remains the fact that he had nothing to beat, and was
much distressed after each of the long-distance races.
Wait-a-Bit, his most formidable opponent in the Cup,
stumbled his chance away just as he seemed about to
fight out the finish with the jaunty 3-year-old, but he
wasn’t, on that particular day, the same Wait-a-Bit that
stretched The Grafter’s neck last November. Leaving
the Ballarat horse and his unlucky stumble out of the
question, Bobadil met nothing that has earned a reputa-
tion for stamina. Lee Metford, the runner-up in the
Leger and Cup, was not even able to beat Avalon in the
Champion race, which lasted 25sec. longer than the
3-mile match between Amberite and Bundook, in ’9B.
The Australian Cup race also was exceptionally slow,
considering that they had hard ground to work upon.
Wallace, as a 3-year-old, carried several pounds more than
“Bobby,” and did the distance i.e., he was a nose
behind the winner—in ssec. faster time. As yet, there is
no evidence of the St. Albans hero being a great horse,
except, by comparison with commoners or unfit ones. In
the spring he was just, as great as now, until the V.R.O.
Derby and Melbourne Cup winners got alongside of him.
The Champion being run in 7secs. over the
regulation time brought only half of the regulation added
money to the three placed horses. A time limit for the
Champion was one of the V.R.C. committee’s happiest
thoughts. There is often a loss, and never a considerable
profit, over the Autumn Meeting, and the Club well
deserves to save £5OO when the three-mile “ test ” race
isn’t conducted on proper test principles. By the way,
this year s Champion Day attendance was smaller than
usual owing to an alarming weather-tip by the Govt,
meteorologist. Like most tips, it didn’t come off.
A “reversal of form ” by Crimson was too re-
markable to be overlooked by the V.R.C. stewards, but
the inevitable enquiry resulted in a verdict of Not Guilty
against everybody bar the ’orse. Crimson carried coin
for the Brunswick Stakes, first day of the Autumn Meet-
ing, and ran pretty fast at the outset, but was soon
pegged back last. Jockey Crockett seems to have been
convinced by the mare’s ignominious defeat, for he
wouldn’t reduce his flesh by 41b. to ride her in the
Autumn Handicap five days later. This time owner
Wootton put only a few sovs. on Crimson’s off-chance, and
little Cleal had the mount, deal, riding in histoddiestSloan
style, bustled the mare along from the jump, and won all
the way by about five lengths. Maybe Cleal took a stone
off Crimson’s back by sitting mostly on her neck and
crouching forward to avoid the wind (blowing hard at the
time) when he had it against him. Anyhow, the Tod
Sloan trick is impressive, for it scored again during the
same afternoon. Jockey Kuhn, who sits very forward (as
nearly all the pony-riders do), landed the River Handicap
on Heretic, another animal that has often performed
badly under the old system of government. The Sloan
style will be all the rage presently, and its best professors
may be worth following.
An outrageous-looking cjrte of foul-riding was
what appeared to be young Foulsham’s attempt to knock
out Merry Prince in the Unplaced Two-years-old Stakes,
at Flemington. Foulsham on the favorite (Faith), and
Cleal on Merry Prince were together in the middle of the
course a couple of furlongs from home. They seemed to
be running pretty straight until deal’s mount began
to have the best of the tussle, and then Foul-
sham apparently started boring with malice afore-
thought. Once or twice Cleal looked likely to get
quit of his pursuer, but each time Foulsham came
at him again, and bored and bored, until by the time
Merry Prince had won the race (with half a head the best
of it) he was right against the rails under the judge’s
box. Cleal s victory under the circumstances was a
triumph of jockevship. If the other fellow was not trying
to block Merry Prince all the way down the straight,
then he is a dangerously weak horseman—much too weak
to have a license..
The V.R.C. stewards called boy Foulsham
into their room, as a matter of course, for the
shocking performance couldn’t be blinked. And
as the result of their enquiry, the offender got
a month’s suspension for what they were pleased
to call “ interference.” This decision is a scandal
on the face of it. If Foulsham couldn’t control
his horse it was unfair to suspend him as a misdemean-
ant. They should have sympathetically patted his head
and sent him to father Foulsham with a note saying,
“ Kindly keep your precious son from riding in public for
the next two years, and oblige. Meanwhile, feed him
well and get his strength up.” On the other hand, if the
stewards felt sure that the “interference” was as inten-
tional as it looked they should have made an effort to
strike awe into reckless young blackguardism by wiping
this boy off the track. Such boring as he, or his horse,
perpetrated on Saturday might bring half the field to
smash in a Melbourne Cup race.
• * * •
Lee-Metford (Carbine-Felicitas) proved to Boba-
dil what Progress proved to Grand Flaneur. With
Bobadil away, Lee-Metford would have been the hero of
V.R.C. meeting, as lie ran second in St. Leger, second in
Australian Cup, second in Loch Plate, and third in
Champion Stakes—a truly heart-breaking reqord for his
owner.
• « • *
Bobadil will probably come across the border to
give Sydneyites a chance of seeing him in front of his
fields at Randwick. In the All-Aged Stakes at the con-
cluding day of the V.R.C. autumn meeting Bob cantered
home, finishing the mile in 1.40 —equalling the Australian
record. Other Australian horses who have galloped a
mile in 1.40 are Bungebah, Bodka, Kingfish, Paris and
Delaware.
* * * •
The learned committee of the Newmarket (Eng.)
Subscription Rooms has given an opinion in the case of
the Victorian punter who wired to his Ikey Mo—“ Put
£lO on Scorn in the Maribyrnong Plate, and, if it wins,
put the lot on Bobadil for the Derby.” Scorn, a 3 every-
body knows, won the Plate, but not until after Bobbie
had been beaten in the Derby. The question to decide
was whether the commissioner was practically instructed
to put the “ tenner ” on the first of the two horses that
ran, and then put the winnings and the stake (in the
event of a win) upon the other of the two nags, or
whether he was supposed to literally carry out the order
— i.e., to put £ (amount to be filled in afterwards if
Scorn won the next race) on Bobadil at starting price,
and whether Bobadil’s defeat, therefore, swept away the
stake and the after winnings (whatever they might be)
on Scorn. The Newmarket tribunal rules in favor
of the first idea—the backer’s £lO is considered
to have been duly planked and lost on Bobadil.
There is more to be said for the decision than against it.
Ikey Mo is entitled to protection in all cases where the
punter—inadvertently or otherwise—creates an opening
for a quibble. Little traps have, ere now, been carefully
laid for Ikey by telegrams, and, in the rush of business on
a big race-day, he can’t be expected to do more than
acknowledge the receipt of the order. The Scorn-Bobadil
case was that of a backer who professed to be risking £lO
on a “ double ” —the odds against the “ double ” to be de-
cided by starting prices. One horse in the double got
beaten, and yet the punter wasn’t disposed to think he
had lost his bet.
Forest s Newmarket victory was not such a
scoop for the leather-1 united as at first appeared. Vic-
toria’s leviathan Jack Cohen laid the owner 2000 to 60.
Later, the horse developed rheumatiz or something.
Owner wanted to cry the bet off, intending to scratch,
but bookie refused. “Oxy” laid a 1000 to 10 and a
1000 to 20. Writer knows of two other odds-merchants
whose hooks showed 1000 to 40, each against the “ rank
outsider.” Several big doubles were struck too, and
rumor hath it that a Sydney railway officer won £l5O0 —
1000 to 10 straight out, and £5OO the double (Forest and
Bobadil).
* * * *
Warwick Farm (Sydney) is just a little too far
out of town, and attendance and fields suffer accordingly.
In the principal handicap on Saturday, the Warwick,
there were but five starters. Fairy Prince and Colleen
started equal favorites and the former won after a good
set-to with Bell wood.
* * * *
Australia has emphatically declared itself “off ”
“ Tattersall’s ” ordinary sweeps, and the disgust of black-
mailing horse-owners is almost too deep for words.
“.Tatt.” ran two 50,000 sub. sweeps on Newmarket Han-
dicap-one of them a special (to be drawn on morning of
race) which filled so early that the overflow enabled the
ordinary “consultation ” to close with 45,000 subs. In
the case of the Australian Cup there was no “special”
to tempt the public, so “ Tatt.” had to close his ordinary
sweep with a total of only 19,000 subs. !! In future, all
sweeps will be specials, The Bulletin supposes. They
might as well, for all the satisfaction that “ Tatt’s ” clients
at a distance derive from a gamble on the old lines. The
writer of this. par. invested in all three of the aforesaid
sweeps from Melbourne. The result of the No. 1 ordinary
reached him on the Monday after the Newmarket had
been run. Results of the Newmarket “special” and
Australian Cup ordinary came to hand by the same post
one day after the Cup race. None of the tickets
drew a prize. Had there been any sort of chance
hanging to them the information might perhaps have
come along promptly. When were “Tatt.’s” ordinary
sweeps drawn, and why doesn’t he commit himself to
dates on his circular?
“Tatt.’s” No. 1 special on the Newmarket
yielded four prizes among 30 consecutive tickets—No.
9425 captured £lO, 9430 £5O, 9437 £5, 9454 second prize
(North British). Interesting to know whether those 30
tickets were sold in one lot.
• * • *
The S.A. saints, taking up the whispers of Ikey
Mo, are pointing, horrified, to some lately-printed figures,
and are asking the electors to observe that last year
£268,156 was put into the sinful totalisator ; and they
have gone into calculations that that means about
2,000,000 bushels of wheat. Then, of course, they want
to know what a province can expect to come to
that throws two millions of bushels of wheat into the
infernal machine. Probably it hasn’t occurred to them that
the same money is put into the machine over and over
again, so that probably no more than £25,000 of capital
was required.. And, anyhow, the machine doesn’t con-
sume the coin—or bolt with it to another province. All
the money comes out again.
* * * *
The complaint of Maoriland cricketers that,
whereas they received open-handed hospitalitv in Tas-
mania and Victoria, they were treated but scurvily in
Sydney, and had to pay for admission to the test-match,
&c., should awake the public to the necessity of an
alteration of the administration of Sydney "Cricket
Ground. It is time members had some say in the direc-
tion of things. Prices are too high at 2s. 6d. and Is. for
such matches as the recent M.L. one ; if reduced to Is.
6d. and 6d., they would pay better. The catering
arrangements might be improved, the charges being so
high that the stands are dotted with people munching
provisions which they’ve brought along themselves!
Also, the toothachy music supplied is a public calamity.
Also, why should the tram authorities charge 3d. to the
Cricket Ground when it’s only 2d. to the Zoo, about
100yds. off?
Another aspect of the case : In view of future
visits to Sydney (writes a Bulletin correspondent) the
M.L. cricketers rather made a mistake in complaining of
receiving “scant courtesy” from N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation. As a matter of fact, they were met at the rail-
way-station and driven in a drag to their quarters;
driven each day to and from practice, sumptuously
catered for at the ground ; tendered a banquet; and in
return they showed some of the poorest cricket ever seen
m a representative match on Sydney Cricket Ground. It
would be interesting to know what more they expected.
By the way, it may interest the Australian
Jockey Club authorities to learn that leading members of
the Tasmanian Jockey Club, while loud in their com-
plaints as to the treatment they receive from the A.J.C.
when they visit Sydney, are enthusiastic in their praises
of the hospitality extended by the V.R.O. in Melbourne.
*-* * *
Harry Trott, whom the swaggah M'Laren con-
descended to acknowledge as the best cricket-captain in
the world, unhappily shows practically no sign of im-
provement. He is living at S. Melb. with a trained nurse
in attendance. He is as rotund as ever, but cricket, or
anything else for that matter, possesses very little in-
terest for poor Trotty. A few days ago George
Giffen was taken to see him ; but his old captain
could not recognise Giffen, nor could the chaos of
his brain be stirred to recollection. Giffen has been
credited with being of stern, unemotional composi-
tion, but the exterior of the man is only the husk that
covers the kernel of a fine heart. The sight of poor
Trott’s misery was too much for him ; he broke down and
sobbed like a child.
» * • *
“ Dinnie ” Reedman, who made such a great
stand against Howell and co.’s bowling in Sydney, is, like
George Giffen, an official in Adelaide G.P.O. Reedman
captains N. Adelaide, which has not been defeated in this
year’s Adelaide cricket, and is one of the best footballers
in S.A.
* * * *
A big S. Melb. crowd would have howled had not
Laver been included in the XI. They grant that his style
is not artistic ; that it lacks even the elegance of an agri-
cultural laborer’s “ cuts to leg” with a scythe, but argue
that runs are the things which count now in Hingland,
and that Laver is the man to get them.
• * • •
Laver and Giffen were many people’s favorites
for the last places in the XI. Wonderful how Giffen has
regained his place in popular favor, and had Graham
caught Kelly the first day in the Sydney match the
veteran might have been a certainty. As for Laver-
sturdy bat, good bowler, and of grand physique, his prior
claim over Trumper and co. cannot be gainsaid.
• • • •
There is nothing to cavil at over the final selec-
tion for the team for England of Johns, Laver, and—if a
fourteenth man is taken—Trumper. Johns was, of
course, looked upon as a certainty all through the piece,
Laver has been playing consistent cricket during the
season, and the crowd has all through shown its sym-
pathy with Trumper; and perhaps the best judges of
cricket in the country are the gentlemen who stuff their
lunches in their pockets and broil for half a week round
the ringside.
* * • •
■ Trumper’s four innings against the Australian
Eleven of 6, 46, 46, and 26 were poor performances only
in comparison with his leviath an scores in club cricket.
Had not so much been expected from the dashing young
player, it would have been said he had done excellently
well.
* * * *
Donnan’s first-innings effort in the recent test-
match at Sydney was about the dreariest display of the
tied-elbow game seen since the days of Alick Bannerman.
Giller’s show seemed dreary enough at the time, but
oompared with “Dead-eye” Donnan’s batting it was
wild, reckless slogging. The crowd cheered when
Giller got out, b t it saw Don nan depart in silence—
too tired to yell. Donnan’s dismissal was brought about
curiously. He had played about half-a-dozen maidens,
and started off the seventh with the same careful poking-
about, when a warning voice rose from the “ bob stand,”
“ Play steady, Harry ! ” It brought down the house, and
apparently even had effect on the batsman, for in his own
little way he got reckless and was bowled by Jones, to
the joy of all."
* • * *
The second win in succession of the Australian
XI. showed their decided superiority over the “ next
best,” a very satisfactory state of affairs, as to have gone
to England defeated would not have proved the best
drawing card at ’Ome. When the XI. started their
second innings they needed 60 runs to win, which they
scored with the loss of Gregory’s wicket for 20. Howell
and M'Leod then ran up the required balance, each man,
strange to say, contributing the same score.
It was looking as if ]Noble had lost some of his
bowling power, judging by the recent electoral matches,
and the first test and the first innings of the second test,
but he showed all his old “devil” in the second innings
on Monday last.
• * • *
Laver, the elongated Victorian fielding at point
in the recent test-match, did work right up to the best
form of Harry Trott and Ranji. in that position. The
catch by which he dismissed “Noss” Iredale was one of
the best ever seen on the ground. “ Noss,” who is good
at the cut. got fair on to it, and when Laver threw out,
one large hand and gathered it in the crowd was electri-
fied. Laver, who has the careless appearance of a “ good
sort,” is a big favorite with the Sydney crowd.
* * * *
Old-man Darling always frowned on son Joe’s
cricket business and cricket exploits. It is alleged by the
family that Joe, will make no more trips to England—in
fact, he is being urged to give up the game altogether.
* * * *
A Sydney daily, commenting on the smash in
Sydney Bicycle Cup final, says: “An inspection in the
dressing-room showed that the injuries were compara-
tively trifling, and, as more than one remarked, furnished
a strong tesnmony to the often-stated fact that trained
athletes can withstand shocks which to the ordinary man
would often prove fatal.” As a matter of fact, the men
were packed together on the lower portion of the
track and were thrown on to the grass. Had they been
on the upper part of the asphalte, and been chucked on
the fence in place of the turf, there would probably have
been more work for the coroner.
* * * *
Champion swimmer Fred. Lane and “Mud”
Bishop had their fourth tussle over 100yds. at Bondi last
Saturday. Lane got away first, and had the top of his
head in front throughout, eventually winning by about a
foot. Bishop bungled the last turn, which may or may
not have made the difference, i.ut Lane finished strong
enough to justify the impression that had it been wanted
another ounce or two of power might have been brought
to bear. The time (lmin. 3 2-ssec.) eclipses all previous
Australasian records, and is 2-ssec. faster than Bishop’s
performance of last month, which then stood as best.
* * * *
Novices knocked chips off each other in the first
round of Sydney Golden Gate Club’s 9.4 tournament on
Saturday night. Most bouts never saw the third round
through—one finished inside 2min., but things hummed
to a lively tune the whole time. They was no let-up
from the word “Go!” and every individual of these raw
’uns at the game stood to his guns as if life depended
upon the result, until an extra hot punch sent him
“ out” beyond the allotted lOsec.
* * * #
Monday night’s bicycle races on Sydney Cricket
Ground passed off without serious accident. Walne and
Jackson ran their heats off in the big match, paced by a
tandem, Walne beating Jackson in two straight heats,
showing both better pace and generalship. Forbes
and M'Donald, who had tied with 8 points, then
ran off the final of the Orient Plate over a
mile, M'Donald winning after a good set-to. W.
Phelan won the half-mile handicap in 57 4-ssec., 2 or
3sec. faster than this kind of race is usually won in. The
five miles gave some excitement. When the bell rang
M'Donald dashed out and got a good lead, then Walne
made a phenomenal run round his field at the back, but
(perhaps tired by his previous races) was unable to get
nearer than fourth, and M'Donald won.
* * * *
At the Sydney Electric-Light bike-sports t’other
night a “ book” with a fistful of silver was just going to
pay a winner when a plain-cloches policeman walked aim-
lessly up and stood by. “ Book ” spotted him, and care-
lessly said to winner, “How much was it you lent me,
Joe ? ” “ Thirty bob.” “ Right—l'll pay you as it’s the
end of the month.” He coolly paid up, grinned at the
“ cop.,” and walked away.
*** * *
Trick-cyclist Minting, at London Aquarium,
rides up and down two spiral tracks, a foot wide, con-
nected at 105 ft. from the floor, and not on the ordinary
bike, but on a single wheel 36in. in diameter. One day
he fell at 16ft. —unconscious for a week. Soon afterwards
he fell from 46ft. —no injury. Next time
* * * •
The gamest, sturdiest and best pug. Australia
has sent abroad for many a day—Melbourne Billy Ed-
wards —was beaten Jan. 24, at New York, by that cyclonic
and apparently invincible American boxer, Billy Smith.
The pair started in at a furious clip, and kept it up with
such earnestness that not a few thought Smith would
meet his Waterloo. The Yank opened up roughly and
introduced some questionable work, but Edwards showed
himself equally conversant with queer manoeuvres, and it
was give and take on this score all through. Frequently
the Australian failed to live up to Queensberry rules, and
he was often cautioned by the referee. On the other
hand, Smith never lost" an opportunity to get in a
“crooked” punch. Edwards displayed wonderful
strength, and toughness, and a phenomenal amount of
recuperative force. Up to the 14th round the men took
few breathing spells, and when the Yank rushed in with
a heavy left on the wind and a right on the jaw he ended
one of the hardest and fiercest contests ever seen in New
York or anywhere else.
* * * •
This isn’t bad. At a recent Sydney, boxing
tournament two pugs went the full journey—six rounds
—without a knock-out. One judge was for a draw, the
other named a winner. The crowd clamored for the
referee’s decision. That official explained that he had no
option : the fact of one judge being unable to separate
the fighters compelled him to declare the man singled out
by the other official the winner. And this gentleman is
the permanent referee of the club concerned !
* * * *
From a reliable source comes word that
“Gentleman” George Dawson, whilom light-weight
champion boxer of Australia, has a banking-account
totalling a score of thousands in dollars. George has
been the Chicago A.C.’s boxing instructor for years at
£4OO per annum, beside substantial “ perks.” Writer
remembers Dawson leaving for ’Frisco some few months
after his sensational defeat by Melbourne Tom Williams,
and borrowing a tenner here and a fiver there to help him
along. Writer also recollects that after his first win in
Yankeeland, G.D. straightway returned all those fivers
and tenners, thereby making a dozen or more friends for
life.
* * * *
Young Pluto, the Australian boxer who has
been away from the game so many years, flew at high
game in the States when he took on George Dixon.
Dixon won easily in 10 rounds. Pluto was a top-notcher
in his day—how good may be gauged from his three
fights with “ Griffo,” two with the gloves and one in the
field. On each occasion Jack proved as good as his
master.
* * * *
Australian “Cocker” Tweedie was not long
getting on a match in the States. At ’Frisco, on January
24, he got the decision at the end of 15 rounds with one
Tye, but he seems not to have got over his failing of
playing to the gallery, which will surely bring him to
grief when pitted against something serious.
The Bu lletin recently stated thac of the
3760 destitute N.S.W. children cared for by the
State, 2231 were supported by payments to their
own mothers. This should be 3760 besides 2231
cared for by their mothers. The number of
children cast wholly or in part upon N.S.W.
Treasury was for Feb. about 6500. The chief
clause oitthe amended Act passed in 1896 was the
provision that “deserving widows and deserted
wives” could be paid direct by Govt., and in
little over two years the sum of .£l2OO per month
has been reached under this one head. The in-
crease under the principal Act has not stopped, as
anticipated, the annual outgoings now being
.£46,000 for maintenance alone, without cost of
inspection and management.


HISTORY REPEATS.
Poor Old Diogenes
searched high and low
for an honest man, and
there are many of his
followers looking for
an honest bicycle. To
all such seekers after
Cycle truth we are
pleased to say that we
can bring their search
to a happy termination
by sending them a copy
of the Massey - Harris
Catalogue, which tells
all about our easy-run-
ing wheel. If you want
more truth, call at one
of our depots and ex-
amine the parts we
build from.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne.
BRANCHES : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—Northam.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
ADDRESSES.
PSYCHOLOGICAL
TO
Scientists, Christians and Agnostics-
A SERIES OF ADDRESSES on the question of Light
in relationship to Life and Matter as determining Man's
place in the Universe and the Divine Fatherhood of God
will, at an early date, be delivered by A. M. CAMERON.
Further particulars in due course.
TO THE MEMBERS OP thb
Australian Mutual Provident Society-
Mr. F. E. Winchcombe,
Senior Partner in the firm of Winchcombe, Carson & Co.,
is a CANDIDATE for the office of DIRECTOR, and solicits
the favor of your votes.
Bridge-street, Sydney, March 9,1899.
PUBLICATIONS.
Books for every Woman.
Dr. Alice Stockham’s “Tokology,” 10s. 6d., post
11s. “Wife’s Guide and Friend ” (illustrated),
by Dr. Warren ; genuine edition, Is.
SAUNDERS,
312 Flinders-street, MELBOURNE.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Prank grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
JOHN M A JURY. —Important letter for you,
G.P.0., Sydney, from Wm. Adams.
Hi iiniiis 10.0(0
,t in n r Kirrin.
»g * fc «|
I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
. ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE (KUSdiM," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell-s’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
Terms on
Application.
BICYCLES
. . FOR .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘garden City*
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR. 1
Frank Grimley
J Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
DON’T BUY A GUN unless you first look at the’
name, or (should you happen to survive the firstshot)
you will regret it. GENUINE GREENER GUNS
can be obtained from all principal dealers in Australia.
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to Vic. Rep.,
O W. BUCK!.AND, 16 Curral-road, Elstemwick, Melb.
(T»b
VJlf
SOLI AGENTS- THE-
AIOTL-CYCU-AG-
£NC Y* LTD-ME LBOURUff
SYDNEY ADELAIDE-
BViiiiwa
DIIN l OF
TYRES.
CYCLES
(’99 PATTERN)
CABLE ADVICE
Is to hand that a large shipment of these
famous machines is now on the water, and
will arrive here very shortly.
We beg to notify our many anxious
patrons that we shall be in a position to
execute their esteemed commands towards
the end of March.
The’99 pattern “SWIFT ” com-
prises all the latest improvements in cycle
manufacture, and are fitted with the most
up-to-date accessories.
In these machines will be found the
three points which are always looked for
by the expert cyclist, namely—
Comfort, Durability $ Appearance.
SOLE
THE
and at Melbourne,
AGENTS
AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LIMITED,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
tifJL
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Readers who want a copy of the selected
verses of Roderio Quinn —“ The Hidden Tide
are counselled to send in their orders at once, as
the edition is limited and is rapidly being
subscribed. The price is Is. 9d., post-free from
The Bulletin office.
The Land of Jolly-and-Fat. Man and
wife, workless and homeless in Sydney, struck
West, and, according to their account, tramped
the whole breadth of N.S.W. looking for a job.
They got as far as Tareena, which is within
coo-ee of the Western border, when water failed
them, and they died within a few yards of one
another.
Suggestive extracts from report of the
recent N.Q. hurricane : —
Cooktown, Monday.—The steamer Warrego arrived at
12.30 this morning, 'with 400 colored men and 11 whites.
. . . About 350 colored men and HO whites are missing.,
The total is not quite certain till the various ships
articles are overhauled. . , . Four men were drowned
from the Channel Rock Lightship. A colored man
reached the shore with two women, after swimming four
days. . . . The following vessels are reported lostThe
schooners North Wales, Sagitta, Silvery Wave, Admiral,
Waiwera, Meg Merrilies ; also, 60 luggers, 20 diving boats,
and the Channel Rock lightship. Fully 60 bodies have
been buried thus far, but only one white man.
This is supposed to be an item of Australian news,
not Asiatic. Talk about “ local color ” !
Two very weak Anti-Federal inventions
perished last Monday, though they will turn up
again next week just the same. The Sydney
Telegraph had commenced to quote Premier
Turner, of Victoria, as having declared “ with no
uncertain sound ” that the southern provinces did
not mean to admit Queensland’s meat and sugar
free of duty despite Federation. Turner replies
shortly that, as the provinces will have to admit
each other’s produce free whether they want to or
not, he wasn’t such a fool as to say anything of
the kind. Also, M‘Laurin, M.L.C., started to
refer vaguely to Turner as the authority for a
theory that the Federal Government would charge
£5 per ton excise on sugar, and keep the customs
duty at £5 per ton also, so that sugar would cease
to be protected, and the German bounty-aided
article would extinguish the local industry,
and all manner of other horrors. Turner
reports that he never spoke or even dreamed
of such a thing (the idea was so utterly
ridiculous that no person of ‘ any intelligence
suspected him of it in any case). And that he
always took it for granted that, if any excise on
local sugar was imposed, the customs duty on the
imported article would be much higher. These
episodes, by the way, mark a new departure in
Anti-Billious misrepresentation. Formerly, the
Anti-Billious told their own inaccuracy on their
own responsibility, but now they say that they
are truly shocked to hear, from an eminent
Federalist, that the following dreadful conse-
quence is inevitable unless the national movement
is at once suppressed. And people go away
deeply impressed, saying that when the eminent
Federalist admitted such a dreadful thing the
situation must indeed be terrible.
“ Stickit Minister Apropos of the blow-
ing up of the Mahdi’s tomb and the throwing of
his body into the Nile, both by the military
Briton : two years ago the slain Bechuana chief,
Luka Jantje, was dug up and decapitated by a
British “officer and gentleman.'” It seems to be a
habit Bull has got.
Letter received by the proprietors of the
Chinese Australian Herald : —
I have received your excellent specimen-oopy. Please
do not send it any more. I am, unfortunately, a
Japanese.—Yours, Isoka Nasaki.
Julius Vogel, Maoriland's ex-Premier, ex-
Agent-genoral, ex-railway builder and boomer and
many other things, has died suddenly in London,
aged 64. He left two good works behind him in
the State Life Insurance Department and the
Public Trust Office, so Vogel, the Hebraic boomer,
at least laid the foundations of the State Socialism
which his successors developed. And though
Vogel was a boomer he had in his early years
more brains than many of his tribe. When he
proposed his great railway policy and his
loan he also proposed setting aside
6,000,000 acres of the public estate, so that its
selling value, when enhanced by the opening up of
the country, would go to repay the liabilities.
But, unfortunately, Maoriland went in for the
loan and the boom, but never made the proposed
land reserves. Vogel himself didn’t struggle very
hard in defence of the good features of the scheme.
His resourcefulness as a financier died out at
an early age. When he reappeared in Maoriland
at the age of 50 he had degenerated into a pain-
fully commonplace politician, and after pottering
for a few years among the ruins he faded away
again and was forgotten. If his original public
works scheme had been carried out in its entirety
it would have been a lot better for Maoriland and
for Vogel’s reputation. But the big burly man
hadn’t grit enough to carry it through as he first
planned it. He was full of nerve up to a certain
point, and then he would collapse, and that weak
spot in Vogel made all the trouble.
N.S.W. military forces will this Easter be
mobilised on active-service conditions, and with a
little luck the general public will get a glimpse of
the colossal mix-up that will eventuate when war
does come along. The mobilisation scheme is all
right-on paper, but it would take an army
knocked into shape by several recent wars to
carry it out, and the insufficient transport and
commissariat of N.S.W. army would alone be
enough to knock-out the best scheme ever built.
The chances are, however, that said scheme will
only be carried out in part; anyhow, it will
be more serviceable than the usual large Easter
picnic at Kook wood, as it will give the men some
idea of the hardship of active service, and show
the public where things are weak.


Ayer’s Hair Vigor
/
■■""s'
fiJsSS^sSS^s?
What does
it do?
It causes the oil glands
in the skin to become more
active, making the hair
soft and glossy, precisely
as nature intended.
It cleanses the scalp
from dandruff and thus re-
moves one of the great
causes of baldness.
It makes a better cir-
culation in the scalp and
stops the hair from coming out.
If prevents and
it cures baldness.
Ayer's Hair Vigor will surely make hair
grow on bald heads, provided only there is
any life remaining in the hair bulbs.
It restores color to gray or white hair. It
does not do this in a moment, as will a hair
dye; but in a short time the gray color of
age gradually disappears and the darker color
of youth takes its place.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer So Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine!
This inducement is Offered Tou to know the
TIME to STITCH 1
- - - WATCH THIS
The British Watch_Ca,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
every household its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
rings, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle :
W* T * H T* E T * M *
CONDITION: Send your answer with astamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of our Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch.
Address— THE MANAGER,
PRICE
27/6.
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydney.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER 6RAYAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthc constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
I Highly recommended
for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and intereating
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth"
soi n BY CHEMISTS AM. THE WORU> OYER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
(*HLOROPyME
V'lt/'V
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation:”
kW'
„
\V *
A< 0
dO^
6-^
.s£•
-f 9*
SP
c£
Royal Agricultural Society of D. 5.111.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
imiPOtlTil HIBITIDI
29th March to 4th April, 1899.
PRIZES
3000
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
DOGS, WINES,
PARM and DAIRY PRODUCE,
MACHINERY, etc.
Great Wood-Chopping Contest
PRIZE, £5O.
Monster Fire Brigade Demonstrations
(Under direction Superintendent Webb)
Entries Close WERMESDAY, Ist March.
PRIZE SCHEDULES on application to F. WEBSTER, Secret,™
Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
FRINGES,
tfdtural Curly, from S/0 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long fj/(i. oil real hair.
COTTINQS & . COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cneapeStln Aus-
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^ll^
110 WriAIASI SrtIRET, *■
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps (or full Prioo List.
Prompt attention'givon to Country Orders.
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY:
The CELEBRATED ana
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO
DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatesso quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address —
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
ofkin Wkeaded.
s9leii) tykeodery
“*£igmoUiene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Bayswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir, —For years past (about ten), I have been
troubled with “ Acne ” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene,”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “ Cum Grano Salis,” and was in-
clined not to use it; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and'am now entirely cured;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligomolliene ” all the success it richly deserves.
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O'REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HCNRYMALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. a. ntl 7s. 6d. Sack.
£2?"'Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, Sydney.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF AFFOIKTTMEKTT TO “THE QUEEN.
Ask for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scbv/cppc’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
Brafydy aijd
‘Scb^cppe
SODA WATER, &c-
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lalce Illawarra), near
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
: ' |
H
" :
*
■
.
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
>.BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
Curious extracts from the annual report of
the N.S.W. police-department boss :
During the year the extension of the franchise to mem-
bers of the police force has come into operation, but I
cannot say that it has had a beneficial effect upon the
service as a disciplined force. . . . The conduct of the
police generally has been exceptionally good.
Evidently the police have been struggling man-
fully against the undermining influence of the
franchise, and have managed to resist its evil
influence up to date.
Like many Eastern Extension Company’s
employes, Mr. Selfe, the new superintendent of La
Perouse (Sydney) cable-station, is a man of travels
and experience. He was on the staff in Egypt
when Arabi’s rebellion was raging, and in those
days there was always a chance of coming to an
untimely end—one operator in Alexandria, for
instance, met his doom during the bombardment.
While the Zulu and Transvaal troubles were on,
Mr. Selfe was engaged on the Portuguese island
of St. Vincent, sufficiently far away to be comfort-
able, but the nearest point from which South
African cables could be sent. He has pleasant
recollections of Java, and joins with other Eastern
Extension men in proclaiming that to be one of
the best spots on earth.
This, from the Medical Press, should
interest the Sydney doctor who says that eight out
of ten Australians (or Sydneyites?) show diabetic
symptoms, caused probably by eating too much
vegetable food : —
The hopelessness of treatment, in cases of diabetes has
been only too frequently illustrated in the hapless victims
of the disease. Under the circumstances, therefore, it is
legitimate to give a trial to any new method which seems
to hold out some prospect of cure, and practitioners will
doubtless be interested to learn that Professor Pietro
Lupo, of Naples, has recorded two cases in which all the
diabetic symptoms have been relieved by making the
patients adopt an exclusively vegetable diet. In one case
he affirms that the results of this treatment was truly
marvellous. Both sugar and albumen disappeared from
(he urine, gangrene was arrested, and the “cure”
completed in eighteen days. The news sounds too good
to be true, and time only can show whether other prac-
titioners will obtain the same results. In the vegetable
dietary nothing was excluded, all edible soups were
allowed, together with peas, beans, and saccahrine fruits,
including grapes. Professor Lupo does not claim that all
diabetics will be benefited by the treatment, but he
believes that it will prove of great service to many. If
his assertions come to be established, the dietary of
diabetics will have to be completely changed, greatly to
the advantage perhaps of the unfortunate sufferers from
this distressing malady.
One of Australia’s latest murders comes
from Mt. Mary, a lonely S.A. township situated
in scrub country, where an Indian hawker, Mar-
rett Singh, was found with his skull smashed.
The motive was apparently to secure the Indian’s
pack of little trinkets, worth perhaps a few shil-
lings. The case resembles the last S.A. tragedy
at Streaky Bay, when a kangaroo-hunter named
Beard murdered his mate for the sake of a few
kangaroo skins, but lost his own instead.


Hin RaSsri)(iSS€i)’S Alfalioc Herbal Remedies
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug-.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
■»'
IH
nm
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
_ _ Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Hkrr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALPALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two vears ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALPALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
Recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them, I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatioa Cured.
„ Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor”—sent free.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cur 'd me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM'ATKINS.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “ The Natural Doctor ” —sent free.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For t.he benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, TIIOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain Free Book, “ The Natural Doctor,’*
Rescued from Eervous Suffering*
Just drop a lettei 1 intd
the first Letter Box;
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
(I
*This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
ALgAimg VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d,
A u aline BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint of
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALPALINE
Liver Kidney &
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
35., and 65., posted.
Pills.
, Costiveness,
Biliousness,
Congestion,
Price Is 6d.,
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance,
BOXES, 6s, ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
m
r-
H'err Rassrnussen, Up-to-Dale Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
A/faline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK.
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGTSTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSHIUSSeiI,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
ADVICE FREE.
ggp—
mm
■
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
states, on oath, how his shattered nervous system was
completely cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALKALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
For further testimonials, see my new book, “The
Natural Doctor ” —sent free.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming' the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, t ousumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, i«. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateahle. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6->. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, uneqi ailed as a cure for. all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425., \nd 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric ,lu3pender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Streng. h and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Urice 215., posted.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BEISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Mai’kets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near ¥ork Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Li mdell’s, Jeweller)
KANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


The Perth (W.A.) city by-law which
frowns upon Flossie and the landlord who lets
premises for her use, has been set going. Of
course, the “ agent ” didn’t know what Flossie sat
half-naked in front of the window for; but he
knew that she paid twice as much rent as the
other people did whom he turned out to let her
come in. <£lo and costs.
The Anti - Billious petition, which was
signed by most of the small boys of Sydney, puts
the Anti-Billites in an awkward position. The
petitioners demand that the measure submitted
to the people shall not be the present Bill but the
one which Premier Reid demanded before the late
Conference. If the crowd which makes this de-
mand is in the majority, then it is no use paying
any attention to it; it will squash the new Bill
openly at the referendum, and it is only doing it
an injustice to squash the measure secretly and
not give the Anti-Billites a chance to show their
strength. If they are in the minority it is no use
paying any attention to them either, for the claim
of the minority to run the show is pure gall and
insolence.
Dr. MacLaurin, M.L.C. (N.S.W.) :
After the Convention Bill was destroyed at the polls
there was not one single person in the land who would
say a word for it! . . . There was no single man who
had made the study of finance his professional business
who did not concur in the opinion that the system pro-
posed must lead to excessive and onerous taxation.
The present writer, who is Scotch himself, dis-
respectfully casts both these assertions back at his
disgraceful compatriot’s head as utterly untrue.
He has" had the pleasure of saying many good
words for the old Bill since the referendum and
right up to this day. And, as a person who has
made the study of finance his business, and who
knows a great deal more about it than any man
whose attention is constantly distracted by the
necessity of taking off somebody’s leg can do, he
has not only said but proved over and over again
that the alleged necessity for excessive taxation
was all rot. And it is still rot.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“ Malle ” : Stopped at a Sydney-street
table where an Anti-Federal petition is exposed
for signatures, and took observations. The
blatant person in charge was drawing a harrowing
picture of what would happen with the Federal
capital in Victoria (where it isn’t to be). “ Come
an’ sign to ’ave the Fed’ral capital in N.S. Wales
instead of Victoria,” he bellowed. A small boy
in pantlets signed with a rush, and was followed
by a youth a little older, and a beery person with
no ceiling to his trousers. The writer once knew
a pastoralist who was trying to block a much-
needed and asked-for road through his run. He
prepared a long petition pointing out the utter
uselessness and undesirability of this road, and
personally waited on a lot of bullockies, who were
camped awaiting the commencement of the wool
season. Explained to them that it had been pro-
posed to close a road they used—which, if done,
would compel them to negotiate a bad swamp, &c.
—and this document was against it. He gathered
in every one of ’em, and followed this up by
roping-in the entire council of the local township,
who, only a month before, had signed the original
petition for the road. The N.S.W. pro vinci alists
must be in a bad way to adopt these tactics.
There is a cubic mile of irony in that re-
cent report that the Nowra (N.S.W.) dairymen
had become so desperate through long-continued
drought that they had at last resolved to pray for
rain. The habit of praying as a last resource
when everything else has failed is a quaint satire
on the alleged Christian faith. That prayer for
rain should run something like this : “O Lord,
we come to Thee as a last possibility. We’ve tried
everything else, and nothing came of it. Now it
seems we might as well be praying as sitting be-
hind the cow-shed. We don’t s’pose there’s any-
thing in it or we’d have tried it before, but we try
it now on the off-chance in case it may be a little
better than nothing. If it isn’t, we haven’t lost
anything, so we come along in a casual sort of
way to see how it’ll pan out.” That may not be the
formula of the Australian prayer for rain, but the
meaning of it is all there.
e>
v»*t>
ip
OLD
RNS
SUNBU
FINg
«/3>
HA
"V
&vC
O/s/e
H
Y
Real£lekmam Hollow Growno
min p Ruoit
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. W.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discoverer—Chris. Mudd, F.L.S., Prince of Wales’
botanist. Mr. J. Vernon, 142 Osborne St., Williams-
town, writes “My honest conviction is that had it
not been for your ‘ Oleac ’ I should now be in my
grave.” Mrs. Poole, of Cooma, writes: —“I am fu ly
recovered, and not used one jar.” Mr. Gill, Bal-
moral Crescent, Surrey Hills, writes: —“I am happy
to tell you the eruption has entirely disappeared.”
Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10. Chemists or Depots :
SYDNEY—M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE— Harris & Kemp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOURNE— Fred. J. E. I'hili ips, 817 Collins St.
The Australasian Art Review is a new
Sydney monthly magazine venture. The first
number is creditably issued, and contains almost
an exhaustive survey of local musical news.
Amusements.
IJIfIEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Holloway & Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS !
The Shadows of a Great City
(by arrangement with J. 0. Williamson, Esq.)
Interpreted by
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Organisation.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. ... ' PRICES —35., 25., Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Still They Come! More New Artists!
Brilliant and Enthusiastic Reception of
Mr. Horace Wheatley.
HOWARD CHAMBERS, BELLMAN and MOORE,
Lient Frank Travis
First Appearance at the Tivoli Theatre of Mr. JIMMY
SHIELDS, The One-Legged Comedian and Dancer.
Reappearance of Miss CORA CASSELLI.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every ‘Saturday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss Peggy Hryde.
Sisters Phillips and Brothers Lorenzi
POPE and SAYLES.
Mr. HAMILTON HILL. Mr. SYD. DEANE.
Foreman and Fannan.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. And our Tivoli Company.
PRICES—2/6, 2/-, 1/-, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
sth WEEK ! sth WEEK !
UNDIMINISHED FURORE !
“ THE : WHITE : HEATHER.”
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
J XHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mvsgrovk.
Sub-Lessee Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative for Mr. Brough, Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
First production in Australia of the new and original
Farcical Comedy,
The Brixtoxi Burglary
By FRED. W. SIDNEY.
Nowplayingto crowded houses atTerry’sTheatre,London.
PRICES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
HE GRAND HOTEL, ZEEHAN.
This fine new brick building is NOW OPEN for
BUSINESS. Splendidly furnished, and up-to-date in
everything, it offers visitors all the comforts of a first-
class metropolitan hotel, at reasonable rates. Address
etters and wires to Manager, Grand Hotel, Zeehan. -
Amusements.
■pALAOE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
jgy livery Night! Matinee Saturday!
DANTE THE GREAT
JUGGLING GENIUS.
DIVERTING DANTE.—He produces anythin*? from any-
where, and nowhere is filled with everything.
DANTE must be seen to be believed, and then you can’t
believe it.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Will be Repeated
(The §eisha; <A (Story of a feea. (House.
Book by Owen Hall. Lyrics by Harry Greenbank.
Music bv Sydney Jones.
Plan, Nicholson’s. jj3F“ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
pITZGERALD BROTHERS’
Circus Menagerie-^
. . AND . .
New Novelty Shows!
GRAND OPENING DATE IN SYDNEY :
Saturday, 25th March.
Location : Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
A COMBINATION OF THE WORLD’S
ARENIC TALENT.
HAGENBECK’S LATEST SENSATION :
A Full-grown Tiger riding a Horse!
. . . ALSO . . .
The Great Lion & Elephant Tricycle Act.
MATINEES : Wednesdays and Saturdays. Special
Matinees during the Holidays.
KW" See future Advertisements.
OPERA HOU>E, SYDNEY
(Corner of King and York Streets).
Proprietor ... F. J. Josephson.
Manager ... Chas. Maurice.
Commencing SATURDAY, 35th March, with the
Grand Spectacular Drama.
Round the World in 80 Days
The Management beg to state that the above Theatre
has been newly decorated throughout, and entirety new
scenery by Harry Grist and the late John Hennings.
Magnificent Costumes for the Ballet Marches and
Principals, specialty designed and imported for this
production, and no expense has been spared to make
the Opera House one of the cosiest theatres in Sydney.
POPULAR PRICES! Box Plan at Paling’s.
HARRY R. STEWART, Business Manager.
.FJULES
OF THE
SYSTEM.
PRICE Is. . per Post Is. 3d.
THE OWL
Consulting and
CUT R..A.TE.
€1
&
DRUG CO.
Dispensing Chemists
MEDICINES
FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA Wholesale and Retail
Wholesale and Retail-
SHOT THAT REACHES
THE SPOT.
August Flower . .
Beef and Iron Wine
EVIDENCE.
2s 4d bottle.
2s 3d
4s 3d
Banter's Nervine Is Od
Castor Oil, tasteless ... Is Od
Clarke’s Blood Mixture ... 2s 8d
Chemical Food ... Is Od
~ Squires’, Is 8d and... 3s 2d
Caseara Sagrada, 6d and Is Od
Clements' Tonic, 2s and 3S 6d
The Owl Tonic, 2s and 3s 6d
(For Loss of Appetite and General De-
bility none to equal it, making life
worth living).
Cod Liver Oil —
Et. & Hanbary Is 3d ~
0.D.C., Is and 2s Od „
Hollins’, 2s and ... 3s 9d „
De John’s, 2s and ... 3s Od „
Ayers’ Sarsaparilla ... 3s 6d ~
Seidlitz Powders Os 6d box.
St. Jacobs Oil, Is and ... Is lid bottle.
Wahoo 2s 6d „
Warner’s Safe Cures ... 3s 6d „
PILLS.
Ayers’ Os 9Jd
Abrahams’ Os lOd
Beechams’... Os lOd
Blaud’s, per hundred ... Is Od
Castor Oil Os 9d box.
Antibilious, Owl Drug
Co.’s Os 9£d ~
Cockle’s Os lid ~
Clarke’s 841 4s 3d „
Morse’s I.R. Os lOd ~
Minerva, Brain Os lid ~
Mother Seigles’ Os lOd ~
Steel and Pennyroyal ... Is Od „
Westcot.t’s 2s 8d ~
Williams’ Pink 2s 6d ~
Dr. Bradly’s Capsules, 6s; extra
strong, 10s per box.
*# ifc^PSsS
- fl *
>
*
Msot*
KMKKtiBHn V *'"’
*gif v*J • -1 ‘Si
s
su usf «E 5
■M
"*■-*«*. a' s
SSI
»ij
•c, .
m WP2
n
1
BW^wSSi
*
mn/T *
. •
.:
In
f • x*<tttni ;
„
L*2a2T '& ¥ fcjKS?
*J * ■ * liil 2 Itil
HI
I : 4
k 1 &
L 23
isa>:
®aa>
HH.A g
Sfc,i',!i P
*"* ratfc.-' :
| ***
It
SHI
*»
oE
us
so
j
..■j
B
SHOT THAT REACHES
THE SPOT.
EVIDENCE.
Cornwell’s Malt Extract —lib. tin, 9d;
21b. tin, Is 3d; 71b. tin, 4s 3d.
Carlobad Salts Os lid bot.
„ Efferves Is 3d „
Citrate of Magnesia-
Bishop’s, 9d and Is lOd „
0.D.C., 9d and 2s Od „
Isina, the celebrated Cough Balsam, for
all affections of the chest, throat, and
lungs ; retailed at Is, 2s, and 5s bot.;
postage to any part of the colony, 3d
extra.
Cuticuraßesolvent... ... 4s 3d bot.
~ Ointment Os lOd box.
~ Soap Os lOd cake
~ Plasters Os lOd „
Eno’s Fruit Salts ... ... 2s Id bot.
Frazer’s Sulphide Tablets... Is ljd
Fluid Magnesia, 6d, 9d and Is Od „
Fellow’s Syrup 4s Od „
Kola Nut Tonic, 2s and ... 3s 6d „
Liquorice Powder, Owl Drug
Co., 6d and ... Is Od „
Marshall’s Tonic, Is 6d and 3s Od
Seigle’s Syrup, Is and
Maltine—Plain
~ Large
„ Cod Liver Oil
~ ~ large...
Kepler’s Malt Extract
~ ~ large ...
Mineral Waters—
Aperita
Hanjadi Janos
Viely
Pain Killer—Perry Davis’...
Pure Glycerine—Owl Drug
Co., 6d and
Steam’s Headache Cure ...
Is lid „
2s Id „
3s 8d „
2s Id „
3s 8d „
Is lid „
2s Od „
Is Od
Is 3d „
Is 3d „
Is Od
Is Od „
Os Bdbox.
glectric Belts, regular price Qie guinea
RESTORE THE WEAK.
REFRESH THE STRONG.
REVIVE THE DEPRESSED.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM.
Cut Price—
10s.
Post Pree.
K3P” Country Persons, save your money; don’t squander it on quack
nostrums before trying our New Belt.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
Sufferers from PILES should know that the PYRAMID
PILE CURE is better than a Surgical Operation. It
cures without pain, causes no interference with business,
and the cost is trifling. Only 3/6 per Box, Post Free.
Or. Clarkson’s rcinvusorator.
A Concentrated, Vitalising', NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and
BLOOD STIMULANT ; a Remedy known to Dr. Clarkson only.
We still offer <£loo for any case we cannot cure.
PRICE, 7/6 per Bottle; Three Bottles for <£l, Post Free
any part of Australia.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
COUNTRY TRIAL ORP€R RESPECTFULLY SOLICITEP.


STEWART DAWSON * GO.
Everywhere Popular Business Daily Increasing^-^^^
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS! Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No. 319.—Silver Button Hooks and
Shoe Lift, 16/6
No. E 946. —Morocco Case, con-
taining Solid Silver Shell Pattern
Butter Dish and Knife, 25/-
■* M.T London *9 --
! 1
No. 337. —SixSolid Silver Tea
Spoons, in Morocco Case,
£1 10 0
No. E4osB—Case containing Two
Silver Electroplated Peppers,
Assorted Designs, 14/6
No. 165.—Pour Solid Silver Salt
Cellars, with Spoons, in Morocco
Case, <£2 10
No. 292 a Solid Silver
Napkin Rings in case, 15/6
No. 336. —Twelve Silver-Plated Tea Spoors
and Sugar Tongs, in Case,
£l7 6
grass
No. 304.—Tw0 Solid Silver Hair Brushes,
and Silver-Mounted Comb, in Case,
£4 0 0
No. 146.—Pair Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dishes,
and pair Tongs in Case,
<Ci 12 6
jfTMjAJknW
"tV
No. E 3768. —Case containing 6 Best Quality Silver
Electroplated Tea Spcons and Tongs,
21/
No. 267 a Silver Embroidery Set in case,
15/6 ... ....
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife,
Jam Spoon, and Sugar Sifter, in
Morocco Case, £l5 0
No. 321.—Silver Glove Stretcher, 6|in. long,
Shoe Lift, and Button Hooks, in
Morocco Case, £1 10 O
- 'V'**’
No. 403.—Case containing C each Dessert or
Kish Knives and Forks, Electro-Silver,
£3, £3 10 O j
ra®s
No. 301a.— Solid Silver Afternoon Teapot,
Sugar and Cream, in Case,
£6 17 6
No. 333.—501 id Silver Christening Spoon,
in Case, 15/6
Silver-Plated, 6/6
No. 300a.— Presentation Case, con-
taining fine Silver - Plated Butter
Knife, Jam Spoon, Sugar Spoon,
Pickle Pork and Sugar Tongs, 22/6
mwsoh
No. 322.—Tw0 Finest Cut-Glass Silver-
Mounted Knife Rests, in Case, 18/6
No. 305.—Solid Silver Salts and
Spoons —2 in Case, £1 15;
4 in Case, £3 7 6
No. 167. —Solid Silver Sugar, Cream, and Tongs,
in Morocco, Velvet-lined Case,
JSS 10
No. 299 a Silver Afternoon Tea Pot, Sugar,
Cream, and Tongs, in Case, £l2 10
No. 269b. —Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Two Pairs
of Scissors, Tweezers, Cuticle Knife, Box, Nail File,
and Polisher in Case, .£3 10
No. 323.—Child’s Presentation Set; Drinking Cup, Egg Cup,
Serviette Ring, Knife and Fork, and 2 Spoons,
Best Silver-plate, in Morocco Case, £3 10
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
STEWART DAWSON & CO
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W
LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


Publications, eto.
Mas. MACCLURCAN’S
Oookery Book.
REVISED an* ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other ISooksellers.
“TOKOLOGY”
A BOOK FOR EVERY WOMAN.
. . BY . .
ALICE B. STOCKHAM, M.D.
Dedicated
To all women who, following the lessons taught in
this book, will be saved the sufferings peculiar to
their sex.
“ To be well-born is the right of every child.”
Sent post-paid on receipt of price, 12s. 6d., to
any address in Australia.
Chicago Publishing Co.,
232 Clarenee-st., SYDNEY.
SSS
K
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS 80 -^ s:s BOOKS
Popular Educator, 6 vols .. .. £4 0 0 for £1 0 0
The Home Physician 210 0 ~ 017 6
Large Family Bible, colored plates 5 0 0 „ 16 0
Universal Instructor, illustrated .. 115 0 „ 015 0
Webster’s Household Dictionar3 r .. 10 0,, 010 0
Cooley’s Practical Receipts .. .. 110 0 „ 012 6
The New Enquire Within, 500 rec’pts 0 7 6,, 0 5 0
Cassell’s Household Guide, 4 v 015... 210 0 ~ 10 0
2500 up-to-date cloth-bound 3/6 Novels for 2/- and 2/6 —
country and station libraries send for catalogue. I have
also the largest stock of Second-hand School Books in
N.S.W. ; teachers and students write for catalogue. I
have also Three Blue Books, very peppery, cannot adver-
tise them—l/6 each, or three for 4/- ; also, Maria Monk,
Ovid’s Art of Love, Byron’s Don Juan, all very peppery,
16 each. All books sent post free.
R. W SKINNER,
SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-street,
Telephone 3043.] SYDNEY.
A MUSICAL EDUCATION FREE.
A Complete Sri.t-Instructor, enabling any one to plat
I*l 'No or Organ at sight, and without difficulty brilliant
acc »mpanim-nta to any song ever written. Pratt’s Chart of
Chords for Piano or O gan embraces nearly every major and
tni «rv hord u ed in music, and is ashort cut to harmony. Jr
IS THE.MOST COMPREHENSIVE TE'J SIMPLEST CHART EVER PUB-
L’shkd. Kndorsed by teachers and mu dedans everywhere,
pppp The price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to in-
* tro.iUce it into every home, we will send free the
Giant Album of 184 aongs, words and music,containing many
old ami new favor.it s, together with the Chart for ONLY
2/6, posted 2/8, stamps 2d. extra. Address: Anglo-American
l üblishing uo., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Men-
tion this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
Science & Medical Book
DEPOT.
Book of Nature, or Illustrated
Marriage Guide, 3/6 ; posted
anywhere, 4/-.
Fruits of Philosophy, known as
Knovvlton Pamphlet, 1/-;
posted 1 2.
Law of Population, by Mrs.
Annie Ilesant, 1/- ; posted 1/2.
Phallic, or Sex Worship, by
Joseph Syines, 1/-; posted 1/2.
Social Science, 3 6 and 5/-.
Plain Home Talk (Dr. Foote),
8/6. New 1898 Edition.
Marriage, by Mrs. Besant, I/- ; posted 1/2.
A- T- Wilson, 19 Bourke-street, Melb.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing' cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that 1 could not leave my bed. At this stag-e 1 was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until 1 was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. • The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
ri’IALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
1 Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
/
mROPICAL HELMUT, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Smith t Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Rains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
moutii & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) 5s. —per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
Do your Eyes feel weak from Overwork, Study, etc. ?
Are they affected from Blight, Sun Glare, Granulations, Stings of Insects ?
Do they feel painful after exposure to strong winds, dust ?
Are the Eyelids Inflamed or Scaly?
IE SO, THERE IS ONLY ONE REMEDY—
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
It STRENGTHENS and PRESERVES the SIGHT, and may be used on
BIRDS, POULTRY, CATTLE, &c., with the same wonderful
result.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PEOPEIETOE:
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
Open all Night; also Sundays and Holidays.
KRUPP’S
Ball Mills, Batteries, Bilharz Tables,
Steel Shoes and Dies, Crushing Bolls,
Wheels and Axles.
WESTINGHOUSE
WESTINGHOU3E
Electrical Machinery
for Lighting, Traction,
Winding and Pumping.
Engines.
CALLENDER
Cables for Transmission of
Power.
CYANIDE
98/100 per cent. ]SB Brand.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’ConnelJ-st., Sydney;
17 Q,ueen-st., Melbourne.
DRAWING an OVERDRAFT
OH THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Aleoholie
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Siek Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &e., &eUse
ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating,
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLERS’ B iG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
A INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matler, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases,, which, if retained, poisons the blood, and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CJLTJTXOJNL— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENOS Patent.
m
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial
Proprietors: GOOD ALL BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. EMU.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 11- each>
Coaeon ’« Accordoonn
AND
CampbcWti Gold
Modal Melodeons.
With organ and celestial
tone ami charming bell
accompaniment. No
home should be without
one. The solemn psalm,
the soul-stirring hymn,
the cheerful song and the
merry dance can all be
played on these wonder-
iul instruments. No
knowledge of music re-
quired. Special offer to
readers of this paper.
Campbell’s Gem Melodeon (with instruction and song
book), 15 6; ditto Miniature (ditto), 25/-; ditto Paragon
(ditto), 30 6; ditto Favorite (ditto), 37 6; Coxon’s Lord
Fauntlerov Acoordeons (ditto), 15/6 ; ditto, indestructable
bellows (ditto), 21/-; ditto, special size (ditto), 22/6; ditto
ditto, 28/- Twenty other different kinds, from 66, to
select from. Carriage paid to any part of Australia, care-
fully packed. Send P.U.O. for the full amount. Write
and send 2d. for catalogue. We are sole agents for Aus-
tralasia. W. F. COXON & CO. LTD., 745 George-street
(opp. Christ Church), Haymarket, Sydney.
mbSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELT for
'CENTLEM E Nis S IMPLYaWONDER
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
ail weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PROVED BY fOO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’
END
im
f/O/J MSASEf
and Woc/a/ds
or £ VER Y
DESCRIP Tlor/~
D?ROBERTS
AiTER# |VE PIU
for skin diseases.
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMA CM & L/VER .
or ALL CHEMISTS / //? X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARN'ICOTT L°. BRI DPQRJ.
AM INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron hand, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss — Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now he had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
nvestigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c.;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
II Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. <><l.
Sole Agents :
-
Ihe Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-3 J 2 Gsorge-st. Sydney
I
GRiMAULT’S
limn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMATJLT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
It. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 hue St. Georges, Paris, Franoe.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order or London Draft.


365 DAYS
OF EACH YEAR
DRINK
SYDNEY LAGER BIE1?
AND YOU WILL LIVE
100 YIEJALIR-S.
The London & American Supply Stores
tu
HEWE
E LONDON & AMERICAN
UPPL
ORES
s
FOB . .
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
Hu
GREAT
THIRST
Quencher!
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia.
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
Lime Fruit Juice
AND CORDIALS.
Montserrat Lime-Fruit Juice either
with water or Aerated Water is a delightful
thirst quencher.
The LANCET says:—“We counsel the public
to drink Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in Cuba.
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON;
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
A gents:
Sydney— Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell & Co.,
E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
Newcastle— D. Cohen & Co.
And of all Chemists everywhere.
Best duality ENGLISH SILVER-PLATE.
Hundreds of Latest Novelties.
Four-Bottle Cut-Glass Lunch
Cruet, 17s. 6d.
New Shape Sugar Scuttle,
richly engraved, 21s.
Cut-Gluss Dinner Cruet,
t bottle, 30s; 6-bottle, 10s.
Novelty Purse, real Crocodile,
with Silver Mounts and Glove Hook.
12r. 6d.
Siivei'-u) r mnted Shoe Lift,
Hook and Glove Hook (in case).
12s. 6d. and 15s.
Ouu-Glass Salt Cellar, with
Spoon, ss. 6d. pair.
r Richly Engraved Butter Knives,
in beautiful velvet case, 10s.
PLEASE
SEND FOR
OUR
ILLUSTRA-
TED
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES.
Pair Silver-mounted Cut Glass Knife
Rests (in lovely case), 15s. 6d.
m
Fair Jam .ir Fruit Spoons (ne'v shell pattern),
in handsome velvet case, 13s. 6d.
Six Aiternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs,
in lovely velvet case, 14s.
r/vr/dJm/M
wmi'-j////
va/tw,
NOTE— Our ONLY Australian Address —9O KING STREET, SYDNEY.
An Out-Back Lunch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I recently had lunch at a bush pub. way-back
from Emu Mountain. It was a little place built
mostly of bark and mud, and designated on a sign
half as big as itself—“ The Bull’s Repose, by
Phelim O’Heffernan.” When I drove close up to
the door and called out there was an immediate
rush of poultry from the bar followed by the in-
evitable bush-shanty pig. The latter animal
reconnoitred cautiously round the doorway before
he sprinted out and made for the back. A long
do? of doubtful antecedents raised his head and
contemplated me silently for some minutes, and
then went off to sleep again.
In answer to repeated calls, a girl appeared—a
red-headed, red-faced lump of the rising genera-
tion, her arms covered with dough, and attired in
a man's waistcoat, a short skirt, and a pair of
men’s bluchers—ancient and huge.
On my inquiring for lunch she wiped the dough
off her arms on my nag’s mane and proceeded to
unharness him, at the same time stating that she
“ wuz jus’ gettin’ the tucker ” and would send
Billy to play me quoits until it was ready.
Billy, who was followed by a miscellaneous col-
lection of more long dogs—the out-back dog is an
alarmingly long animal—was a small youth in a
big hat adorned with the scalps of slain marsupials.
He was communicative, informing me, amongst
other things, as he squinted through the quoits
and fired them on with marvellous precision, that
I would get “ a blanky good dinner, as it was
Mag’s cookin’ day and she wuz a fine poisoner,”
especially since he had been out and got her some
emu-eggs for the pudding. Also, he stated, “ the
ole man’’was on the spree and was “screamin’
blanky funny.”
When Mag banged on a tin I followed William
into the smoky kitchen and was provided with a
seat on an upturned kerosene case at a clothless
table laid round with battered tin plates and
ancient, rusted knives ; also forks in various stages
of disrepair.
The other members of the family, of various
ages but all unanimously dirty, ranged up on the
opposite side.
“ ’Ere comes th’ ole man,” Billy whispered as
the door of an inner room opened, and a female,
whom I concluded was the “ ole woman,” shot out
as though propelled by some hidden force, and
sat down with a very red face at the table.
The “ole man” followed on two thin bandy
legs. He carried a bottle of whisky in one hand,
and there was silence as he took his seat.
Giving the carving-knife a preliminary rub on
the black bricks of the fireplace, he hacked several
slices off an emaciated leg of mutton. Then he
helped himself to some pumpkin by hand, and
proceeded to eat, and no one being bellicose
enough to raise any objection we sat and watched
him.
He ate savagely, throwing sundry pieces over
his shoulder to the dogs, and cleared his plate
with remarkable rapidity; then, evidently be-
coming cognizant of my presence, he put down his
knife and fork and stared fiercely at me for several
seconds. . , „„ , „ ,
“ An’ who the divil moight you be ? he yelled
suddenly.
I felt embarrassed, and replied : “My name is
Jones, and I’m travelling for— ”
“ Thin whoy the divil don’t yer ’ave yer feed
outside loike any other traveller?” he inter-
rupted. “ Will yer have some sheep ? ”
I said I would have sheep, whereupon he hacked
off several huge hunks, helped me to a handful of
pumpkin, and, taking a long nip from the bottle,
called for the pudding.
Mag rose, and proudly placed on the table a
pudding of weighty and rank appearance, and a
tough-looking tart. Mr. O’Heffernan appeared
pleased with the look of the pudding, but, quietly
ignoring it, he asked his wife, who was helping
the youngsters to mutton, if she would have some
tart.
“ No, thanks, dear,” she replied, looking at the
pudding.
He asked all round the table, but no one wanted
any—all eyes were on the “ duff.”
Mr. O’Heffernan appeared hurt, and took an-
other lengthy swig at the bottle. Then he picked
up the tart and poised it in his hand. “Won’t
yer ’ave a little? ” he asked, persuasively, looking
across at his wife, who edged cautiously away,
keeping an eye on the tart. “Not a little bit?
Well, take the whole blanky lot,” he screeched,
throwing it at her head.
Mrs. O’Heffernan dodged with a dexterity evi-
dently acquired by much practice, and jumped
outside just in time to miss the pudding, which
slapped against the door as it slammed behind
her.
It didn’t break, but bounced off, and, picking it
up, Phelim rushed after his wife.
Across the yard they went full speed—Mrs.
O’Heffernan, with her skirts gathered up, running
like an emu ; Phelim yelling furiously about a
furlong behind, the mob of bony canines yelping
in the rear, the pig sprinting in the middle dis-
tance, and the hens racing for shelter in an
adjacent gum-tree. When they disappeared in
the scrub, the “ole woman” was tiring percept-
ibly and her pursuer was gaining at every stride.
I bore the loss of the pudding with Christian
fortitude and returned to the kitchen.
Billy sorrowfully removed the tart from where
it was sticking on the wall.
“ I’ope’e falls an’ cracks ’is neck for gettin’
away with that duff,” he said, earnestly, as he
sparingly helped the others to some tart.
Mag hunted another pig, who was eating the
remainder of the dough, away from the baking-
dish, filled it with cold water, and started to wash
up, drying the things on her skirt.
I harnessed, and “got.”
FACE.
An Adelaide young gentleman, under the
new Affiliation Act, has been ordered to pay £8
medical expenses and 7s. weekly, with £5 14s.
costs, to a damsel who declares him responsible
for the fact that she will soon become a mother.
The cautious beak orders, however, that payment
shall cease if the little stranger does not make its
appearance before 20th June next.
Blake’s Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“And you are thoroughly determined, Nina—
your mind is quite made up ? ”
“Quite ; it’s no use; my mother ”
“ Well, I’m off to-morrow. There is a boat on
Saturday, and I’m not going to wait till after-
wards. ”
The other man came round the cliff so gently
that they did not hear him until
“I’m sorry to disturb you, Nina, but your
mother is coming this way. How are you,
Butler? Just heard you are going away. A
pleasant trip and ”
“ A lengthy one ?”
The other took no notice.
“A prosperous one.” He turned to the girl
again: “ I think you had better come with me,
Nina.”
They were hardly out of Butler’s hearing when
she turned quickly to the man she was to marry.
“ You know we love each other. Can I be
happy with you ? I find you have influenced my
mother against him ! ”
He looked at her. Should he let them be happy ?
He looked again. After all, Butler would find
consolation. And Nina ? She would be his wife.
“There is time,” he said slowly, “for you to
call him back.”
She shook her head, and they walked on in
silence.
• * • •
Blake was home rather late one night, and at
dinner said casually:
“You remember Butler, Nina?—l think you
knew him. Came across him to-day ; he is over
for a trip. Looks prosperous, too. I asked him
to dinner, Thursday. You won’t forget?”
He smiled that night when he heard her hum a
song that she used to sing to Butler. He smiled
again on Thursday when he saw her dressed for
dinner—all in white. Once she always wore
white, but since her marriage had disliked it.
What a fool she was to imagine he did not re-
member !
9 m * m
A few weeks later.
“ I would like to speak to you ; come in here.”
“You look pale, Nina ; is it the heat?” h
said, solicitously.
“ It’s not the heat. You know, you must know.
What a fool you were to think I could forget
Jack. But it’s all over now.”
“ Then Butler has persuaded you at last,” he
said, quietly. “Poor fellow, he has tried hard
enough. You are rather a difficult person, Nina.
When are you going away with him ? ”
“ To-night.’’
“Ah ! ” He seemed to notice for the first time
that she had on her hat and gloves. “ And
Butler ? ”
“ Will meet me at the station.”
“ I’ll see you to Redfern. It’s very dark and
stormy. Butler is very thoughtless.”
She hysterically assented, seeing he intended to
go in any case.
On the ferry, they met a friend. “ What! off
to Melbourne, Mrs. Blake? Rather sudden, isn’t
it ? ”
“Oh, no,” said Blake, looking steadily at his
wife. “ Mrs. Blake has been thinking of it for
quite two months.”
(It was just two months since Butler had come
to Sydney).
The train had gone, and Blake was walking
slowly down George-street. The situation had
its embarrassments.
* * * *
Blake took up the telegram again.
“ Mrs. Blake left for Sydney to-day—alone.”
The door opened gently and she entered ; he
looked at her critically; she was apparently un-
changed.
“ I’ve come back, Erank; and if you don’t want
me to stay ” (Her voice was the same ; how
soft it was !)
“ What will you do?”
“ Oh, go away again. I daresay” She
stopped and looked at him. What an adorable
figure she had!
“ I think, Erank, I have suffered enough to
satisfy even your idea of punishment; but if I
am to go—good-night.”
Before she was out of the room he took her sud-
denly in his arms and kissed her passionately.
“ Why did you never kiss me like that before ?”
she asked, half-laughing, half-crying.
“ Because I never loved you like that before,”
Blake might have answered —only didn’t.
• • * .*
“ But you never once said that you loved me,”
she said reproachfully.
“ That’s in the Past.”
“And suppose you get tired of me ? ” (Blake
being merely a man, and remembering she was hi 3
wife thought it most possible, but) —
“That’s for the Future,” he said.
“ And the Present? ” she demanded.
For answer he kissed her again and again.
A. DE M.
Launceston, Tas., depends upon the South
Esk River to keep the electric-light going, and it
was thought that the supply of water was ample
and inexhaustible. But the river shows signs of
tailing, and, if the city is not to become, as a local
scribe puts it, “as dark as the inside of a cow,”
one of the big inland lakes must be tapped, and
the water diverted into the Esk. The surveyors
are already at work.
Ex-Chancellor Herschell, whose death is
cabled, was detested by English reporters for his
long-windedness. A press-agency man who got
instructions to wire a curt summary of Herschell,
then in minor office as Solicitor-General, did not
attend the meeting, but astonished the jurist
afterwards with his cool request for the gist of
a portentous five-column oration in 100 words.
Apropos of which, it is related that several London
pressmen played billiards instead of attending one
of Hartington’s earlier meetings, and agreed to
“fake” a report. “Well, I didn’t say that,”
remarked the lazy Hartington afterwards, “ but
I certainly ought to have said it.”


The Agricultural Show to be held during
Easter at Moore Park, Sydney, promises to eclipse
all efforts of former years. Visitors to the above
should make up their minds to visit the well-
known Sydney Tailors, Mercers, and Drapers,
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street, Sydney, whose
famous 355. and 455. Suits to order have estab-
lished a name for themselves all over the colonies.
All measures for further reference recorded free.
Hordern Brothers, Cash Buyers and Sellers, 203,
205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
HOPE
1
<
n:
tvOr-*,
/
(R.eeorr\n\er\cled b/ryjr.gc^
The strongest desire of the sick is to get well. Nobody in good health can realise the
intensity of this longing.
It is so strong that unless relief comes it turns to hopelessness and hopelessness kills.
Certainly no one can afford to neglect a remedy that brings hope to the hopeless, strength to
the weak, health to the sick ; a remedy that, like Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, gives
absolute proof that it has cured every form of disease it is advertised to cure.
You can obtain the proof upon application, and without charge, by merely stating your trouble
and giving your address. No sufferer from any disorder of the blood or nerves should fail to write
us. Please address : Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEVERE SUNSTROKE,
A SICK CRICKETER CURED.
Mr. M. P. Ryan, of the Melbourne Chilled Butter Co.,
Flinders-]ane West, Melbourne, is a well-known Victorian cricketer,
and lib invariably handles the willow to no mean advantage.
Whilst playing at Wilcannia, N.S.
Wales, in the 80’s in a three-days’
match, with the thermometer at 116
degrees in the shade, he received an
attack of sunstroke, or heat apop-
lexy.
Mr. Ryan, when seen by a re-
porter, said : “ The attack was a
severe one ; so severe, I was totally
incapacitated from following my
clerical duties. All the usual reme-
dies were used, and, after a time, ap-
peared to have some effect. But from
that date annually I was subject to
the most agonising pains in the head.
Such an effect did they have that
during warm weather mental work
was out of the question. I was sub-
ject to sharp shooting pains in my
head, and a feeling as if a bolt had
been driven in o my brain, dulling
its action. The least effort of the
brain induced stupor.
“Three years ago I was at Brighton,
and a gentleman, remarking my com-
plete mental exhaustion, recom-
mended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I
. had visited doctors out of number,
tried all sorts of treatment, electric baths, massage, also hydro-
pathy, but as soon as the heat commenced so did my head-troubles
I consumed seven boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in all ; but
neither the great heat of la'st summer nor the one preceding it
affected me in the least. You can publish this. lam well-known
in Victoria and N.S.W.
(Sgd.) “ Matthew P. Ryan.”
a
V.>
BLOOD-POISONING CURED,
A PHYSICIAN RECOMMENDS DR. WILLIAMS’
PIWK PILLS.
Read the story of Mrs. L. E. Browning, of Pueblo, Colorado,
U.S. A. : —“ About two years ago I was very sick with blood-poison-
ing, caused by an abscess that had not received proper treatment.
The disease for a time settled in my throat, causing intense agony.
Then inflammatory rheumatism set in. For four months and a-half
I was most of the time confined to my bed. My hands were
swollen so that I could not feed myself, and the swelling in my
feet and ankles made walking impossible. After considerable
treatment, my physician gave me a box of Dr. Williams Pink Pills
for Pale People. ‘You need a tonic,’ he said, ‘and this is the best
medicine I know of for that purpose.’
In less than a week I noticed a great improvement. Soon my
rheumatism was gone. I grew stronger each day, and am now in
the best of health. I consider Dr Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People the best tonic I have ever known.
(Signed) “Mbs. L. E. Browning.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 19th day of May,
a.d. 1897.— George W. Gill, Notary Public.
—From the Chieftain, Pueblo, Colorado.
♦
WEAKNESS AND PARALYSIS CURED.
A MOTHER’S ANXIETY FOR HER CHILD.
[From the Mddgee Guardian.]
At the foot of Cherry Tree Hill, near Ilford, N.S.W., is the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Cosier and family.
Mrs. Cosier is well-known and is highly popular, and has spent
her life-time in the Ilford locality. She is 36 years of age, and the
mother of seven children, the youngest, a fine pair of twin girls,
Annie and Bella, being now fifteen months old. Mrs. Cosier
recently said to a Guardian representative:—
“ Last March I was seized with violent pains across my back,
which extended to my head and limbs. I was forced to relinquish
my domestic duties, and was unable to walk without a stick. My
arms and hands were paralysed ; I could not turn the knob of the
door. My appetite was bad, and I suffered from severe exhaustion
and melancholy feelings.”
“ What do you think was the cause of your illness?” the re-
porter queried.
“ Well,” the lady replied, “ one of the twins became ill. I had
to stay up night after night with her. Undoubtedly the strain of
constant nursing proved too much for me. I became so bad that I
had to be carried from room to room ; I could not turn in bed
without assistance, and, when moved, the pain I endured was un-
bearable. I could not move my head on account of the stiffness in
my neck, and the nerves of my face were so drawn that to speak a
few words was torture.
“ I was cured in a very simple manner,” continued Mrs. Cosier.
“ I remembered reading of a wonderful cure by Dr. Williams’Pink
Pills for Pale People, and I resolved to try them. I commenced t w
take them in April, and for the first few days took one after eac
meal. I then increased the dose to two
pills, at the same time following Dr.
Williams’ advice as to diet, &c. After
taking two boxes T felt a slight improve-
ment. My appetite returned, and the
pains were ?iot so severe. They gradu-
ally lessened, and by the time I had
taken seven boxes I was completely
cured. I heartily recommend them. ”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills permanently
cure anaemia (bloodlessness), indigestion,
sleeplessness, biliousness, liver and kid-
ney troubles, general debility, all ladies’
ailments, nervous prostration, chronic
diarrhoea, lung trouble, effects of measles,
fever and influenza, gravel, Bright’s dis-
ease, rickets, paralysis, locomotor
ataxia, &e., &c.
Obtainable from all chemists and
dealers, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, who
will forward six boxes for 15s. 3d., or one
box for 2s. 9d., post free.
Df WILLIAMS 9
ILLS
FOR
ALE.
f.OV\J£
The Remnant of the Tail.
[Dedicated to the Os Cocangia.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are angels all in posse —for the parson tells us
so,
And we’re booked for Joys Eternal when our
wings have time to grow.
Well—we’ve naught to say “agin it,” and we’d
rather like the berth,
But at present date we’re rooted pretty firm in
Mother Earth ;
For the spirit’s prone to fail,
When the flesh is firm and hale,
And we carry round—as Darwin found—the Rem-
nant of a Tail!
We’re a wondrous piece of workmanship—the
godhead in our eyes,
The glory on our forehead that is borrowed from
the skies,
The gentle brow of Abel, and the sullen brand of
Cain,
The hand that holds the Devil’s throat and hurls
him back again ;
We’re mighty men in mail;
We are feeble men and frail;
We’re a fragment of Divinity encumbered with a
Tail.
And we see our fellow flounder in the highway
day by day,
And we wonder what he’s after in his inconsistent
way ;
It s the Devil and the Angel, in a frantic tug-of-
war,
Who are struggling for his carcase—one behind
and one before;
And he bears him well and hale
Till his strength begins to fail,
And he finds his weakness rooted in the Remnant
of the Tail!
And whene’er your proud Ideal with the Real
goes to war,
And your flight of fancy starward brings y. ur
nose against the floor,
You will find it vastly wholesome—as a pin to
prick your pride—
To remember the appendage that is curled away
inside;
You may rave at it and rail,
You may weep and you may wail,
But the beast has left you branded with the
Remnant of a Tail !
And the Kaiser in his palace and the King upon
his throne
Are the bondmen of the secret in that tiny bit of
bone ;
They may talk of noble lineage and ancient pedi-
gree,
But his mem’ries tell of tiger and of ape upon the
tree;
O ! the King is up for sale
Like a common cotton bale,
If the demons near him steer him —by the Rem-
nant of the Tail.
For at times the Man has soarings in the cloudy
deep sublime,
And at times he runs reptilian like a saurian in
the slime;
For we’ve mostly been begotten by an ill-assorted
pair—
We’re a curious cross by Cherub on the Beast
within the lair ;
We’re a shrine within the veil ;
We’re a panther in the pale ;
We’re a graft of Wings and Halo —on the Rem-
nant of a Tail !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
Little Miss Jones.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was war to the knife, but as the disputants
were two well-bred, middle-aged women all
manoeuvres were executed under a mask of con-
ventional politeness. .
That for which they fought was the body and
soul of the Hon. Teddie Eerrier. Briefly, his
mother wished to keep him to herself as long as
she could, with a selected English bride safely
ticketed in the future ; and Mrs. Weston wanted
to give him into the safe keeping of her penniless
sister, Magdala Leigh.
Teddie’s mother had from the first distrusted
this visit to a Queensland station “for a little
kangaroo-shooting.” She had safely steered her
son through the dangers of a Sydney season, in-
cluding Moss Vale races and moonlight picnics ;
she had evaded the shoals and quicksands of a
month in Hobart, and was counting the days to
the end of this visit to Australia when Teddie told
her he had accepted the Westons’ invitation. Mrs.
Weston seemed harmless enough, and wasn’t even
a married flirt; but when, on their arrival at the
long, creeper-covered house, a tall girl (dressed in
white, of course) had slipped out of a hammock
slung amongst the vines and had come to meet
them, the mother saw the situation at a glance,
for Magdala was far and away the prettiest woman
she had seen in Australia. The surroundings of
station life, that seem so romantic to the average
Englishman, were another danger ; but the great-
est danger of all was the married sister’s cunning,
persevering brain.
To make matters worse, from the English-
woman’s standpoint, the great river which cut its
way through the Westons’ run overflowed its
banks and made retreat impossible, giving oppor-
tunity as well for adventurous voyages in the
station boats, the leakiness and general uncom-
fortableness of which were unsuitable to matrons,
however young girls might enjoy the trips.
Yet she had not the satisfaction of calling Mag-
dala “ forward ” or “ unmaidenly,” because Miss
Jones was always ready to play propriety in the
most unobtrusive manner. She' was a useful little
personage, this Miss Jones, for she played Teddie’s
accompaniments when they were too difficult for
Magdala, and she got up in the mornings and
presided over early breakfast when Teddie went
shooting, and Miss Leigh, who hated early rising
as she hated most things entailing exertion, was
still wrapped in slumber.
Better still, she was quite willing to keep that
lovely damsel’s other admirers quiet. Astute
general as she was, Mrs. Weston had no intention
of scaring the birds in the bush until one was
safely in the hand, and Sampson Brown, of Wid-
gereway, and Dick Graves, general manager for
the “ Company,” were still made much of during
their frequent visits, only that they saw a good
deal more of Mrs. Weston and Miss Jones, and
less of Miss Leigh than formerly. And Miss
Jones was not at all a bad little sort, with her
colorless, well-featured face, beautifully-dressed
fair hair and trim figure, set off to the best ad-
vantage by her perfectly-fitting frocks—she was
only the Westons’ governess and not a pretty
woman ; therefore it behoved her to be always
neatly dressed. “I am not like you, dear,” she
used to say to the handsome Magdala, “ who look
well in anything.”
Although she was apparently on the side of the
enemy, she was sweetly sympathetic to the losing
player, and inadvertently dropped some hints
about Magdala’s incorrigible laziness and more
than suspected tenderness for the flash young
bookkeeper—hints that provided Teddie’s mother
with a strong card or two.
“ Why don’t you ask Miss Jones to go for a ride
sometimes, Teddie ? She is a really nice girl—so
unselfish and unpresuming; far more like an
English girl than that blousy, untidy Magdala
Leigh.”
Seeking to please his irate parent, Teddie duti-
fully sought out the demure little governess, and
asked her forthwith.
She declined firmly, but politely, on the ground
that she had “ half-promised to ride with Mr.
Sampson Brown. ”
The Hon. Teddie was not used to being slighted
for middle-aged squatters, and was thus made to
regard the colorless little woman more closely—
she was half-way up the garden steps when she
answered him and she paused a moment on the
topmost one. As Teddie was standing at the side
his face was on a level with her feet and he noticed
what pretty buckled sioes she wore, and as she
gave a quick little turn, how very dainty open-
work stockings look against muslin and lace, even
when the outer garment is a serviceable serge,
with the plainest of puritan cuffs and collars as
sole relief.
He remembered that Magdala had big feet and
wasn’t particular about her shoes ; but it was only
a passing thought, soon obliterated by that per-
sonage’s perfect face and graceful, finely-moulded
figure.
Still, for all that, he didn’t relish the “ cheek ”
of the little governess in preferring Brown as an
escort and he felt slightly inclined to punch Dick
Graves’s curly head for him when he saw it bent so
close to Miss Jones’s fair one. Dick was only
purring out the oft-repeated tale of his love and
admiration for the serene and slightly somnolent
beauty—into Eliza Jones’s sympathetic ears. But,
of course, Teddie did not know that.
The days went on and Teddie’s mother, poor
lady, struggled like a fly in a spider-web. She
could not refuse when Mrs. Weston bore her off
to see the chickens ; though she knew quite well
that Magdala was alone with her own chicken,
Teddie, on the tennis court.
She couldn’t prove to her son that traps were
being set for his capture because Mrs. Weston
asked him to teach Magdala to play chess—“ so
that she might play with her brother-in-law, and
amuse the poor dear fellow when their English
guests were gone.”
She couldn’t even object to the riding-parties to
various mustering camps or otherpoints of station
interest, because discreet Miss Jones and a'tribe
of small Westons usually went too —but what was
to prevent two of the party stopping to pick
flowers or loitering behind in some green over-
arched forest bridle-track, and, given a jasmin-
scented scrub on a warm Australian evening,
a young man in the impressionable twenties, and
a girl with the voluptuous beauty of a creole, the
result was sure to be a flirtation and possibly a
proposal.
But the evil day was long in coming. To the
Englishwoman’s unspeakable joy, the roads were
pronounced passable and escape seemed probable.
Mrs. Weston was not looking quite so happy
either, and was sometimes a little bit cross and
snappish to Magdala. In the privacy of that
young woman’s bedroom she had even gone so far
as to scold the girl a little for not making the most
of her chances —good-looking, unattached and
well-off young Englishmen don’t come in a bush-
girl’s way every day, and Mrs. Weston felt
aggrieved.
“I’m sure I can’t help it,” said Magdala,
sleepily. “I’ve ridden out in the broiling sun
with him and listened to his stupid arguments,
and obeyed you in everything. Jonesie manages
to make him talk, draws him out about cricket,
and Rugby, and the superiority of the English
race, and all that; but with me lie’s fairly mum.”
“ The man admires,” said Mrs. Weston ; “ any
one can see that.”
“ So do most men,” said Miss Leigh, calmly.
“ That’s nothing 1 ”
However, the very next day Teddie plunged
into the breakfast-room where his mother was sit-
ting reading a budget brought by the long-delayed
horse-mail.
“Congratulate me, mater,” he said, “I’m the
happiest fellow alive. I always thought she liked
Graves, you know; and then I found her” (and
his blue eyes grew tender at the thought) “ found
her awfully upset, crying, in fact, by the grape-
vines beoause we were going away to-morrow —
hard work to drag it out of her ; but it’s true, so
I just asked her to be my wife and come to Syd-
ney with us. Had the devil of a task to make her
consent. There’s Mrs. Weston—alone for a
wonder. I’ll go and tell her now—but she must
have seen how the land lay all along.”
When Teddie’s mother, white with rage, con-
fronted her hostess, preparing to forget her dig-
nity and give that lady a bit of her mind—she
was struck dumb by the blank look on Mrs.
Weston’s plump little countenance.
“We’ve both been fooled,” Mrs. Weston said,
“ miserably tricked by that cunning little
animal! ”
“What cunning little animal do you mean—
your sister, Magdala ? ”
“Is out of the running ! Though you may not
be so pleased to hear it when I tell you that your
future daughter-in-law is Miss Eliza Jones ! ”
ETHEL MILLS.


In Bed for Months s Terrible Suffering;
Rheumatism Cured; A Limb Saved; Now Works Hard at 72.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
k
\
\\i x
fm
$
02.
m
“While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good.
“As soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
“ One doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose my leg.
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
“I am now 72 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
day.”
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
"The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
Sarsaparilla
That'Cures.
It Acts on the Blood.
- /
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Coated, Easy to Take.
*e*F&e
•NOOKOTt
yjmHwwwmawwj
Nag-nag 1
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, ]
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; {
and Export Oilmen generally. I
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. ]
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEAM'S
F°n?J IIOUS Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
± Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
P l *® _ of Deat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turDed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
W IL L GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action Erery S
one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
UUINEA A BOX.
BEECHAM S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the W hole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EHCLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is and 2e 9d each.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS).
KT Orth. Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
PT" Poverty Poirxtora!
Tour Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
Tales of the System.
»
Price, Is; per Post, Is Bd.
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE, Is Per POST, Is. 3d.
yOU arc SOre to set tbs Best Piaijo
1 At NICHOLSON’S in George Street,
nOHISCH FanjoOS Piaoos ooly to be bad
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
DCCHSTCIN SOperb PiapoS ooly
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
I6NON Piapos, World Reoowocd, ooly
At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
|JANOM PiaooS WooderfOlly Cbtap ooly
n At NICHOLSON’S in George Street.
0 Other NoCiSeS are io with
NICHOLSON’S in George Street, SYDNEY.
M
M
P Cures While Sleeping.
UMSS
Cures Coughs, Colds, Influenza-
TESTIMOWIAX..
Adamstown, September 11th. 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Always ask for BONNINGTON’S.


jKTSSE T nE URGESi
m *kers
Rit »sh flag
tBTABLISHt*
1847,
HIQH-OLASS
Harr eating
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-H ARRIS GO, LIMITED
Bead OJflee and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian TTeadq’rt’rs.MS-ieflWilliani-st. Melb.
New Seuth Wales Address I
SS Broadway, Georgs St. West, Sydney
Depots aus Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue bres, o n application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS."
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
3S Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
George and
Market-Sts,
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
WHEN YOU 8UT....
Eucalyptus i Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
or ALL CHEMISTS.
H.s.w. a#*ww : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
TASMAKIAK EtCALYPTOS OIL Co. LtT>., HOBART.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
€3S)@@©tS)
SFOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)iogtoi) P(in>pii)g Ei)gii>€ Con>pai)y.
(Australasian Branch.) SIHIPSOII KirOtlierS. (Australasian Brcmch.)
ence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Bvd tiey, JS’.S.W.
A.genoiea :
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN Sc CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN Sc CO., Alioe-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE Sc CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER Sc CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W. O. IBXa'DIR.TIDQ-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK KIIIEET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the felonies promptly
attended to.
m~ A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
II 01. LOW AY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
1 There is not a oountrv in the civilised world where
the hearing virtues of these arrand medicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxkorb-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the-address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
THE LAST OF SIX
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
C O CO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
— 7 :
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & IGE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much foi
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-rnaki
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
OF SYDI
Sells only the Very ties
aii the Principal
Cream, Ice,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA, (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE
the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
I M
S'Z’IDITE‘2 - .
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
... Sole Agents for . . .
The New IngersoD’ Brill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho s Bakjng powdep _
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
MerbOTurne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE SfTOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£B, reduced £2 17s fid each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breeph-loadmg Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest, improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 DB. Breech-loading Guns, spec,al quality
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot: All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun,
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
V
B.S.A.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PAN Y, m Elizabeth street
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple's, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls 0/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
" ' s (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 36, Brood’s SnHHies fi/fi Rlenmel Cm-lr Handle.*.™,
lozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Doub
>ss. iW SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATE
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia,
date £7 18 £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED - GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney; Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALASIA FOR
J. A. Fay & Co’s Celebrated Woodworking Machinery
A ft
FAY’S DOUBLE SPINDLE
SHAPER.
IN STOCK :
Tenoning Machines
Mortising Machines
Planing Machines
Molding Machines
Wood Turning Lathes
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Machines
Shaping Machines
Lath Cutting Machines
&c., &c.
&c„
