

McEWAN’S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GXTAR.A.KTTEBD PURE COCOA. AED
EXTRACT OP 3vtat.t»
107
Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, TWininn- Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ Am> GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW a™ SECOND-HAND PLAN’D, ,™,v, * OISILeS,
2*7 0
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS
TO MELBOUEiE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sf.
Hilda Railway Station and (Jalile Trams. I.aruest llou*
Aceonnnodation in Victoria. IN gi,i . : dlVli TAjUt’Jf’ for
Boarders, 9s. per Ray, or 2 Guineas per Week.
BATTLE & C° 'B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, I=*r*ootor- & c°- t.a
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED AW» SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
ECCENTRIC THRASBCIUrG.
'■'wmmammmtimmmßßammammm
AND BOILERS AND PUMPS
S,A.~W BEUCKCES
THORNE'S
A 1 WHISKY.
Clarendon Hotel,
tie FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs. Ivilminster lor the last
Twenty (20) Years.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
- MANLY BEACH.
■
ECOBART.
Hadley s Orient jjotel.
Tbs Federal .
Palace Hotel,
MELBOURNE,
AS A TRAVELLERS’ HOTEL,
... IS THE ...
Premier Hotel in Australasia.
CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMERS,
and CENTRE OF CITY.
SST ROO 31S ALL PRICES . fai
oo
7
* " mov Kmi lasss '•me**' ma fp|
s6 °!?:; 13 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
u
PiONEER
LEATHER
f B E LT i N G
The Leading iseit 01 Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability ;ind Cheapness.
Used exclusively by tdieN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 -X" carle Street;,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wlaolesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
CIGARS
upm/iGffAtfr
•SMO/CS
Wte:H.RHlif‘feC«S)|nn|
©IF* 8
wa I 5
The Bulletin
' o, 20. jW 1013.
[Saturday, July 15, 1899.
Bepstered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Hewspaper,


THE BOOK-LOVER,
Supplies, in brief pars., notices of all current
Literature, with Portraits of Authors.
SPECIMEN COPY sent Gratis to any Address on
receipt of Postcard by
THE BOOH-LOVERS’ LIBRARY,
2X5 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; the best Lending
Library for Country Residents.
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is 6d each.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
VvOS-
-1
v
invaluable
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Or from the PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland,
for Postage Stamps of any Px*ovince.
SYDNEY AGENT: S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
UNDER
THE
GUMTREC
The Simile.
IN' the first place, a simile is
not a metaphor. A simile
is merely a reference : you
take two things, .set them
side by side, and compare them
“ her eyes are like stars. ” But
a metaphor is a complete trans-
ference : you merge one thing
wholly in the other —“ her eyes
arc stars.” So that the metaphor
extends the simile’s method, and
instead of shivering on the brink
plunges boldly in. It would
be hard to say which is . the
more valuable literary figure ;
but while both are among the
earliest acquisitions of language,
the simile, is a little the earlier,
a little the simpler, a little less
fanciful and recondite.
Not the tear of God, but the comparison of ob
jects and ideas, is the beginning of wisdom. From
the moment birth opens our eyes we are classi
tying and dividing perceptions into likes and op
posites—such as light, darkness; sound, silence
land, water; and so on., Our own understanding
comes by comparing one thing to or front another
and to convey our ideas into another’s under-
standing there is no better way than the way of
the simile. . Often statement puts in position
the nail which simile hammers home. “They
sank as lead in the mighty waters ” is far more
vivid than “ They sank in the mighty waters/’
That simile relies upon the common knowledge
that lead sinks quickly; and, to be effective, a
simile, should recall an idea familiar to the
simile’s audience. Platinum sinks more quickly
than lead ; and to a person thoroughly acquainted
with the properties of lead and platinum “They
sank like platinum ” would convey a stronger im-
pression. But not to the Israelites.
Children, recapitulating the human record, are
constantly employing similes to express their
meanings: everything is. “like” this or that.
Ihe literatures of primitive races, the children of
humanity, blossom in similes as naturally as
water . rl Pple.-s ipto waves when a wind comes.
And in primitive similes you may read the
primitive life. The early poets teem with
r u- gold and silver, sword and
shield, the Sun and moon and stars, all the
objects most known and thought about in daily
life. Prom each was abstracted the idea of its
leading quality, for use in comparison. The
sword was sharp ; the sun hot, fierce, ruddy;
the IhUs high ; the valleys green ; and so on.
. other times come other manners and
similes ; and urban church-goers find little force in
the idea of “mountains skipping like rams”
lation WaS S ° effective an image to a pastoral popu-
With the search for the simile for its own sake,
or for the sake of decoration, came sin into the
literary world. The, epic is a long, slow-moving
composition ; and probably in Homer’s day minds
also moved more slowly. If so, two things should
have resulted : that an idea took longer to pene-
trate, and that it was held more tenaciously when
it had penetrated. The long and ornamental
simile of Homer might then have been none
too long for his climax, since if it had been
shorter the climax would have found his
audience unprepared—just as you wasted words
on bwift s Laputan who had not been called to
attention with a flapper. If Homer, in the eighth
book of the Iliad, had merely said that the
Greek watch-fires encompassed Troy as the stars
compass the moon on a clear night, and proceeded
to talk about other thing's, very likely his full
meaning would not have soaked down to the
Grecian brain. When he took half-a-dozen lines
to say that—
As in the heights of heaven the moon gleams clear, and
around her
Shine in their beauty the stars, nor is one cloud moving
in ether;
Shines forth every cliff, and the jutting peaks of the
headlands,
Forest and glen: then, as opens the rifting firmament
heavenwards,
Star is revealed upon star ; and gay is the heart of the
herdsman :
then, presumably, he had gained sufficient momen-
tum to add that—
Not in le-ss number than they, from the Xanthus’ stream
to the sea sands,
Glimmered the red watchfires that encompassed Uion
alway.
But for Virgil’s audience it is doubtful if the
Homeric simile was not a mistake. Many of
Milton’s long similes are certainly mistakes; and
when Matthew Arnold, in “Balder Dead,” writes
of Hermod returning from Hell
and shall X tell thee how he seems?
liike as a farmer, who hath lost his dog,
Some morn, at market, in a crowded town—•
Through many streets the poor beast runs in vain,
And follows this man after that, for hours ;
And, late at evening, spent and panting, falls
Before a stranger’s threshold, not his home,
With flanks a-tremble, and his slender tongue
Hangs quivering out between his dust-smear’d jaws,
And piteously he eyes the passers by ;
But home his master comes to his own farm,
Far in the country, wondering where he is—
So Hermod comes to-day unfollow’d home—
he certainly sacrifices his poem to classical tradi-
tmn. Very likely that is the way primitive man
would have talked, and the way in which primi-
tive man would have understood his god talking •
but the verisimilitude will not justify Arnold’
He is writing for the modern mind; and lie has
succeeded, when telling about Hermod, in in-
teresting the modern mind less in Hermod than in
a strange lost dog. While we are admiring his
dog his poem is waiting.
. A simile is a detail, and must always be subor-
dinated to the main theme. As soon as it hinders
the theme more than it helps, it becomes obnoxi-
ous. There is, indeed, a kind of writing which is
avowedly nothing but a collection of beautiful
images—ryou may linger over one and pass to the
next while the meaning flows in an under-current •
but in the best writing the thought distinctly
leads. I his fragment of John Fletcher’s is thickly
strown with similes; but each has its office and
bears its burden ; and the reader is delayed at
each step only as long as is necessary to receive
the idea.
Care-charming Sleep, thou easer of all woes,
Brother to Death, sweetly thyself dispose
On this afflicted prince ; fall like a cloud,
In gentle showers ; give nothing that is loud,
Or painful to his slumbers ; easy, light,
And as a purling stream, thou son of Night
Pass by his troubled senses ; sing his pain,
Like hollow murmuring wind or silver rain ;
Into this prince gently, oh, gently slide,
And kiss him into slumbers like a bride.
A refinement on the idea that the simile should
help the theme is the practice of making the simile
suit the subject. A simile dragged in neck-and-
heels from an alien field, no matter how cleverly,
is a bad simile. When Charles Kingsley, in
“Yeast,” writes quite seriously of his heroine
Argeinone that her “eyes shone out like twain
lakes of still azure, beneath a broad marble cliff of
polished forehead,” he would hardly have written
worse if he had written “marble mantelpiece.”
Hut J. R. Gieen is rhetorically effective when he
says that “ the diplomatic contest between Philip
and Elizabeth was like the fight which England
was soon to see between the ponderous Spanish
galleon and the light pinnace of the buccaneers.”
When the plan is carried to extremes, however,
it is carried too far. The Belgian writer, Camille
Lemonnier, has a story of a fisher-maiden whose
cheeks were red as salmon ; teeth as bright as a
wet oar s blade in the sun ; and the coils of her
hair as heavy as towing-ropes. These might be
natural similes for the maiden’s lovers ; but they
are accentuated a little too much for Lemonnier’s
readers.
Properly used, the simile is one of the best
weapons in the writer’s armoury. The new theory
that as far as possible it should be absorbed in the
word—the antipodes of Homer’s method—will
doubtfully ever find general acceptance even with
the cultured. Just how far ornament should go is
a question of taste ; but to deprive style entirely
of the ornament of the simile would surely be un-
wise.
A considerable number of similes (mixed with
metaphors) have been forwarded in response to the
request for (1) the most poetical, and (2) the most
curious and piquant simile. Some famous ex-
amples went unquoted. Nobody thought of Sheri-
dan s Jew for six weeks turned Christian—
He stands like a dead wall between church and syna-
gogue, or like the blank leaves between the Old and New
Testament.
Priest-ridden Henri Trois might have been in-
stanced, who said that the presence of a friar ex-
erted as agreeable an effect upon his mind as the
most delicate and gentle tickling upon his body.
Justin M ‘Carthy was bright when, in speaking of
public executions, he said that the soul took its
flight as if it were a trapeze-performer in a circus.
But there is no end to quotation.
ihe following is judged the most poetical simile
contributed ; and to the sender, Mr. Hubert
Church, Wellington, M.L., 10s. 6d. has been
posted :
Her face is like the milky way i' the sky,
A meeting of gentle lights without a name.
Sir John Suckling.
The following is judged the most curious and
piquant simile contributed. Will the sender, Mr.
Edward Tregear, M.L., please forward address ?
A bushman once said to me of a dull mate : “ Dull? I
should think so. He was like a dead policeman in a wet
mackintosh.”
Some others—mixed. From S.F.—
The rich lights fade out one by one;
And like a peony
Drowning in wine, the crimson sun
Sinks down in that strange sea.
F. J. Daley.
H.J.A. quotes from Shakespeare’s “Rape of
Lucrece ”
Her eyes, like marigolds, had sheathed their light,
And canopied in darkness sweetly lay
Till they might open to adorn the day.
“Ben D.” prefers this from the same poem—
Without the bed her other fair hand was,
On the green coverlet, whose perfect white
Showed like an April daisy on the grass,
With pearly sweat resembling dew of night.
(It has been noted that the Stratford meadows of
his youth give Shakespeare some of his most
charming images.) A.R.B. is deluded by Long-
fellow’s Arabs’ tents—a shining example of what
to avoid. H.J.A. quotes Victor Daley’s girl’s
funeral—
And then the dark procession wound along,
Like a black serpent with a snow-white bird
Held in its fangs.
Which is a little too intellectually ingenious for
poetry ; though undoubtedly a striking simile.
H.C. offers Corporal Trim’s quaint simile from
“ Tristram Shandy
“Nothing,” continued the corporal, “can be so sad as
confinement for life, or so sweet, an’ please your Honour,
as liberty.”
“ Nothing, true,” said my uncle Toby, musing.
“ When a man is free,” cried the Corporal, giving a
flourish with his stick thus :
A th x Ban 1 of my father’s most subtle syllogisms could
not have said more for celibacy,
11. M. writes :
D. G. Rossetti and Browning are writers who have a
special faculty for simile - expression. Unlike most
authors, they use the simile often, not as the result of
the exigencies of description, but as the poetic embodi-
ment of a thought necessitating a descriptive situation
for its environment. The simile which suggests a situa-
tion is generally more daring than that which is sug-
gested by the situation. Thus Rossetti in his "Match
with the Moon ’’
Weary already, weary miles to-night
I walked for bed : and so, to get some ease,
I dogged the flying moon with similes.
And like a wisp she doubled on my sight
In pends; and caught in tree-tops like a kite;
And in a globe of film all liquorish
Swam full-faced like a silly silver fish
Last like a bubble shot the welkin’s height
Where the road turned, and got behind me, and sent
My wizened shadow craning round at me,
And jeered, “So stop theineasiue—one, two,-three.’’ —
And if I faced on her, looked innocent.
But just at parting, half-way down a dell,
She kissed me for good-night. So you’ll not tell.
Browning’s simile is rather polished poetic conception
than inspiration. From Pauline —
. . . the blackthorn boughs
In the sunshine were white with coming buds,
Like the bright side of a sorrow.
From “ Pippa Passes” —
6th Student. Look at the bridegroom. Half his hair
in storm and half in calm,-patted down over the left
temple,—like a frothy cup one blows on to cool it.
C. R. M. suggests some popular examples—
He pan tell lies as fast as a horse can trot.
Some men are as flash as a dog with two tails.
As much muscle as a married magpie.
As warm as toast.
As cold as a stone.
From E. Tregear’s budget—
Music that gentlier on the spirit lies
Than tired eyelids upon tired eyes.
Tennyson —“ The Lotos-eaters
A hand as white
As ocean-foam in the moon.
lb.—" Maud."
I dimly see
My far-off doubtful purpose, as a mother
Conjectures of the features of her child
Ere it is born.
16. —“ (Enone.”
My soul is an enchanted boat
That, like a sleeping swan, doth float
Upon the silver waves of thy sweet singing.
Shelley —“ Prometheus Unbound."
He had a face like a benediction.
Lon Quixote.
Trailing like a wounded duck, working out her soul.
Leaking like a iobster-pot, steering like a dray,
Watched the compass chase its tail like a cat at play.
Kipling--" Ballad of the Bolivar."
You could no more keep him to his word than you
could hold an eel in a bucket of slush.
A married laborer, kept awake half the night by a
crydng child, to his wife : “Jenny, I’d rather sleep with
a bag full of devils than that kid.”
An artillery-sergeant to a dirty recruit: «Do you think
you can come into this orderly-room spitting like a dam
Maxim ?”
A miserable-looking woman speaking of her husband :
“Sir, he was meaner than three-haporth of ‘God-help-
us’ chucked out of a hospital window.”
Drunken stockman rebuked by a bush-preacher in a
baggy suit of black : “Do you think I’ll be jawed by a
chap with trousers on him like the belly of a concertina?”
The proverbs of savage people are full of most admirable
similes. For instance, the Fijians, who, like the Maoris,
call their parrot kaka because of its cry ( kah-kah ), say of
a boaster—“ He is like a parrot, always calling out his
own name.”
_ Others received from P.W.; C.L.; J.O. : She-
Oak; Te Whai.
. Italian novelist D’Annunzio recently holidayed
in Egypt with fourteen trunks and a valet. This
was his travelling wardrobe :
Shirts
Drawers (with various laces and other
embellishments) 48
Socks of all kinds 12 dozen
Ditto of quiet tinted silk 2 dozen
Hats, evening suits, smoking coats,
shooting jackets innumerable.
Gloves for walking 48 pairs
Ditto for evening 24 pairs
Mufflers of beautiful silk 3
Walking sticks ... 12
Umbrellas of violet hue ... 8
Parasols, green .... 10
Handkerchiefs 20 dozen
Cravats, resplendent and varied ...150
Waistcoats 10
Shoes for walking 14 pairs
Shoes for crocodile hunting 2 pairs
Slippers, “soft, silent and tremulous" 2 pairs
The Australian backblocks storyteller, writing in
his shirt while his tenderly-patched moleskins are
drying, is invited to hold this dose to his slusn
lamp and consider how many “mufflers of beauti-
ful silk” he will wear when he cometh into his
kingdom.
Stead in St. Petersburg ! —lately stigmatised
the Russian censorship as imbecile, idiotic, and
mischievous—-for Russia, for the Emperor, and
for peace. By all accounts, nobody in Russia ever
before told the Censor so plainly what he thought
of him—“such uncompromising public denuncia-
tion of official action is absolutely unprecedented,
and is regarded as a grave event.” Stead has the
courage of his fanaticism, anyway.
Conan Doyle has been saying unkind things
about that ardent British log-roller, Rev. Robert-
son Nieoll, whose defence is that his strange
enthusiasms were in no case exchanged for value
received. No one supposes that the editor of the
Bookman and the British Weekly received real
sovereigns for his remarkable labours. But, if he
is as honest as he swears, and gives to him that
asketh hoping nothing in return, his incapacity is
past all whooping.
Good England’s wrath against the Sunday Daily
Mail had some justifying logic. Another of the
Harmsworth publications, the Sunday Companion,
declares it exists as eternal foe of “ the Sunday
newspaper and the hosts of impurity.”
The 1 Memoirs of Sergeant Bourgogne ” —a
private soldier’s record of the retreat from Moscow
‘ Are not apt for quotation. Pew passages are
prominent. It is from the steady dribble of the
small details of defeat and suffering that one gets
full vision of that evil flight. The tragedy is piled
line upon line, little upon little. And through all
the horror of death from starvation, death in
battle, death by cold, shines his soldiers’invincible
adoration of Napoleon—the man who for millions
of subjects put off the raiment of humanity
and became as a god, above all good and evil. No-
body now knows how Napoleon looked in his
THE MAN OF MOSCOW.
Drawn by F. Vallotten.
prime ; but of the innumerable portraits I doubt
if one better realises the Idea of the hero than the
sketch upon this page by Vallotton, who never
saw him.
Jt
A correspondent wants the Govt, subsidy to
Sydney School of Arts stopped, and the money
devoted to _ the Public Library. It is not a new
idea: but it is as good as ever. With one pro-
perly-maintained free lending library in the Market
building, there is no necessity to subsidise another
a few hundred yards away—which daunts the im-
pecunious with 6s. per quarter subscription. If
the Govt, maintains the Eree Library, people who
want to pay can patronise the booksellers. Sydney
Mechanics’ School of Arts has done good work in
its day; but between the Technical College and
the Public Library, its day as a subsidised institu-
tion has passed.
&
Half-a-dozen ar-
tists have lately at-
tempted the subject
of Woman contem-
plating herself, won-
dering and ponder-
ing her potencies and
inscrutabilities. This
drawing from a re-
cent Mercure de
France catches bet-
ter than the others a
certain air of not-
all-amused interest
w hich might reason-
ably be predicted in
the one-per-million
lady who stops buz-
zing to bother about
the philosophy of
sex.
What his publishers call the “ cheap edition ” of
Buskin is still dear-enough; and a New Yorker
not long ago sent to an English friend a pirated
American set at £3 or so. The Customs seized jt;
and the buyer wrote to Ruskin asking for relief.
The reply—
Sir : I do not see that your friend’s desire to give you a
present at my expense is any apology for your intrusion
upon me. —Yours, etc., John Ruskin.
But—consolation —the autograph is valued at
£3 3s.
Jt J
Q. Govt, has accumulated 14,000 books and
6000 pamphlets for the new Public Library ; but
no building is yet available.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
I read in Sydney Sunday Times of 18th June
some verses signed “ Uncle Billy,” commencing—
and so on, with sentiment similar to that of the
Times bard. I presume that if Byron had seen
this ghostly imitation on the battlements of
futurity he would have remarked, “0 my pro-
phetic soul, my Uncle Billy ! ”
DON J.
It was not to gaze on the waterfall
That Marion left her father’s hall :
It was riot to pluck the opening flower
She made her way to her favorite bower :
Nor to feel the breath of the Summer breeze-
As it swept- so gently through the trees.
Why was that blush on her maiden cheek?
What—ah, what—had she come to seek?
As long ago as 1816 Byron wrote—
It. was not to gaze on the waterfall
That Parisina left the hall . . .
And if she sits in Este’s bower
’Tis not for the sake of its full-blown flower —


Medical*
ofkin Wi4ea4e4.
s'9leu) Wkeodery
“*£igmoi{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly ol it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. 11. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.-—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21st, IS9B.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M’Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I comnjenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRY MALYON,
Manufacturinff Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. a.nci 7s. 6G. Eacla.
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
'SPlOt j\
'OJIOO \
"
Cronp, \
Coughs, 1
Tnnth. \
Tooth
ache,
Cuts, \
Burns,
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles Is
"Pain-KiUet
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. NIOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Dig-estive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
LOZENGES.
Cures Without Medicine.
A RE you Nervous, Weak,
Despondent, 111 ? Have
you tried drug g i n g the
stomach until almost ready
|to give up in despair? If so,
why not try Electricity?
Hundreds have been perma?
nently cured by this wonder-
ful remedy as applied by the
great American Invention —
“Dr. Pierce’s Galvanic
Chain Belt.” Scores of grateful letters like the fol-
lowing are constantly being received :
From Africa : “ Somerset East, Cape Colony, South
Africa, Aug. 15,1898. I am much pleased to say that Dr.
Pierce’s Galvanic Chain Belt acted like a charm with me.
I am now cured and strong.—Yours truly, T. E. Wish.”
From England : “ I am extremely pleased to be enabled
to say that your Belt has had a wonderful effect in curing
me of varicocele.—Tiios. Bannister, 13 Richmond Road,
Montpelier, Bristol.” From Australia : “ I am now a
new man, after taking tons of medicine which did me no
good. I was hardly able to walk before I got your Belt.—
D. Cameron, 1 Stewart Place, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.
Wales.” From America : “ Co. H, 18th Infantry, U.S.
Army, Camp Merritt, San Francisco, June 9, 1898. Last
October, while in garrison at Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas,
I sent for one of your famous Dr. Pierce’s Electric Belts
for Rheumatism, &c., and after wearing it only about two
months my complaints entirely disappeared, and I have
not been troubled with any pain or discomfort since.—
Yours gratefully, John P. Anderson.”
Call at Sydney Agency, or send 2d. in stamps for
our New “ Booklet No. 2.” It gives price-list (in English
and American money)and full information. Address—
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market-St., San Francisco, U.S.A., or Washington
H. Soul & Co., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cipbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n}bro<;atioQ.
CARLTO
The Best Player
will occasionally miss
a very simple shot.
Not so the remedy that
has become a symbol
of prompt, effective
action.
AllcoeK&
Porous Plaster
is sure, speedy, safe. You can bank on it every time. For
all sorts of pains that can be reached by an external remedy
—and they are more numerous than many suppose —it is
thoroughly reliable. Stiffness of the joints or muscles, lame
back, cold in the chest, sore throat, weakness and soreness in
the liver or kidneys, it relieves and cures at once.
REMEMBER when you need a plaster
Allcock’s
POROUS
PIASTER
is the one you want.
TAKE NO OTHER BUT ALLCOCK’S,
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT YELYETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness
VI
¥fi
Brush’s Fair-Horse
Buggy Harness,
Made with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Collar
Straps, Stout Traces, Simple Pads,
complete—No. 1, £5 10s.; No. 2,
£6 10s. * No, 3, £7 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s.; No. 2,
£8 10s. ■
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.— A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSJPS No. 2. —A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, £4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3.—A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.— The “Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
We send, Free ot Charge, to any port or ranway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55/- up.
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies. Remittances can be sent by cheque or
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange. Extra 2J% dis.
allowed if you send this advt. with order.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Go.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 George-street, Sydney
GOODALL’
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT mS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and caurecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
ud BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
S3S FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3'-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/H. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 211, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13'6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns ot
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
ALBERT’S
PIANO N * w
VAMPIN6
Patented CARPS
Anyone quite ignorant of Music will be able, with the
aid of ALBERT’S VAMPING CARD, to play accompani-
ments and VAMP on the Piano, Organ, or Harmonium to
thousands of Songs, Pieces, and Waltzes in all major and
minor keys within five minutes’ practice without the
slightest knowledge of Music.
PRICE, Is. 6d. The instructions are short, plain, and
printed on the Card, to be had from all Stationers and
Music-sellers all over Australia, or direct from
J. Albert & Son, 118 Klng-st., Sydney,
Manufacturers and Importers of Music, Musical Instru-
ments, Strings, and Spectacles.
Illustrated Catalogue and Music List FREE.
fringes,
ffetural Curly, from S/9 eactw
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, f/fl. all real hal*.
CUTTINGS & COM BLNOB
{noticed lip, 2/6 per 02.
Wo are the cneapeitlb Aoe*
tralia for all Bair Work,.
Send Color of Hair*
WiN^wigs'H}
*llO William Stuebt, n “”
corner of Palmer-street,
< SYDNEY.
Alible Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe LisV. %
Pnjjppt attention given to Country Order*
FREW
The Reform Price
Jewellers-^
Watches Cleaned and Regulated, 216
Best English Mainspring • • -2/6
ALL WORK GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
Jewellery Repairs Eqtially Reduced.
Only Skilled Workmen Employed. No Apprentices or
Improvers whatever..
Watches and Jewellery Repairs forwarded by post
receive SPECIAL ATTENTION.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY.
632 George Street,
Six Doors above Liverpool-st., Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING'S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
ECZEMAOLEAC
Discoverer —Chris. Mudd, F.L.S., Prince of Wales’
botanist. Mr. J. Vernon, 142 Osborne St., Williams-
tovvn, writes: —“My honest conviction is that had it
not been for your ‘ Oleac ’ I should now be in my
grave.” Mrs. Poole, of Cooma, writes: —“I am fu ly
recovered, and not used one jar." Mr. Gill, Bal-
moral Crescent Surrey Hills, writes:—“l am happy
to tell you the eruption has entirely disappeared.”
Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10. Chemists or Depots:
SYDNEY—M. H. Hobwitz, 84 Pitt Street.
ADELAIDE— Habris & Kemp, 22 Arcade.
MELBOURNE— Fbed. J. E. I'hili ips, 817 Collins St.
What is Health?
it
frheumatism, Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. JF.
JPAJtKER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
Ifilß
The New Patent i
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
w
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.jllelbourne.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out o'f gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.


Address: car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart
Silver City C. July 26.
25,000 Snlbscrllbera at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _shares in the above.
Name ;
v '■>' •• 1 * i till , . •
Address : .
Adelaide Grand National H. August 12.
25,000 Subscribers at 5 a
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Kune.
45
Address.
s
s
£,
Address;!
s
CAULFIELD C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
. .Cup.
Name __
Address
shares in the
T
MELBOURNE G.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
. ' . .1
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me . . shares In the above.
Name ■ - - -
Address.
MELBOURNE C.
100,000 Subaoribera at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot shares in the above.
Kama ...
Address * ——
SPECIALS OPEN ON
• ~ ~ j'
Silver City C. ... 25,000 at
Spring H. ... ... 25,000 at
Caulfield C. ... ... 100,000 at
Melbourne C. ... ... 100,000 at
5
5
5
5
TATTEESALL,
Please allot me - —Shares
the——, -Special.
Name ——
Address ,
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


Anthony
Hordern’s
FOR EVERYTHING!
You can do it through the post.
Your order, either little or big, will receive
our best attention, and you will get .
thw BEST RESULTS
We can supply everything wanted
to carry on the business of life, whether
that business is run in ...
SINGLE OR DOUBLE HARNESS,
and cur system of trade presents attrac-
tions not to be found elsewhere.
TRY US!
AND TASTE OUR
QUALITY.
SEND FOR ——.
Autumn & Winter
Portfolio of Fashions
Also for prices and particulars of every-
thing you require.
Patterns sent to any address Post Free.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket Only, Sydney
/PAKRoT
v^Brand”
w jo
*2 Solo) SWSOO>
SaWOoM Stfiv&UC
American Carriage Repository
(24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY)
Far All Kinds of VEHICLES .
\
V
MODERN MILLING MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
" DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
temm
GrO TO TTT!T.T-
TGOLANT) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SO CI ETY is prepared to LEND in any
at lowest current rates, upon FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD CITY and SUBURBAN PROPERTIES , on
FREEHOLD and CONDITIONALLY-PURCHASED PASTORAL and FARMING LANDS.
LOANS can be arranged either for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments of principal and interest
extending over long periods.
Arrangements have been made, whereby valuations for country properties can be made for a very mode-
rate fee, to be paid as evidence of bona fides on the part of the applicant.
The legal expenses in connection with mortgages are also on a specially low scale.
The Society is also prepared to entertain proposals for purchasing Reversionary Interests in Estates, whether
in this colony or elsewhere, or to lend upon the security of the same on liberal terms.
Forms of proposal may be obtained on application at the Head Office, or any District Office of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List. TBIi
H. HILLIEB, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
*lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEH, 135 & 137 Snssex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST.', CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post, t.a . ages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
m
a
m
w
ms
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
| Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says :
“ I have med
your 4 KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stopped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihavean entirely I
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, X
'think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC. M ..
KOKO MARICOPAS COY.. LTD- 16. BEVIS MARKS,, L_OM,DON, ENGLA^.J
$
c/?
*
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
W r HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere I go I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
Ye
t
ss
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.” —P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20/9,97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. fid, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
E. HOLLAND
H A 111 SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
IHE
Plum’
THE
‘ Plum’
(1 ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
Jf trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, " e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
[Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful oase, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Reyistered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CBAIG & AIXKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
IKT.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3rSpring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
•nt. more for your requirement*.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 3
£8 18/6
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Hallways, Station
£lO 10,'-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a pleasant little diversion at a
recent meeting of South Dunedin (M.L.) Borough
Council, when the Mayor arose and blandly in-
formed the gaping councillors that it was his
intention to strike two of their number off the
burgess-roll for non-payment of rates. One of the
gentlemen referred to reared up and said that he
had been hardly dealt with ; had he been notified
that such extreme action was contemplated he
would have paid the beastly rates. And the rest
of this awful council mostly applauded and snorted
wildly about the Mayor’s tyranny. But the
Mayor was equal to the opportunity, and stood
up and told them many truths about the class of
fraud that had the chilled-steel cheek to come
there with their own rates in arrear and instruct
the clerk to prosecute ratepayers who were behind
in payment. At present it seems as though it
would be a good plan on the part of South
Dunedin to poll-axe its council, and declare the
Mayor civic dictator.
On a Mountain Top.
A season here on the hills together,
A walk and a draught of native wine—
A quiet pipe in the amber weather,
While far, down far in the gulf divine
White smoke, adrift, like a wind-blown feather,
Up-spires and curls from the green benign.
Strong suns that wheel through purer azure,
White burnished moons of silver fire,
All stars alight with larger measure
Shine in this keener air and higher,
Wherein, like gods (of clay), our pleasure
Is thus to walk and talk and tire.
The still.night, long, in deep abysses,
Moon-white, star-pierced, the mists arise
To cover deeply all long green tresses,
As when sleep rolls over weary eyes,
And, careless of blows or coin or kisses,
Gold head or grey in quiet lies.
Like dear love-dreams in the dark thereunder,
Where the silent drooping trees abide ;
By stern old cliffs that stand and ponder
And list, forlorn, for a vanished tide,
The blue-white fire-flies wink and wander—
The lost streams murmur a sweet aside.
Awake ! The Slayer of silver trances
Is storming up the eastern steep !
Arise ! for the Morning darts his lances
Of light on the huddled mists of Sleep ;
The strange rich forest awakes and dances,
The fountains sing aloud in the deep.
The river on to the ocean races
To carry the secret news of Night ;
Farewell to all mystical, far, green places,
All lonely valleys of dear delight.
The City is full of passionate faces,
Is loud with the cry of a world-ol I fight.
Sydney, June, 1899.
V. E. QUINN.
Bars of Gold.
Gone are the days when Freedom flung
Her battle-cry to earth and sea;
Lost are the lays, the songs unsung
Which breathed of brotherhood to be ;
Upon the nations night is falling,
Darkness that veils, until the Dawn,
The serried ranks, in mass appalling,
Of Mammon’s gilded spawn.
Spurning the nineteen-hundredth year,
That beams from our resplendent life,
Now does their hateful front appear
And mock the Judgment’s harvest-knife;
To foster evil in its springing
Glibly the tales of peace are told,
Whilst men their bloodless hands are wringing
Beside the Bars of Gold.
Shattered are hopes of measured right
That filled the fond enthusiast’s scheme.
Folly asserts her subtle might,
And open truth is held a dream,
As Bower, a cerecloth darkly weaving,
Guards, closely hid, the maxims cold
Which frame her bondage, pa.st retrieving,
Within the Bars of Gold.
Banish in time the living Pride ;
Destroy the servile ties of rank ;
Facing the crystal throne, decide
To drink the faith our fathers drank;
Serve none for hope of soft advancement,
Fearlessly live by love controlled ;
So shall we break that deep entrancement
Behind the Bars of Gold.
Swift must depart the honeyed lie,
The studied fraud, the broken trust;
Fortune will not in scorn pass by,
Nor Victory’s sword dishonored rust;
The parent’s breast no more be riven ;
Shame may not claim a daughter sold ;
Nor woman’s heart to lust be driven,
Eucaged by Bars of Gold.
Then, at the ruddy harvest-tide,
Not wealth alone shall garner grain ;
Nor may her hireling crew decide
That guilty hands clasp holy gain.
Her robber hordes, in sloth engendered,
Mighty thre i wrong, revered of old,
In Hell beneath shall sink surrendered
Within the streams of Gold.
W. GRIFFITH.


II
BT
m
v
ms
flag
mis
E
WITH
y r ' —of Lime ~
Potash &. ‘Soda"'
IA Reliable Remedy for Constitutinal Weakness Poverty ofthe Blood Consumption
Chkdnic Goochs & Wasting Diseases of all kinds. Retained by the most delicate
Stomach Specially suitable weak & debilitated Children -—-s-
Washington.HSouuC o
P|,[CC 1/6 & 2/6
THE MARBLE BAR
PUT STREET, SYDNEY
In the heart
of the city.
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading Theatres and G.P.O.
OME OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Every Visitor says : “Do not miss The Marble Bar/
W. J. ADAMS, Managkr.]
Painless Dentistry.
Institute.
Dk. S. TjKV.RK, Graduate in Dental Surgery 1 and
Prosthetics, and Mil. S. T). AS! licit, Dentists.
ISgr Modern Dentistry in nil Us Branches
■ Leyitiiuately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
THE METROPOLITAN——
edward street, Brisbane.
A COMMERCIAL HOTEL
(exclusively for Gentlemen).
CENTRAL. COMFORTABLE. UNIQUE.
Tariff from fiper Day.
Telephone 784
D. Swiss-Davies, Prop.
(Member Com. Trav. Club.)
★
ameo
NOBEL-6UVS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLtSTITC.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof. Unaffected by Climatic Changes.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
t>y
MOISTURE.
™ obTv
lb ,
HE
ES
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING BALIiISTITE won over .£6OO at Gun Club, Netting Hill, in November
and December, 1898 ; or more than all other powders combined. —Fide Field, 14th Jan., ’99.
W. B. Gladstone, Esq., Calcutta, writes: “ Ballistite Cartridges passed through two Indian
hot-weather and rainy seasons, not affected by time, heat, or damp.”
Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
AGENTS: N.S.W.,
Pastoral!
SHEEP - BRANDING!
DO YOU KNOW that KEMP’S PATENT
Sheep-Branding 1 Liquid
Will brand a Wet Sheep equally as well as a
dry one?
Will stay on the sheep’s back as long as is re-
quired through any weather—wet or dry,
hot or cold ?
Will Dissolve from the wool in the ordinary
scour ?
Will not mat the fibres or injure the wool ?
Will permit of sheep being dipped and then at
once branded, or vice-versa?
Will materially increase in value the wool and
skins it may be used upon ?
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP-
BBANDING- LIQUID
Is NOT an OIL, and will NOT injure
the Wool.
KEMP’S Patent SHEEP-BRANDING LIQUID
was used last year by several hundred Wool
Growers, and not one voice has spoken against it.
The Unsolicited Testimonials will show what is
thought of it. Send for Copies.
Stir well before using Kemp’s Patent Sheep-
Branding Liquid, and it will give guaranteed
satisfaction. Manufactured in Three Colors —
BLACK, RED, BLUE.
Supplied in Cases containing 8 gallons.
Price in Sydney, 3s. 6d. per Gallon.
TRY KEMP’S.
WOOL - SCOURING!
SOAP-SDKS
for wool-scourimr is an important item in the
inventory of Station supplies. Some folks make
suds with Potash Soaps. Some make suds with
Soda Soaps ; but all make suds, and all want
reliable suds at a reasonable price.
EIGHT OR TEN YEARS AGO
there existed a prejudice against soda soaps, be-
cause, being new, they were untried ; but time
and experience have proved the value of these
soaps when furnished without free Alkali and no
Resin. Prejudice has given place to confidence,
and to-day the annual consumption of Soda Soap
FOR WOOL SCOURING
is enormous. It is giving perfect results at a
great saving to the wool-scourer. ‘‘ Union Jack "
is a soda soap which contains no free alkali and
no resin. Some wools may require a quantity of
extra alkali. In such cases the experienced washer
will know how much or how little alkali to add
for that particular wool. All that the soap-maker
can do is to furnish a well-made, pure soap con-
taining no free alkali. This is what we furnish iri
“UNION JACK” BRAND of WOOL-
SCOURING SOAR,
which is guaranteed free from silicate or other
“fillers,” contains no resin whatever, and will
produce the best results possible with any other
wool-scouring soap on the market. Our price is
ridiculously low. Lower than you can possibly
make your own soap. Why not
TRY “UNION JACK.”
FOR. SA.X.E! IETS"
E. RICH & GO.
SYDNEY. THE ONLY
Exclusive Providers of Squatters’ Supplies-
BRISBANE.
NOW READY.
220-pp. —4/6
SECOND
EDITION.
u
»
yankee poodle
IN AMERICA.
The Legend.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
general, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Payette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused
them. Marching with drum and fife
was an old man, Jeremiah Wynton, and
his. son, and grandson. The old father,
with silvery flowing locks, sturdily strode
through the field. The son with ban-
daged head fifing lustily, the youth,
catching the spirit of his grandsire, rolled
out with him the soul-inspiring ’rattle of
the drum. Father, son, and grandson
had accompanied the troops as volunteers,
and were ever in the forefront of the
fioht. The fierce light of battle was in
their eyes, they knew, no fear, and many
a wild cheer arose, as on that fateful
day Yankee Doodle, was heard as never
was heard before or since.
Tobacco Manufacture
m
New South Wales.
Statistics:
XCISE RETURNS show
-B -" i that d' ring 1898, over
60 Tons more of DIXSON’S
Tobacco were sold than that of
any other manufacturer.
Imported Leaf.
DIXSON’S used in manufac-
ture over 149 Tons more than
all the other Tobacco factories.
DIXSON’S Brands are —
Yankee Doodle (Dark and
Bright Aromatic).
Champion (Bright).-
Conqueror (Dark).
BONANZA CIGARS.
Machine-made; contain the
choicest Tobacco, and are
placed at the lowest price.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1899.
Vol. 20.—N0. 1013.
Priob 6d.
GOOD OLD PROVINCIALISM!
“Sir J. Forrest says that W. Australia need be in no hurry to join the Federation.”
"The good old camel to good enough for me. and Ml last my time out. It, them there newfangled Mean, as throws the likes o' me out of a biĺet."


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bui letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings, sterling— with postage added whol e required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Pos'il Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor toill carefully read and aclcnoioledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential .•
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Blade and White.
Anyone supplijing to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
null be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions tvill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A; Co., Cornliill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice, to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
TTestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on /nterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. Gd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. Gd. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exactedby the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1899.
The Transvaal.
Obviously the Transvaal is doomed. It is
doomed if it “reforms ” its electoral system
by giving full suffrage to the swarms of
British and other alien exploiters who have
poured into the country uninvited, and
despite systematic discouragement ; for if it
does so, the Boers abdicate their authority,
and hand over the whole control of their
native land to the new majority. The men
who were born in the Vaal country, who
snatched it from the wilderness, who stole
it against stupendous odds, who grew up
in it, and tilled it, and humped the White
Man’s Burden through it for the best part
of a century, have been suddenly out-
numbered by the eager, cosmopolitan, hook-
nosed hustlers and boodlers and first robbers
and wild-catters and financial hawks of
Johannesburg, and if the latter are granted
complete citizen rights they will own the.
Legislature. Then they will either run it
themselves, or hand it over to the British
Government, or farm it out to the Char-
tered Co. This is what will obviously
happen if the Boers grant full suffrage to the
influx of the new locusts. And if they don’t
grant it they will almost certainly be wiped
out another way, by the arms of Britain,
which will some day annex the Transvaal by
way of avenging the “wrongs” of the un-
welcome British intruders. So Kruger and
his burghers, if all reports are true,
half incline to take the wiser course, and
concede nothing and go down fighting. If
they give the suffrage to the new ma-
jority—the strangers who have rushed their
country —the latter will legally rule the
Legislature and the Government, and will
legally barter away the country, and if the
Boers resist they will be perfectly unlawful
rebels, liable to execution when captured.
And if they yield nothing the Boers will
make their last fight as at least semi-lawful
combatants, patriotically defending their
native land.
* * * *
By mutual consent the rights of the
African natives have been dropped out of
the question. They always are when the
white man takes to humping the White
Man’s Burden in the black man’s land. It
is a question between the 70,000 Boers and
the 100,000 or 200,000 Uitlanders (the esti-
mates of the latter vary to a remarkable
degree); the 600,000 niggers are not con-
sidered on either side. The history of the
Boers is short and eventful. In the time of
the Napoleonic wars, when Holland was
trodden down by the emperor’s armies,
Britain occupied the Dutch colony at the
Cape of Good Hope on behalf of Holland,
its friend and ally, to keep it from falling
into French hands. Then it kept the Cape
for itself. There was some little trouble, and
the principal prisoners taken were hanged
up till they were dead at Slaughter Nek.
Then the bolder spirits among them
trekked ” far out into the wilderness, and
founded the South African Republic and
the Orange Free State. They fought desper-
ate battles ere they made good their footing ;
the memorable Sunday when Pretorius and
460 farmers shattered a Zulu force 12,000
strong is only one of the many great days in
Boer history. And the British persistently
followed them up. They snatched Natal
from the Boers in the early days of the re-
public. The Chartered Co. grabbed the land
to the north of the Transvaal, and shut the
burghers in on that side. The Imperial
Government closed down on their attempts
to purchase the Portuguese seaport of
Lorenzo Marquez, and insisted that the Boer
territory must be for ever an inland state,
cut off from commerce except with the adja-
cent British territory. Britain made two
serious attempts to annex the country ; the
Chartered Co. made a third. In each case
the Boers treated their prisoners at least a
great deal more humanely than Britain
treated the Dutch at Slaughter Nek, and the
Boers got only insult in return for their
humanity. And, though Britain by solemn
treaty recognised the independence of both
Boer republics, yet when the Diamond Fields
were discovered in the Orange Free State
they were promptly seized by British forces,
on the ground that they were on territory
rightly belonging to an obscure Kaffir chief.
Then Britain admitted that it had made a
mistake and its Kaffir had no real claim after
all; whereupon Britain kept the rich Dia-
mond Fields even to this day.
* * * *
With all these experiences the Boers of
the Transvaal know well that to give the
full suffrage to the swarm of unwelcome
Outlanders —in other words, to hand over
their country and their authority to the
strangers of Jolmnnesburg—is only another
name for annexation. The Boer policy is
strictly legal according to all recognised ideas
of international law. Every country, it is
admitted, has a right to make its own laws
regarding the admission of foreigners to
citizenship, or to refuse the admission of
foreigners altogether. The fact that the
Outlanders pay a very large share of taxation
is only the natural corollary of the other
fact that they own by far the largest part
of the wealth—which wealth they have
made wholly out of the Boer country. In
the other matter, that they are taxed with-
out having a voice in the expenditure of the
money, and that there should be “no taxa-
tion without representation,” the Boers
simply adhere to the policy of Britain,
France, Germany, the U.S., Australia, and
every other civilised country. In every
country the alien pays the same taxes as the
born or naturalised citizen ; he has no repre-
sentation ; and he has no right to claim
naturalisation except what right the law may
give him, if it gives him any at all. The
decision of some Australian provinces to
issue no more naturalisation papers to
Chinese, yet to make them pay the same
taxation as ordinary citizens, and to further
aggravate the case of “taxation without
representation ” by levying extra duties on
them—duties from which the man with
representation is exempt—is distinctly a case
in point.
* * * *
The Boer law of naturalisation is not so
very remarkable after all. Any alien may
be naturalised and get a vote for the Lower
House after two years’ residence and pay-
ment of £2. He may get a vote for the
Upper House 12 years later—or again he
may not. In Great Britain the alien gets a
vote for the Lower House after Jive years’
residence and payment of £5, and he never
by any chance gets a vote for the Upper
House—even 400 years’ residence wouldn’t
bring that any nearer. If English law ap-
plied to the Transvaal there would probably
be notmany more voters in Johannesburg than
there are now, for the hawks and hustlers of
the Rand are a transitory crowd, and only a
small proportion of them could qualify for
naturalisation according to the hard British
law. Johannesburg and its immediate sur-
roundings have only four members, which
looks ridiculously few according to popula-
tion, yet according to the number of voters
it isn’t seriously unjust. The alleged wrong
which the Boer does to the foreigner doesn’t
even begin to compare with the wrong done
by the Westralian to his own countryman on
the W.A. goldfields, where Kalgooriie has
one member for 5674 voters, while Ashburton
has one for 42; or with cases in Great
Britain, where Newry has a member
for 1850 voters and Walthamstow one
for 19,845. And if British law was applied
all round to the Transvaal, Johannesburg
while having probably few more voters
than it has now, and no more representation,
would still pay the bulk of the taxation.
British law covers such imposts as municipal
rates that run as high as 65., 75., and in at
least one case over 95., in the £, also
customs duties, duties on the admission of
barristers, annual license on attorneys, soli-
citors, proctors, and law-clerks, on alkali
works, on agreements, affidavits, valuations,
articles of clerkships, indentures, armorial
bearings, arbitration awards, bank-notes,
bankers’ licences, cheques, receipts, beer,
bonds, cards, carriages, motor-cars, com-
panies’ capital, contracts, share transfers,
conveyance of property, debentures, declara-
tions, churches, drunkards’ retreats (even
the drunkards’ retreat is taxed in good old
Hingland), mortgages, probates, inventories,
gun licences, house-agents’ licences, house-
tax, income-tax, insurance-policy tax, land-
tax, lease-tax, tax on allotment of shares,
on man - servants, patents, dealers in
plate, gold-refiners, bonds, property-tax,
income-tax, railway-passenger tax, tax
on restaurants, share - warrants, voting
warrants, and God only knows what
besides. And if that were applied to
Johannesburg, the chances are that Johan-
nesburg would pay quite as heavily as
it does now. And the simple-living Boer,
who deals in very few of these taxable
luxuries, would be just about where he is
now.
♦ * * *
Britain has about 40,000,000 people. And
if Britain were rushed by 60,000,000 Germans
whom it hadn’t been strong enough to keep
out in the first place, and these Germans
demanded that the British law should be
abrogated so as to give them the franchise—
so as to enable them to take over the whole
government of the country ; and Britain
was firmly convinced that they would use
their power to enact that Britain be at once
annexed and governed by Kaiser Bill and
garrisoned by his spike-helmeted myrmi-
dons—well, Britain would also die in the
last ditch before it gave way. And it
would also be nasty and aggravated
and quarrelsome. And it would also
tax these aliens without representation, as it
always has done to the alien within its
gates. The Boer probably isn’t a nice
neighbor. He is ignorant—the British rule
drove him out into the wilderness so long
ago that he has become a being of the wilder-
ness, and quite as dense as the British agri-
cultural laborer was 40 years ago. He has
been cut off from communication with other
races so long—partly through the British
policy in driving him back from the coast—
that he is absurdly arrogant. He is proud
—the handful of men who licked the British
empire in three battles must either be proud
or have a very low opinion of the British
empire. And the Briton hates him and
maligns him just as the Briton does every-
body who has licked him—all nations are
built that way. The Briton is a moderately
generous, supercilious, condescending enemy
to the man that he has licked—but that is a
different story. And the Briton doesn’t see
why the sort of law that he serves out to
aliens should be served out to him, or why
his policy of taxing wealth should be adopted
by anybody save himself. The Boer law re-
garding the naturalisation and representation
of aliens is more liberal than that of Eng-
land, and the Boer system of taxation upon
wealth is not really more aggressive
than the British variety—yet the Briton
who talks about Boer oppression sees nothing
ridiculous in his loud declaration that Britain
is the freest country in the world. The
strangers in the Transvaal came there—a
very large proportion of them—as a band
of impecunious wanderers, swagmen, toe-
raggers and dead-beats, and the Trans-
vaal made them rich, and they wear boiled
linen and fare sumptuously every day, and
are not at all grateful. So the Boer republic
has to go down sooner or later, whether it
gives concessions or whether it doesn’t. And
the Boer—like the heroic, unlettered, proud
and not too clean bigot that he is—may yet
decide to concede nothing and go down
fighting. It is the more dignified end of the
two and after all it isn’t quite such certain
death as concession would be.
The Brisbane “Telegraph’s” Nine Fish-
Yarns.
The Brisbane Telegraph, which is running
the anti-Federal cause in Queensland with very
little brain, but with a vast amount of dull
malignity, is funny reading these times. Some
of its recent appeals to the people are as
follows :
The Convention Bill provides as under :
1. Six State-paid Parliaments and a Federal-paid Par-
liament—altogether 680 paid politicians (more members
than in the British Parliament, which is unpaid). Six
State-paid Governors and a paid Governor-General. All
for 4,000,000 people.
2. A paid Interstate Commission to manage railways
built and paid for to develop our territory and trade, yet
Victoria and South Australia are to have the prepon-
derating influence in appointing the commission. No
appeal from this commission. We cannot control or
dismiss it.
3. A Federal Senate of six members for each State-
elected by their respective States votingas one electorate.
None but rich men can afford to canvass a whole State.
4. Additional taxation of £1 upon evei*3 r man, woman
and child, this is £6 per family of six, three weeks’ wages
to a working man. The provisions of the Bill necessitate
it.
Who gets the money? For five years the State
Treasurer, after five years the weaker colonies. You
pay it.
the billites say they cannot tell the cost. Financial
experts say they can, and they are all against the bill,
because of this cruel burden of taxation and its unwork-
able financial provisions.
(5) Rivers are to be under the control of the Interstate
Commission, the same as railways, and that commission is
empowered to prevent irrigation.
And what are you t.o get in return for your sacrifice of
money and freedom ? A broad national life—whatever
that may be—under the Southern Gross. Will that feed
and clothe you and your family and pay the rent?
(6) Mr. Reid says he expects to get the Federal Premier-
ship. What does Mr. Barton expect ? The point is, what
do you get?
Think over it carefully, and you will join your local
anti-bill league.
If you do not believe these statements, STUDY THE
BILL.
Kill this bill by voting “No” on September 2.
* • * »
Also some more of them :
, * s a d m 'tted that the protective duties are of no
benefit, and that there is danger of Queensland being
swamped with Victorian products when they are re-
moved. . . . Queensland farmers, it may be fairly
assumed, owe a great deal of their prosperity to the pre-
sent duties. If they are removed, that measure of pros-
perity is taken away because they will be brought into
competition with the overstocked' South. The fate of the
farmer under Federation is plain. It spells ruin.
(8) When Queensland is saddled with the diseased
finances and debilitated industries of her neighbors, she
is not likely to be any stronger.
(9) Presently our farmers in particular will be told that
they have nothing to fear under interstate Freetrade and
Protection against the world. We buy goods of the
! w °rid, and of our neighbors, respectively, amounting
in value as shown in these figures i
Of the “ world” ... £5,735,284
Of our neighbors 271,982
A very fine chance for our neighbors to get Freetrade
with us, and a capital outlook for us in the tax-paying
line, if we put “ scientific” duties on our imports from
the world.
* * * *
Such a weird, wild, crude collection of lies
should be bottled in spirits and put away care-
fully in the snake department at the museum.
Some of the real facts of the case are these :
Regfarding* Lie No. 1: The Bill does NOT provide for
six State-paid Parliaments and a Federal-paid Parlia-
ment 680 paid politicians.” At present, there are six
State Parliaments, numbering 645 members, of whom 424
are paid. The Convention Bill provides for running the
business of Australia with a Federal Parliament of
about 110 members—just the number that Queensland
employs under Provincialism to run the business of one-
eighth of the Australian people. That doesn't make 680
paid politicians. And the Bill leaves the States full
authority to reduce their State Parliaments to as few
members as they please ; and to reduce the payment of
State legislators, or abolish it altogether. In fact, it only
provides for about 110 paid Federal politicians, and for
nothing else. The rest of the story is a lie.
Further regarding Snake-Yarn No. 1: The Bill doesn’t
provide for “six State-paid Governors and a Governor-
General.” The States may stop paying their State
Governors and go in for the gratis article whenever they
like. And, by the way, 680 politicians are NOT “ more
members than in the British Parliament.” The British
Commons number 670; Lords, about 646; total, 1316.
The Brisbane paper does its little “fake” by reckoning
both Houses in each Australian Parliament, and only one
House in the British Parliament.
J^ e Fish-Story No. 2 : The Interstate Commission will
NOT manage Queensland’s railways, or those of any other
State. Under Clause 102 it is provided that “ The Par-
liament may, by any law with respect to trade or com-
merce, forbid, as to railways, any preference or discrimi-
nation by any State . . . if such preference or discrimi-
nation is undue and unreasonable or unjust to any State.”
And that is absolutely all. The Interstate Commission
has power to prevent N.S.W. charging higher rates on
Queensland goods than on its own in order to damage
Queensland’s trade, or vice versa, and that is the full ex-
tent of its powers. It can’t interfere in the management
or control of any State’s railways unless that State is
trying to injure another State by charging special rates
on its goods.
And, with further relation to Fish-Story No. 2 : Victoria
and S.A. WON’T have a preponderating influence in ap-
pointing the Commission (the miserably ignorant Bris-
bane rag seems to think S.A. is a place with 2,000,000
people), because they haven’t a preponderating popula-
tion or a preponderating vote in Parliament. In a
Federation of six provinces they will have 41 votes
out of 110. Queensland and N.S.W. will have a larger
influence than Victoria and S.A. Also Queensland, Vic-
toria, and Tasmania will have a larger influence than
N.S.W. and S.A. Also N.S.W. and Victoria will have a
larger influence than Tasmania and Kangaroo Island, and
Brisbane will have more influence than Geelong. The
matter mast go by the voice of the majority. What else
is the majority for, does anybody know 1 And “we”
(Queensland) will have as much power to control or dis-
miss the Commission as Queensland’s population and
Parliamentary representation entitle it to—more than
S.A. or Tasmania or W.A., and less than Victoria or
N.S.W.
Re Ananias No. 3 : The Bill does not provide that everv
State shall be one electorate. It says (clause 7) : “ Until
the Parliament of the Commonwealth otherwise pro-
vides, the Parliament of the State of Queensland, if that
State be an Original State, inay make laws dividing the
State into divisions and determining- the number of
Senators for each division.”
Also: In the Federal Convention election each State
was a single electorate, and that Convention was full of
poor men—bootmaker Trenwith, Graham Berry who
lives on a pension, the notoriously far-from-affluent Reid,
Lyne, and Barton ; Dr. Cockburn—in fact, there were
only three really rich men in the whole show. That is
how the one-electorate system works by actual experi-
ence. The tale about how only rich men can represent
large electorates is based on the quite erroneous idea that
a member has to bribe the whole electorate. It is note-
worthy that some of the biggest electorates in N.S W.
are represented by very poor men, mostly Labor members'.
Re Yarn No. 4 : Financial experts are'NOT all against
the Bill. And no sane individual dreams that Federation
will cost £1 per head (13,(500,000) extra per annum.
Even that very ferocious anti-F. deralist and alleged
financial expert, Dr. MacLaurin, of N.S.W., put the sum
down at £750,000 a year—about one-fifth of the above
figure.
» * * *
Concerning Whale-Anecdote No. 5 : The Interstate
Commission does NOT control rivers. At least, clauses
101 to 104, which deal with it, never once refer to rivers.
The one allusion to rivers is in clause 100, which savs •
“ The Commonwealth shall NOT, by any law or regula-
tion of trade or commerce abridge the right of a State or
of the residents therein to the reasonable use of the
waters of rivers for conservation or irrigation.” And
why should the Federal Parliament want to stop irriga-
tion ? _ Or why should the people want to elect anti-
lrrigationists? It is a much more horrible fact that the
present provincial Parliaments have all full authority
pr £ verlt irrigation.” Yet they don’t stop irrigation.
Mr. Reid didn’t say he expected to get the Federal
Premiership, though he cheerfully admitted that he
would like it. The Bulletin doesn’t know what Mr
Barton expects. What does the Brisbane Telegraph
expect ?
* * » *
Also :
There is no reason why Queensland shouldn’t hold its
own against-the “products of Victoria,” unless the
Queenslander is a low, degraded, inferior being with-
out the grit or brain or courage of the Melbo’urnite
Queensland is better supplied with coal than Vie-
has 427,000,000 acres against Victoria’s
56,000,000. It has not much over one-third the popu-
lation. Queensland is to Victoria what the US is
to Britain, and with its stupendous area and fewer mouths
to feed, it should be able to pour grain into the small
heavily-populated southern State, and grow rich on the
trade. If little crowded Victoria can dare to open its
markets to Queensland, then Queensland, with so much
greater resources, can open its to Victoria, unless all the
grit has gone out of the Queenslander. The alarm about
Vic. competition in N.S.W. and Queensland appears to
suggest that the Victorian is a god, and the Cornstalk or
Bananalander a cockroach—and a very poor cockroach at
that.
Also, the country with the Biggest Debt on Earth in
proportion to population (which is Queensland) shouldn’t
holler so loudly about the “diseased finances” of its
neighbors. And if its neighbors’ industries are “debili-
tated,” then why should Queensland fear to encounter
them on even terms ? Is Queensland so poor and wretched
that these competitors must be dead as well as dehili-
tated before it can meet them ?
Also the item about Queensland only importing £271 982
worth of goods from its neighbors and £5,735 000 worth
from the rest of the world is pure sham and invention
Queensland imports about £2,250,000 from its neighbors
—the Brisbane Telegraph fakes the figures by giving onlv
the overland imports from the other provinces And the
other provinces take over £5,000,000 worth of goods from
Queensland. And the other provinces offer, if Queens


land stops taxing their 2J millions worth of goods, not to
tax her 5i millions worth or thereabouts. Queens-
land, under Federation, can only suffer from scientific
Protection on a little more than half its imports. And
it now suffers (if that is the right word) scientific protec-
tion on all of them. And the Brisbane Teleoraph al-
leges, in Prevarication No. 7, that Protection is beneficial,
and Queensland has it now, and shouldn’t federate for
fear of losing it. While, in Prevarication No. 9, it urges
Queensland not to federate because the horrois of Pro-
tection will then be inflicted on it.
* * • *
There are a number of other points worth
alluding to —notably the great idea that Fede-
ration is going to cost £1 per head per annum
(£3,600,000 per annum in all), and that Queens-
land, which has a total revenue of only a little
over £4,000,000, and which is so weak that it
can’t compete with the “ debilitated industries ”
of the other provinces, and is going to be
ruined into the bargain, will still be so strong
that it will pay the lot. But, out of considera-
tions re space, the Brisbane Telegraph’s Nine
Fish-Yarns will end here.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Lash of Unlimited Taxation.”
Brisbane Telegraph urges the Queensland
parochialist to rise up and organise :
It will cost a little money, but it is better to pay for
freedom at the price of a few meetings and posters than
to pay the slave-master hereafter. When once he has
taken up that fearful lash, “unlimited power of taxa-
tion,” so strenuously advocated even by some of our own
people, Mr. Thynne to wit, it will be too late. We say,
“ Organise everywhere, and victory is absolutely sure.”
The “slave-master,” of course, is the Common-
wealth—the Australian nation—which makes
the above slab of logic look very beautiful
indeed. At present the people have “ un-
limited powers of taxation ” through the State
governments. When they federate they will
also have unlimited powers of taxation
through the Federal Government. The powers
won’t be any more unlimited than they are
now—when a thing is already absolutely un-
limited nothing on this earth can make it any
more unlimited than it is. It is expressly
stipulated (clause 51, section 2) that in taxation
matters there shall be no discrimination between
States—taxation must be absolutely uniform.
Therefore no State or combination of States
can impose taxation on other States without
also imposing it on themselves. And no State
wants to tax itself more than it can help. So
the Commonwealth Bill authorises the slave-
master (the people of Australia) to wallop the
slave (also the people of Australia) with “ that
fearful lash, unlimited power of taxation.” In
other words, it gives them the same power that
they have now, and which they always had,
and which they would have whether it was
specified in the Bill or not, to spank themselves
—to pound themselves with the lash aforesaid —
to grind themselves down with heavy taxation,
and jump on themselves, and chew their own
ear generally. Tenders are hereby invited for
a grand historical painting showing the Aus-
tralian citizen walloping himself with the lash
of “ unlimited power of taxation,” and, as his
own slave-master, driving himself along in
chains in front of himself and vainly asking
himself for mercy.
♦
Secret Trials and Secret J’sF.
“ F.C.” : Speaking on the Address in Reply,
Vic. M.L.A. Hume Cook froze on to Chief
Sec. Peacock, as head of the Penal Dept., and
characterised the prison administration as
abominable. Which is so true that a Royal
Commission to enquire into the whole subject is
urgently called for. Instances could be fur-
nished of men sentenced to two or three years
whose sentences have been extended from time
to time by secret unreported trial, at which the
prisoner wasn’t formally arraigned before a
jury, or defended (just sentenced privately by
J.P. brought round for the purpose), to four,
five, and even nine years for comparatively
trifling irregularities. Some interesting infor-
mation also would be procurable about the
hideous effects of the “ solitary ” and “ separ-
ate ” systems ; such, for instance, as the fact of
three Pentridge prisoners being charged in one
day with attempted suicide. Said Commission
might further inquire as to how many persons
are now in Pentridge not “ doing time,” but
simply because when due for discharge they
were too ill or old and feeble to leave the gaol.
If we cannot yet hope for a rational scientific
treatment of society’s irregulars, gaols should,
at least, be kept exclusively for offenders—not
for the poor and the old and the sick. Also,
those disgraceful visiting justices’ courts—-
where the prisoner has no legal assistance, and
where his witnesses, if he have any, are gagged
—should be promptly abolished, and persistent
offenders against prison discipline should be
retried before a jury, in open court. Some of
the lunatic asylum brain-specialists, too, might
profitably take to studying incipient dementia
as induced in our prisons. And, anyhow, a
people that can find no better remedial agents
for criminality than the dark-cell, the lash and
the gallows has an unholy front to call itself
civilised.
The Pitiable Old Cove.
Melbourne Argus goes down on its two large
Conservative knees and implores Victoria not
to re-enact or extend the minimum-wage law,
because it will be disastrous to that good old
stalking-horse, “ the aged worker,” and deprive
him of employment. Not, let it be observed,
because it will be disastrous to the sweater.
The Tory never considers the sweater. With-
out the minimum wage the “ aged worker ” has
to struggle with the young worker for a living,
and with the minimum wage he has to do the
same thing. In bad cases he used to make per-
haps 15s. a week at the trade where the young
worker made 355. or 40s.—and his boss occa-
sionally employed the relic because he was 20s.
or 255. cheaper. The minimutn-wage law put
him up to, say, 255. a week, while the capable
young worker remains where he was ; and the
old remnant gets a job now and then because he
is 10s. or 15s. cheaper. In every trade the
young and thoroughly competent worker can
make over the minimum wage, and the aged
ditto only gets the minimum wage ; and when
the thoroughly competent man costs Bs. a day,
and the ancient only costs 55., and in cases
where there is only ss. worth of work to be
done, and the boss doesn’t want to pay
Bs. for ss. worth of work, then he employs the
venerable tradesman at ss. He curses a little
because he can’t get him at the old 3s. 6d. or
3s. or 2s. 6d., but he doesn’t bite off his own
ear to get level with his face, all the same. The
three great Tory griefs about the minimum
wage were : that by raising the screw of the
aged it would throw the aged out of work ;
that by enacting that beginners should be paid,
instead of working gratis as heretofore, it would
throw the very young out of work ; and that,
by preventing the incompetent middle-aged
from working below a certain figure, it would
throw the incompetent out of work. And The
Bulletin has five reasons for asserting that
this logic was all the poorest, silliest, saddest
kind of bosh, and the boshiest kind of hypo-
crisy :
(1) There is a certain amount of work to be done in
Victoria, and there are enough people to do it, Willi a few
over. That percentage over, which forms the social
problem everywhere, constitutes the unemployed.
(2) If the employers, by reason of a minimum-wage
law, sack all the old workers, then there won’t be enough
hands to do the work. The employers, by reason of the
surplus workers, can spare some of the old men, but not
all of them. They are partly dependent on the old men.
(3) There is quite as much work to be done under the
minimum wage as there was before —indeed it appears
from State statistics that there is more. Therefore if
there are more old men out of work because of the mini-
mum wage there must be fewer young men out of work.
It is quite as tragic, and as expensive for the State, and
as bad for the State, for a young man to starve as an old
one. In fact, it is worse, for a young man often has
young children dependent on him ; the old man seldom
has. Also the old man often has grown-up descendants
who can be made to contribute to his support; the young
one hasn’t. If the State has to support one of them it is
better for it to support the old man —the burden doesn’t
last so long. And when, as frequently happens, the
young man has young children to share his privations, it
means the stunting and weakening of future generations
—an argument which doesn’t apply in the old man’s case.
(4) Moreover, the old man who keeps his billet deserves
some consideration as well as the old man who loses his
billet. With no minimum wage, you might easily find 1000
very ancient parties working for wages that hardly kept
body and soul together, for the wages didn’t allow them
to have enough body to be worth mentioning. If a
minimum-wage law gives even 500 of these enough wages
to live as decent old men should, then it does well. And
if the other 500 have been sacked, and replaced by younger
men previously unemployed—well, 500 patriarchs out of
work are less tragic and less of a public burden and a
public evil than 500 young men out of work and 1000
patriarchs working for not enough to support them.
(5) Moreover, if the minimum-wage law throws the old
man out of work to make room for the younger one, the
State can provide for the venerable person to some
extent by old-age pensions. It can’t possibly pension
off the young men if they are left unemployed, in order
that the cheap and venerable ones may have the billets
under the old policy of unlimited competition.
For these five reasons, and for a number of
others which The Bulletin may endeavor to
specify when the next test-match is over, it
believes in the minimum wage for all trades
and for all Australia. And for these same
reasons it regards the lament about the alleged
old men who are alleged to have lost their
billets through the minimum wage as a very
poor, thin, shabby hypocrisy of the Tory
sweater. If the Tory crowd could produce
even one definite and visible old man who had
lost a definite and visible job through the
minimum wage law, and support him by reliable
affidavits, the hypocrisy might look a little less
mean than it does. But that actual and specific
old man hasn’t been forthcoming up to date.
A Solicitor and Four Zulus.
L. F. Heydon, an eminently peaceful solicitor,
who has never, so far as The Bulletin knows,
sought the bubble 6s. Bd. at the cannon’s
mouth, writes to Sydney Telegraph about the
Boers :
The Boers, who had 6000 men under arms against our
800 men, won the engagements at Laing’s Nek and
Majuba Hill. General Roberts was close at hand with
2000 British reinforcements, but unfortunately Mr. Glad-
stone interfered, and, as he said, “saved the English
nation from bloodguiltiness,” by arresting General
Roberts’s advance. As to the Boer courage and prowess.
At Majuba Hill and Laing’s Nek they certainly fought
well; but with the odds of numbers in their favor, and
our men were no doubt very badly led. That the Boers
have established no very wonderful record as dangerous
fighters is proved by their numerous previous defeats
having earned for them the nickname of “ the cowardly
Boers.” The Zulus, under Oetewayo, would have anni-
hilated them. But I have no wish to underrate their
courage. The Dutch have been always a race of brave
men. Indeed, they are our nearest blood relations in
Europe. I should suppose, therefore, that Dutch
colonists would fight about as well as British colonists.
The resistance that the Transvaal Boers can make to the
power of England may, therefore, be reckoned as being a
little larger than, say, Tasmania could make.
And here is a bit of Boer history from the same
paper :
The crowning disaster to the British arms was yet to
come. On 26th February, 1881, General Collet, with
600 soldiers climbed to the top of Majuba Hill. From
this point he hoped to command the Boer camp in the
Nek below. General Joubert recognised that the English
commander had gained a strategic advantage. At once
150 of his men volunteered to take the hill, and actually
made their way up, in face of the superior force above,
the bullets passing over them as if they were charmed.
At noon, Nicolaas Smit, with 70 or 80 farmers, scrambled
over the crest of the hill. The soldiers, seized with panic,
fled down the other side, leaving 92 killed, 134 wounded,
and 59 prisoners, as against one man killed and five
wounded on the Boer side. General Colley was among
the slain. Sir Evelyn Wood soon afterwards had com-
mand of a strong force, and was preparing to avenge
Majuba, when peace was proclaimed.
Query : If the Boers are the badly - licked
cowards that Mr. Heydon alleges, how did that
mere handful of farmers hold their own unaided
for over 50 years against the swarms of hard-
fighting savages who surrounded them ? And
if it is certain that the Zulus under Cetewayo
would have annihilated them, how did it come
to pass that Pretorius, wffth his 450 farmers,
broke a Zulu army 12,000 strong in that famous
battle of 16th December, 1838? And, seeing
that each Boer that day had to face over 24
Zulus as his own little share (and these were
times when the white man’s gun wasn’t nearly
so superior to the black man’s spear as it is
now, and when 24 niggers to one white was far
longer odds than it is in 1899), how would L. F.
Heydon, who scorns the Boers with a great
scorn, look facing, say, four Zulus ?
The Doing's of Policeman X.
The smellful case of the man lately sentenced
to three years’ gaol by Judge Williams at
Bendigo (Vic.), for forging and uttering a
cheque, again crops up. Accused produced
four witnesses and some documentary evidence
to show that he was in Adelaide at the date of
the alleged forgery, and asserted that he could
have produced many more only he hadn’t the
means to subpeena them, and the Yic. police,
who were prosecuting him, refused to assist.
Judge Williams made no inquiry into this
charge of attempting to suppress evidence for
the defence, nor did he adjourn the case to
allow of inquiry. He didn’t even suspend sen-
tence, but shunted accused off to do three
years. But he mentioned that if the Govern-
ment didn’t inquire into the matter it would be
" a blot ” on the administration of justice. The
Yic. Government has been inquiring, and all the
information obtained so far has been “favorable
to the prisoner.” The whole case is another odor-
iferous sermon on the need for a State Defender
and a State Defence Department. The penniless
prisoner can’t hire anyone to look up evidence
that may prove his innocence. He can’t, except
in rare cases, get anyone to do it gratis. He
can’t do it himself for he is safely locked up.
And the police will see him hanged first —in
fact, their business is to get him convicted and
hanged as much as possible, and to prevent
any evidence coming to light that may spoil
the conviction and the hanging, and thereby
prevent them figuring as able officers who
promptly sheeted the crime home. If an
innocent prisoner gets off it means that Police-
man X has made an ass of himself again by
capturing the wrong man, while the right one
gets away, and that crime is stalking with
impunity through the land through Police-
man X’s incompetence. So it is nobody’s
business except the public’s to save the
innocent accused ; the public doesn’t want
to have harmless men locked up even for Police-
man X.’s glorification while criminals are left
at large to do more damage, but then the public
is a very large, vague animal that counts for
little. On the other hand, it is the business of
Policeman X., who is a definite and concrete
person, to get somebody convicted—somebody
or anybody—for the sake of his own reputation.
And, except when a Judge rouses it by unusual
remarks about a blot, the Government seldom
inquires much into the doings of Policeman X.
A Forgotten Boomer.
G. N. Taylor, the first of Melbourne’s boom-
bank managers to be sent to gaol, was lately
under consideration as a debtor .to the Crown.
After serving an 8-years’ sentence at Pencridge,
the released Taylor was seized again on account
of a £5OOO fine, which constituted the second
clause in his sentence. Not having paid the
cash penalty, he had to retire into seclusion of
a comparatively free-and-easy order at Mel-
bourne gaol, whence he wrote, protesting that
he and his wife are penniless. The Crown was
somewhat sceptical on this point, but as the
result of inquiries the debtor got his,release
last week. Attorney-General Isaacs stated
that, although not absolutely convinced that
Taylor is unable to pay the fine, he thought
there w’as so much doubt surrounding the
matter that the Government would be war-
ranted in giving him his liberty. In one sense,
G. N. Taylor has cause for complaint against
the Crown, apart from the question of ways
and means to pay the £5OOO fine. It was not
all his fault that the Land Credit Bank fell to
pieces at such an early chapter in the Book of
Revelations. Later on thesamesmash would have
ranked as a mere “ unforeseen result of unwise
speculation,” and, even as it was, Taylor
would have escaped with an original punish-
ment of two years’ or so imprisonment but for
the honest indignation of Duffy, M.L.A., who
publicly commented on the “softness” of the
sentence passed by Judge Hodges, and caused
the prisoner to be further tried and convicted
on another charge. Melbourne, in those days,
was not educated to the subsequent stinkful
hush-it-up policy. The conspiracy to let finan-
cial bygones be bygones, and say no more about
’em, had not fairly started when Taylor’s
casual frauds came to light. If he could have
waited a while longer before getting found out
he might have enjoyed a black frock-coat and
the moral support of his Collins-street acquaint-
ances all these weary years. The Bulletin is
almost prepared to say that Taylor has com-
parative cause for suing the Yic. Crown for
defamation of boom-time character, in which
case the damages would probably cover the
amount of his unpaid fine and put things
square.
4
Deakin’s Newest Craze.
Alfred Deakin, ex-Spiritualist, ex-Buddhist,
ex-Theosophist, and ex-half-a-dozen other
faiths, is a Christian at time of going to press,
and is busily engaged working up Melbourne
into a demonstration against the secular educa-
tion which has prevailed in the State schools
since 1881. Alfred D., the “man with the
woman’s brain ” as he has been aptly called,
has been yelling himself hoarse in suburban
town-halls. “ We do not want our children to
grow up in ignorance of a God ; we do not
want the country flooded with criminals,”
shrieks dancing-Dervish Deakin to his monkey-
bearded followers. But, unfortunately, it is not
only the wild-eyed followers at Deakin’s
meetings who are affected. The great
mass of the people, who never dare to
believe anything until the daily paper or
some garrulous Deakin tells them, have be-
come doubters. A year or two ago, a man had
only to cry “ Free, secular, and compulsory”
to raise cheers; but to-day, in the absence
of anybody to yell that phrase loud enough, the
Deakin gag about criminals is being so gener-
ally believed that politicians and ministers are
stooping to temporise. The exact value of
secular education as a crime-factor in Victoria
may be easily determined. Public instruction
was begun by the State in 1872. For nine
years the religion - tinctured Irish National
school-books were used ; but in ’Bl Ramsay,
the Minister of the day, abolished these,
and free, secular, and compulsory has been
the rule since. Assuming that the average
pupil leaves school at 12, and that the
criminal commences his career at about 18,
the church-educated lads should have made the
crime-rate abnormally small until 1878, when
the State scholars came in with their natural
iniquity only modified by the Irish books)
Crime should then have continued at a moder-
ate rate until 1887, when the godless lads of 18
should have come along from the secular
schools seeking whom they could devour. And
from 1887 onwards the crime of Victoria should
have become steadily worse until at the pre-
sent date—when all of the criminal age are
products of the Free, Secular, and Compulsory
System—Victoria ought to be a seething den of
horrors. What is the actual condition of
things ? During 1898 there was less crime
legally recorded in Victoria than during any
year since 1879 —not less proportionate crime,
but less actual crime, and that in the face of
the fact that the population has quadrupled.
Of those who have swelled the statistics of
crime a big proportion exhibit the most fervent
devotion to religion. “I never searched the
effects of a thief yet,” says a prominent
Melbourne detective, “without finding some
evidence of strong piety.” It was the same
detective who arrested a jeweller’s shop sneak-
thief with a Bible in his pocket and a written
prayer folded in its leaves imploring Heaven
to gaze kindly on his enterprise. Of those who
have not gone to gaol but should have, the best
judgment may he given by procuring any daily
paper of ’BB, ’B9 <>r ’99 and listing the names on
the directorates of banks and companies which
have since “ gone broke ” under disgraceful cir-
cumstances. Nine out of ten are godly persons
who have been prominently connected with
some religions body. Nine out of ten, or there-
abouts, should he doing time to-day for their
cowardly and callous swindles. According to
all available Victorian statistics religious edu-
cation and crime go together. Victoria shuffled
off a great dead-weight when it got rid of the old
religious school system, and if it drinks too
much overproof Deakin and goes back to the
old ideas, it will probably find that the old ideas
are very much the same as in 1872.
The Forrest Govt, begins to fool with double-
edged weapons in W.A. Its programme for
the new session includes :
Measures dealing’with the dividend tax, rural land im-
provement, encouragement of local industries, concilia-
tion boards for industrial disputes, trades unions, electoral
reform, public service, truck system, bankruptcy, patents,
trustees’ investments, weights and measures, foreign com-
panies and looal registers, hospitals, Sunday observance,
a bill to provide for free education, and several other
measures.
Plainly Bigjohn realises that the democratic
element from the East has become too strong
for him and needs to be placated. So he will
crawl out of the old rut that he knows, and
try to get into the new rut that he doesn’t
know. And the old ’Gropers in the old rut will
disapprove of him leaving it, and the new
people will probably be disgusted at the half-
hearted way he gets into the new path. It is a
case of the leopard having to change his spots
in his old age—to get rid of the old comfortable
spots and get measured for a fresh lot. If
Forrest stays on as a hopeless Tory the
great democratic majority will wipe him
out sooner or later. And if he tries to
turn some kind of a democrat he has a very big
turning to do, and John Forrest turns just
about as actively as a town hall.
-♦
N.S. W. Judge Docker, who oscillates, as he
thinks, between the wise and the witty, said
the other day from the Bench that if drink
could be prohibited we would have a Garden of
Eden or an Arcadia. It may be taken that
there was no drink in the Garden of Eden, but
Judge Docker, as an amateur Sunday preacher,
regularly asserts that the crime that has
blasted the human race for 6000 years was per-
petrated there. And the race was only two
members strong —Adam and Eve. And when
Cain killed Abel, thus putting up the appalling
record of murdering 25 per cent, of the whole
human race, there was no devout brewer
Toohey building a St. Mary’s, or a holy Tooth
a Si. Andrew’s, out of the profits of “ boozing
up” poor old Adam and Eve or their scape-
grace Cain. It was the time of fresh, clear
water drinking, according to J udge Docker.
Apropos boiler-explosions and the need of
legislation on the subject, the N.S. W. Mining
Regulations make a particularly fine ass of
themselves in the same matter. They provide
that mining boilers shall be tested once a year
—and there they stop. Not a word is said as
to the nature of the test. Certainly it does not
matter much, because nearly two years ago
Judge Murray, then a Royal Commissioner,
pronounced this and most of the other Mining
Regulations ultra vires. These regulations are
supposed to protect the working miners ; yet,
though the Govt.’s own Commissioner pointedly
declared that they are insufficiently protected,
the department has shown no anxiety to im-
prove matters. The rush with which the
Commission was appointed is in striking con-
trast with the treatment which the Commis-
sioner’s damning report has received.
♦
Melbourne has lately been regaled on quite a
number of judicial farces. The last was in con-
nection with the prosecution of Detective Wil-
son for alleged perjury, arising out of the
notorious tote cases. Wilson swore that he
did not give a certain witness a copy of the
evidence he (Wilson) wanted the witness to
give. That was before the luncheon adjourn-
ment. After the court resumed, Wilson inti-
mated that he wanted to correct that section of
his evidence, and he then admitted that, on the
day before the trial, he had given the witness a
copy of the evidence he was to swear to. He
was committed for perjury on that clear issue,
and the said witness was prepared to swear
that, during the adjournment of the court,
Wilson made inquiries, and found that not
only was the evidence which he had given to
him not destroyed, but that in all proba-
bility it was in the possession of the other
side. When he came before the higher court,
however, it was found that the Law Dept,
had added so many other charges of perjury,
which it was impossible to sustain, to the
presentment, that the very clear issue on which
Wilson was committed was entirely clouded.
The jury returned a verdict of not guilty, but
the presiding judge showed what he thoilght of
the case by telling Wilson before he left the
dock that he had been guilty, as a detective, of
a very doubtful though common practice) inas-
much as he himself admitted that he did wait
upon the witness in question, to see whether he
was able to repeat correctly the evidence which
he (Wilson) wanted him to give.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898
.„ y ? t he?L^O ffi rin tL A fv'o^T' ES °" °' LfIRGER ttalhTof
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman): Hon. HENRY MORT MT n .
Hon. CHA§. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M L C ’ M L °* 1
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N S. W. and Queensland.
ssiim
i.tiii I mi. 11 ,
The
JEKNIJSTOS. Patent
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
For TAILINGS, SUCTION DREDGING,
ALLUVIAL MINING,
IRRIGATING, etc., etc.
DEMONSTRATED
to hold
FIRST PLACE
for High
EFFICIENCY
and Remarkable
ECONOMY.
Sole Manufacturers
for N.S.W.,
The Clyde
Engineering Co. Ltd.,
GRANVILLE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “ A Trip to Chinatown."
" OTAIj - “ The Physician.”
Lyceum •< The Merciless World."
Criterion Curtis’ Minstrel Co.
Opera House <* D r . Bill."
'^ lvol,, Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
“The Kind’s Musketeer.”
Theatre Royal ‘ Straight from the Heart ”
® WOB Rickards' Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall Frederick Villiers.
Town Hall / Afternoon—Scherek’s Orchestra
(on Saturday) \ Evening—Fuller's Myriorama Co.
„ Chinatown,” which made its
hrst Australian appearance in June, 1896, is back
for a two-weeks season at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
It makes The Bulletin feel very old and very
much as if it had been up all night to think of the
years that have accumulated on top of this trifle
Also of the people who have got into gaol since
its first appearance ; and of the people who were
m gaol then but have since got out earlier than
they should have done; and of people whose hair
was then black but is now bright yellow ; also of
the folk who then had no teeth worth speaking of
and who now have 32 of them in their mouths and
32 more in a drawer to change with. The old
Chinatown ” came to storm Sydney as a sure
success, and the new one comes to cover the
disastrous retreat of the “ Stranger in New York ”
which couldn’t possibly hang out any longer.
Ihe company is the same in one or two spots
i Sadie M‘Donald sleeps now in
Waverley Cemetery. Of the two fat men—
the one that used to sing to the other fat man
and the fat man that used to listen—only one fat
man is with the present co., so a rather leaner
man has to be sung to instead. Lawton the
amazing whistler, is whistling in other parts, and
Sam Marion takes his place. Harry Conor’s Wel-
land Strong is as good as ever, and he was exceed-
ingly good at all times; and Hugh Ward makes
as satisfactory a Ben Gay as his predecessor
Miss Carrie Moore, too, is a very bright little
maid as Flirt, and the writer has no fault to find
with the new widow. Public opinion seems to
rise up in many sixpenny bars to say that the new
widow. Miss Allene Crater, can’t compare with
the old one, but The Bulletin is half inclined to
give the present short-skirted mourner the pre-
ference.
* * * *
As for “ Chinatown ” itself, this paper
feels less critical than it did in ’96. It has gone
through many harrowing experiences since then.
It has seen the “Stranger in New York,” for one
thing, and after that anybody would feel less
critical and more thankful for middle-sized
mercies. It has discovered that American musical
comedy generally contains a giddy old man who
ambles on two unreliable legs after girls, and a
divorced female, a,nd a> ball, and some girls who
stay out all night in short frocks, and a fat man
who swims in cocktail. And it has learned to
take these things as they come, like washing-day
and the coal-bill and other advantages and calami-
*les - By comparison, the “ Trip to Chinatown ”
is all that this paper said it wasn’t three years ago
—a bright, clever production full of smart dia-
logue, and without a dull moment or a dull saying
or a dull character in it from first to last. The
person who doesn’t see it will thereby make a mis-
take that he will regret for ever afterwards. This
isn t exactly what The Bulletin remarked in its
issue of 4th July, 1896, but it is how it feels now
after seeing “The Stranger in New York.”
Chinatown ” is staged as effectively as ever, and
it will last till the end of next week, when Harry
Conor’s company retires from the scene rather sud-
denly.
** * *
There will be another change of bill at
Sydney Royal on Saturday (July 15), when the
“Physician,” by Henry Arthur Jones, will be
offered to a discriminating public. It is a pity
that so pretty a thing as the “ Summer’s Day ”
should be good for only a fortnight’s run, but it is
not a play that appeals to the masses, though to
the poetic soul it is calculated to be a thing of
beauty and a joy for at least three consecutive
weeks. But the poetic soul is so rare that it is
necessary for most of it to be there on the same
night to fill the big Royal, and when the cold
rams of heaven rained upon it and caused a good
part of it to stay away, there was no visible cause
for keeping the “Summer’s Day ” on view after
the second week. Any person who desires to get
a glimpse of a really beautiful little play is hereby
warned that this (Thursday) and to-morrow nights
are the last opportunities.
** * *
Holloway’s tale of Blood and Sin com-
mences every evening at 7.45 punctually, and as
Mr. Stanford isn’t beheaded till a little after 11,
the audience gets great value for its money. The
present Lyceum drama has one great merit that
cannot be overlooked. It is a painful necessity at
the end of every drama that the hero must be
reprieved, and his character cleared, and he and
his best girl must be rescued out of the furnace of
affliction before their clothes are quite burnt off
them. In most cases they are rescued too soon,
and have time to make a long, weary speech about
how their future lives will be peaceful, and un-
interesting, and as flat as the Old Man Plain, and
how they will doze by the fireside in the evening,
and go to bed regularly at 9.30, and lead a per-
fectly unemotional and cow-like existence for ever
after as the reward of virtue. In the present
instance there isn’t time to go fully into the usual
particulars about the utter dreariness that is to
come, and that is at least something to be thank-
ful for.
** * #
Cinquevalli, and the Valdares with their
remarkable biking feats, and Richard Douglas,
who is a very pleasant solo humorist, together
with Harry Shine and sundry new and old artists,
are keeping the Tivoli boom alive, and that small
but honest theatre is still doing well.
** * *
When this papor went to press it was
understood that the season of the Georgia Min-
strels and Cake Walkers, at Sydney Palace, Was
to close on Wednesday— which was yesterday.
Miss Amy Castles has also left, and the Castles
boom in Sydney is already dead—so dead that no-
body has even mentioned the young lady in the
writer s hearing for the last five days. The con-
gested amusement market of Sydney should now
have time to recover a little.
** * *
Tit for Tat lasted one short week at
Sydney Opera House ; then the intervals killed it
it was suggestive of one of the new-style novels
where the page is long and narrow, and there is a
spot of big print in the centre, and round the spot
the great me-field of white margin spreads like
SvivpH X A?fiF° lar reglC f •• “ Dr ’ BiU ” has been
fnr Whi- fil ii th A? ap ’ antl lt: can at least be said
for William that there is enough of him to make a
decent evenings entertainment. At the same
me, seeing that it is just three weeks since the
Opera House company left off playing “Dr Bill ”
this premature resumption of Bill looks like bad
a great want of resources. Rumor
has it that the Opera House will close shortly in a
dramatic sense, to re-open in the variety biz : but
the closings and openings of the Opera House and
the still more uncertain Royal Standard are as
unforeseeable as the openings and closings of G.
rteid when that fat, weary man yawns in a troubled
dream behind his eye-glass.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion Curtis’ multi-colored
IOU,Sl OU ,SV tm T VeS its defiant challenge to the
world to produce any buck and wing dancers
hL U n Kent 'A cky Four ’ and the world
has not taken on the contract. The only Hoo-an
has a serious rival in popularity in Master Blutch
whose song, Johnny Fraiser,” is always good
for three encores and a lot of applause. Just here
this writer would like to remark that if the Hogan
persists m describing the elephant as “a funny
looking blank what popularity he has will be
swamped by a shower of bricks, for the blank in
ofTh “pf VCTy T^ indeed - The admiration
Bronze Patti, who, with the dark man in
the box, warbles Remember Me No More ”is
rapidly wearing out the building. Black
Dante has made his part of the show even
with whft aCt i Ve by tw « metal receptacles
with white beans and coffee beans respectively
1 hese are then covered with close-fitting metai
sheaths, and in about a second and a quarter the
white beans have become white loaf sugar, and
the coffee-beans steaming hot coffee, which a
little lady m a kmckerboeker suit of blue and
white serves out to the ladies in the stalls. The
wise person always goes to the stalls at the
Criterion, for the murky one is very prodigal, and
gives away roses, hot coffee, and any sort of spirit
one asks for Ihe fact that a white rat is after-
wards found m the bottle is discounted by the
fact that the rat is quite dry—and sober.
** * *
. , Fredk - ViUiera, who read his illustrated
tale of bloodshed at Melb. Athenaeum Hall three
nights last week, and will presumably make one
a PP earaa ?es ere moving northward,
is much the same Vilhers as before, but this time
his pictures offer a better apology for his visit. In
his lecturer capacity the much-travelled artist
has nothing to recommend him except a loud voice
T? 18 & uaran tee of his genuine-
ness. If he talked under an alias nobody would
suspect him of having played the part of a war
correspondent and photographer in the last Soudan
campaign. His journalese discourse is of a dryhash
character ; he has no humor, or oratorical art, no
convincing details to relate, no magnetism, no
means of interesting the audience—apart from the
pictures on the sheet These are Mostly photo
graphic views of well-chosen subjects. They tell
how General Kitchener made a railway across the
horda ’ nf nd Z £' rc ? s to the P 1 ™* where a
horde of unfortunate rebels,” thinking to rid
them land of the invader, were mowed down by the
ousand in the attempt. The results of unen-
foreign Maxim guns are
dei y rf £ «Ti Vllh l rs s sheet His view of the
desert battle-field is rich m gruesome detail. You
gaze across the line of carnage wrought by one of
Maxim s best, and you feel sure that civilisation
P °" e - S u Udan - - Clearl y there is no
hope for the dervishes; either they must
become civilised under British rule, or they will
“gS ttrn,,"* J l6 Pj ctcha '!'- A befrtitiful
v, ave 1 6 , Queen sentiment pervades
show, and the large, appreciative audi-
f, c only one sad catastrophe to lament
when Vilhers concludes his yarn at 9.45 p m
Seems that a newspaper representative happened
to be pickmcking around the Mahdi’s tomb at a
fiZVZn a Br^ sl l g V n ’ half a mile distant, was
fnpfl S rf' h f• f ln that . direction just to scare any
to to P a y‘heir respects
to the dead Prophet. A bit of shell strnok
pressman and killed him instantly, says Villiers,
whereupon the audience for the most part shakes
its head and supposes that Providence did all
alipnri f °f t x e lfc 1S hard for the average
attendant at a Vilhers lecture to understand why
Providence permitted the Christian
reporter to be thus added to the list of slain.
** * *
At the Princess’s a change which isn’t an
improvement has happened to the cast of “The
King s Musketeer,” for the regal presence of Miss
Harne Ireland is missing, and Miss Hughes plavs
i e rp Qu ? x- n he A Btead - , Miss Hughes is not'a
more effective Queen than tall Miss Harrie
whereas she was certainly a more artistic actress
m her former character than Miss Rose Musgrove
who now appears as the Maid-of -Honour In
other respects the well-clothed performance seems
the brighter for a few weeks’ practice, and the
particular efforts of Miss Henrietta Watson are
earning their due reward. The leading lady puts
a long distance between herself and all the other
principals Concerned.
** # m
A “discovery” of Miss Sharp, the Ben-
digo rival of Miss Amy Castles, will be attempted
at Melb. Town Hall on July 22nd.
** * *
There’s a growing demand in Melbourne
for pictures on a sheet. “Uitlander” Samson,
the genial little journalist who contemplates man-
kind through a pane of glass, is disclosing his
views of South Africa in sundry city and suburban
places. Also, the Saturday-night appearances of
John Fuller’s show at the Town Hall have an up-
ward business tendency. The Myrioramic back-
ground is very good of its kind, and the junior
Fuller who lectures what time he isn’t playing a
piano with one hand and an organ with
the other, gets through a lot of work in
a. cheerful manner. Moreover the incidental
singing represents full value for the public’s
humble “bob.” Last Saturday night the pretty
tenor warble of Fuller perc was supported by a
capable co. including Miss Lenore Orelli, a vastly
improved artist since she “came out’’(and soon
went in again) some three years ago. Miss Orelli’s
enunciation is rather odd, as of yore, but her notes
are beautiful. The Myriorama bill for this week’s
Saturday will be “From London to Niagara
** # #
Scherek’s Orchestra promises a seventh
concert at Melb. Town Hail next Saturday (15th)
afternoon.
*# # #
Paul Pelham, a seeming disciple of Charles
Godfrey, with a large reputation as a music-hall
songwright, is the newest feature at Melb. Bijou.
Likewise the gentleman who left his little back-
room at Bloomsburee is once more upon the
Rickards job, and several other people of com-
paratively recent interest are taking their turns
as before.
** * *
Bland Holt’s guillotine drama holds out
manfully at the Royal, where the difference
between the. elegant fit of Walter Baker’s prison
suit and the felonious bagginess of Brown’s ditto
is freely commented on. The fact that Baker goes
forth to execution in a poetic black tie and
superior boots is likewise adding to the popu-
larity of Bland Holt, who arrives at the last
moment on an educated horse, armed with a
free pardon for the hero aforesaid. Apart
-^ le release of Baker, the finish of
“Straight from the Heart” is open to doubt.
After the Nihilists have burst-up the guillotine
with their timely bomb Brown is left to roam at
large, and The Bulletin would like to ask in that
much mentioned name of the French Republic,
whether Brown is afterwards doomed to sneeze
into the basket, or is released on his own un-
supported allegation of Albert Norman’s guilt.
The curtain falls in a hurry just when this question
is beginning to arise.
** * *
The kernel of Pinero’s new play, which
Brough is about to produce at Sydney Royal :
The gay Lord Quex wishes to marry Muriel Eden.
Muriel’s friend, Sophy Fullgarney, knows Quex for a
rake, and desires to spoil the match. She tries to entice
the sinner herself, but he won’t consent. Luckily she
overhears a talk he has with the Duchess of Strood.
This lady Quex had met, so to say, in Naxos, where she
had been used to receive him in her own room with a
peculiar brand of champagne and cigarette. Being senti-
mental, Ariadne desired a last farewell, and named her
chamber at midnight and another bottle of the old
brand as its components. Sophy heard Theseus
promise to come. Fortune favored her; she
P' ace of the Duchess’s maid, dressed
the Duchess—and went forthwith to spy at the
keyhole. The Duchess tied a ribbon on the outer
handle of the other door, and then Quex, deeply bored,
came in. Presently they remarked the keyhole,
opened the door suddenly, and there was Sophy.
Quex packed the Duchess off to Mrs. Jack, and
rang for Sophy. She comes in with a wonderful
strut and toss of the head, and Quex locks the door.
What has she heard ? Why, everything 1 What will she
do ? Why, break off the engagement ! What will she
take? £2OOO, £4OOO, £8000? She is inexorable. ‘Very
well, then,’ says in effect the man; * how are you
going to get out? If you are found here, as you will be,
you are ruined. The Duchess is safely off. They will think
it a vulgar intrigue of mine with you.’ They take point
after point until the poor girl, reaching the climax of the
case against her, remembers that her fiance, a profes-
sional palmist, is sleeping in the house. Even then she
gives up her all for Miss Eden. J After all,* she says, ‘ I
may be ruined, but she won’t marry you,’ and she rings
the bell to alarm the household. Quex is overwhelmed
by so great a pluck. Before the awakened servants have
reached the door he has found words to thank her as she
deserves, and to offer her the key. She dismisses the
people with a true Cockney flourish, and reels off to bed
vmdly assuring Quex, ‘ You’re a gentleman, and I’ll do
what I can for you.’ ”
** * *
Marshall Hall’s anxiety for the musical
welfare of Melbourne has moved him to snort at
Scherek’s orchestral concerts. The want of har-
mony in the selection of the items is what hurts
Marshall Hall’s soul. “No true artist can take a
pleasure in listening to such programmes,” he
says, for even the “ works of the great masters ”
are no good individually if they don’t form a
beautiful sequence of numbers on the programme.
Marshall Hall is trying hard to educate the people
to a proper understanding of true worthlessness
in music. He has cursed comic songs, laughed at
light opera, blackguarded Newbury’s ballad con-
certs, and bemoaned the bad taste of Ben no
Scherek. His faithful disciples had better make
up their minds, once and for all, that there is no
pleasure in listening to any sort of performance
where Marshall Hall doesn’t boss the proceedings.
At Poverty Point.
The hallmarks of Australian appreciation. A race-
horse and a gold-mine now own Amy Castles as cod-
mother.
The Bulletin is informed by a son of Richard Capper
whose demise was here noted (17/6/99), that the latter’s
father was a personal friend of Lord Byron, and that
instead of being merely Coppin’s stage-carpenter, he was
George’s chief mechanist and a participant in the manage-
ment of the theatre.
“ H.” : The Maoriland demise of Towle, better known
as Harrison, so long conductor of W. and M.’s opera co ,
has been rather passed over. Many years ago he was
musical critic for the Aoe, and, while in clerkly business,
wrought up to high musical accomplishments. His wife
used to be a popular singer and actress, as Miss A'urip
Kelton.
Dear Bulletin.— The statement that Carrie Moore was
educated at Geelong Convent looks like a theatrical
romance or a paragraphist’s fiction. And, anywav, the
statement that she “ went direct from cloister to stage ”
is absolute tominy-rot. For that matter, Cissy Loftus
didn’t go “ direct from cloister to stage.” She made her
first appearance at the London ’alls as a young mimic of
popular actresses or variety artistes. It must have taken
her some time to complete her studies of the originals,
whom she certainly hadn’t seen in a convent.—E.
“ Hermes" : One thing that sticks out prominently at
Sydney Palace Theatre is the ease with which the dark
people fire off their melody. The average white singer
makes fearfully hard work of it, and it is often most har-
rowing to see him growing purple in the face, expanding
his chest, glaring over the orchestra, and staggering
about as he lifts his heavy voice up to the vaulted roof.
But Gerard Miller simply looks at you in a friendly way,
as though he was going to ask you to have a drink, and
then—the very seats thrill. One wonders where it comes
from. Also Flora Batson, a frail-looking little woman,
never moves a muscle, and the melody bubbles up
through the limelight and flows all through' the building.
It is restful after a hard day’s work.
Some of the “ business” in the “King’s Musketeer,”
at Melb. Princess wants “ editing ” badly. For instance
when Miladi Watson gets from Cardinal Richelieu a
lettre de cachet for putting her enemies in the Bastille,
she calmly takes the written document and rubs it on
the blotting-paper 1 Richelieu might just as well write
the order with a fountain-pen. “ Pounce,” generally
made of powdered resin, or gum sandarac—was used to
dry ink in those days, and was powdered on to the paper
from a castor. Indeed, the writer knows of an old-
fashioned Tory London attorney who uses pounce in his
private office to this day, and looks Upon blotting-paper
as new-fangled.
Ere Henrietta Watson was engaged for “The King’s
Musketeer” Musgrove, Who Was looking for a good star
in London, had intended to secure Lewis Waller and his
wife, Florence VVest. Waller is one of the verv best of
the younger actors in Loridoh, fine-looking, very intelli-
gent, and a genuirte artist. lie has played Ibsen, arid
pleases even the fastidious Wm. Archer. Florence West
is a red-haired mummeresS, fond of strorig. parts. The
Wallers Were willing to come, but when the chance of
engaging MiSs Watsori turned up, the Firth thought she
would be more of a draw. Probably they were right—
though Waller will keep.
The conscientiousness devoted to the work of dramatic
criticism by Melbourne papers was made evident to the
densest last week when the three dailies carefully re-
corded a change in the cast at the Princess, Miss Einelie
Hughes taking Miss Harrie Ireland’s place as the Queen,
and Miss Rose Musgrove the part of Gabrielle. The
change, each paper insisted, led to a decided improve-
ment in “The King's Musketeer.” The fact that the
change of cast did not happen till the following evening
was a mere inadvertence.
The two Englishes, who give a clever musical “turn”
at Melb. Bijou, experienced a “ University Students’
Night” the other week, and made a pardonable mistake
in considering themselves insulted by the rowdv young-
sters. The trouble started with some students’‘chaff, of
the usual inane character, which provoked a few feeble
retorts from the male English. One or more of the
idiotic “ humorists ” in the gallery replied by throwing
things—bits of orange-peel, &c. —and something that
looked like a lump of crusty bread hit the stage very near
to where the lady English was standing. Under the cir-
cumstances her husband's subsequent attempt at a
satirical speech was not so foolish as the students’ apolo-
gists professed to consider it. The Englishes are new-
chums, their entertainment doesn’t invite badinage or
practical jokes, and they couldn’t be expected to regard
the hurling of the aforesaid missiles as amiable expres-
sions of innocent merriment.
It has been pointed out to The Bulletin that certain
absurdly bigoted remarks concerning this paper's critical
attitude towards Miss Amy Castles, which were attributed
to Sydney Freeman’s Journal, were in reality to be
(dis)credited to the Catholic Press. The Bulletin is
glad to find that the F. J. does not countenance such in-
sane sectarianism, but has at the same time to say that the
two Sydney Catholic organs were in such general unison
about The B.’s iniquity in not humbly swallowing Miss
Castles whole, that a little confusion of ideas in the
matter was not surprising.
“ Delcomyn” : As Amy Castles has done so well out of
benefit concerts, the other provinces are naturally also
seeking out budding prodigies for the public to applaud
and send to Europe for musical education. Which is hard
upon said public, as it opens out limitless possibilities as
regards the rabbit-artist and the fish-warbler and the
bottle-seraph. Moreover, there are plenty of street-
singers who would greatly benefit by an academy educa-
tion, and Sydney could rest in peace until the Boer War
breaks out and we have something important to occupy
our minds.
Sydney Morning Herald speaks of the fact having been
overlooked in “certain quarters”— i.e., The Bulletin
quarter—that Amy Castles may develop into a very suc-
cessful vocal artist without attaining the position of a
Melba. But the young lady was boomed in Melbourne as
a future Melba or a future Tietjens, and already she has
earned in three months more money than the average
accomplished artist can earn in three years. The boom
is ridiculous, and the S.M.H. chooses to overlook that
palpable fact.
“Cockaigne”: Gordon’s masterpiece was his scenery
for the “ Merchant of Venice,” with the Bancrofts, in the
little Prince of Wales Theatre, London. Poor G.G. used
to speak of how cramped this stage was. When “ Peril”
was brought out, the principal “ setting” had to remain
unmoved all through the 100 nights of the piece, other
scenery being built in front.
The nice old lady in “One Summer’s Day’’explains
that she conveyed uncle's message to his erring nephew :
“I told him exactly what you said, except a damn and
two devils.”
Cinquevalli has learned one trick that all in his line
should strive to catch on to—the art of making a failure
look like a deliberate intention, by a smart recovery. If
he drops a ball, he picks it up with so clever a trick that
everyone is glad of the slip.
“ Poverty Point continued on page 24.


A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(o/o S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
a nd particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydnay.
The Gold Options $ mineral Development
COMPANY, LIMITED,
Equitable Buildings, George Street, Sydney,
Is established to secure desirable mining properties for DEVOLOPMENT and FLOTATION.
Prospectors and others having claims of undoubted value which will bear investigation should com-
municate with the Secretary.
The Company will also INVESTIGATE ON BEHALF OF PURCHASERS and furnish
Expert Reports, and advise as to the management of properties; and undertake the preparation
of PLANS, ESTIMATES, and SPECIFICATIONS for
DREDGING PLANTS, and other MINING MACHINERY.
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
» * * •
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery*.
* * * *
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, boiler-maker, etc.,
of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, has just secured a
contract for the manufacture and supply of all the bolts,
nuts and washers which may be required by the Victorian
railways during the next three years. He has also con-
tracted to supply all the carbonic acid gas necessary for
working the railway refrigerating and ice-making plant—
this is onffof I. and E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride-
machines, the same system as has been adopted by the
Govts, of South Australia, Queensland, and Western Aus-
tralia. Mr. Ferguson has a large stock of these machines
(suitable for meat-preserving co.’s dairies, butchers, and
others) on hand at present, which he is selling at greatly-
reduced prices. *
• » * *
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYAIMIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
173 William Street,
Mslbournk ;
ll Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. } Lambton Quay, Wellington, S.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The tardy arrival of Westralia’s revenue returns
for the year ended 30th June completes the list. Results
(Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria, S.A., and Westralia being
for the year to 30th June ; Maoriland for the year to 31st
March ; Tasmania for the six months to 30th June) are
Increase as
compared with
Revenue. corresponding
period of
last year.
Victoria (12 months) .. £7,378,842 £491,379
Queensland ( „ ).. 4,174,086 405,934
N.S.W. ( „ ).. 9,754,184 272,092
. Maoriland ( ~ ). . 6,186,428 198,796
S.A. ( „ ).. 2,665,501 98,890
Tasmania ( 6 months) .. 461,948 17,873
Decrease as
oompared with
corresponding
period of
last year.
Westralia (12 months) .. 2,478,811 £275,935
One moral attached to these figures is that the
Westralian Federal difficulty is rapidly settling itself.
The one great reason why Westralia “didn’t see its way ”
was that its revenue was so extraordinary during the
boom-time that it didn’t want to go into partnership with
any common, ordinary place in the east. The partner-
ship would have involved no very great loss of money at
any time. The Federal tariff would probably be as high
as that of Westralia, for that province has a very moder-
ate tariff—it wasn’t the size of its duties, but the incredi-
ble amount of dutiable goods it purchased in the roaring
days that swelled the receipts. Under Federation it will
still be credited with the duties on all its foreign goods,
whether imported direct or via some other province, so
there will be no loss there. And it was agreed that W.A.
should retain its interprovincial duties for a time, and at
the end of that time, the chances are that W.A. would
have got down to about the level of its neighbors, in
revenue and imports, and there would be no special ad-
vantages to lose. The following figures show how W.A.
is getting down :
Revenue per inhabitant.
1896 1897 ( 1898 1899
Westralia £l4 4 3 £2O 12 2 £l7 0 3 £l4 14 10
Queensland 718 2 713 11 715 6 8 7 6
New South Wales 74 10 73 6 707 74 11
South Australia 748 79 10 751 74 11
Victoria 5 9 4 512 10, 517 1 6 5 8
Tasmania 415 9 417 8 501 543
In 1897, the gap between Westralia and Tasmania (the
largest revenue and the smallest) was £l5 14s. 6d. per
head ; in ’99 (just two years’ later) the discrepancy had
got down to £9 10s. 7d. In ’97 W.A. had nearly three
times the revenue of Queensland ; now it has less than
twice the revenue. Also, the two provinces at the tail of
the list are catching up very fast with the two in the
middle. The arguments against Federation based on dis-
crepancies of revenue mostly show a tendency to vanish as
time goes on.
* 3ft * *
Last Monday’s report; Australian Joint Stock
Bank’s shares (£7 10s. paid up), sellers 9d. ; no mention
of any buyers.
* ♦ * *
Queensland had a gorgeous outbreak of loan ex-
penditure for the financial year to 30th June, getting
through no less than £1,090,539. This was equal to £2 3s.
per inhabitant —the worst record in Australasia, barring
that of Westralia. Some recent years’ loan expenditure in
Queensland: —
1892 .. £662,281 1896 .. £592,158
1893 .. 1,035,523 1897 .. 1,148,341
1894 .. 378,077 1898 .. 937,066
1895 .. 230,120 1899 .. 1,090,539
Queensland tried a year or two of decent economy, and it
was a bad time, for the province had grown so accus-
tomed to living on borrowed money that it couldn’t brace
up and be decently independent all at once. So it
promptly gave up trying and started to lay the founda-
tions of another boom and another great smash. Now
population is increasing reasonably fast because the
country supplies the new people with work and wages
out of borrowed money ; and the revenue is better be-
cause the inrush of borrowed money is whooping trade
along again, and the surplus is larger because a lot of the
expenditure is charged to loans. The loan expenditure
per inhabitant of the various provinces during the last
few years is an interesting study ;
1895-6 1896-7 1897-8 1898-9
N.S.W. .. £0 19 11 £1 310 £1 4 10 £1 11 3
Vic. .. 038 045 07 10
Q’sland .. 159 288 118 8 280
S.A. .. 1 910 019 11 17 3
Tas. .. 014 310 10 0 095
W.A. .. 6 8 7 I 18 18 4 11 14 2
All through this period Victoria was the most self
dependent and solvent of the Australian provinces—in
fac,t it was the only one of the lot that at any time came
anywhere near paying its way out of revenue. Westralia
was the very worst of the crowd all along. Queensland
has gone down from second best to second worst. Tas-
mania has grown more solvent while N.S.W. has degener-
ated. But the trail of the grand old Australian borrow is
over them all.
* * •» »
Now that Old Age Pensions have been made a
definite feature of the Victorian Government’s programme,
preachers and philanthropists and other useful people
have begun to rain torrents of good advice upon Plain
George Turner as to how he should raise the money.
Most of these valuable characters agree that further taxa-
tion is inadvisable, but that the land-revenue, or part of
it, should be set apart as a pension-fund. The plain
brown fact that if you take (say) £200,000 a year of land
receipts out of the general revenue for a pension-fund,
it will be necessary to raise another £200,000 a year
by taxation to fill the gap in the general revenue, is
quite beyond the mental range of these well-meaning per-
sons. A special genius, however, proposes issuing a
“pension stamp,” which would have to be affixed to all
receipts for wages at the rate of sd. for every ss. The
principal trouble hereabouts is that very few people give
receipts for wages, and if they all did, and all put on the
Jd. stamp, there aren’t enough wages in Victoria to supply
the required revenue. This is quite apart from the fact
that the Jd. stamp would be a terrible waste of paper and
gum.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland, which always
gets its half-yearly balance-sheet in first—it is to be hoped
this result isn’t arrived at by slurring the audit, but any-
how, the Queensland Royal’s document comes out with
amazing celerity—shows the best half-year’s profit
(£7830) for the last seven years. The profits since ’94
have been :
June, 1894 .. £6,360 June, 1897 .. £7,463
December, 1894 .. 6,477 December, 1897 .. 7,440
June, 1895 .. 6,946 June, 1898 .. 7,460
December, 1895 .. 6,033 December, 1898 .. 7,579
June, 1896 .. 6,445 June, 1899 .. 7,830
December, 1896 .. 6,515
The half-year’s profit is at the rate of £3 13s. 3d. percent,
per annum on shareholders’ funds, as compared with £3
11s. 3d. last half. The Royal pays its usual 2* per cent,
dividend, which, with dividend duty thereon, absorbs
£5075; adds £2OOO to reserve fund, making it
£43,000; and the other £755, with previous bal-
ance, leaves £2329 at credit of profit and loss. The
Royal’s wise policy, pursued ever since the 1893 troubles,
of carrying a fixed proportion of its profits to reserve, and
investing the reserve-fund separately in State securities,
is producing good results. The business in general looks
about the same as last half-year, but the reserve of cash
and liquid securities has increased from £299,514 to
£319,056, and now equals 36 per cent, of all liabilities to
the public, as compared with 33 per cen t. at the end of
’9B. The Royal of Queensland, like many other small
banks, has a large capital in proportion to the amount of
business done, and the average small bank of its class is
safer from a depositor’s point of view than many more
imposing institutions. The present balance-sheet looks
satisfactory all round. In a country where there is no
independent State-audit and State-valuation of securi-
ties, nothing better than that can be said of any bank.
The respectable increase in profits is no doubt
owing, in great part, to a perfectly new cause which ought
to make the profits of all Australian banks go up with a
sudden rush this half-year. Six months ago it was
decided to charge every customer ss. per half-year for the
trouble and ink and mental strain of keeping his account,
and the first charge was made on 30th June. If a bank
has 2000 accounts that means £5OO extra profit in one act.
The charge is not on live accounts only ; wherever a
vanished customer has left a small balance, the ss. will be
levied regularl.v till it is used up. So the innovation cuts
three ways : it furnishes a large source of revenue out of
current business which should make the banking industry
look up considerably; it enables all unclaimed balances
to be appropriated by degrees, which is more revenue ;
and by wiping out these old balances it saves much
trouble and woe in carrying the weary desolate fragment
forward from year to year.
* * * *
Victoria has a surplus (estimated) of about
£250,000 this year, which will scrape a small bit off the
enormous accumulated deficit. But already there are
demands for reduced taxation on one side, and more ex-
penditure on the other, and Turner is told that there is
less need for economy because the finances are now
squared, which they aren’t —not by a good 2J millions.
In N.S.W., it is fixed by law that £150,000 a year must be
allotted to reduce the deficit —it is part of the regular
expenditure, and if the Treasurer doesn’t succeed in pro-
viding the £150,000, he has the disgrace of showing a
deficit himself. In Victoria, there is no law requiring any
annual payment in reduction of the deficit. Turner may
feel confident that, while he is in office, he will keep
reducing it steadily, but that isn’t the question. The
country wants a law passed making it obligatory on the
possible spendthrift who comes after Turner to do like-
wise.
* * * *
Mudgee, N.S.W.: “ A large number of gold-
dredging leases have been taken up along the Cudgegong
River.” It is much easier to take up 40 dredging leases
than to build one dredge. If there is one dredge built to
50 dredging leases the dredges of N.S.W. will soon out-
number those working in M.L.
* * ♦ *
Gallvmont, N.S.W., now worked by about 20
tributors, crushed 500 tons for 2920 z. gold, which pays
well. Tributors are prepared to sink to a deeper level if
their tribute is extended. Of course, they are following
the narrow chutes. Eissler, who got his mining experi-
ence on the Rand, obviously imagined the show was all
alike—no chutes.
* * * *
Cobar Gold-mines, N.S.W. (old Fort Bourke),
expects to make a start next month with its 100-head
mill. Another £30,000 has been expended in cyanide and
other machinery and mine-development, bringing the
total up to over £60,000. The O.G.M.’s is probably the
biggest and most up-to-date cyanide plant in Australasia,
but, as far as writer can hear, though provision is made
for the classification of slimes, no arrangement has yet
been made for their treatment—which means keeping
back about a third of the gold. Once more—why has no
attempt been made to penetrate the copper zone in this
property ? Some months ago the co. was asked to sell an
area between the main shaft and the Cobar-Chesney
boundary, on which ground it has done no work and
apparently doesn’t intend doing any; yet the co. modestly
asked £50,000 for it. If it got copper-ore below 300 ft.
like that of the Great Cobar, and the chances are in its
favor, the problem of ore-treatment would be solved for
all time : simply because the gossans and other oxidised
ores would make a smelting blend with the copper sul-
phides such as is made at the Great Cobar copper-mine.
* * * *
At the Cobar-Chesney =£20,000 has already been
spent, but it will cost another £15,000 to complete the
winding, air-drilling, concentrating and smelting plant.
Main shaft cut down to 400 ft., leaving 160 ft. to complete.
Some four or five months must elapse before smelting
starts. Upwards of 250,000 tons copper ore are said to be
in sight, and nearly 10,000 tons at grass. Recently one
expert of repute estimated visible ore at 30,000 tons only ;
the mine authorities regard this gentleman as very short-
sighted. Owing to trouble with old co.’s directors, who
foolishly wanted £12,000 in debentures called up within a
month, the new directors decided to make two Is. calls
before the issue, so as to make themselves independent of
the cussedness and obstinacy of the old co.’s board.
• • • •
Great Western, Cobar : Another 3d. call. Mar-
ket wide—buyers, Is. ; sellers, 4s. Might be made a big
mine : never with baby management. The proceeds of
the call are supposed to be devoted to paying for a
cyanide plant, by which the co.’s little heaps of rather
coppery tailings will be tackled.
The rain which fell the other day deprived
Cobar Gold Mines of £lO a day from the Copper Syndi-
cate as water-money. The Young Australian is crush-
ing, and all look forward to a few cleans-up to justify the
market-price of shares. Though there has been water in
the Great Western tank for three weeks, no attempt has
been made to start crushing, and the co. has gone in
search of more copper ore. The Occidental mill and cya-
nide plant are in full swing, and it is believed by those
concerned that the bank overdraft will soon be paid off.
The ore at present under treatment is from the lower
levels of the mine, and prospects never looked brighter.
The first forthcoming mill and cyanide clean-up will, it is
thought, produce £l5OO worth of gold.
Mr. 0. G. Warnford Lock, in departing from
Wentworth Mines (N.S.W.), lets off a tale of woe. Upper
levels exhausted and all working faces impoverished ; a
barren zone encountered and outlook generally mournful.
Nothing left for the co. but to treat 50,000 tons of tailings
and to work out the few remaining stopes. For, as the
departing super, puts it, it is not as if they had lost their
way and had failed to get on to the track of ore-bodie3 ;
they are right on the veins themselves, which have lost
their gold with depth. This seems to be accounted for
by the increased dimensions of the diorite belt and the
corresponding pinching of the serpentine—a contingency
of which writer was always afraid ; for he knows no deep
mine in Australia working in serpentine. Tons of gold
have come out of this mine, the shutting down of which
looms near. Truly a doleful prospect for the poor little
syndicates around it looking for the Lucknow “ joint.”
Lloyd's Copper Company Ltd., London, took
over Burraga (N.S.W.) copper-mine last Saturday, when
Lloyd junior and lawyer received £95,000 on behalf of Lloyd
senior, who had already pocketed £5OOO deposit. The pur-
chase includes Lloyd’s old refining-works at Lithgow, with
all copper matte there, on the road, and at the mine.
Everything, in fact, but some 20 tons of refined copper
awaiting shipment. The deal includes the town of Bur-
raga, such as it is. The concern will run on as usual till
the arrival of the consulting-engineer from London, when
a new system of mining on a bigger scale, and working
and smelting the waste-dumps, will be determined. G.
A. Stockfeld takes the general management after years of
travelling throughout Australasia examining and report-
ing on mines without finding many to please him. The
co.’s capital is £250,000 ; working capital, £50,000. Not a
case of over-oapitalisation considering the purchase price
and working capital ; the thing is a sure-enough invest-
ment if copper keeps anything like its present price. It
must have been a shock to Lloyd, who is somewhere in
England, to receive the purchase-money, for he has, dur-
ing the last 15 years, pocketed so many deposits on op-
tions for smaller amounts that he must have made abso-
lutely certain the deposit on the bigger sum would also be
forfeited. At last he has got his biggest price, and others
have got the mine. For over 20 years work has been
almost exclusively confined to one run of ore._ Less than
£lOOO would pay for all the prospecting done in that time.
It is now essential to pay fair mining interest on a quarter
of a million, and the London management, which is usually
extravagant, has not only to work over the enormous
waste ore and slag dumps, but to develop the property
outside of the shoot, which has been persistently followed
down to an incline depth of 900 ft. If the co. is as fortu-
nate in the selection of its mine as it is in its manager,
it is to be congratulated.
* » * *
The weighing-clauses of N.S.W. Coal Mines
Regulation Act have at last become effective, and penal-
ties of £3 and costs have been inflicted upon the managers
of three Newcastle mines. In these cases Govt, prose-
cuted. The Act is now almost three years old. The
clauses which enforced fresh burdens on miners were put
in action at once, but those which increased the responsi-
bility and assured the just dealing of mine-owners were
Ministerially suspender! for almost three years. Probably
the near opening of Parliament has spurred Govt, to
action.
* * • *
Broken Hill Municipal Council consists of 12
men, just half of whom are pledged to a Labor platform
and to a solid vote. Mostly the matter under considera-
tion is decided against the Labor men by the Mayor’s
casting vote ; and it was on the ex-Mayor’s casting-vote
that the present Mayor was appointed. But now, one of
the other six being absent —he is chasing copper slugs at
Chillagoe—the Labor half-dozen have an innings, and
start off with a notice to B.H. Prop. Co. that if it
doesn’t pay up its rates (it is assessed at £2300) in 14 days
the bailiffs will go in. A few weeks ago the co. offered to
pay £2OOO, but this was declined ; and now it will not
pay a cent. Apparently the co.’s contention is that the
mine is on a proclaimed goldfield and not liable. There is
much law in prospect.
Mt. Lyell is now taking over 2000 tons of cus-
tom-ores monthly, and expects to double that quantity
within the next few months. The co. will make much
money in this business, and the mines around will pro-
bably find that it will pay to allow it to do so.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent exalts the Briseis
tin-mine :—The Briseis lately paid a Is. div.—amount
£3ooo—and it is announced that flotation on London
market is assured. Strange that most of our most im-
portant mines are handed over to British investors. The
Briseis shareholders have, it is true, spent an enormous
sum in development of, unfortunately, a more experi-
mental than practical nature, but the present manage-
ment has undoubtedly placed the mine upon the div. list
at last. Last month’s yield was 30 tons, result of 30 men’s
labor, thus showing that each man raised one ton for the
month. The man receives £'9, the co. £Bo—a nice profit
of £7l on each man employed. Oan you point to another
mine in Australia that will return the same profit upon
the same expenditure ? Yet the shareholders are sacrific-
ing the property for the benefit of British money-bags.
As room is made more labor will be employed, and as
there can be no doubt about the enormous bulk of tin-
drift to be operated upon, 200 men may soon be at work
and an average of 200 tons per month be the result.
P.S.—There seems to still be a good deal of difference of
opinion about the Briseis. The above is absolute fact.
I was there yesterday and the face is simply magnificent;
some seams of pure black ore are 3in. thick, and they are
numerous throughout the face; the bottom is not yet
touched.
« • * »
That powerful and persistent boomer, “ Moses
Moss,” in London Truth, says that Peakhill Goldfields
(W.A.) at £7 10s. are very tempting, and takes up half-a-
column to show why. Says that the mine is producing
over 5000 oz. a month. This is false, and, what’s more,
“ M.M.” must know it’s false. The last 3-ield of over
5000 oz. was the result of three months’ crushing, and
£7los. a share represents over two millions of money, on
which the Peak is not paying 3 per cent. Moses declares
that with the additional 20 head ordered the production
should be close on 10,000 oz. per month. This is another
boomer, for even if 30 heads can produce 50000 z., which
they don’t, how are 50 going to double it? He admits
having no knowledge of Schlapp’s report, but is quite sure
it is favorable ; because Gov. “ Jerry ” Smith spoke in the
highest terms of the mine it is assumed he got his cue
from Schlapp. The more reasonable assumption is that
if Schlapp’s report is distinctly favorable something would
have been heard about it, as it must ha,ye been written
over a month ago. Probably when shareholders (at £7
10s.) do read Schlapp’s report their own feelings may re-
call his name.
* • * *
Hannan’s Croesus—22o tons, 730 z. “ What’s in
a name ? ”
* * * »
Brookman’s Boulder, W.A., cables that the
directors in London have collared all the unissued shares.
These were declined in Australia at £1 some months ago,
but that was when the original shares were less. Not re-
markable that they were snapped up in London at par.
when the ordinary shares were about 30s. Unless a row
is made at once the transaction will soon be forgotten,
especially if they go back to £l, which is likely enough.
* * * *
Brookman’s Exploration, W.A., has gone into
liquidation. No cash div. to shareholders; consolation
instead getting one W.A. smelting share for every 12
in the B.E. Time was when these shares were over £3
each, representing about half-a-million of money. ’Twas
when they imagined Pearce had found several greater
Boulders, Lake Views, Associated, &e., in the Lake Lefroy
district. They all proved awful duffers, hence liquida-
tion.
* * * *
The Bulletin office often has a lot of ore in
sight, and though the practice of sending it in has never
been encouraged, this paper receives too many requests
for gratuitous assays and opinions as to value and treat-
ment of samples submitted. Arrangements have now
been made for testing, by assay and otherwise, samples of
ore, provided the sum of £1 is sent with each to cover
cost. Assays alone do not serve the miner’s purpose,
hence certificates supplied to Bulletin correspondents
will not only give a statement of metallic contents —
owners will be advised by an experienced, practical metal-
lurgist as to the best methods of treating the ore in bulk,
whether by wet or dry crushing and amalgamation, smelt-
ing, cyaniding, chlorinating, etc. Parcels should not be
less than lib. nor more than 101 b.
• » * *
Mt. Garnet Freehold is trumpeted forth as the
bluest Q. copper certainty. “It is believed to have
fully a million’s worth of ore revealed.” Market-value of
mine about £500,000. It will be producing copper long
before Chillagoe. John Moffat, the original owner, is
said to have “ kept the best for himself," being still very
largely interested.
* * * *
Mount Morgan June production—lB,32o tons,
32,6990 z.
* * * *
On Horn Island, within sight of Thursday
Island, some Melb. men have a big reef, which they have
been quarrying and crushing with five head. Thirty more
are now on the road, together with a staff of miners, engi-
neers, &c., including W. R. Thomas, formerly of Broken
Hill, afterwards of Cobar and Westralia, who goes up as
mining-surveyor. The co. has £lOO,OOO capital. Shares
selling at 11s. Mines said to have in sight 10 years’ dirt,
which will average 15dwts. Altogether a good-looking
concern.
* * * *
Gold -returns (Q.) show a small increase as com-
pared with the June returns for ’9B to the extent of
8260z5. Increase for the six months ending June 30—
23,8000z5.
» * * *
Q. mining notes: —Most transactions coppery.
Mt. Garnets and Linsdales soaring, due principally to
“ whispered ” information. The mines meanwhile are dis-
creetly silent. Various nebulous syndicates await Q.
coming session for just one small railway. Gympie paid
three good divs. lately. Charters Towers mostly flat,
speculative money going into copper pockets. Clarke’s
Worcester up again; Queen’s Cross down again, and a
3d. call. Papuans weak ; and Victoria G.M. Co. sub-
siding—sellers, 4s. Moonstone Consols pay a seventh div.
and now 2s. Some results : Gympie—S. Glanmire and
Monkland, 1135 tons, 8490 z., 4d. div. ; 2 South Gt. Eastern,
542 tons, 15560 z., Is. 6d. div. ; Oriental and Glanmire, 6d.
div. ; Mt. Morgan, usual 7d. Charters Towers —Brilliant
and St. George, 1260 tons for 14870 z., shares easy ; Kelly’s
Block, 535 tons, 7900 z., 6d. div. ; Brilliant Co., 2268 tons,
2431 oz., 4d. div. ; Day Dawn Block, aJ. Bull mine, 6d.
div. ; Victoria Caledonians, 150 tons, 3500 z., 3d. div.
Croydon shows an all-round increase for last half-year of
over 20000 z.. and more to follow.
Mutooroo, which sprang to the front during the
French syndicate’s copper-boom and very soon paid
£12,000 in divs. on a trifling expenditure, has been “ in-
spected for a powerful syndicate ” ; beyond that nothing
has been done there lately, in which respect it is almost
unique among those S.A. copper-claims that have ever
paid divs. But the Australian Smelting (Dry Creek) Co.
is the owner ; and that canny crowd knows something
safer just now than working a copper claim —selling it to
somebody who can show the purchase-money. The mine
is just over the border from Broken Hill, and the country
round about has been “ wolfed” lately.
•*• * •
Most places that show green stains on their
rocks are being invaded now by men with napping-
hammers in their hands and the copper-boom in their
mouths. The north of S, Australia (that province owes
more to copper than do any of the others) is being simply
over-run. All the abandoned shows have been re-taken ;
and everywhere such remarkably fine reports are coming
that the men who threw up the mines some years ago
stand condemned as the most amazing idiots still at
liberty. Quite as remarkable is the number of “ power-
ful syndicates ” that exist. Every other “ show ”is either
under offer to “ a powerful syndicate,” or is just going to
be.
* * * *
S.A. is right in the middle of a copper-boom,
and news also comes along that telluride ore has been
discovered at Leigh Creek, hitherto notorious as the scene
of S.A.’s only coal-mine. Adelaide is the native home of
the wild-cat promoter, and the market is being flooded
with copper co’s., and gold claims are being pegged-out
for miles around Leigh Creek.
• • * * v
Melb. Age vigorously warns the Vic. publio
against the numerous dredging schemes now being mar-
keted, and says it would be madness to plunge into them
without obtaining evidence of value, which, in most cases,
might be got with small outlay by prospecting with
bores. Were such tests made, the Age remarks, more
than half the schemes would die a righteous death.
Heaven knows, it is easy enough to prospect alluvial flats
before dredging them.
* * * *
South German Co., Maldon, has just paid a
div., which brings its disbursements to £lO ss. 6d. per
24,000 th share ; the outlay was 9s. 6d. per share.
* * * *
Lansell’s luck—which latter probably ought to
bp printed with a “ p.” Not long ago he got heavily into,
and soon shook up, the Red, White and Blue, and good
yields came. Now he gets out 5520 z. from 837 tons
broken from a big formation in the South R., W. and B.
at about 900 ft. The position of the claim makes the find
of district importance, too.
* • » *
The South Tharsis Copper Co., Mt. Lvell,
have lately entered into a contract with the Austral Otis
Engineering Co., South Melbourne, to supply a complete
crushing and concentrating plant for treatment of their
ores, which are mostly low grade. The plant is to be a
very complete one and comprises compound steam-engine
and boiler of 100 horse-power, 3 rock-breakers, 2 sets Roger
rolls, 8 4-compartment eccentric jiggs, 4 improved buddies
and Otis circular vanner, with the necessary trommels,
&c., for sizing and classifying the ore. The plant
has a capacity of 100 tons per day, with provision
for 200 tons. The Otis Co. are also supplying a self-acting
tramway from the mine to the mill; also, a pumping plant
to supply the mill with water from the dam.
* * * *
To get a better monthly average than Bendigo
has had this last six months we have to go back as far as
1883. The total for the six months was 109,8640 z. And,
curiously, divs. were £lo9,B6o—as near £1 an ounce as
you can get it. Calls amounted to only £65,342, which is
a deal below the average ; and, in a place where there is
still much prospecting to be done, that isn’t necessarily a
good sign. Far and away the boss producer was the
veteran Garden Gully, whose 10,6870 z. gave £28,390 pro-
fit. M‘Duff’s spurt was even better from a shareholder’s
point of view—£lB,lso from 52830 z. The miners’ end of
the purse was thus pretty small.
* * * *
Mildura, the Vic. irrigation settlement on the
Murray, once almost given up as a hopeless case, this
season sends out 850 tons of raisins, 25 tons of currants,
50 tons of sultanas and other dried grapes, 120 tons of
apricots, 225 tons of canned fruits, 30,000 gallons of wine,
1000 gallons of oil, besides other fruits—figs, almonds, &c.
And about 40,000 cases of oranges and 20,000 cases of
lemons are now being shipped. The curse of Protection
once more.


d
i
A NEW DEPARTURE
J)n Orient Suit to measure at 63s
David Jones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY-MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE PIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY-MADE CLOTHING provides; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
rn" We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
Opposite j
SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents f>>r New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Premier Reid last week made a voyage of
discovery through the N.S.W. Govt, charitable
institutions at Parramatta, all of which are ad-
ministered by the Chief Secretary. The terrible
condition of the overcrowded George-street asylum
has been pointed out to Sunday Brunker every
week for the last three years. About 18 months
ago the old man inspected the place himself, but
nothing has been done. The Dept, lives in
daily dread of what might happen to the con-
gested three decker building with its 1100 helpless
inmates in case of fire. The Premier must
have been shocked and startled by his visit, for
the next day the Colonial Architect was at Rook-
wood selecting a site for new pavilions, and in the
afternoon the timber was on the spot. The new
accommodation will provide for 500 men, but the
relief will be only temporary—the steady monthly
increase in the asylum numbers will soon account
for all the new space. The Govt, will some day
have to face the absolute necessity of concen-
trating all the benevolent institutions on some
modern system. This scheme of reorganisation
has been hung up for years, and the Ministry Has
turned over the responsibility to the Public
Service Board, which seems to be quite unable to
appoint a Director of Charities.
* * * V
N.S.W. Charities Dept, has some curious
little ways. There are hundreds of persons who
receive small allowances paid monthly by P.O.
orders. The Director of Charities sends a list to
the accountant of the Colonial Secretary’s office
who sends it on to the Post-Office which, at its
leisure, makes out the orders and returns them to
the Col. Sec.’s office, which at last forwards them
to the intended recipients. Thus the money,
instead of coming to hand on the Ist of the month,
IMMORAL NATURE.— IN ITEM FOR
NATHALIA.
1 ST SHEPHERD : “ Come away, brother, from this
accursed spot. ”
2ND SHEPHERD : “ What is the matter , dear
friend? ”
1ST S. : “ Why, I have discovered that the waves
DANCE ! ”
seldom arrives before the Bth or 9th, and all this
circumrotation is for the sake of adding a few
pounds in P.O. order charges to the revenue, and
taking it from the poor devils who are starving
for it.
* * ♦ *
The worst feature of the altogether dis-
graceful O Callaghan baby scandal was seen in
Saturday week’s Age. Among the prominent items
of “Town Talk” appeared one stating that one
Lynch, a retired farmer, had acknowledged him-
self as the much-sought father, and would appear
at next adjourned meeting of the inquest. He
never did so, although two meetings took place
before the inquest was closed. This is a clear ease
of drawing a red-herring over the scent. The
Abgus, in a leading article, had declared that the
real father’s name “ was known to a thousand and
one people, and, that being so, it was necessary
to give some needy and willing recipient a good
lumping douceur to take the onus on himself and
so to ease the public mind—or bamboozle it. The
little game was played successfully so far as those
are concerned who read with innocent faith what-
ever may be printed. To others “not in the
know ” the question yet remains in doubt, but en«
quiry will perhaps clear it up.
* * * »
Premier Reid’s dip into the public purse
for the hire of cabs to convey barristers to Gov.
Beauchamp’s first leve£, seems doubly outrageous
when compared with N.S.W. Public Service
Board’s recent regulation by which civil servants
travelling on business of the State (probably
accompanied by a big trunk and a hat-box) are
absolutely refused cab-fare.
» » • •
Australian newspapers are never tired of
jibing at the American press, and charging all
sorts of corruption at the American newspaper-
man. Of late political motives have run certain
Australian dailies into very peculiar positions,
and in Melbourne recently personal likes and dis-
likes for persons in forty-third-rate offices have
led the dailies into most unworthy situations.
Out of regard for persons in high places, barrister
Gregory’s case in the Law Courts was never men-
tioned, and the other day an individual who hap-
pens to belong to the Customs detective depart-
ment was able to keep all mention of a case, which
his wife had against him, out of the papers, not-
withstanding the fact that it was good “copy.”
It is not suggested that these points are worked by
means of bribes, but however they are worked
they don’t reflect much credit on the great Aus-
tralian dailies that throw so much mud at the
press of other countries.
• * » *
A monster charity-fete was organised in
Perth, and, after six months’ labour, the mountain
brought forth the sum of .£lOO odd for distribu-
tion amongst the charities. The balance-sheet
gives the total receipts at ,£768, of which ,£695
accrued from the sale of tickets. On the other
side of the ledger, management and salaries
absorbed <£l26 ; art-union, sports, and concerts,
£270 ; and advertising, ,£264 ; the credit-balance
being .£6O odd. The organiser, to show his
bnna-fides, donated his own salary, at the rate of
£2 per week, to which he was entitled during his
period of management. At the wind-up meeting,
the promoter bewailed the lack of assistance he
had received from the public. In almost every
instance, he said, the one question he had met
with on the part of those whose assistance he
sought was : “ Where do I come in ? ” —an ex-
pression he had never heard in any other part of
Australia.
* * * *
In Wellington (M.L.) both the O.E. and
R.C. clergy are canvassing for subscriptions for
cathedrals. Staples’ Brewery Co. diplomatically
gave £5OO to each. Meanwhile, the country clergy
complain that they want less cathedral and more
salary. The M.L. bush-parson gets a very small
stipend —which is generally two years overdue.
* * * *
A lady, to The Bulletin :
S.ydne3 T North Shore Ferry Co.’s recent “concession”
to lady cyclists, in allowing them to take their wheels
with them by the passenger-boats, means, at an addi-
tional Id. per trip (12 trips a week), an addition of 13s. to
cost (7s. 6d.) of quarterly ticket.
Well, the transport of a horse would cost the
same, and the horse-advantages of the bike must
carry with them some of the horse-disadvantages.
* * * *
Melb. Alfred Hospital committee ap-
pointed a dispenser, the other day,' at £lOO
a-year, with quarters, and, when it was proposed
to make the screw £lO4, so as to equal £2 a-week,
a committee-man objected, on the ground that
that amount looked too much like a working-man’s
wage, and that £lOO a-year had a more clerical
and respectable appearance ! The shoddy argu-
ment prevailed, and the £4 was knocked off ac-
cordingly.
* * • •
The beginning of the end (Melb. Age,
25/2/’99)
iyrAN, young, as general, good cook, laundress;
- LVJ - highest wages. At once.
* * * *
The New Woman marches on. Nelson,
usually the sleepiest hollow in all M.L., supplies
the first female cabdriver in that progressive
oountry.
IN THE UPSTAIRS SMOKING-ROOM.
FIRST SAINT : “ What a dreadful smell of gas!”
SECOND SAINT: “Yes; my halo's leaking. Can
you lend us a bit of soap?”
Brisbane Courier the other day had a
column report about the case of a man whose
crime seemed to be lack of work. The proceed-
ings lasted two hours ; there was an adjournment,
and the man must eventually be discharged for
want of evidence. Yet in salaries and expenses
the investigation will cost £3O, whereas a railway-
pass and a ill-note would have sent the man out
into the Biljim country, where he would have had
a chance to earn what he ate. Meanwhile the
Gatton, Oxley, and Woolongabba horrors are on
the shelf. And yet the Cockier, over such a
miserable business as the above-mentioned, has
the front—or the fawnsomeness—to eulogise the
“ energy and efficiency ” of the police.
* * * *
Clerical ideas of delicacy and tact often
run on queer lines. Present writer lately heard
an Anglican sky-pilot discourse on—what do you
think ?—the laugh of Sarai, wife of Abraham !
The erudite reader will remember that aforesaid
lady laughed scornfully when the angel told her
husband that she, a woman of advanced age,
should bear a child. And this sacerdotal ass dis-
coursed for 30 minutes on this subject to a mixed
audience.
* * • *
“ A.E.C.” suggests a plan to prevent rail-
way seat-jumping:—
Any passenger should, on application, receive with his
ticket a label bearing name of station to which he is
destined, and to which the seat is consequently “ re-
served.” For these labels, attachments should be fitted
beneath the rack to a number corresponding with the
number of persons the carriage will properly accommo-
date, each compartment being capable of receiving one
label only, which it should be impossible for anyone but a
railway-official with a provided key to remove. Each
label should receive a distinctive mark corresponding
with a similar mark on the passenger’s ticket—say dat e
of issue, with a number. The label to become invalid
when the station named thereon is reached or passed, and
only then replaceable by a fresh one. Of course, a new
by-law would be needed entitling passengers to duly-
placarded seats throughout their journeys.
* * * *
Plain Joseph Chamberlain, Imperial
Colonial Secretary, writes to Mayor Harris, of
Sydney, telling how the plain great man recom-
mended the ornamental little man for a knight-
hood “in recognition of your public services.” It
recalls old man Parkes making a J.P. and remark-
ing to an acquaintance, “ He’ll think that a high
honor; I’m glad I never let myself be made one.”
• * * •
Norfolk Island affairs are ripening for an-
other Parliamentary blast. The best thing for
the island and N.S.W. will be to thresh the whole
subject out from start to finish. The annexation
of the island by N.S.W. was secretly effected by
ex-Gov. Hampden, with some vague knowledge on
the part of Premier Reid. Neither N.S. W. people
nor Parliament knew of the transaction till it was
completed. It is to be feared that evils and the
suspicion of evil will continue to grow until the
island’s affairs are administered in open day.
Wouldn’t Maoriland take over the troublesome
and wholly unprofitable little island ? M.L. is
more accustomed to dealing with islands and such
like kittle cattle.
* * * *
“S.S.”: Be woman’s appreciation of the
hairy man and “ Puyyaka’s ” opinions in a recent
Bulletin. If admiration for the hairy male is
merely an indication of female reversion to the
monkey type there must be an extraordinary
number of Homopitheeal reverts in Melbourne,
where the kilted Scotch regiment is sprinkling
the town with undraped legs. I have noticed the
agitation caused amongst knots of females when
the legs appear, and it is always the woolly calf
that attracts the eye of the sex and holds it
longest. By the way, there is no attempt on the
part of the average damsel to hide her keen in-
terest in those stubbly Scotch shin-bones. Her
stare is direct and deliberate, and the fluttering
bosom finds relief in little gasps and giggles which
are very evidently far from expressing its true
emotion.
“English as she is wrote.”
Here is a fac simile of the address
on a letter posted in Peshawur
(Indo-Afghan border) and recently
delivered at Lismore, N.S. W., Aus-
tralia, to the person for whom it
was intended:
Zizarat Khan,
Sin ni Dist.,
Laz Mor,
Astriluja Oontrey.
The writer evidently intends “Syd-
ney District, Lismore, Australia
Country.” In view of the quaint-
ness of the address (to say nothing
of the incorrect, not even pho-
netic spelling) the letter’s safe
delivery on this side speaks volumes
for the administration of matters
postal both here and abroad.
* * *
A Japanese fashionable
“ Tailor for Ladies ” has just
started in Collins-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
Sydney Morning Herald, in describing a
recently-erected local memorial-tablet, speaks of
“ the mystical apocalyptic letters, Alpha and
Omega.” See that now! And we always thought
they were plain Greek alphabet.
* * * •
N.S.W. Cabinet will entrust Minister
Hogue with the Bill to suppress indecent advts.
of the class which Chief Justice Darley lately
rated certain Sydney daily papers for publishing.
’Tis Nemesis that sets Jim Hogue, late Evening
News editor, to pioneer such a measure.
♦ * • m
The “ birth-stain ” creeps up again—this
time in the learned Athentrum. Reviewing the
last chunk of Records of N.S.W., that paper con-
doles with the province on its beginnings, and
pours out comfort: “N.S.W. and Tasmania are
not the only places whose origins are tainted. A
larger number of convicts were transported to our
American colonies than ever were sent to Aus-
tralia ; yet who ever thinks of referring to it?”
• * * *
At Auckland, Queen’s Birthday, at Guv-
ment ’Ouse levee, a beastly volunteer sergeant
turned up in uniform. Gov. Ranfurly shook
hands affably, but the look the A.D.C. gave the
retreating non-com. fairly frizzled the leather of
his accoutrements.
* * * •
More muscular Christianity. An Adelaide
cleric, formerly an Oxford oarsman and county
cricketer, was sued for =£loo damages the other
day for “dealing it out ” to a canvasser who in-
sisted upon throwing advertising literature on to
the sensitive cleric’s front lawn. Chief Justice
Way informed the gentle shepherd, who has the
frontispiece of a Corbett, that the community ex-
pected the clergy to set an example in humility
Verdict for <£lo.
HER FAULT.
MRS. RAFFERTY (Friday morning): “ I say, this
fish is bad. Give me another one!”
THE FISHMONGER: “ Shure, and it is your own
fault, Mrs. Rafferty—you would NOT have it
on Monday .”
Another fearsome libel on Cairns. A Pfc.
Douglas paper launches out in this cordial
fashion : —“Record-breaking is Cairns’s strong
point. This time it’s babies. Three single young
ladies of that go-ahead town have lately increased
the population by five babies—two sets of twins
and one odd one.” The Pt. Douglas paper did
not state exact color of aforesaid babies. This
item recalls Heine’s two Poles, one of whom
cheered the other in his patriotic sorrow by re-
marking, “Bear up, comrade ! Poland is not
yet wholly destroyed. Our wives are bearing
children— and our maidens do the same 1 ”
* * * *
A Perth (W.A.) parson, Rev. G. E. Rowe,
lately spoke a very large piece of his mind, or
whatever he calls the thing, about the evil of
Sunday papers, which meant, among other damage
to the Day of Rest, the “ employment of com-
positors and of the journalistic staff.” This
weary argument makes the printer, and the
AMBROSIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The queen of ever}' flower that blows,
She stood beside my garden-gate—
Just where the lusty red, red rose
Sheds attared sweets o’er his red mate.
She asked me for “one scentless bloom”
A bee-bell blue or snowdrop white—
While she exhaled such rare perfume
As held me mazy with delight.
I gave her all a man may give ;
I gave what I could not control;
I gave my life while I shall live ;
I gave her my unruly soul!
And she took up the gift I bore,
She bound it fast—to set me free—
And now my all, for evermore,
Rests in her gentle custody.
Parramatta.
LESLIE OARBS..


T'lOjf
\ x SPEEDILY ¥
CURED BY TAKING
Gondys Fluid.
CONDY & MITCHELL of London, England,
are the only Mahers.
Insist on buying “CONDY’S FLUID,”
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY. -
Lever Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33j- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
Obit, at Banbury (W.A.) John Forrest’s
father—a slow-going but good-hearted old demi-
groper. He was, as are all his sons, a big man—
in fact, the Forrest family are probably at least
equal in weight to any other family of its size in
Australasia.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & C ~
Agents, SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QXJ AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE 2s SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The most frantic paper in Sydney just
now is the Sunday Times, and this is how it has
been raving after the F,eferendum trie (Jmdur-
man, the sausage-machining of June 20 :
TO THE FOOT OF THE THRONE.
(If the Sabbath Tipster starts trying to provoke
dog-fights on the foot of the throne, it 11 get run-
in. That isn’t the Dead Bird office.)
HOW THE BILL MUST BE FOUGHT.
(Merely the snort of a dead man about what he d
like to do to the other fellow who biffed him out.)
WILL THE IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT RISK AN IN-
SURRECTION ?
(Dreadful prospect ! Who is going to insurge
surely not the Evans family ! Consider the hor-
rors of a Geebung insurrection led by G. Pile s
dog, the Sabbath tipster and Tommy Dodd ! It
might be necessary to turn on the fire-hose.)
A STRONG CASE CAN BE MADE OUT.
(Eor immediate Federation, on the grounds that
82,000 odd of the N.S.W. population are suffi-
ciently far gone mentally to follow the lead of the
Sunday She-Twaddle. )
LESS SECURITY TO FOREIGN CAPITAL INVESTED
s IN N.S.W.
(More tripe.)
ARE TWO-THIRDS OF THE ELECTORS TO COERCE
ONE-THIRD?
(Certainly Yes, if we are to have majority-rule.
It is a sad thing, but owing to shortsighted
action of the Creator there is nothing else for it
unless things are to be settled with a club every
time. There is absolutely no alternative : either
the two-thirds must go right under and be coerced
by the one-third, or they must be ruthless and
resolute and coerce the miserable one-third. And
somehow it seems “ un-English ” not to go under
with dignity.)
BRITISH MANUFACTURES SHUT OUT OF THIS
MARKET.
(Rats! Only a few weeks ago the Times printed
a series of articles showing how “British manu-
factures ” were being driven out by Yankee and
German stuff; and Federation is more likely to
come to the rescue of the Britisher with an Im-
perial Customs Union or preferential tariff as in
the case of Federated Canada.)
Messrs. David Jones and Co. desire to
draw public attention to their excellent stock of
Orient clothing.*
“ Gumleaf ” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin.— On June 24 you published a par. by
“ X,” purporting' to be a correction of one of mine re
Barrister John Burslem Gregory, now shut up in KeW
Lunatic Asylum under somewhat peculiar circumstances.
It is always disastrous to the truth to be a friend or an
acquaintance of one or other of the parties between
whom one is called upon to judge. “X,” it would seem,
is a friend of Mrs. Gregory, or of someone who is a friend
of that lady, and this has led him to put more inaccuracies
into every square inch of his epistle than I have ever
noted in any newspaper “ correction.” I will number off
his mis-statements. (1) “X” says : “It (my par) said
that Barrister Gregory has for years been shut up in the
asylum, which is not a fair way of stating that whereas
the confinement started only three years ago, the patient
has been more than once released on probation at his
wife’s request.” Now, I have the authority of the Master
in Lunacy (Mr. Prout Webb), for saying that since
Gregory was shut up in the asylum at his wife’s request,
in Aug., ’96, he has never been released on probation. (2)
“X”says:—“He made at least one serious attempt on
the life of Mrs. Gregory.” Well, I read Mrs. Gregory’s
affidavit, in reply to Gregory’s application for release, in
which it can hardly be doubted that she brought forward
the strongest charges she could against him ; and no
mention is made of any attempt on her life. The furthest
she goes in that direction is a bare assertion, unsupported
by medical evidence, that she had suffered “ great men-
tal terror.” (3) “X ” says : “He (Gregory) insanely sus-
pected his wife of trying to poison him.” Gregory swears
he never believed anything of the kind, and never told
anyone that he did. All he says he complained of was
preservatives in the meat and bad flour. (4) “X ” says :
“ Judge Holroyd heard the same argument (as was heard
by Judge Williams) when Gregory came before him on a
previous writ of habeas, and disposed of the application
in the same quiet way.” At this stage, will it surprise
you to learn that Gregory has only been once before the
court on a writ of habeas corpus, and that was when
Judge Williams dealt with him ! Further, Judge Holroyd
never had Gregory before him on a writ of habeas, and,
instead of disposing of Gregory “ in the same quiet way,”
Judge Holroyd granted the habeas by which Gregory was,
after many attempts, able to get before the court, on an
affidavit prepared by himself, without any assistance, in
his ward at the Asylum. (5) “X ” says :—“ The Judge
did not need any medical evidence to convince him of
Gregory’s lunacy. The poor fellow gave it away in his
argument.” I venture to say that only one who desired
to injure Gregory would have made such a statement.
From first to last—l was there all the time—Gregory’s
arguments were lucid and forcible. When Judge
Williams announced that he could not go behind
the medical evidence, Gregory immediately replied—
“ Does your Honor really mean to say that I have to
spend the rest of my life in the asylum?” (6) “X ” says:
—“ In a general sort of way, Gregory thinks everybody
wants to murder him.” Gregory was faced with this
statement in court, and said he never thought, nor did
he then think, any such thing. These are a few of the
principal inaccuracies which “ X ” has been guilty of in a
short paragraph. There is a host of minor ones, but,
then, wasn’t it Oliver Wendell Holmes who said, “ Good
feeling (especially for women) helps society to make liars
of us all. Not absolute liars, but such careless handlers
of the truth that its sharp corners get terribly rounded.”
By the way, Gregory intends to appeal against Judge
Williams’s decision. I may add that lam a mere out-
sider, absolutely disinterested, and personally acquainted
neither with Mr. or Mrs. Gregory.— Gumleaf.
<£l will buy you a gentleman’s mackintosh of a
really decent quality, suitable for stormy weather, and
as these garments are made with all the latest improve-
ments, satisfactory wear and solid value are assured.
The finish is excellent, the sewings of imperishable fabric,
ensuring resistance to the effects of the changeable
climate of New South Wales. Hordern Brothers,
Federal Clothiers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Sent per parcels post, postage prepaid, to any
Post Office in New South Wales.*
Zetz Spa Water (naturally effervescent)
taken with meals absolutely cures and prevents
indigestion. There is no other table water as
pleasant to take, or as effective. Try it.*
Henry Lawson’s “ While the Billy Boils,’’
with eight plates by Mahony may be had in paper
covers at 2/6 or in cloth at 3/6 (postage 6d. extra)
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney, and all book-
sellers. Mrs. Campbell Praed, the Australian
novelist, said this book made her feel that all she
had written of bush life was pale and ineffective.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and,
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURES Fluttering or Palpitation of the
Heart; breaks up Chills and Fevers, Pains and Aches,
Kidney Troubles, Asthma, Soreness of the Chest and
Lungs, Neuralgia and Headache. fW Per post, Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Sgpior’S
Sgpßor’S
HEADACHE CURE.
BLACK CURRANT BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
BEWARE of Injurious Imitations of these famous
Remedies.
SENIOR, CHEMIST, 246 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
man who invents the paragraph about the
thing that didn’t happen, feel a contemptuous
desire to rub the shepherd on the inky floor.
On an ordinary Sunday paper the literary
staff finishes its work before midnight on
Saturday, and the compositor generally does like-
wise. It is the Monday paper, with the report of
the dreary shepherd’s sermon in it, which blows
the Sabbath into small fragments. To get that
out the literary staff and the compositors must
start to buzz about 7 p.m. on Sunday instead
of going to enjoy the balm of Parson Dryhash’s
discourse, and one great reason why the com-
positor seldom gets to heaven is the way his Sab-
bath is wrecked getting up a paper for holy
snufflers to read on Monday morning. The Sun-
day paper breaks a corner off the Sabbath, but tha
Monday one knocks that holy occasion endways.
* * * *-
A N.S.W. food item :
“ A.G.”: The carcases of condemned tuberculous
cattle in N.S.W. dairying districts are mostly “ fed to the
pigs ; ” so that the disease gets there all the same with
pork-eaters. Once actually heard a farmer ask the
Health-Inspector “if there was anything to prevent a
man giving his diseased cattle to his pigs ?” Was answered
that though, unfortunately, there was no law at present
to prevent him, it was an “ objectionable practice.”
Same Inspector told me that he was careful never to eat
pig in any shape. The law evidently wants amending.
* * » *
A Melbourne man got this reply to his
advt. for board and lodging.
I have a cumfortible room vaycant wich I can offer.
I have six gentelmen stayin with me and we are all
musikel. I attend to the kitchin myself and my cookin is
second to none. My house is rite oppersit the
cemetry.
P.S. No ladies cats or dogs kept.
* * * *
There is a fight coming on in Yic. 0. of
E. Assembly, which meets soon. Bishop Goe
and his party will try to sell St. James’s Church,
and Dean Vance will lead the opposition.
* * * *
In Melbourne—New Crimean shirts, BJd.,
retail.
* * * *
The fact that the 13th June (on which date
the long-missing s.s. Perthshire was picked up by
the Talune) is the Feast of St. Anthony, induced
some good, credulous survival from the middle
ages to set forth in a Sydney daily (with an inci-
dental sigh over “those who are unhappily out-
side the true fold ”) that when, the previous day,
he visited a Sydney convent to bring away his
daughter, he found that the nuns had been burn-
ing a lamp in front of the statue of aforesaid St.
A., for the safety of the Perthshire. And, as said
St. A. is credited with being the celestial finder of
lost things, this amiable enthusiast actually ap-
pears to suppose that these circumstances have
some connection with each other. And the world
is supposed to be moving !
* * * *
Two clippings from S.M. Herald—one
from the advt. of a shorthand school; the other
from a stenographer and typiste seeking employ-
ment : —:
The first necessity of mankind is to live ; the first duty
of mankind is to work ; the first object of education is to
enable them to live and to fit them for work. The best
education is that which soonest and at smallest expense
accomplishes this end.
A7'OUNG Lady des. pos. Typist, writes s’hand, rate
130 words, ex. writer, salary Bs. Reta, Hay-
market P.O.
What a blessing education is at the end of the
19th century !
* * ♦ *
Age advt. 3/7/’99 :
(GENTLEMAN, from country, tall, good physique,
desirous meeting sociable, well-developed young
Lady, strictly confidential. Felicitas, G.P.O.
National industries: (1) Man—Good physique.
(2) Lady—Well-developed. (3) Probably Police-
men.
• * * *
The Sydney Mission to Seamen, now run-
ning for 18 years and cackling loudly round town,
raises locally only about one-third of its income.
Two-thirds are, and have always been, sent out
from a collection-plate in London.
* * * *
“C.F.”: .Reinterpreting “cables.” Naval
officer of my acquaintance, who came out to China
leaving his wife at ’Ome in an interesting condi-
tion, had previously arranged a code by means of
which she should inform him of the result.
“ Tweedledum ” to mean son and doing well ;
“tweedledee,” daughter ditto. The message ar-
rived as “dumdee,” and I diagnosed twins. Cor-
rect !
* * * *
Loyal outburst in Hunter-street, Sydney—
Lady Darley wishes attention called to the fact that a
pair of stockings worn by Her Majesty the Queen, and
made especially for her, will be on view this afternoon at
the bazaar to be held in St. James’s Parish Hall, in aid of
the sisters of the church. The stockings were sent out by
one of the Queen’s dressers to a friend in Australia, and
later on fell into the hands of Mr. Pope (of Farmer and
Co.), who has kindly lent them to Lady Darley.
Reminds slightly of what Albert Smith says he
saw at a Parisian bazaar once. A group of gesti-
culative Frenchmen admiringly regardful of a to-
be-raffled-for pair of ! But then, the owner
was the most beautiful and shapely Flossie of her
day, whereas Her Good Gracious is most virtuous
—and stout. Nevertheless, a contributor, intoxi-
cated with loyalty, is moved to song :
OTHER LAMBS.
NEWCHUM (to livery man): “Is this horse quite
quiet? ”
LIVERY MAN: “ Quiet as a lamb.”
NEWCHOUM: “But some lambs are vewy fwisky.”
LIVERY MAN: “Yes; but HE'S not some lambs,
take it from me!”
Dear Bulletin. —The “ Bulletin man ”
who wrote from Shanghai re meeting a Chinaman
who had known Louisa Collins (Botany poisoner)
is a Liar. That is not elegant, but it is true. He
(“ Bulletin man ”) did not represent Evening
News on the occasion of that lady’s sudden death.
I did. (See Government Gazette of that date
with copy of certificate of execution which I
signed. No glory attached to this. It is only a
“ correction.” —J.W.N.
* * • •
“ Limber ” remarks to The Bulletin that
the gratuitous use, by private persons, of N.S.W.
Permanent Artillery horses calls for Parliamen-
tary inquiry, notwithstanding that Major-Gen.
Ereneh is credited with defending the practice.
[The other side of the case is that the battery
horses seldom get enough work, and by loaning
them out they are regularly exercised, and are
thus in good condition for work when required.]
In some N.S.W. country public
schools, including those of certain big
towns, there is a growing practice of
abolishing the hour-and-half mid day
recess. The youngsters are kept at
their tasks (without recreation or
food) until 2.30 and then dismissed
for the day. Rain, dust, wind, or
threats of any of them serve as a
pretext for a practice which is already
having bad results, and is vigorously
assailed by local medical men.
* * *
Two letters (Exhibits 1 and 2)
in a certain (squared) Australian di-
vorce-suit of not long ago. Exhibit 1:
Dearest.—Oh, to live that brief half-hour
once more ! To feel your lips warm-pressed
to mine, to know you love me ! Come
back, come back, and let us live again that
swift sweet madness which possessed our
souls. You are mine, and I defy all the
world to keep you from me. As soon try
to quell the flames of a mighty fire by one
weak human breath, than kill this sore
longing of my heart. It is wrong. The
supremest of wickednesses ! But what are
right and wrong when one is tied by the
mere civil rites of the world to a marble
doll whose very touch is repulsion, and an-
other, warm, passionate and loving, is
offering her love only that she might fill your life with
overflowing happiness. I want you ; I need you ;my
whole being cries out for you. Come 1
Exhibit 2:
The wife found your letter in my pocket 1 Damn you !
* * • •
The S.M. Herald now refers to its own
Lucy’s London letter as “foreign” correspond-
ence. It used to be “ Home.”
» * • •
“Celt”: The most Caledonian part of
N.S.W. is on the Lower Clarence. They have
there every brand of Scot, from the rollicking
chiel after Burns’ heart—one eye on the lassies and
the other on the whusky—to the dour, rigid Coven-
anter saint and the canny mon with whom “bang
goes saxpence ! ” There are 40-year residents who
still affect braid Scawtch in their households. The
Highland folk have their own kirk, where the
Gospel is preached to them in Gaelic undefiled,
and pipers are as plentiful as pumpkins, no social
gathering being considered complete without
plenty of skirling and skipping. Holman, M.P.,
had the bad luck to strike the annual gathering of
the clans on 24th May for his anti-Bill address,
and between Federation and whisky things got
badly mixed.
* * * *
“ Holdar M.” : The flower-dodge again.
T’other morning, a little bare-footed girl called
round, with a pathetic appeal for flowers, to deck
(much sobbing) the coffin of her just-deceased
sister. The tearful request was bountifully
granted ; but, later in the day, I came upon the
same mourner, at a city corner, exposing those
identical vegetables for sale.
Estimated that 837 persons are employed
in the furniture trade of Sydney, 431 of whom are
Chinese and 406 Europeans. The late Ninian
Melville, who used to class coffin-making with
“ furniture,” lived and died in the faith that an
Act obliging Chinese to stamp their goods would
drive the yellow man out of the trade. But no-
where has such an Act had the result anticipated.
• * * *
Melb. factory-inspector Ord suggests the
imposition of a JBSO license-fee on Chinese furni-
ture-makers, with a limit to the number.
• * * «
The Novel-party and Poem-party ideas
have spread even to the bakblox—out into those
parts where the “darnce” is marred by candle-
grease, and the dingo is aggravated by the music
and goes howling across the plain, and where the
local dude has his scalp-lock anointed with suet.
Somebody in a far-back township had read of the
idea, and it was decided to try the entertainment
—everybody to represent a book or a poem the best
way possible. When it came to the push, only
one man could remember any bit of literature to
represent—the rest gave it up, and came as they
were. The exception arrived carrying a swag, a
large carpet-bag, a small trunk, a billy, and a
good-sized rock, and he represented the “White
Man’s Burden.” Nobody guessed it. Nobody
even dreamt that he represented anything. The
crowd told him he was a new kind of and
threw the things out.
“ WOMEN HAVE
NO SENSE OF
HUMOR.”
MAY: “ Funny how two
such dissimilar people
as we should ever have
thought of getting mar-
ried!”
DECEMBER : “ Not funny a
bit —it was absolutely
ridiculous ! ”
“Y.A.”: Be tight-lacing (8., 18/2/’99).
Girl-missionary once expostulated with aged
Chinaman about binding his daughter’s feet.
Quoth he: “My makee tie-um foot, no can run
away ; welly good. You makee tie-um belly ;no
can chow-chow ! (eat) —welly bad ! ”
Let us sing “God swathe the Queen,”
As we fasten both our een,
In no gaze of idle mocking,
On this pledge of England’s straightness,
On this emblem of her Greatness,
On our Queen’s much-travelled stocking !
Let us chant “ God dress the Queen,”
As we think what might have been,
(At our heart are fearful knockings !)
Had V.R. been more than human,
And forgetting she was woman,
Never worn a pair of stockings !
B.E.


A.
MAN
WANTS BUT
LITTLE
NERE BELOW
BUT WOMAN
WANTS
MARK FOY’S
you KNOW.
Simplest—Most Durable-
VtflH®
s_machines
-^1
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
Ren)*n)bcr!
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
™ 5? AL Ir >sh Linen HANDKERCHIEFS
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS
have NO Equal
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mv De.„ m™,_ «• lm -
The obligingness of Govt. House is becoming a
bye-word. Lord Beauchamp has accepted the
post of Editor, and Lady Mary that of Editress,
to the x ress Bazaar Newspaper, and both are
taking great interest in the Fair. Ladv Mary
presides at all the meetings, and His Ex has
promised his autograph to one fair stall-holder
who will deal chiefly m signed photographs.
Altogether, it looks as if the Fair will be a highly
picturesque structure. Mr. Backhouse was show-
mg at last meeting a model of the different stalls
and it seems that everyone will sell in an olde
Englyshe habitation, with an open front like a
butcher s shop.
Lord Beauchamp went into the backblocks last
week, and saw the raw bushie in all his glory.
Ihe tour was meant to be a peaceable holiday
jaunt. But, lo ! at every railway-station His Ex.
fell into the arms of Mayors and Mayoresses burst-
uwf out of new kid gloves ; and was showered with
addresses that commenced tremulously, “ Y’hex-
cellentcy and suet, we ’aving come ere to bid yous
welcome, and continued in a corresponding
strain of wild beauty not unmixed with pathos
(Dan. O Connor, Epistle xlii.), until the picked
child with the longest curls and best frock stepped
forward from behind a bouquet.
At one proud township, the local Mayor saw
two strange men standing apart. He rushed to
them, and shook them fiercely by the hand. “ Most
a PPy, he was mumbling, when one spoke. “ R e -
Sorters; want entree to the functions.” The
layors face fell below his third chin. “Oh, yes
1.11 see to that,” he said loftily. He pulled out a
visiting-card, and a pencil that looked like a bitten
» ml slowl y and painfully he wrote, “ Admit
a j . her L he stopped. He was perplexed.
Admit this—Gentleman ? Man? Beast? Creature?
What? JSo, the mayoral mind wasn’t equal to it,
£/” y Carried awa y> and still carry, “Admit
The bush went to great trouble in the way of
welcomes to His Ex. It gave balls for him,
erected arches, burnt “ kirrosene ” with lavishness,
and followed him through Moree with a procession
three-quarters of a mile long. H.E. was rather
weary when he went up there, and a long course
of country banquets, and the wild, unadulterated
stare of the populations, played havoc with his
jaded nerves at times. He was obliged altogether
to forego one ball. Ah, how simple that looks on
Eiper ! But the tragedy of the Real defies words.
very bush-girl in the district had the hope of
dancing in the same Lancers. For days before-
band the sweet bush hair was curling. And then
all the brilliancy and turkeys and wonderful home-
made sweets and Sydney-draper dresses, dwindled
a '™y into one little sad, quadrille-sized party,
which hid its aching heart under assumed smiles
and only kept up out of a sense of duty to the
turkeys. The rest of the Moree ball stayed at
home and thought his Ex.’s committee over in
solitude.
But still there might have been tears if Lord
Beauchamp had been there. Long ago the late
Frince Eddie opened a country ball in South Aus-
tralia with a Miss Jones. And Miss Jones lost
the programme on which the name of England’s
possible future king was written. Mr. Jones
offered enormous rewards for that programme.
Fifty pounds ; a hundred pounds ! He even ran
into four figures. But the programme was never
found. And Muss Jones never, never married.
She seemed to have lost her hold on life.
. Speaking of Royalty, the Queen of England
isn t like the Queen of Spain. Sydney has had
our Queen’s stockings to look at for several days.
Fine, black silk—that have actually been on. At
the Church Bazaar, where they were exhibited, a
lady was heard telling her husband “The Queen’s
stockings will go through a wedding-ring.”
With her legs in them?” he replied, incredu-
lously. Had he never seen the Queen, even in a
picture ?
You will be sorry, Myee, to hear that some
artists are hurt because I lately mentioned them
m the same line with j'oekeys, etc. I haven’t
heard how the jockeys take it yet.
And, do you know, that little friendly evening
at .Govt. House hasn’t done so very much towards
bridging over the breach between the two
societies. While the beautiful At Home was in
full swing a member of one society was smitten by
a large, dull fact. He looked round, and saw
that the whole of the V.R. party was talking to
members of the rival sect. He frowned a dark
sombrero frown, and waited till the private sec.
should have finished with one small, inoffensive
member. Then he strode up to that small mem-
ber, and whispered in his ear, “You’ll hear more
of this.” “Of what?” “Your society is mono-
polising the vice-regal attention in the most bare-
faced way.” “And to what do you attribute
that? ’ said the small man, neatly. But it isn’t
that sort of neatness that heals breaches.
It was after I wrote to you last week about Amy
Castles’ one frock that she appeared in another.
At her big, bursting matinee concert she wore a
little purple cloth dress, with a white satin sailor-
collar, and no hat. Everyone who had seen her
before observed how thin and white she looked.
It seems that her nervousness, never seen by
the audience, attacks her in the green-room,
and causes fits of sickness. All her good
fortune notwithstanding, it makes one’s heart
ache to see that little white, wan face staring
steadily into the thousands of faces before her.
Also, her throat is troubling her. A Sydney
throat-specialist has warned her that she runs
great danger in continuing to sing according to her
present system of voice-production. So her offer
to sing in aid of a Sydney Conservatorium of
Music is not likely to come to anything. She was
continuously sick all that last week inSydney. At
the matinee, big, kind Madame Wiegand had to
take her out on to the Town Hall verandah, and
keep her in the open air between songs.
Did you see any of the correspondence over that
Conservatorium ? Dan O’Connor flourished like a
blackthorn. “The rare and fragile casket which
enshrines the glory of highly-sensitive female
genius is so costly, so perishably precious, that it
demands from the chivalry of man eve generous
and kindly protection—every shield, sympa-
thy, every comfort, every encouragement.” Just
remember that, if ever there’s an Irish Meta-
phrastic evening. And Dr. M‘Carthy recipro-
cated feelingly, and, with his admiration of Dan
and Amy, worked in the fact that his own little
Maud would give concerts in Sydney in a few
months. (She returns before the end of the year,
after some brilliant American touring.)
Re encouragement, remember our own “Charlie”
Huenerbein, that delicate, sympathetic accom-
panist and favorite of 20 years. And be sure to
go to his benefit concert. It comes off at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall this Thursday, July 13th, and
deserves solid patronage from Sydney people.
The Boys’ Brigade ball has been fixed for Tues-
day, July 18, Paddington Town Hall. Mrs. Rey-
nolds and Mrs. Playfair are the secs.; Mrs. J.
Dean, treasurer.
“Novel teas” are getting up to variations.
There was one at the Salon last week that called
itself a Metaphrastic evening, but it wasn’t really
dangerous. It only intensified things by depicting
quotations from Shakespeare instead of novels.
One bold Metaphrast wore a little mirror on her
chest. She was “ I met a fool.” Unguessed! I
don’t think I shall go to any of this variety. No
one knoweth how she will be met there. And into
the parties that are not Metaphrastic now enter
things not generally invited to social entertain-
ments—worms, flies, pills, clumps of hair, that
adorn a woman and point a tale with ferocious ■
realism.
Mrs. Caro and her pretty daughters had a merry
tea and novel-afternoon last Monday, at “Mel-
rose.” Fifty feminine guessers worked hard for
hours, but so ’cute is your practised novelist-
knower that only seventeen were guessed. Ethel
Turner carried a wooden soldier in a toy cradle.
Miss Dolly Hordern showed a boy on an iceberg,
shrieking “Oh!” Think them out for yourself.
The names of the novels that flew round! At
last, Providence has found a way of wiping the
dust off the books that nobody reads. Or, should
I say, of avenging itself on the books that can’t
show reason for their existence ?
“ Why are not the University women in the van
of every movement ?” is often asked. The reason
is that they are women first, and University
women second. About a year ago they had their
chance. One of their number, who was away in
America, sent them word of a “novel-tea” idea,
and urged them to try it. One only of her fellows
in Australia tried to get the suggestion carried
out, but met with no success. No one would see
anything striking or interesting in the proposed
plan. Now that it has become a society craze, the
University women are getting as much “ worked-
up as anyone else, but the honor and glory that
belong to pioneers are lost to them for ever.
The successor to the novel-party is the song-
party, where a sober-minded man enters a room
with a doll hanging down his back (“The Girl I
Left Behind Me ”), or carries a basin of sugar in
either hand (“Sweet and Low”). But the very
latest N.Y. fad is the “supper-evening.” The
entertainment here consists in cooking the supper
for the party. Each young man has a dish and a
young lady assigned to him. The girls are pro-
vided with aprons, told where to find the in-
gredients' in the different pantries, and all repair
to the kitchen. The men have to make the dishes,
being instructed by their partners. A few couples
are told off to set the table, and, when all is ready
they eat the supper—and that is the party. It is
said by those who “have been there ” to be quite
the most fascinating form of entertainment ever
invented. Perhaps !
Sydney people are so fond of “A Trip to China-
town ” that Saturday’s big, affectionate first night
was only to be expected. Harry Conor, in his old
part of Welland Strong, sang “The Bowery ” as
tellingly as ever. And Carrie Moore showed that
she has learnt a good deal, and acquired a good
deal more, since Xmas panto. She got all the
flowers on Saturday, and played poor little Sadie
Macdonald’s part of Flirt in a bright, smart, but
perhaps slightly business-like way. I mean Carrie
gives you the impression that Carrie Moore is
working for all she knows. When that impression
fades, or is veiled behind a little extra spontaneity
there stands out a first-rate little artist, and a
rapidly rising one, too. She looked a fetching
Flirt in a little grey-over-pink frock, with grey
shoes and stockings, and white cap and apron.
Miss Gillette sported the prettiest frock on the
stage. This tall, dark ’Murkan dresses well
consistently, and wears her clothes with a
dashing air and superior pose of head.
The Chinatown frock showed a polonaise of a
soft blue silk, slashed up all round in
huge tabs over filmy skirt of white tucked chiffon.
Miss Aliens Crater has her voice, after a nasty
throat operation. Both she and Miss Louise
Hepner have suffered from bad throats in Sydney.
As Miss Crater is one of those very light-haired
blondes who can wear black to perfection, she sets
off her frock of black lace with transparent yoke
and sleeves of lightly-tucked chiffon worn with a
plumy black hat. In some plays it is kind to veil
the stage as much as possible,' but it isn’t neces-
sary in “ Chinatown.” So badly was the curtain
worked on Saturday that the gods got nothing but
aggravating glimpses of feet, with an occasional
ankle thrown in, in spite of entreaties to “yup
with the ryag.”
I see that Walter Bentley, who will shortly
play Silver King for the Firm, has taken to
literature. He has been shedding on Sydney
gently-tinted reminiscences of “my friend, his
Grace of Beaufort, dear old Charlie Harcourt,
Irving, Sothern, and all my othah dear friends.”
A little less Grace and gush, and Mr. Bentley
would be quite a fair writer, a much-weeded im-
provement upon the usual forsaken-garden style
of actors driving quill - pens through terrible
tangles of flowers and vegetable-matter,
Theatre-coats are all the rage in London. These,
to be worn during the play—are cut to three-
quarter lengths, chiefly in broche satin. The
sleeves are plain, without the slightest pleat at
the shoulders, the back is a sacque shape, and the
straight fronts are cut to show a full fall of lace.
Theatre-capes are running wild. They reach be-
yond the knees; and a point at the back, shawl
fashion, with rounded fronts, is the toniest model.
Inside the cape hundreds of little frills of val. lace
cover the lining, from the top of the high collar to
the cloak’s edge. Brocade, with deep lace flounces,
or covered half-way with guipure under bands of
fur, is considerably swagger.
Outspoken Dr. Zillman, of Sydney Unitarian
Church “The first king of Israel fell through
priestly interference. Is there to be a striking
parallel between the young Saul and the newly-
appointed Governor. There are people who say
this youthful Earl is under the finger and thumb
of the priest.” The salary of .£5O per annum re-
ceived by His Ex.’s clergyman for Sunday morn-
ing services at Govt. House does not suggest that
the traces are all round His Ex. just yet.
So at last the striding intellects of this city have
been favored with a new lending library. For a
long time the danger of taking books from the
Macquarie-street building has been repressing
people in search of Carlyle, Scott, and the other
books that go out so regularly from lending
libraries. With Carlyle and Scott, borrowers
took home all sorts of horrors from the old room,
which reeked poisonously in summer, and had
quite a noticeably evil effect on the health of its
officials. The new rooms are three storeys up
in the Victoria Markets. A few hundred clean
works of fiction have been added, and when the
George-street tram starts the library will be con-
veniently located.
. From Mrs. G. E. Wilson I have received an
interesting little prospectus of the newly-formed
Child-Study Association of Australia. The object
of this association is to help parents and teachers
to a more careful and scientific study of children.
Says the circular: “Parents wonder how it is
that their young people are delicate, anaemic, or
under-sized. Teachers complain of the difficulty
of teaching them, and the lack of attention and
concentration in their pupils. The only way is to
have every child that enters a school properly
tested and measured so that means may be taken
from the first to counteract weaknesses and bad
tendencies. By this it is hoped that much of the
crime and insanity that lies as a possibility in the
future can be avoided and eliminated.” A colossal
hope 1 How to fulfil it is being explained in the
first instance at a series of lectures.
In Sydney is to be found one woman on whom a
title has had no ill effects whatever. A while
ago she was receiving guests in large numbers—
mostly people who said “ Haw ! ’’—and when the
affair was well on, and she had shaken 500 hands
or so, she was seen looking round over her
shoulder. “Wherever can it be?” a friend
heard her murmuring. “Dear me, I wonder
where it’s got to?” She whispered into her
friend’s ear: “I couldn’t keep them on ; so tired
with standing so much,” and plunged out with
one foot in a wild semi-circle. “Both gone”
she whispered pathetically.” The friend took
a long walk round the long silk train. At
the far end, three yards away from the owner,
sticking out from the train’s last flounces, she
found them. Poke them in with your parasol,”
whispered the titled one. They were pushed in»
till her foot touched them. Then she kicked them
well under her, and stood over them smilingly for
the rest of the afternoon. (I nearly forgot to say
they were her boots.)
Have you read Mrs. Potter’s weird soul-
unveihng to Raymond Blatherskite in London
Daily News ? She even out-Potters Potter. “I
make-up according to the method of Romney,
Vandyke, Reynolds, Gainsborough. ... I touch
my mouth and nostrils with vermilion, and so give
a gem-like quality to my face. . . . And the hair
—it is wonderful what you can do with a swish of
hair to pull yourself into a period.” A discovery
already made by Porphyra’s lover, who pulled
Porphyra to a full-stop with one long yellow string
of hair “three times her little throat around.”
. -^l rs - Potter gets on to the old question of dress-
ing to suit emotions. “I would play all emotional
scenes in white ; a serious scene, or a tragic, or a
sinister, in black ; whilst red, of course, is defiant,
reckless, wicked.” But how are our new colors to
be represented? In the Potter’s own words—
Costumes should not only harmonise with the
occupation of the wearer, but they should be the
expression of the century and the age they repre-
sent ” This age is representing itself in other
shades. Red has turned deep-pink-magenta, and
taken on the incipient virtue of all good women
who confess to magenta dresses. To be either
defiant, reckless, wicked in the red of the day is
impossible. And black? Black serious ? Why,
black is the great gateway that leads to all that is
wonderful and gleaming and glittering in this
world. Steel, and silver sequins, and jet paillettes,
and crusted nets, have lifted black up into the
foremost place of fashion’s giddiest raiment. There
is nothing under Heaven so young and snappy and
enviable as a modern black frock.
What to-day wants is a new system of staga-
xrocking that will be for ever uniting the old, old
stage emotions to the shifting colors of the hour.
What a keen, sweet sense of propriety when the
wicked rich woman in white with a blue sash stabs
her poor, good young lady seamstress rival in
Cuban-red cashmere that would have lasted her all
the summer had she only lived ! Or when Sir
Henry s dear, sweet little bride, in green and blue
shepherd s-check shirt, red tie, and pastel blue
cloth skirt, has wicked lies told her of her hus-
band s perfidy by Mrs. Olde Catte, in soft, pale,
clinging, un-smoked grey, destitute of trimmings,
and a white grebe muff and boa.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
Ihe poor little brewer. Lord Hindlip, does
look so pitifully nervous and what-do-T-do-next-
lhed on ceremonial occasions. He is g’etting quite
a / f j through glancing round out of the corners
of his eyes to see what Lord Richard Nevill is
dorng so that he may follow suit. At the opening
of Parliariient they dressed the. little fellow up in
gorgeous full-dress uniform with a shaving-brush
sticking out of the top of the cocked hat, and set
him on a big grey horse, where he looked like a
painted frog 1 on a stump. He watched Nevill to
see when to get off Ids horse, and then he got
mixed up with his sword and stumbled about pink
and white all over, till big Sir Charles Hoi led-
Smith patted him on the back and told him to
cheer up, my little man, it’ll soon be over.’
On Wednesday (sth July) Lady Rrassey,
gowned in purple, opened the Victoria Hospital
(run by women for women) with a golden key.
Ihe ceremony was witnessed, amongst others, by
medicine-folk galore, male and female. The yard,
where most of the company snuffled and sneezed
through the preliminary speechifying, had been
a a i ln a I rhemuafcid 0 7 state of puddle and slush.
At last the doors opened, and the damp-footed
brigade swarmed into the hospital, a place so dainty
as to rob the future of half its terrors. Snow-
white linen, cream-white iron bedsteads, such a
pet of an operating-room, rounded germ-baffling
corners, sterilised-water taps, and white-enamel
surgical table. Beholders for the moment entered
into the feelings of Rhoda Broughton’s hypochon-
driacal heroine, who nightly prayed that ‘she
might be counted worthy of operation.’
Nurses at the new hospital are pretty girls,
their snowy caps and aprons showing up against a
background of green-cotton frock. Among all
women-workers,, ministering angels probably take
the cake for beauty. A girl who knows she’s nice
to look at naturally chooses a sphere where ail her
fellow-laborers don’t wear pel tieoats. Extra-nice
belles m want of pin-money adopt a nurse’s
vocation cause one meets such nice men.’
A grand ‘ All Hail! ’ kind of composition in
honor of Australia and Federation is in hand by
Prof. Marshall-Hall, and will be sung at the con-
cert in aid of the new Hospital for Women on the
31st inst. The poem has been written by the Prof.,
and he has practically finished the score. It is to
r® i a - ! J V r 9 hoil ' ar ?d fob orchestra, and the
ecle i r-taTel choir will sing it. The Victorian poll
will be over by the time it is sung. The composer
thinks the music about the best he has done : and
he has ‘ felt ’ every bar of it.
e Woman’s Hospital mania for marriage-
lines. The sick poor suffer much at other institu-
tions besides those managed by women. Pain-
racked patients arrive to find their beds not
ready, as promised. This means an expensive and
agonised wait in the cab. Then, may T be, sufferers
are toted tfl the casualty-ward, and left there
pro. tern, on a stretcher. At this stage, their
friends are dismissed minus the satisfaction of
seeing them safely in bed. Next, three nurses
administer a compulsory tub, and at last the
victim gets to bed ‘just in time for the death-
agony as a poor moribund Irishman said, in
describing his own hospital-experience in the city.
“Inmates bound for the Alfred Hospital are
advised not to bother with the tub ere leaving
home. They’ll be scoured when they get there
no matter how clean. At Melb. Hospital if you’re
palpably well-washed and in great pain they spare
you the martyrdom of the preliminary tub At
last-nientioned establishment, the lady-doctor is
beloved even by patients of her own sex, and ex-
lnmates speak well of the nursing-staff in both
hospitals.
“Miss Stanbridge, the Daylesford heiress, is a
ward of President Zeal, of the Leg. Council.
(Continued on page 25).


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
.£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia:
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Agents Wanted* General Manager^
CAN
Cocoa
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Papier.]
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
Roderic Quinn’s book of verses, “ The
Hidden Tide ” (Is. 9d. post free from Bulletin
office) has received uncommonly good critical
notices everywhere, and has evidently nestled
close to the hearts of Australian poetry-lovers.
By the way, what is probably Quinn’s finest story
—“Margaret”—will appear in next Bulletin
Xmas number.
Zetz Spa (naturally effervescent) is a
natural mineral water. The analysis on each
bottle is guaranteed. It is more pleasant and
wholesome than any other water with spirits, inilk,
etc. Obtainable at all good hotels and stores.*
A Word in Confidence.
It is a pleasant duty to give honor, where justly
due, but in this age we reserve the right to exer-
cise our discretion as to what is worthy of praise.
We must not, however, in our caution fail to
discriminate. Must not condemn the Navy be-
cause one officer blunders ; must not ridicule or
underestimate the value of our entire fire depart-
ment because one fireman forgets his discipline;
must not mock at religion because one member
goes wrong ; must not sneer at the entire medical
profession because one physician makes a mistake,
nor decry all proprietary medicines because some
lack merit.
While it is the duty of everyone to avoid the
ardent pretender, one should give credit when
merited. You may rely with confidence upon the
following statement from a prominent Australian :
Dr. Robert Shaw, L.D.S., M. 8., D.A., Rock-
hampton, writes: “I have much pleasure in
stating that I prescribed Warner’s Safe Cure very
frequently whilst acting as medical officer on the
Cairns-Herberton Railway Contract, and obtained
more satisfactory results from it than any formulae
of my own prescribing.—ROßEßT SHAW,
L.D.S., M. 8., D.A.”
Messrs. Hoffnung and Co., of Pitt-street,
Sydney, have placed a milk-steriliser on the
market. This steriliser is a new and simple
apparatus whereby milk can be perfectly and
effectively sterilised at home or upon an extended
scale for re-sale. *
The Bulletin is asked to draw attention
to the booklet, “ Two years’ experience with
acetylene gas ”; being a resuimi of interesting dis-
cussions on “ acetylene gas ” by the Engineering
Association of N.S.W.*
Under the name “Polo,” John Brush,
Son and Co. have brought out a booklet that
should be very interesting to equestrians. Part
of the booklet’s matter is a reprint from articles
in a Sydney newspaper, and the rest is an admir-
able trade accompaniment of “ Polo ” neces-
saries.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Rumored that Bishop Thornton, of Bal-
larat, succeeds Dr. Goe at Melbourne.
Daniel Cooper (in England), G. H. Cox
and Henry Mort are the sole survivors of the first
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, 1856.
An ex-M.L.A., now cook in a Sydney
hotel, so loathes politics in every form that he
could not be induced to vote even at the referen-
dum.
The “Australian gentleman” whom the
London Missionary Society reports to have
anonymously contributed .£2OOO to extend mis-
sions in Papua, is said to be Ebenezer Vickery, of
Sydney.
Rumored that N.S.W. Judge Matthew
Henry Stephen, who will be 71 years old Deo. 5, is
about to retire. If this is true, the Judge’s succes-
sor may be found among Messrs. Sly, Pring and
C. B. Stephen.
Picturesque item from N.Q. paper :
Right in front of these doddering and dilapidated back-
numbers (anti-Federalists), ready to charge with the zeal
of a Don Quixote, though with much less discretion, at
any windmill his eye can perceive, stands that battered
veteran, George Dibbs.
THE GLORIOUS FOURTH (WITHIN FIVE
MINUTES).
Melb. Leader makes a mild and feeble
pretence of fostering Australian literature. In a
recent issue, it gratefully acknowledges a set of
verses from an admiring subscriber, and prints
the stanzas —three of “The Banjo’s” best-known
efforts.
Although a “back number,” one of the
sincerest Federalists is ex-Premier John Douglas,
now magistrate at Thursday Island (Queensland),
and the wires of congratulation he sent right and
left on June 21 showed his interest to be at
summer heat.
That absurd person, the long - haired
“ Oliver Bainbridge ” (of Toowoomba, Q.), Aus-
tralia’s contribution to the wide-world-walking
brotherhood, is now in Maoriland and poses on
his pasteboards as “Bainbridge, Ashley Park,
Bucks, England.”
S. E. Lees, Ives, and Harris were each,
when serving as Mayor of Sydney, recommended
for a Queen’s Birthday title—but the last has been
first. Lees bore the disappointment with equan-
imity, but Ives felt as sick as his teetotal hos-
pitality once made a prominent local politician.
From Wellington (M.L.) Evening Post,
23/6/’99: —
St. Mark’s Parisn Club spent last evening with the
poets Milton, Bracken, and Shakespeare.
Milton, Bracken and Shakespeare. “Letjustioe
be done though the heavens fall! ”
Political reputation is the most airy of
bubbles. T. J. Byrnes hasn’t been dead a year,
and young Queenslanders already ask “ Who was
he?” Parkes is a piece of legendary lore, and
John Plumper Hoolan is only remembered as
having been a gorgeous mountebank, possessed of
marvellous epithetic fertility.
B. R. Wise’s jibe at Sydney Daily Tele-
graph in his Annandale speech was not reported
in that paper, and was respectably mangled inS.M.
Herald. Referring to the struggle for supremacy
between the two Sydney morning dailies on the
referendum question, Wise said: “ Granny’s
steady diapason gradually overcame the shrill
top-note of Mary Jane.”
Some people wondered why orator Deakin
gave away the chance of making a splashy and
showy speech in his best colored manner, in
moving his motion favoring Scripture-lessons in
Vic. State schools. The reason is just this:
Deakin’s chance of moving the resolution came at
6 p.m. He had to dine with the President of the
Council —who was giving a swagger official ban-
quet —at 6.30, and he had to dress for the dinner.
It was a choice between an oration and cold soup
with no oysters. With the odor of turtle under
his nose, Alfred could not rise to the ocoasion, so
he only spoke for a quarter of an hour.
“ T.T.” : That note about the punctilious
Maoriland Auditor-General (8., 24/6/’99) is very
near Gospel. But the hero of the yarn is not the
present holder of the office, Warburton, but his
predecessor, the irascible Fitzgerald, once a noted
Tory editor, who got promoted for his many jour-
nalistic misdeeds. The present Auditor-General
is, however, following in the footsteps of the
departed Fitz. Warburton, though Auditor-
General, is said to own an Opposition newspaper,
and to slate the Government therein in a way
quite surprising for a dispassionate publio servant.
But this may be only calumny.
London Daily News says that Queen Vic-
toria disapproves of Kipling (which was to be ex-
pected) except as regards his Recessional and
“ sich ” (which was also to be expected). But it
was cruel thus to give away the timbre of the
Royal taste by announcing that it’s only when
Kipling begins to pander to the smug Philistinism
of the conventicle that Her Gracious begins to
approve of him.
“ Scribo The late Archibald Michie will
always be associated in my mind with a case of,
say, Smith v. Brown. M. was for plaintiff, at
some such a place as Gladstone’s Nathalia, but
the scandal was a lot beyond Dancing. Brown
was the local doctor, and the Smiths and Browns
who had been very thick, suddenly broke off the
intimacy. At a gentleman’s party some one
asked Brown the reason. “Oh,” says he “it’s a
case of Potiphar’s wife.” This buzzed and reached
Bishop Perry’s ears, and Rev. Smith proceeded
against Brown, civilly, for alleged assault on Mrs.
Smith, a woman so handsome that there was quite
a sensation when she lifted her veil in court.
Verdict for defendant, despite a terrific speech by
Michie. “Gentlemen this viper—willing to
wound, and yet afraid to strike ! ” —Brown sitting
opposite him. Michie said afterwards, though,
that Smith was a fool.
King, the notorious negro convict of Pen-
tridge prison, is now quite mad, says a recently-
discharged prisoner, and when brought into the
open after his last stretch of solitary, he was no
longer black but absolutely green, like a beer-
bottle. Since his conviction in ’92 King has done
over 500 days “solitary!” and in one year he
spent no less than 136 days on bread and water !! !
Like Weechureh, who ended his attempts to
“obtain justice” on the gallows of Melb. gaol,
King suffers from being a bush-lawyer, and all his
attacks upon warders and fellow-prisoners are
based upon the idea of “having his case made
public.” King is a madman, and when he kills a
warder that warder’s blood will be upon the head
of the brutal and senseless System. Why, even
the Westralian penal commission recommends the
abolition of “ solitary ” and punitive low diet.
On the morrow of N.S.W. Federation-
vote, a small Bendigo co-operative co. ran a little
social as an ad. for itself. There was no sign of
the banquet which had been announced, but the
chairman proposed “Success to the Federal Move-
ment,” coupled with the name of Dr. Quick, and
suggested that, while the local Father of Federa-
tion was speaking, the ladies should go out and
get the coffee ready. Said F. of F., who had been
previously bursting with jubilation at the N.S.W.
referendum-result, was completely staggered by
the chairman’s remarks, and sarcastically observed,
to commence with, that, in view of the important
refreshment-suggestion, he would be very brief.
The cold and scanty succeeding observations of a
profoundly-disgusted Doctor were made to the
accompaniment of the clinking cups and saucers
in the adjoining room.
Old James Prendergast, who lately retired
from the Maoriland Chief-Justiceship after sitting
in a high {dace for 24 years, was never a bril-
liant lawyer, but he had the merit of being a
plain veteran who loathed needless “frill.” When
he filled the occasional billet of Acting-Governor
he knocked so much of the cocked-hat dignity out
of the business that people said he was unfit for
the position. With more force and grit he would
have made a good administrator for a place like
Papua, for he would have been quite content to
live on Irish stew, and go about in any clothes
that were handy, and to sleep on a stretcher
with the statutes of the country in a gin-
case under the bed. Prendergast was
Acting-Governor before Hercules Robin- /
son took charge, and his reception of
Hercules the Great was a grief unto the
snobocracy of Wellington. The Gov.
arrived in a worn-out battle-ship, and
was greeted by the Mayor and stomach
—that is to say, corporation, the princi-
pal sin-shifters, the consuls, the brass /
band, the National Anthem, the police,
military, vegetarians, stray dogs, lost
cats, the corporation dust-cart, the steam-
roller, the volunteers, Friendly Societies,
Rechabites, pickpockets, larrikins, and
general chaos. And when this great out-
pouring streamed up to Government House
to deposit His Ex. at his own door it found
old-man Prendergast waiting there to swear
in Robinson and hand over the authority.
There was a kitchen table on the verandah.
On it were a Bible and Prendergast’s rather
faded top - hat, and nothing more. Prender-
gast, in that aged black suit which always had a
greeny look when the sun fell on it, stood behind
the table, with his long hair blowing in the wind.
When Hercules arrived the Acting - Governor
shook one of his hands and shoved the Bible into
the other, told him to kiss the book, and then
seized the tall hat and departed on foot. It was
the plainest and most sudden swearing-in that
the province ever saw.
John Harvey, who lately died at Salis-
bury, S.A., is almost, if not quite, the only
“ gentleman of color ” who has had a pp.ee in an
Australian Parliament. His negro 1. iood pme
from his grandfather ; but all the coloi fwa ''
the skin. Mr. Harvey, who during 60 years
a splendid reputation in the province as ong of its’
most useful men, was a co-worker with Torrens,
whose Lands Titles Act is now nearly world-
famous. Harvey was probably Torrens’ earliest
confidant; and upon him fell most of the speak-
ing in favor of the new idea outside the House
(for even that Bill took much battling for). For
a man who came to the province handicapped by
birth, and without money, and wholly without
education, John Harvey did remarkab’e things.
In the early sixties, when Deniehy
edited the R.C. weekly at Melbourne, the pre-
sent writer and he used to meet daily at the
Rising Sun, an old-fashioned pub. in Little
Bourke-street. Deniehy hated Melbourne. Said
it was started on greed and would ever remain
a glutton. “ A bloated thing, sir, oozing yel-
low fat.” And, of course, Sydney was all the
other. “ Kissed by the gods, how can she help
her beauty !” he would rave. “Nothing can
make her ugly—but gold,” he went on. “ Gold !
what a curse it is—the true devil. How it
spoils everything, and man first and most. And
the time is coming (this brandy is good, eh?)
when all art, and literature and every
effort of mind, will bear the hideous brand,
and nothing will be of value of heart or /
intellect that has not its market-price. It
has been so in the past, and will be so
again. And then, reaction ? Why, of
course. The stomach, long time patient,
rejects at last. But, meanwhile, what ruin
to high thoughts, pure ideas, beautiful
imagination, and daring energies has
been wrought by the market-price ! ” And
so he would talk—flying from one thought
to another, yet somehow keeping the chain
linked coherently. Of one thing he was assured
—that in the future art-life of Australia, Syd-
ney would take the initiative, and maintain
the lead. “If we should ever have art
and literature of our own, my boy, they will
be born and will flourish in the cradle built by
Nature for beauty and its expression.” Then
he would call for another brandy and “ score it
up.”
Obit., John Campbell Dibbs. The three
brothers ex-Premier George, T.A., and the de-
ceased, made one of the oldest and most promi-
nent family groups in Sydney. They were born
in Sydney, lived their lives there, and in their
several walks maintained high personal reputa*
tions. J.C.D. was less widely known than the
others, but where known commanded as high
esteem.
The late George Gordon had one of his
early speeches translated into the Australian ver-
nacular soon after his arrival in Melb. In those
days, the genial artist never swore, and one day,
when a stage-hand started whistling and nearly
sent him mad, he turned to the “ splodger ” «ith
—“ Go down, do, and tell that man to stop that
noise.” The white-clad assistant clambered down-
stairs, made towards the offending siffieur, and
there rang up to the scenic artist the words, “ Mr.
Gordon says to stop that blanky row, you blanky
.” The artist nearly fainted at the time, but
the effect of the free translation was so wonderful
that he began to consider the advisableness of
learning the new language.
LEAVE WELL ALONE.
COHENSTEIN (eyeing a piece of pork in butcher’s
shop): “ Just send that piece of veal to my
house.”
BUTCHER : “ That’s not veal, sir — that’s pork.”
C.: “ You greasy unbeliever, I didn’t ask you WHAT
it was! You can keep it, now.”
The father of Dean Cowper, of Sydney,
whose 90th birthday was celebrated on Monday
week, left England for Sydney in 1808, with the
rank of Assistant-Chaplain. The post was a
Govt, one at the time, and the salary attached to
it was £240. Some interesting correspondence is
extant, showing how income-tax even at that date
mdft the neaceful squirm. That Rev. Cowper
obtaita, Fan advance of £l2O to provide equip-
ment, etc., but the money did not go as far as ex-
pected, and he had to apply for additional indul-
gence ; the main point he insisted upon was that
he was charged £l2 as income-tax on the £l2O (a
half-year’s salary), and that civilised necessaries
for his foreign home were all dearer than he had
estimated. He obtained an additional advance,
with income-tax again deducted, and arrived in
Sydney in time to take over the historic St.
Phillip’s. He has been dead over 40 years.
WIT—FROM THE PIT.
“A man so weak that he could hardly walk
arrived at Spencer-street station, Melb., from the
country , and, having some difficulty in discovering
the whereabouts of his luggage, asked one of the
porters where he might find it. The porter, after
surveying the man's appearance, replied: ‘You
had better try the morgue! ’” — ARGUS.
A Mr. and Mrs. Adams were immigrants
to S. Australia in ’52 in a ship with nearly 800
others. The old lady died the other day, leaving
eight children, 54 grandchildren, and (37 great-
grandchildren—l29 altogether. Nearly a sixth of
the big boatload, and all well inside 50 years.
The peroration of Gov. Brassey’s address
to Melb. Chamber of Commerce, on the Hempire,
appears in full in the Times and other London
papers. Uncle Tom paid for the cabling out of
his own pocket, being evidently proud of that
gilded little unoriginal bit about the beat of Eng-
land’s morning drum rolling round the world.
The cable, however, at press-rates, cost him close
on ,£3O. But he loses no chance of keeping him-
self before the ’Ome public, and £3O for a space on
the cable-page of every principal daily in England
■ —for the cable went through Reuter —was worth
the money.
During N.S.W. Federal campaign one
Clarence-river sugar-grower was in a quandary.
He was a good Catholic and loved the Cardinal,
but he also worshipped the local member —Mac-
farlane—with a devotion inspired by much in-
formation about the land laws and promises in re
a road. The Cardinal was for the Bill and
Macfarlane was against it, and the latter argued
that Federation would kill the sugar-industry.
The wavering elector thus explained his dilemma
to sympathetic friends, “You see, the Kiardinal
and Macfarlane are agin aich other, an’ Oi dunno
which to go wid. Maybe the Kiardinal doesn’t un-
therstand the sugar industhry as well as Mac-
farlane does, but then, you see, Macfarlane, bein’
a Scotchman, can’t have the grace o’ God like the
Kiardinal, although he is a number,” On polling-
day he was still undecided as to which of his guides
he would follow, and perhaps he voted yes-no.


Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Carbolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
»r £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
TOURISTS
from all parts of the
world are unanimous in saying
that “ The Australia ” Hotel
is the best thing in Austra-
lasia.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Pathetic wail from a poor way back (N.S.
Wales) editor in his issue of July 1:
POVERTY-STRICKEN.
This issue has been brought out under extreme diffi-
culty. In the first place, we had no paper to print it on ;
in the next, we had no money to get any with. In this
extremity, a kind friend in town came to our assistance
and wired for a supply—and so we came out, rather late,
perhaps, but still alive. For the past fortnight, we and
our family have been living principally on bread and
water. And as the baker now threatens to stop our
oredit, unless he sees the color of our coin, we are in a
pretty fix. Unfortunately, we can’t show it to him. It’s
m our subscribers’ pockets. We are not ashamed
to proclaim our poverty. We think, rather, that
the shame should lie with our subscribers who
fail to pay, and thus reduce us to this condition.
We have several business letters to write ; but for the
last fortnight we have not received sufficient to pay for
the necessar3’ stamps. This is no exaggeration, but, alas,
’tis stubborn fact. It is a hard battle—a battle that
could be made so easy if our subscribers would only pay.
Each debt is so little, too, and yet, in the aggregate they
come to over £6O. Think of it 1 £5O in our books, and
not enough cash in our pockets to buy a loaf of bread or
a two-penny stamp 1 But we will struggle on, and trust
to your better feelings to help us yet. May God prompt
you to understand that we cannot live and work on air
and water.
* * * *
The following has just; been received by
His Excellency the Herr Governor of the Aus-
tralian Colony, Melbourne, from Feldstrasse,
Hamburg:—
“ To free the land which your Excellency rules from
the rabbit plague is the wish of the present writer. I
offer to submit to your Excellency an unfailing remedy,
which you can cause to he subjected to proof, and I rely
upon your Excellency’s honor to see that I receive my
share of the published reward. The value of our remedy
has received practical proof in South America, in a cer-
tain part of which there was a plague of rats. In ten
days all the rats in the district were dead, Let a strong
rabbit be oaught in a trap in such a manner that he is
not injured. Then let a pendant portion of Spanish
pepper be placed in his posteriors. The posteriors must
be sewn together in order that the animal may retain
the pepper, whereby great caution must be exercised
so that the animal may not scratch and bite people.
Then let the animal run loose in the prescribed district.
In a few weeks’ time no living rabbit will be found in the
district. The animal will be seized with a kind of mad
fury, and, by biting, will communicate the same madness
to other animals, and so on. ' Your Excellency may rely
upon it that this is no jest on my part, but the strict
truth.”
A Tasmanian squatter’s two harum-
scarum sons used occasionally to visit Launces-
ton for a spree, and on the last night of their
stay they would order an elaborate dinner and
finish up by smashing all the breakables on the
table —of course to be charged for in the bill.
On one occasion, however, they had omitted
the “smash” act, and, seeing the landlord
making chalk-marks on the wall they asked
him what they meant. “Oh,”said Boniface,
“ you haven’t broken anything and I was
merely chalking it up.” “Frank, my boy,”
said one brother, “we must keep up the 1
family reputation ! ” —and the usual perform-
ance followed. On another occasion,
the then Governor of Tasmania hav-
ing offended the father, the sons
resolved to get even with him. Ac-
cordingly His Ex. was invited to
stay a few days at the house, and,
suspecting nothing, accepted. For
the usual weekly meet of the
hounds he was provided with a
most unmanageable “ puller,” and
as soon as the hounds were off and
His Ex.’s mount was giving him a
handful to hold, the two youths
ranged up, one on each side of him,
and started bumping him to and fro like
a shuttlecock, till at last they sent him
clean over. The Governor went back
to the house, packed-up, and left. He
always afterwards referred to the twain
as the “two blood-thirsty young can-
nibals from the Midlands.” And now
both are steady-going old stager*—
one being J.P. and ex-M.L.A.
* * *
“ Bill K.” : Rev. Jones struck
our little camp after dark, and the
boss entertained him with some of his
very bluest yarns mixed with red.
Next morning boss noticed the white
choker, and thus apologised: “You see, sir, I
didn’t know you. It’s the first time I ever enter-
tained a blanky parson ! ”
• * • *
“Snell”: My friend from Swift’s Creek
tells me of meeting a small but interesting party
on the track to Bruthen. The party consisted of
a tired-looking man, a woeful and weary woman,
and an emaoiated horse. The man was towing
the horse, and the unhappy woman was carrying
the belongings of the three, a decent donkey-load.
The usual wayside compliments were exchanged,
and the solitary individual felt free to inquire:
“Good Lord! why don’t you make the horse
hump that swag o’ truck?” The man lifted
a dull eye, and languidly replied : “Oh, tha’s all
right, mate. It’s his turn next.”
• * » •
A Gippsland grazier, who has been through
the mill in Western N.S.W., had a pet crow
running about his house for a long time. The
bird was caught with a broken wing when young;
the setting of the wing was an experiment that
interested the man, and its success resulted in the
evil bird becoming a domestic pet. One after-
noon, the grazier went out on to the verandah,
where his baby was sleeping in a perambulator,
and found the crow perched on the child’s fore-
head, with a peculiarly crow-like air of gluttony
about it, picking softly at the lid of the young-
ster’s eye, just as he had seen its obscene kind
pecking at an exhausted sheep, to induce the
animal to open the eye that the ghastly scooping-
*THE LATEST FASHION and ALL THE RAGE. Any
Name made from Gold Wire like design—ss. post
free. Agents wanjted everywhere to take orders. Send
2d. for Illustrated Catalogue and Terms to Agents.
R. SIMS, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne.
dip might accurate. Next minute, the
crow was a dead bird.
* * * *
“ Hugh ” : The township storekeeper had
run out of tobacco, and we were miserable. So
when a swaggie came along the line, and asked me
for a smoke, I curtly told him that not one of orr
gang had had a smoke that day. “Oh! is that
it?’’said swaggie. “Well, you seem a decent
feller, an’ blowed I’ll see yer stuck fer a smoke. ”
Down came the swag, and out of a dirty little
bag he produced 20 or 30 small “ junks ” of
tobacco of different brands and qualities. “D’ye
like it dark or light?” he asked. “Dark, eh?
Well, ’ere’s a bit o’ Derby. Yer see, I asks every
man I meets for a bit ov terbacker, so’s I won’t
never run short.”
* * * *
When it was known in England that the
Maori chief, Patuone, had saved some British
sailors from being killed and eaten, King William
IV. sent out to him as a present, per warship
Buffalo, a suit of armour. The gift was formally
handed over to Patuone at Waiheke in Hauraki
Gulf, and when the case was opened there was
found with the armour a suit of green baize to be
worn underneath. Patuone was big, and the
armor small, but he endured the fitting on with
gravity, and then stalked solemnly to and fro in
all the Maori’s unconsciousness of the ludicrous.
Then he tried to squat down Maori fashion, but
the iron joints pinched him so that he arose with
marvellous rapidity. “ What are these things
for, anyhow?” he asked, and was told that the
suit was to protect him against his enemies. “My
enemies !” he said. “If my enemies caught me
in those things I should be dead in no time ! ”
Then he took the armor off, threw the pieces in a
heap, and said: “ Tell your king I am grateful
for this,” and he walked off with the green baize
suit.
* • • •
“Xerxes” concerning a certain “travel-
ler ”:—
He was sitting in the little railway-station talking to
another sundowner. “ Been on the tramp from Sydney
since Easter an’never done a hlanky ’and’s turn. W’y,
the ’s wants a feller ter work fer nuthin’ now. Old
Scraggs, of Wobblegully, ’ad ther cheek ter orfer me 15
bob a week an’ tucker. Wot sort? Not me! Never
worked fer less than a quid an’ tucker in me bloomin’
life, an’ I ain’t agoin’ ter start now. Fifteen blazing bob !
W’y, I ken do better’n that on ther road. Made seven-
PHILOSOPHIC.
JACKAROO: “ How did your missus come to fall
down the well, Jacky? ”
JACKY: “ Oh, you know, boss —‘ woman at bottom
of eberything ’!”
an’-a-sprafc this week an’ me tucker an’ never done nothin’
fer it. ’Ow did I get it ? W’y, wen I sees a woman I
just pitches ’er a fairy-tale about wantin’ to post a letter
to me wife, an’ it’s nearly always right fer tuppence fer a
stamp. An’ as fer tucker —w’y, sometimes I ’ave ter pick
out ther best ov it an’ chuck lot away. Come on down
an’ ’ave a beer ! ” Same gentleman called at my
house next morning and plaintively asked my wife for a
“ bit of tucker.” I went out and said, “ Don’t you want
a stamp to post a letter to your wife, eh ?” He winked
at me brazenly and walked off without another word.
• • • *
Some light thrown on a verj^siiff 1 rJ,®’ -
ing yarn :
Dear Bulletin.— Re your comment on my bull-frog and
postage-stamp yarn (B. 20/5/’99). In order to convince
you that a postage-stamp will stick on a frog I would post
you one but that I fear froggy would not take kindly to
the postmarking process. Also as I don’t know to what
extent the Bulletin staff may have been filling-’em-up-
again, the sudden advent of the reptile might have
disastrous consequences ; so I must just ask you to take
my word that a frog’s skin —except when coming out of
water—is wot damp, but is as sticky as glue and makes a
postage-stamp stick like a porous plaster. In the case of
my frog he had to traverse three miles of basaltic country
in which a mosquito couldn’t have got a drink. Which
is, doubtless, why he lost no time in getting back.
* * * *
“ J.A.H.” : Re jew-fish nests (B. 17/6/’99).
Have watched these fish in Mehi River, Moree,
for hours swimming round this circle, and
then going in centre and remaining perfectly still
for fully quarter of an hour. Any other fish ap-
proaching would start them off again, but they
never seemed to be far away from the nests.
* • * *
An Albury-district man had a curious ex-
perience lately. Cut his finger badly and was
riding to doctor to get it dressed when his horse
fell, broke its neck, and lay on rider, who was
found by a belated traveller, insensible, with con-
cussed brain. Had he not been so discovered he
would have been frozen to death, as that night
was the coldest the district had experienced for
years.
“Moss ” : Re animal in-
telligence. My dog has ap-
parently arranged with the dog
over the way to come across and
shove against the gate which, as
it swings shut on a spring, can
only be pushed open from out-
2-de. My tyke being thus en-
la rged, the pair go joyously off
c at-hunting together.
* *
The late Judge Redmond
Barry was once presiding at the
trial of an aboriginal at Portland
(Vic.), for the murder of a gin.
His associate at the time had
been “keeping it up ” the night
before, and when the court
opened was hardly fit to begin
proceedings. So his Honor,
with his well-known punctilious
manner and strictly - correct
speech, took the presentment
and began : “ Prisoner at the
bar ! The Crown presents you,
under the name of Billy, which
is the only name by which you
are known, and charges you that
you did, on the 13th day of
March last, unlawfully kill and
slay one aboriginal woman,
known as Mary ; how say you,
guilty or ? ” Then the
prisoner stopped the graceful
flow suddenly and broke his
Honor all up by yelling out:
“Oh ! stop-uin all that blanky
yabber I Me kill -um plenty
gin ! ”
* *
“Jack Gubment ” built a
roomy house to shelter the last
few blacks near Pindari Run,
N.S. Wales. Often the place
is gay with shouts of careless
darkies, dancing to the screams
of a concertina, but otherwise
the house has remained unoccupied. At the
odorous camp, near by, a husky old myall ex-
plained, with a dog chorus, the reason of the
vacant rooms. “No bin sleepit dare : too many
flea t ”
» * * •
At recent Charters Towers show the judges
gave prize as a paw-paw to what, on being opened,
proved to be a watermelon !
* * * ♦
“ A Shields ” to The Bulletin from
.Rochester (Vio.): —
You have got hold of the prevailing, but erroneous,
notion re the naming of Bendigo (Vic.). It was this way :
Myers, a squatter, who died lately at St. Kilda, and after
whom Myers’ Flats were named, started, in ’49, to take up
land on Picaninny Creek. He began at the Big Hill and
went 20 miles along the creek. The station went five
miles S.E. of the present city, and about three miles
N.E. towards Ravenswood, and the Bendigo of to-day
was entirely within the run. Myers was called away
during the marking-out process, leaving things to his
overseer, and when inspecting the boundary marks sub-
sequently he asked the overseer, “ How did you manage
about the creek? ” (which is remarkably crooked). “ Oh,
from bend to bend I go ! ” was the reply, with which
Myers was so taken that he called the run “ Bendigo.”
The diggings were then known as the Loddon goldfields.
This version doesn’t sound very convincing
* * * *
“J.W.M.”: An impressive group stood
round the booking-office for the Great Unknown.
The contents of the bundle about to be lowered
had died of a glorious burst. Occasion
—the opening of the new pub. Ma-
loney read the burial - service from
the most appropriate part of the
Mining-regulations, and there wasn’t
a dry eye in the crowd. “ Fill up ! ”
said Maloney by way of Amen, and
the dry dust was shovelled in. “Now,
boys, we’ll go an’ wet the first stiff-
’un 1 ” So ended the bush-burial.
“ 0.P.” : After many years, I
have returned to the bush to be sur-
prised. I had expected them all to be ex-
tinct long ago, but they are here still—the
emu and the kangaroo, the dingo, and the
bandy “ chap ” who rides a well-made horse
and saddle, and peels at the nose all the
year round. Also the gaunt, stumpy-fin-
gered carrier of the characterless face and
characterful character (an outrage on all
physiognomy), with the strong joke, and
short waistcoat that arches at the back.
All these and many of the other old asso-
ciations are here, to recall the time I
used to shyly approach the man with the
braces and dingo’s-tail beard, and take his
horses to water for the sake of the ride.
After all, the world is mostly a treadmill.
* * * *
“ C.E.” : Re hares jumping. The breed-
ing-grounds at Plumpton (N.S.W.) are separated
from- the coursing ground by a 3ft. 6in. paling
fence, ai-fj during 24th May meeting I saw several
■/‘reprdes,,'t’ while being driven towards trapping-
lean jump the fence, whilst others “topped”
Ai _. Aly.
' : * * * *
“Pelican”: Butcher birds, grey, and
black-and-white I take to be merely different
varieties of same species. Have kept both kinds
for years from fledgelings, and have never known
the grey turn black-and-white. The young of the
black-and-white show those colors decidedly be-
fore 12 months old. Further, the eggs of the
grey variety are always brown ; those of the black-
and-white, three parts green or blue with brown
on large end. I write now of Darling Downs
(Q.) district. Apropos, can anyone explain why
the eggs of the ordinary magpie (know all about
the kurrawong and other varieties, so am not
making mistake) should be of different colors (at
least three) in different nests ?—l, streaky red ; 2,
streaky blue or green ; 3, grey, with brown spots
at blunt end. Birds laying these different eggs
do not show the slightest external difference.
OVER THE FINCE.
MRS. CASEY : “ Here’s the flatiron, Mrs. Flaherty, and be
careful wid it, for it’s a shooveneer.”
MRS. FLAHERTY: “ Troth, thin I’ll be careful Rut how comes
it to be a shooveneer?”
MRS. CASEY: “ Bckase it remoinds me of Casey. Oi used to
throw it at him whin he kern home dhrunk, and it’s a
moighty dhry man he is now, Oi’m thinking, poor divil,
rest his sowl! ”
Westralia is trying the experiment of
letting cats loose to prey on the rabbits, and 300
were recently bought in Adelaide for the purpose.
The same plan was once tried in S.A., but the
animals fraternised and kittens and bunnies
frisked about together.
* * * *
Harry Stockdale writes, re recent an-
nouncement that a Mr. Cox had taken up 340 sq.
miles of country west of Charlotte Springs, Cen-
tralia, which he intended stocking with goats :
Novel as this notion may appear, there is a pronounced
business side to the “ goat,” especially as regards use of
areas that might otherwise be classed as waste lands. In
warm climates the animal breeds twice a year, 2 to 4
kids at a birth ; and, as it will thrive on vegetable sub-
stances actually poisonous to cattle and sheep, areas in
Australia quite useless for latter animals are well suited
to goats. Not easy to understand, though, why Mr. Oox
should have gone so far afield ; and, as skins from cold
districts (like our Monaro and Tumut) are considered
more valuable, the Centralian locality referred to must
have some special advantages—probably the twice-yearly
breeding—to compensate for climatic and distance draw-
backs.
* * * *
“Flabby P.” : Out shooting, recently,
came across snake, about 2Jjft. long, with tail
coiled round bush, and frog halfway down throat.
Froggie was hanging on like grim death to a tuft
of grass with his hind legs. After watching them
AN IMPERFECT NOTE.
BROWN BOXER: “I don’t kid to be much of er
judge, but I reckon if it wasn't fer ’er bandy
legs she’d be an olright singer!”
for a few minutes, released frog by demolishing
snake with a stick, and former didn’t seem to be
any the worse for his tug-of-war.


no
Error
of a njonj^ot—is oft repeated.
An error made in the buying of an engagement ring
regretted through life
See, therefore, an enormous stock of the latest and most artistic designs
at the lowest price that excellence of quality will permit.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.8.H.: Too obviously a “faked” picture Alfred
W.A.K. : If the suggestor’s drawing is followed, sugges-
tor’s name is usually given ; but not so when a mere hint
is sent G. Jones: Too, too, too awful J. Phillips
(Tas.): Probably one or two ideas usable. See memo.
posted J.A.P. : Kindly call on manager......Sym :As
suggestions—your drawing has much promise... Un-
available : A.L. (Ad.), J.W.E. (S.H.), Zif., S.C.C. (B.),
Dude, S.A.S. (Sydney), F.A.F. (but you should persevere),
D.L.H. __
One of the most wonderful inventions of
the age is Willson’s discovery of crystalline carbide
of calcium. There is little doubt that acetylene
gas is about to revolutionise artificial lighting.
As with all successful patents, a host of pirates
have started up to try and rob Willson of his
rights. However, the recent decision of the High
Courts at Leipsic, Germany, will somewhat damp
the ardour of Willson’s opponents. It has been
decided that Willson is undoubtedly the discoverer
of crystalline carbide of calcium. Following up
this success, the English Acetylene Company have
issued a batch of writs against infringers, and the
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd., of 36 Pitt-
street, Sydney —who own the Willson patents for
Australasia—are getting ready to give the Aus-
tralian pirates a surprise. This co. have now fitted
up some hundreds of installations around Sydney,
and are prepared to give estimates for any kind of
acetylene installations. Write direct to 36 Pitt-
street, and beware of infringers.*
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
Re the abandoned prosecution of Bishop
Tugwell for criminal libel in connection with his
statements about the West African liquor-traffic,
“ A.D.H.” writes :
I was in the Niger Coast Protectorate in ’9B, and will
just give you an idea of what the white man in those
parts does drink. If he hasn’t got fever, “ jumps,”
“softly softly,” or other of the many curses of the
“ white man’s grave,” he gets up about 5, and, after a
cup of coffee, bit of toast and a sardine or two, he works
till between 10 and 11, when the cocktail is in requisition ;
and while waiting for breakfast there will, perhaps, be a
round of drinks for each member of a mess of perhaps
half-a-dozen. At breakfast, beer is drunk, and after a
smoke there is a general turn-in for a sleep in pyjamas.
About 2 p.m., work is resumed till 4 or 6, and before the 7
o’clock dinnerthereareabundant cocktails, gin and bitters,
&c. Dinner (fish, goat, tinned soups and vegetables) is
washed down with plenty of beer, claret, port and sherry,
finishing off with Benedictine, Chartreuse, or peach and
cherry brandy. Then, after coffee, come poker, nap and
billiards, enlivened with much whisky and soda. Asa
matter of fact, Bishop Tugwell, in attributing 75 per cent,
of the local white mortality to hard drinking, is probably
rather under the mark than over it.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
GIVE THAT “TIRED EEELING ” A REST
AND DRINK
WHITE LABEL LAGER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Ed. Bulletin.— Re butcher-bird. “H. J.
McC. ” (B. 24/6/’99) is in error when he says the
name arises from the bird’s “ murderous propensi-
ties. Give b.b. a frog, and you’ll soon understand
whence the name. In a jiffy he’ll have all the
joints dangling from bars of cage, which will look
like miniature butcher's shop. He will break
meat up, and hang pieces round in the same way.
The b.b., in fact, is the most interesting bird we
have. Have never been without one. —Yarrum.
* * * *
“ Alex. M.” : Re origin of term “ butcher
bird (“ 11. J. Mac.,” 8., 24/6/’99), the designation
was more precisely due to an extraordinary habit
of the British b.-b. (Lanius eoccubitor) which
“ hangs up ” portions of its prey till wanted.
Have seen a thorn-bush stuck all over with
“joints ” of small birds, frogs, mice, &c., the effect
being ludicrously butcher’s-shoppy.
* * * *
“Perth”: Re aboriginal mourning cus-
toms, the Wide Bay (Q.) gins wear in their hair
little plumes of emu feathers bound to a wooden
skewer, and called “ poowong.” They don’t seem
to value them much, however. Have got a score
of ’em for “ gibit bacca.”
* * « •
“G.S.” : Apparently not generally known
that tin-kettling dates back to pagan times, when
bells were rung and other noises made in front of
a house before the newly-married pair entered, in
order to drive away evil spirits. In Australia,
t.k. properly means disapproval of the match, as
in the case of a May-and-December union. We
went one better than tin-kettling once in our little
Q. town, on the occasion of an old man marrying
a young girl promised to a more youthful, but less
wealthy, suitor. Latter with some friends spilt, on
the nuptial night, a few buckets of blood around
the house and then drove in a cow. Effect upon
“ moo ” of smell of bovine blood was that in 10
minutes the old man’s garden was full of a bellow-
ing mob of cattle from anywhere within hearing.
The concert lasted till daylight, and saved a lot of
tin-hammering.
w * • *
“ D.G.S. ” : Re “ Hun’s ” query (8.,
24/6/’99). There are several species of sea-horse,
but I presume the one meant is the small, dark-
colored sort ( Hippocampus Novce - Hollandice).
Often caught in prawn-nets in Port Jackson, and
may also be found at low tide attached, by its
prehensile tail, to the fronds of Laminaria and
other large sea-weeds.
• • • •
“Yerilla” : Any reader tell me if the
“ mountain devil ” (common a few years ago in
W.A.) is known in any other part of Australia?
* * * »
“ Yar ” : Never saw marsupial scalps ten-
dered in payment for grog until I came to Illa-
warra, where the practice is getting common.
Recently saw two dairymen proffer four hare-
scalps as payment for drink. Explained that
“dorgshad got at ’em and eaten a ear off,” but
were promptly fired out. Further down coast
have seen black shags’ heads tendered —and
accepted.
» * * *
“ F.A.R.” : Came across a lot of
blacks once on a lower Richmond
station camped in scrub, and dis-
mounted to see what they were up
to. Told me they were going to
“ make” two young men, and I stopped
to see the performance. The old men
with torches of tea-tree bark first
singed all hair off the neophytes, who
were then forcibly held down on their
backs, and a roll of blankets put un-
der each so as to expand the chest.
Then the oldest man of all knelt down,
and, holding a sharp piece of flint be-
tween finger and thumb so as not to go
too deep, cut into the subject’s chests
exactly as a butcher “ scores ” a leg
of pork. The wounds were then
rubbed with ashes, and the youths held
over a slow fire with blankets round
them so as to keep as much smoke as
possible about the cuts. No food was
to be given for three days afterwards.
The “ridging” of the cicatrices is due
to the use of the ashes.
♦ *
In the lively old days of Camp-
bell Town (Tas.), the annual show was
always followed by a dinner, at which
the local magnates used to get glori-
ously “full”; and once, while the
feast was in progress, the diners heard
a noise familiar to them—that of a
horse being ridden up the stairs. Said
one guest, turning to his neighbor, a
big sheep-breeder: “ I’ll bet ,£lO,
R , it's one of your sons that’s
doing it.” Taken—and won; it was
neither of the sons, whose wily parent
had seen them to bed, dead-drunk,
s ome time before.
Tn mpw nf Hip dissatisfaction with the
In View OI tne aissatistaction With tne
recent lunar eclipse expressed by some Vic.
country towns in telegrams to the Melb. news-
papers.it is pleasing to read this in the Moira
Independent •
. ... ,
A total eclipse of the moon was distinctly visible at
Tungamah on Friday night last, being the night of the
local Oddfellows’ ball. No inconvenience was caused by
the eclipse. _
Eclipses and little things like that are obviously
mere details in Tungamah.
* • * *
.. tt nr m n * i.i j r i • .
“ H.M.T. : Among the woods for which
the West is famed (in this case, defamed), is the
“stinkwood.” Writer once got a chunk by acci-
dent on the office-fire, and spent the rest of the
oft-prnnnn in pvnlorino- the nrcmiscs fnr dead cats
afternoon in exploring the premises tor dead cats
in an “elevated condition A native of the
wilderness eventually expounded the mystery, but
for days I was treated as an olfactory reminiscence
of the city receptacular vehicle that walketh in
darkness.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
Stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
David G. : Remarks true in the main ; but no
“ practised hand ” attempts to “ sight ” a revolver for a
quick shot, anyhow. He fires by “general line.”
Dave P. : You say “conquest has always been fatal to
republics.’’ Has if ? The U.S. republic survived success-
ful wars with Britain and Mexico, and great acquisitions
of territory. Switzerland and Chili held up their end in
several bitter wars. It wasn't conquest, but being con-
quered, that ended Venice, Genoa, and Novgorod. The
second French republic didn’t die through undigested
conquests, nor did the Spanish and Roman republics of
this century ...W.B. : Can’t spare space for your article
on the satisfaction experienced on Referendum Day.
Space all wanted to whoop up the other Referendums
that are coming L.B. (Carcoar): Haven’t yet started
to worry about, site of Federal city. Let us get Federation
g rs t L.A. H. : No English comments on English cricket
defeats would be much more biassed than Australian
“expert” comments on the occasional reverses of Our
Boys. Neither side recognises any bad luck on the other
side J.D. : Thackeray probably quoted Lamb’s par.
Tub Bulletin answer, to correspondent was given from
memory of a Thackerayan passage P.T.F. : Well
enough written, but we've had miner’s wife cum boss cum
“ accident ” ad nauseam. Alone : “ 3 ” is bad and “ i ”
is worse ; you’re only wasting your time on verse. That’s
rhyme for you—and reason, too Gobung: Yourserious
“pome” is amusing, and your “ funny ’ one is a truly
painful circumstance J. Cas. :Do you really believe
The Bulletin addicted to printing long puff pars, enu-
merating the virtues of some newly-appointed Jaypee t
....Ruaki (M.L.) : Thanks. Will condense the pill-advts.
if you will pay for the space. Maorilanders, you see,
don’t take so many pills as Australians Adolphus:
Sydney Town Hall holds far more people than Melb.
Town Hall, but 8000 people never assembled in Sydney
Town Hall. They simply couldn’t .. N. : But are Uit-
landers worse off than English in Germany? H.V.A.
(0.): The scheme wouldn’t work. Nearly all over Aus-
tralasia it is illegal to advertise consultations .A.T. :
The Bulletin has never sought to be “ on the winning
side,” but it has always striven to be on the side with the
best arguments M. de B. :As far as possible, The
Bulletin sticks to subjects of specially-Australian in-
terest ; that, in fact, is the main reason of its existence.
It has no space for things peculiarly of foreign interest.
A.W.M. : The P.O. official who steals letters and re-
mittances entrusted to his care may kill people by em-
bezzling their anxiously-awaited means of subsistence.
By suppressing letters he estranges wives from their
husbands and children from their parents. The man
was extremely lucky to get off with two years
J.S.S. : Of 19 N.S.W. Labor constituencies, 16 gave
majorities for the Bill, anyhow Ben :So Peggy “ ap-
peared greatly moved *’ by the demonstration at her
second farewell benefit, did she ? Artless Peggy 1 She
was greatly moved on the occasion of her first absolutely
final grand farewell performance—although she knew
then that she was coming back to repeat her emotion in
a few weeks’ time. Once a mummer, always a mummer.
Tamarind : Some foroe, but much too lecture-ish for
“ B.” And that question of the unequal apportionment
of blame to the sexes has aspects not publicly discussable.
Flabby P. : A lie needs to be either amusing or mon-
strous ; that snake-yarn falls just between Demonio :
“ Melnotte ” item no good, and other two ancient
Ruma : The old confusion between morality and mere
propriety. Nothing is immoral that doesn’t offend
against nature, and the married woman who is habitually
and grossly offending against nature is really an infinitely
THE BRONZE PATTI (at Sydney Criterion).
more vicious person than the unmarried mother sht
dravvs ber sk j r t s away from Allegro : You may be, but
your verse j s lament ab He con dismalendo Mac:
«< Down the street ran the dog”—and down the stairs the
doggerel. ...Banool: Poor Robinson: Walker.
Master Mariner: The locomotive driver who kills a
number of people, unless he can show convincing evi-
in his 'o V vn favor, is sacked (in other words he loses
cert ificate) and is tried for manslaughter. The master-
mariner who ' does ditfco loses his certificate, but, though
he may be liable to a charge of manslaughter can you
quote one case where he was so charged? Bulletin can’t....
E.A. : “ She lived it down.” Then this paper isn’t going
to revive it Banool: Far off our track J.ix. i
“Romance of the Backblocks" would take too much
,< licking infco sha pe ” ; value problematical even when
licked E.1.W.: “Love’s Regret” is nearly—very
nearly—good enough. Hackneyed theme spoils it
C.I.D. (Launceston): Idea good, but musk stand over.
The great row about where and how to build Common-
s begins h we>ve got the Common-
wealth fr ly sses iToo long and not enough centre for
s 0 mucb fringe....W.N.: Joke too elaborate . ..I.S.W.M.
(Brisbane): Many thanks for letter 1.F.H.: (1) From
George-street to Clarence-street. (2) Grand Central
Coffee Palace. (3) Clarence-street Brother Bill (Fre-
mantle) : Thanks Narranghi Boori : Bumpy and
inferior fish-pome Zex : Object to the “ songlet” and
the “lambkin." Metre good and rhymes unexception-
able, but the pomelet lacks inspiration somehow Lea.
O.: Considering very hard S.S. (M.L.): One will do
Enrico : Some weak ; one unpublishable ; one chestnut.
S.M. : Corset item not big enough G.T.D. : A
very ordinary drunk and a Flossie C.H.W.: The coach
got bogged, and the German inside said he thought he
would get there quicker if he walked. And you want us
to illustrate that. ... W. : No need to mention that Kelly
is a more useful cricketer than Johns. Figures speak
louder than words Gum : Cinquevalli, we believe,
doesn’t pretend to perform the feat with a flat-topped
billiard-cue. The balls are round, but the underneath
ball is not balanced on the cue. It rests there easily. The
S&g °h U .V"»ot“< i -St
ous ” voice : it is not even a natural tenor. He is a very
skilful and tasteful “fake” singer Y.M. : Yes
Taf: Too slight . Prospect G. : “ Goal ”an obvious echo
of Kipling, very weak in places......Yangan : Well-known
to naturalists, but hardly of sufficient interest for others.
and dozen*others mP Leddo :^Not steam enough in
vour pars. Particulars about poem “ some time ago ” too
vague .... Ellerdale : Have shut down on the tin-kettling
theme ; and that practice with regard to bees is known to
everybody Imray : Gardener’s-Latin yarn not new.
promise Annie B. : You have observation, but pre-
sentation not strong enough Esperance: An invooa-
tion of the Deity in a Tommy Moore lilt 1
Oh God of the Universe, Fountain of Truth,
Be the friend of Australia, guide of her youth.
May the acts of this people be prospered by thee,
A, (Ai o r U “Rory b O’More o “ e ° f ““ g
m.t. : Did the military personage really give a winter-
garden party?... L.W.: Your statement is open to ques-
tion. Anyway, young pianists are commonly addicted to
an affectation of “taking things easy,” and The Bulle-
tin’s remark will do no harm to the clever lady
Sandy : Quite right—the closing-time for hotels in Vic-
toria is 11.30 p.m ... 0. A. : We won’t reprint it; the poor
outsiders mostly stick to “ Lornceston.” P.0.R.: Old
story. O.W.S. :To go prospecting in such a climate as
that of Papua, while there are such chances in Australia,
would be a mad thing Kauri: It is as old as it is un-
printable Dugald :We like “ Bando ” very much in-
dee d Billyram : It would be a cheerful thing to print 1
...Spero : Well, the Judge manfully apologised for his
error, and it’s best to say no more about it Faots :
Perhaps—but 100 years old Csero : Bulletin gives no
thanks for re-hashes from American papers Onlys:
Merely lurid C.W. : Sydney Mint is subject to Gov.
Beauchamp, but not to N.S.W. Government. (2) The
local army is subject to the Governor, but the local navy
is n ot H.H. : Well-educated Hibernians rarely need to
go a-begging for long, anyhow M’G. : The performer
had sufficient excuse for his remarks “ Sad but true
tale”: Malicious Myra F. : The reference is to “ Mr.
Dick ”in “ David Copperfield.” Quex : T’other chap is
literally right; Frenchmen do say “Dam,” but they spell
it “Dame,” and mean “ Lady,”— i.e., “Our Lady.”
A.P.P. : Aquafortis yarns numerous, and yours is about
the worst we’ve seen...... Theo C. : One too colorless;
other too blue Pukahi: You say the supposed moa
“made tracks.” Then why wasn’t it tracked up?
J.G.C.: Aggravating as an empty whisky-flask T.Y.:
Unusable Louis M.: Not up .Gertrude : Weak
Turkey: You can’t gobble ...Diamond: Pebble. .
5? SSi “hSSK CarS?
HO - Considering. . Ebrey : Too mild Willy W. :
Your"chance is about lin 10,000,000 Yarrum : “ Mac-
Shandy ” embodies a straight-out truth, but handling is
rather awkward W.H.R. : Will consider.......J.G. :
“ Meeting’’—tame and undistinguished handling o a
theme with great dramatic possibilities. Pipe: Still
the same rather good ideas and same lack of skill. Miyht
do something with “ Many Times.” Shakespeare, by the
way, made that remark, not of men in general, but of
00 wards 1.0. U. : It made us “ loose our quilibrim and
colapse I” Uillipilli: Will consider Ben Sun: “Kettle"
spoilt by 4th verse Scapegoat : May possibly use
Lilian W. : “ Mousie.’’ Alas! the office cat Alphon:
Kipling-and-water—and the “ miller drowned ”at that.
Box: Not
If Love Were All!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If Love were all, I should not hesitate ;
But I should lay at thy beloved feet
My crown of life, secure to find my fate
And all that makes my own self incomplete,
If Love were all.
If Love were all, how simple it would be
To sit apart from storm, and strife, and stir,
In some old garden, rare with rosemary,
And redolent of quaintest lavender—
If Love were all.
But Life has many voices, dear, and we
Hear, dearest, Duty’s clarion, and pass
Out from our fairyland of fantasy,
Out from the old-world loneliness — Alas!
Love is not all!
DORA WILCOX.


“A BRIGHT PROSPECT.”
“Mr. R. M. Smith said that after many years of wandering, like the Israelites in the desert, those who were in favor of Scripture education in State schools were almost
in sight of the Promised Land.”— Vic. Parliamentary debate.


CARTOONLETS.
“ From our Special Correspondent.—“ Such solace as may come in the |
hour of defeat has Fitzsimmons in the fact that Jeffries, the victor, is a I
pious man, who eschews strong drink. His father is a clergyman, a,nd I
Jeffries, jun., went into the fight with his father’s blessing (sent by wire like
a Papal benediction) en the eve of the battle.”
The Defeat®* (explaining te reporter how it happened) : “ Look-here,
I could lick Jeffries or any livin’ man in a fair stand-up, Markis Queensbry
rules ; but when it comes to takin’ on all the ’osts of ’eaven— Well, I ai only
human, see 1 ”
TRIAL - TRIP OP THE GEORGE-STREBT TRAMWAY.
Years and Years Hence.
Oldest Inhabitant : “ Yes, I kin mind the time when the fust rail was
laid. They intended to work it by ’lectricity, which some on you may
have read was once used instead ©four present. Perpetual
Motion, which nobuddy thought possible them days.”
"The House of Lords has struck out the pro-
vision recently passed through the House of
Commons, making women eligible t 8 be * aider-
men ’ and councillors. The House of Commons,
has now acquiesced in the action of-the House of
Lords.”
I ‘ iiiii /*/ iiiiiimi ii/ ' . j
/ “ Lady Darley wishes attention called to the fact that a pair of stockings worn
r by Her Majesty the Queen, and made especially for her, will be on view this after-
noon at the bazaar to be held in St. James’s Parish Hall in aid of the Sisters of the
Church. The stockings were sent by one of the Queen’s dressers to a friend in
Australia.”
Then-she took up her pile of darning
again. Sighing only, “It might Hive
been.” —Maud Muller revised.
A Bulletin man and his best girl may here be seen near the. above “ exhibit*
and both blushing violently—having unwittingly stumbled upon it.
*' An Austrian engineer, fierr Wilhelm Zimtnermann, has invented apparatus for-'the
of an automatic claque, which the Vienna correspondent of the Leader thu3
i describes: The invention is very simple. It consists of two leather bags, similar in-size
I to boxing-gloves, and concealed in the body of the theatre. The bags are connected by
electric wires with the stage-manager’s box, and that functionary has only to press a button
'to set them in motion. They
then strike one another
rapidly, making a noise
which it .is impossible to
distinguish from genuine f
hand-clapping.”^
London, July 9, 3.30 p.m.
—The Diet of the Grand
Duchy of Hesse (Germany)
has passed a measure taxing
bachelors 25 per cent, more
than married men.
Cupid : “Ha ! that’s his tender
spot!”
/ / I
This invention will prove invaluable to
potential Melbas who might tvork the
button with their toes aud thus ensure
applause in the right place. -An attachment could easily be added to tire bouquets
on to the stage from a mortar at the back of the house.


The Commercial World (London) writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
“ We always confidently anticipate a good year from this
vigorously-conducted Mutual Society. The circumstance,
therefore, that the figures for 1897 show no falling away
from the steady and substantial progress which is inse-
parably connected with the Society’s past career occasions
us no surprise. As a matter of fact, the Society earns its
success by deserving it, and, that much being conceded,
the best possible has been said for the continuance of the
large measure of publio support which it has hitherto
fallen to its fortunate lot to receive.” Pleasant reading.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Copies of Yols. 11., 111. and IY. of Horwitz’s
Victorian Statutes have just arrived at thjS office from
the publishers, Messrs. Sands & M'Dougal, Melbourne.
And they are such valuable books that The Bulletin is
heartily sorry that it has not been able to find any trace
of the arrival of the First Vol. They represent an
enormous amount of dry reading, brain sweat, and
general hard work on the part of the compiler, Mr. Louis
Horwitz, barrister and solicitor, of Melbourne. The three
vols. cover the Statutes from Auction Sales to Livery and
Agistment. In the Third Vol. the various Evidence Acts
are collected, and the splendid Factories’ Act, which
provides for the minimum wage, is collated, to clear
away any little intricacies owing to the bad old habit of
the lawyers of making every instrument a wilderness of
language and repetitions. Also, other democratic enact-
ments such as the Provident Societies and Trades
Union Acts, and laws dealing with matters relating to
the health of the people, and Insolvency Acts (relating to
the freedom of the people), and the new rules appertain-
ing thereto. The Fourth Vol. deals with the Instruments
Acts, and acts relating to the sale and exchange of land
for local purposes are, for the first time, published with
the principal enactment. Also an analysis of the Official
Hand-book to the Land Act 1898. The work was pro-
duced entirely in Victoria, being printed in Melbourne
and Hamilton, and is a useful and valued additi»_ to the
office library.
The National Cash Resister
Peter Field, -
800 l Admfacturm
!« L. Hodgson,
Bhmist;' '
T. K. Lamb & Go.,
lh : .
W. A. Noble,
I. Abrahams,
hubt and Memr,
m.
m
mm
1 H ■ Ren. , ,
Poster.
'•<’*' & Go
to* £***ll
mm
{&>
i
&
■
#• ii
So*
9i
#
J. F.. Molohtiyi
SMg Hatil
Jm;-:
lli: National
Gas lißegistcrCo
i
GEORGE STREET
John Anderson
Storekeeper,
Jas. F, Kirkwood,
Trdfmmg kep. N.&.8, Coy
l?i
■
*
G, A. Hillary,
Semro! Umbwie
Goo. Feidmann. -
Imperial Hotel
Job E. Stone,
■: Jolt Printer,
Thomas Walsh
Hotel Melropole,
T. A.: o
; ■
Full Particulars, Price, etc., will be given on application to the
Head offices for Australia
393 6EOR6E STREET, SYDNEY,
364 COLLINS STREET, MELBOU
W. A. LIJSTGHAM, General Manager Australasia,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The dread of Jones may probably account for
Dr. Grace's absence in the second and third Tests. It
needs young- and well-strung nerves to face the lightning
wheatfielder ; and when it is remembered that, early in
the season, Jonah nearly shifted one of the doctor’s ears,
it is not surprising the latter prefers pavilion to playing-
area. It will be interesting to see if he turns up for the
Gloucester match.
• • • »
Melb. Age has overcome its squeamishness of
three years ago, and now, with the Argus, hangs out its
cricket-returns—carefully marked “ copyright on Sun-
day morning, whereat the unco-guid driving up Collins-
street to church, shake their heads sadly after they have
casually “ piped off” the state of the poll.
* * * *
At Northern cricket-match fast bowler goes on
with the captain behind the sticks. First ball hits wicket-
keeper on lingers and goes to boundary, scoring 4 byes.
Second ball hits wicket-keeper on jaw ; also 4 byes.
Third ball wicket-keeper receives on his chest, whereon
he takes off pads and goes out to leg. Bowler looks at
him and sweetly inquires “ if he is going to have a bloom-
ing backstop.” “Yes, Mr. Jones, yes, certainly—if
there’s another fool in the team.”
* * * *
I’arpot and Harry Rose are the sole survivors of
the aboriginal cricket-team which Wills took over from
Victoria to play Sydney in 1867. The team played a
three-days’ match with the Albert Club, and was badly
beaten. Tarpot is now on a station near Alburv, and
Rose is in Hamilton (Vic.) district. Both were referred
to in print recently as being members of the aboriginal
team which visited England in ’6B, but neither Tail ot
nor Rose went to England.
* * * *
Little wonder red-headed Fitzsimmons went
down so badly in the world’s-cbampionship fight. An
American paper published an interview (beforehand) with
Jeffries, sen. Latter, a preacher in California, said the
Lord would be with his son throughout the battle.
* • » *
May nob be generally known that dethroned
pug. Fitzsimmons got divorced in America from his Aus-
tralian wife, one Julian being “ co.” Later, Bob hitched
on to Julian’s sister, and Julian took Mrs. Fitz. No. 1
unto his bosom 1 Julian has been the M.L. pug.’s man-
ager for years, and still held that position at latest dates.
This peculiar domestic complication travelled with vaude-
ville shows throughout the States during two years
without a split. Everyone concerned was apparently
satisfied, but the ex. and present Mrs. F.’s gazed upou
the valiant, freckled-faced, bald-pated, auburn-haired
Robert’s “turn” from opposite boxes. Their feelings,
until they got used to it, would have been worth an inch
or two of even Bulletin space.
* * • •
The downfall of no Australian athlete was ever
regretted less than that of ex-world’s champion pug.,
Fitzsimmons, and reasons are not far to seek. First
neglect of his aged parents, as exposed to the world by
Tiuiaru (M.L.) charity-board; second—discarding, in
America, of his Australian wife, who had stuck to him
through days of want and toil ; third—turning renegade
to his country and becoming a naturalised Yankee (for
which, let it be said, the Yanks condemned him more
than any others) ; and, fourth —drawing the color-line as
an excuse for not meeting his whilom tutor and certain
master, Peter Jackson. “ I’m an American citizen now,’*
quoth he, “aud I cannot meet a negro.” Cowardly
subterfuge 1
* * * »
“Kid” M‘Coy, the Yankee pug., who claims
to have fought over 1000 battles, is son of a Hoosier store-
keeper so pious that he refused to keep tobacco in stock.
Mao., jun., got out at an early age; was waiter, barber,
billiard-marker in turn, and finally took to the ring.
The presence of Martin (“Mum”) Quirk in
Sydney turns on the tap of reminiscence. Twenty-five
years back few could use their mauleys more cleverly
than “Muni.” A couple of his brothers were shining
lights among the R.C. clergy of the day. He toured
N.S.W. West for a good while with the giant “Stone-
wall ” Jackson, giving exhibitions. (Martin says Jackson
is now following the profitable and congenial occupation
of killing wild pigs.) Writer remembers “Stonewall”
coming to Sydney in the early 70’s with great blare and
flourish, to fight Jem Mace. Jackson was tried out at
L. Foley’s rooms in Bathurst or William Street (forget
which), his vis-d-vis being a big fellow, a heralded world-
beater from out back. The go lasted exactly 3min., when
“ Stonewall,” amidst some fierce work, stopped, and,
with much dramatic effect, addressed the crowd of ring-
siders : “Gentlemen, I’ve broke me arm and lost me
chance of winning the championship of the world ! ” A
few minutes later Foley took-on Brewer and settled him
inside 12min. Thus did two much-boomed prospective
subjugators of the world’s pugs bite dust in a quarter of
an hour. Close on 40 years since Jackson—then known
as the “ Parramatta Butcher” —was licked by “Yellow
Jimmy ” in a slashing go at Rooty Hill (N.S. W.).
» • * *
A Sydney boxing-olub intimates, per notice
posted in the office, that “ Gentlemen desirous of settling
disputes without recourse to law, and in the only manly
fashion, may do so at this club by giving the management
three hours’ notice, when gloves and all necessary atten-
tion will be provided.” To be hoped that this new insti-
tution will meet with the appreciation it richly merits,
for, though the manner of settling smacks of the primeval,
the cost amounts to no more than the effort, and the
result is more convincing than the best decision the Privy
Council ever delivered.
* * » *
Erstwhile world’s-champion “ feather” boxer
Billy Murphy is coming home to Australia again. This
onoe-marvellous combination of whipcord and wire,
though probably about a third-rater now, would easily go
through all his division here at present—unless, perhaps,
Melb. Jack M’Gowan might prove a lion in the M.L.
tailor-pug’s path.
• * » •
Chief Justice Madden confided to a Melb. inter-
viewer recently that he learned to use his hands first
from Harry Sallars, the darkey who ran a Melb. tobacco
shop in the sixties, and who afterwards hawked fish round
Melb. A few years ago Sallars was living in Carlton and,
during a temporary absence, the rumor went out that
Harry had “ thrown seven.” When he returned and
heard the news, he prepared a huge placard “ The dead is
riz,’’ and fixed it in his window. Harry Sallars, who
fought old Tom Curran to a standstill, was at latest in
the Benevolent Asylum at North Melb. What an end
ior a champion pug and the teacher of an Excellency 1
* * * *
Concerning the prevailing crookedness of “ box-
ing " encounters. Reg. Pell (son, by the way, of the late
Prof. Pell), who referees most of the big fixtures in the
West, does what he can to keep things straight by putting
the door-takings in his pocket before the “star” item
comes off, with the announcement that it all goes back to
the people if he is not satisfied. He followed this course
at the recent meeting for the Australian heavy-weight
championship.
* • * *
Glenloth’s Melbourne Cup should have about
knocked out the supposition that opals are unlucky.
Glenloth’s rider wore an opal pin in the race, and the
winner of first prize in “Tatt.’s” sweep was resident on
an opal-field. But neither Glenloth nor Ronda, who was
second to him, ever won a race afterwards —in fact, Ronda
has never won a race at all. Ronda, by the way, is to be
put into work again.
• * * •
Artful M.L. bookies, denied admission to race-
enclosures, now disguise elaborately, and befool the
guardians of the sacred precincts. Their ruse generally
suoceeds, but when whispering questions excite suspioion
they pass out quickly.
* * * *
The Australian starting-barrier is to get a
chance at last, it having been decided, at the instance of
Earl Durham, to use it in races for two-year-olds. And
none too soon. After Australian Survivor’s run in the
City and Suburban, he was fancied in Kempton Park
Jubilee Stakes, for which he started at 14 to 1, New-
haven’s price being 6to 1. For three-quarters of an hour
the horses were messed about at the post, and, when a
straggling start was made, Survivor got all the worst of
it, whilst Newhaven’s chance was nil after dancing about
for 46 minutes with 9st. lOlbs. on his baok. The crack
jockeys naturally object to the barrier, as part of their
skill consists in beating the starter, and the barrier gives
all riders an equal chance. And again—although perish
the thought—if an unfair starter should ever be dropped
across, the barrier gives him less show of favoritism. It
is an open secret that an old-time Australian wielder of
the red fla 2 was > un< *er the rose, an extensive owner, and
used to put some of the biggest commissions on the mar-
ket, but of course he never gave his horses any advantage
th 6 atart r it Wasn,t J? Uman natu . re ‘
Mr “ Johnnv ” TIoaLIo annller Bpnch’s old
ba ° ker ’ ha ? inve^ed a staHi ? ng-barrSw?fch is to be
tried at Brighton (Sydney) course. Instead of flying up,
Si n ,. Q iTdV“, hln i'’lS I’* 1 ’*" 1 "“• “»* he *“’•
dlB B . aid t 0 act S . plendldly ’ „
. , . , ~ _ , , _ .
yne or the best judges of blood stock in Aus-
Si? ma ?- wh u ha 9 J ud £ ed in t } loSe oksses afc P r A e «y
laide thlZhe?i ,“”‘7 ITa T'
IT the other day : ‘ old John Harvey he had been
«A P? sfc - He was at , th « first race-meeting in
mom?nfS„T w lf 4 °~ and had T“ at most of any
moment, since. Half a century ago he was an owner and
won the firsfc S .A. St Leger with Beda ; for a long while
he was his own trainer and often his own jockey. But
he never could stand handicapping on performances and
pedigree. “If you want racing to improve the breed of
horses,” he insisted, “it must be weight-for-age.” So, as
the breed of horses was the only consideration with him,
he transferred most of his affections from the course to
the show-ring. Also, if he wasn’t the first Australian
shipper of horses to India he was one of the first,
* » * *
T l !,a • a tt-
T T Hrassey curse again. A Vic. racer, named
Lor d Brassey, which distinguished itself on the flat by
running absolutely last every time it started, was put
over hurdles with no better success. At a recent meeting
at Moonee Valley the noble prad started in a steeplechase,
an d after painfully crawling over a couple of jumps,
about a furlong behind the field, stopped and would try
no more. The jockey, with more pluck than sense, kept
charging at the fence till the others had finished and
weighed in. He would probably have been trying vet,
but the clerk of the course galloped over and ordered
him in.
m-. *,,, * * *
T it?.my (Melb.) pony course has been re-opened,
f nd , e P l ' omoters notify that they will not accept entries
i r °ni ladies. One of the ladies who train ponies in Melb.
“® ,s a command of language which is the admiration of
the pony “ battlers.” She is very masculine, and her sex
is onlj-disclosed by her dress—and not always that, as
IndT/ T early morning in
permitted ’ W m raC6S lf
’** * *
A j. . . , ,
A recently-returned Australian jockey gives it
as his opinion that Tod Sloan is “ no horseman,” and that
the reason of the Yankee’s success is that he gets, in
oommon with the other fashionable jockeys, the pick of
the mounts. Not bad, considering that Sloan first came
into prominence by winning on horses that other good
jockeys had failed on.
* * * •
The owner of a Melb. cordial-factory reoently
started a racing string, and christened his horses Soda-
water, Lemonade, and Sarsaparilla. Like all soft stuff,
they had no “ go,” and the string is now disbanded.
* * * *
Isn’t it time that Pro Bono Publico and Co.
began to rise in the influential organs and tell the public
that the average cycle-meeting is a degrading spectacle ?
This is what happened when the democracy tired of foot-
ball. And things are ripe for it in re wheel-racing. The
cycle lion is sicker to-day than his football brother was
when the asses began to grow arrogant. Yet the recent
Melb. run of calamities didn’t evoke one moral reflection
from Pro Bono.
• * • •
“ D.M.”: This clip from Ballina Pilot of long
ago throws an interesting sidelight on the nature of
the old-time Big Scrub sports-meetings :—“ One of the
most amusing items of the Tvvowharves Queen’s Birthday
sports was climbing the pig for a greasy pole, which was
won, after a desperate struggle, by Old Archie’s Scotia.
A blanket would have covered the lot at the finish.
Something went wrong with Silver Arrow’s centreboard.”
• * * *
It isn’t safe to ask ex-champion runner Tom
Malone if he knows Mickey Muldoon, the jumper. At
one time Tom used to breed some very fine “ colonial ”
game-birds, and for fear of thieves had his yard sur-
rounded with a high fence. One night Tom heard a
commotion amongst the birds, and, creeping out of the
back door in pyjamas, spotted a man with a bag full
of his pets. “ Dhrop them !” said Malone ; “ and it’s no
use thrying to get away, for I’m Tom Malone the runner.”
“ Then bedad,” cried the thief, shying the bag over the
fence, “I’m Micky Muldoon the jumper,” at the same
time scaling the fence like a cat. By the time Tom
got over, the bag and man were a street ahead in a spring-
cart which had been waiting in the back lane.
• • * •
Gippsland ranges, once so abundant in game,
are being rapidly stripped thereof by the indiscriminate
slaughter which the Vic. game-laws seem powerless to
prevent. One man acknowledged recently that he had
for long been shooting 12 or 14 koalas a day 1 The lyre
bird, which, like the bear, is “ protected’* all the year
round, is also being ruthlessly shot at sight, and rumor
goes that even some of the game-inspectors amuse them-
selves with the very thing they are supposed to prevent I
(Continued on page 24 ).


mzm"'"'" "i
%
\Ui
6^29
P: m
ms
m
m
m
mm
&
■
MR
a
■
■I
n
ra
■
.
m
:■'
|g|SPlsP3|
":.v.,,,:.
H[
AT NATURE’S MIRROR.
BIL€ BEAMS if-
MATIIRE’S REMCpy
A BRILLIANT RESCUE IN ADELAIDE*
THE CASE OF MRS. AUSTIN.
A BROKEN-DOWN SYSTEM RENOVATED.
THREE LEADING DOCTORS AND THE ADELAIDE HOSPITAL
PRONOUNCE HER INCURABLE.
SHE CONFIRMS HER ASSERTIONS BEFORE A J.P.
[Fully Investigated by the “Adelaide Advebtiseb.”]
Mrs. M. E. Austin, of Exeter Curve, Semaphore-road, Semaphore, South Australia, when inter-
viewed by a reporter from the Adelaide Advertiser in reference to her permanent cure by 1 e
Beans, told her story in the following way :
“ I contracted rheumatic fever about eleven years ago. At that time I was laid up for eig
weeks, and the illness has recurred to me every year regularly since that time until two years ag ,
when I had a very bad attack. At the same time I had diabetes (a form of Bright s disease) an
hemorrhage of the lungs. I went
treated for the diabetes, and whilst
of the lungs and the rheumatism
pital from the 29th August until
when I left —uneured, and, in fact,
in. I could not have been worse
had to be lifted out of the cab
tal. Two or three days after leaving
attack of rheumatism. I was at-
informed me that I had Bright’s
brought on by the attacks of rheu-
tended me—including one at the
that my case was hopeless. My
of the back, a dry, parched tongue
August, 1897, to have a good night’s
iipl
m
into the Adelaide Hospital to be
in the institution the hemorrhage
came oh. I remained in the hos-
about a fortnight before Christmas,
not a bit better than when I went
and be alive. I was so weak that I
which brought me from the hospi-
the hospital I had a very severe
tended by two doctors, and they
disease, which, they said, had been
matism. All the doctors who at-
Adelaide Hospital informed me
symptoms were : Pains m the imall
(I did not know what it was after
sleep), and a weak and languid
feeling. I continued in this condition until the first week in September, 1898, when I was advised by
many friends to try Bile Beans. I decided to do so, and accordingly purchased a box at Mr. xu we s,
the chemist, at Port Adelaide. After I had taken three or four doses I felt an improvement 111 my
health. My appetite became more natural, and I could sleep better, and the pains in the small or tne
back began to disappear. After I had taken the contents of half-a-dozen boxes, the pains disappeare
entirely, and I felt an improvement in every respect. I may state that I now do all my houseworK
and washing without any trouble, and life is worth living. I attribute the whole of my cure to Bue
Beans, and they deserve every credit. The neighbors can bear out the truth of my statements. lam
doing all I can to induce others to take the Beans.”
CONFIRMATION BEFORE RICHARD BRAY, J.P.
I, Martha E. Austin, of Exeter Curve, in the province of South Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that the statements made by me to the representative of the Advertiser re Bile Beans
and my illness and recovery are perfectly true.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and, by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the sixth year of the reign of his late Majesty King William the Fourth
intituled “ An Act to repeal an Act of the present Session of Parliament,
intituled ‘An Act for the more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirma-
tions taken and made in various departments of the State, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the more entire suppression of volun-
tary and extrajudicial oaths and affidavits, and to make other provisions
for the abolition of unnecessary oaths.’ ”
(Signed) MARTHA E. AUSTIN.
Declared and subscribed at Semaphore, in the province of South Aus-
tralia, this 31st day of May, 1899, before me.
(Signed) RICHARD BRAY,
Mayor, J.P.
♦
Bile Beans are an undoubted specific for biliousness, sick and nervous
. headache, indigestion, constipation, influenza, colds, piles, female weakness,
pale-faced girls, irregularities, bad breath, pimples, blotches, dizziness, all
liver and kidney troubles, dyspepsia, heart palpitation, pain in back and
side, fulness after eating, lack of physical tone, heartburn, and that tired
feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from storekeepers and chemists generally ;
price, Is. per box. Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manufacturing
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
DIL
dl/f\E
ILL
ifdz
BIUOI/Sifej
Headache
COHSTIRffITRMi
Indigestion
8( e ~ '
1* hey cxjre you while you sleep.
A. SAUNDERS, Nigb-Class Jeweller,
always to the front for NEW and PRETTY DESIGNS
in Jewellery, Watch and Silverplate. All Articles Post Free.
Ladies’ Long Grannv or Muff Chain, 9c. Gold,
355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6. Silver, 7s 6d ; Gold-plated, 15s, 20s
Gold Necklets, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 30s.
a
Latest Gold Brooch.
Red Stone, Bell and 2 Nobs, 10s od.
/J
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold Brooch, Bell, Chain,
Red, White and Blue Stone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 15c. Gold,
£2. Diamonds, £2 10s. and £3. Any Name
or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 150. Gold, £2.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s ; 150.
Gold, 16s; 18c. Gold, 20s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and Heart,
10s; Special Value.
M 2
m
yx
Gold Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
3-Bar, 4 Diamonds and Ruby, 20s.
Very Neat and Pretty.
m.
ami#
A. Saunders.
9c. Solid Gold Raised Flowers, 6s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Solid Gold Opal Links, 30s.
15c. Gold, £2 10s; extra strong.
9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s,
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, 10s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d
and 3s.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255.
15c. Gold, 355, £2.
Monogram on, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Silver, ss.
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Pearl and Red Stone Set Scroll
Bell Brooch, 15s. Latest style.
9c. Gold, Heart Amethyst Broooh, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold-mounted Boar’s Tusk,
Chain and Bell, 16s 6d ; without Bell and
Chain, 10« 6d ; Silver, 4s.
90. Gold, Pearls and
Amethyst, 17s 6d.
16c. Gold, 308.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
SEND
FOR
Price List.
uegistbheb
Guarantee
the utmost
satisfaction.
A. Saunders.
New Registered Diamond-cut Amethyst as Lucky Clovers,
15s ; with One Bird, same price.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Send for Size Oard.
Any Name Free.
90. Band Bings, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c., 20s, 26s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Send for List.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d.
15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong: and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, 04.
180. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and 14.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l6, £2O.
Chain Rings, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s, £2. Price to
quality and weight.
m
ill
9c. Gold 2-bar Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s ;
15c., £2.
A. Saunders (Registered^
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d )
150. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lucky Wish and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Reart
Amethyst, 21s; 16c. Gold, £2.
150. Gold Raised Flowers, 20s.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. Saunders.
Hand made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each;
15c. Gold, 15s ; extra heavy, 265;
18c. Gold, 20s ; extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Quality ol Gold and Finish First-olass.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
815 George Street (nearly opposite Railway Station),
SYDNEY.


lister
ASK
FOR
sun
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Servioe Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country,
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture <& Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
|3f ” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
*<krk.
TATTOO
rrvi p) Perfect Sh.eep-Marlter.
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Is the Only Absolutely SAFE WOOL-MAR KING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
. . KEPT BY ALL MERCHANTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
If Dibbs and co. go to “ the foot of the
throne” with their anti-Federal petition, they
will leave upon the toe of the throne.
The Federal party in Queensland is acting
very unwisely in allowing one or two prominent
sugar-planters, men exceedingly unpopular in
their own districts, to go round orating on Feder-
ation. Every time they speak on the subject
their advocacy breeds a score of enemies to
Australian unity.
Auckland (M.L.) is generally of opinion
that the Govt, should float a loan to complete the
Auckland-Wellington railway. That is just the
trouble in this great loan-land. Every place
thinks a loan should be floated to build its par-
ticular railway and after that the country should
swear off borrowing.
On Household Suffrage S.A. Leg. Council
is believed to he exactly divided into ten for and
ten against. The remaining four members are on
the fence, and one of them remarked recently that
Tories and Liberals have been so friendly to him
lately that he believes he is the most popular
man in the country.
A Mr. Thomas, understood to be a member
of N.S.W. Parliament, and who shared in John
Haynes’ anti-Eederal campaign, is going to Wes-
tralia on Vosper’s invitation, “for the purpose of
explaining the democratic position with regard to
the Commonwealth Pill.” Mr. Thomas was given
his seat by thg miners of Alma (Broken Hill), who
in ’9B voted heavily against the Bill. In ’99, after
a long campaign by Mr. Thomas, during which
only one address was given in his electorate in
favor of the Bill, the vote was nearly 3 to 1 for
the Bill. Mr. Thomas, therefore, goes to the
West with the blessings of Federalists as a friend
in disguise.
The Turner Government shoves the big
boulder uphill once more. Victoria’s Parliament
met the other day, and the Bills to abolish
plural voting, to enfranchise women, to regu-
late usury, and all the other democratic
measures which the House of Landlords
throws out so regularly, were formally intro-
duced once more—likewise the Old Age Pen-
sions Bill. If they are thrown out this time,
Turner ought to get out of his rut and take
a referendum, on the Assembly’s sole authority,
regarding the principal ones on the list. The re-
sult would at least enable him to state distinctly
that the Leg. Council is a liar when it says that
the country hasn’t demanded these reforms, for
the country would demand them with emphasis.
And Kingston has shown that an Assembly can
consult its own constituents by referendum on its
own authority if it feels so inclined.
Alfred Deakin’s demand for the resump-
tion of religious teaching in Victorian State
schools bumped against a very hard rock. Dr.
Maloney proposed that the heads of all the
different denominations should be asked to come
together, and tear each other’s hair in a brotherly
spirit, and decide unanimously what religion
should be taught inState schools, and then
that the Government should accept
their decision right off. And the Govt. ,
decided that it was a very good idea,
and asked Deakin how it would suit
him.
Premier Forrest, of W.A., evidently
knows about as little of the Federation Bill as the
average fat man on the roof of the omnibus. He
lately discovered, to his great surprise, that under
the Bill which he helped to frame, Westralia can’t
construct a trans-continental line through S.A.
without the latter State’s permission.
Ex - Mayor Tucker, who pushed King
O’Malley out of S.A. Assembly, has lost his seat
because of his injudicious offer to divide his <£2oo
a year Parliamentary pay among the charities of
the electorate. Once more, therefore, he and
O’Malley will enter upon a Titanic struggle in the
electorate very appropriately named Encounter
Bay.
Queensland Government begins to realise
that if Brisbane is ever to be a great port it will
be necessary to divert the river, and out off that
awkward horror of navigation, Kangaroo Point.
Yet even at this late hour it would probably be
cheaper to make a new capital on the coast down
by Southport, under the shelter of Stradbroke
Island. -
The Australian Customs Union, now near-
ing under Federation, was petitioned for by
N.S.W. Leg. Council in 1845. A Bill embodying
the object of the petition was introduced by Far]
Grey in the British Parliament in 1846, but
lapsed. It has thus taken over 50 years for Aus-
tralia to legislatively obtain what Australia as a
whole always desired.
Henry Copeland, who asserts his determi-
nation to reintrodiice a Sunday hotel-opening Bill
into N.S.W. Parliament, will be well advised if
he hunts his requirements to one demand —the
opening of such pubs, as like for two hours on
Sundays. A straight-out vote on that will, there
is good ground for saying, give a majority in favor.
If, however, Copeland complicate the issue, as has
been his wont, his motion will be shelved or lost.
“If Sydney has not a better claim than
Melbourne (for the Federal capital), what better
claim could any of our inland districts advance ? ”
yells Sydney Telegraph. None at all. Neither
Melbourne nor Sydney nor any other place has
any claim to the capital. It should be planted
where it seems best for all Australia, but the idea
of any town or city or district having any sem-
blance, of a claim, apart from the interests of Aus-
tralia in general, is absurd.
London Daily Chronicle has a special
correspondent in Australia who has been sending
articles on the Federal movement to his editor.
In one of these articles the correspondent reported
a visit to Sydney to obtain opinions from leading
men in “the cock-pit of the Federal fight.” He
came, saw, and interviewed two leading states-
men, and seriously sent home both their opinions,
which were seriously published. One was Ed-
mund Barton, and the other was—Affleck !!!!
True bill.
An anomaly in S.A. politics is the fact
that the Tory crowd opposing Household Suffrage
in S.A. Leg. Council is led by John Gordon, who
was a member of the Kingston Govt, until June.
’96, and would probably have been sponsor for the
measure had not the hospital dispute brought
about his resignation from the Ministry. Gordon
is a strong Ministerialist, but as regards Suffrage-
reform announces his willingness to stump S.A.
against it should Kingston’s threat to dissolve be
acted upon.
That great bogus anti-Federal petition
which the Sydney Parochialists presented to Par-
liament some time ago contained 40,000 signa-
tures, and the Parish Pump party s wore they were
all those of genuine electors. Yet when the
CRITICISM, OR PLAIN STOUSH.
PERSISTENT POET (who has been interviewing the
editor) : “ An' ye call this criticism! ”
referendum came the party, in the region where
that petition was got up, couldn’t muster 35,000
votes. Petitions are all much alike. The auto-
graphs largely represent the Flossie, and the small
boy, and the person suffering from drink, and the
passing dog ; also the man who humps the peti-
tion round puts down two or three dozen names
at a time when business ia slack.
“ W. Cat ” writes :
G. T. Simpson, one of the best speakers in Westralian
Assembly, is a N.S. Welshman by birth. He has just
gone through the court in quickest time on record,
having been declared bankrupt, publicly examined,
wound up, and granted a discharge all within six
months. His certif. has been endorsed to the effect that
his insolvency was due to misfortune, so he can take his
seat on the assembling of Parliament this month as
though nothing had happened. Simpson has long been
in wretched health, but is on the mend, and will prove a
tower of strength to the Opposition, which will be rather
stronger this session than the Forrest crowd likes.
Holmes, member for a Fremantle constituency, has openly
renounced his Govt, support, and will sit with the
straight-out Opposition. Other rodents are taking their
tails under their forelegs preparatory to jumping over-
board. Coolgardie water-scheme will swamp the Forrest
Govt, for a certainty. The gigantic scheme is already a
laughing-stock, no foundation having yet been found for
the weir with which it, is proposed to dam the water in
the Darling ranges. Rocks ahead, and Forrest knows it.
When Premier Reid was on his Federal
tour in the N.S.W. sugar districts he agreed at
the Tweed to meet a deputation about State-mills
if his reply would be kept strictly secret. Said
reply is reported to “ have given complete satis-
faction” to the dep. ; and curiosity is rife in
adjoining districts as to what the
Premier promised ’em.
TRIUMPH.
SMALL BOY: “ Hit Billy, comean' bring your
sister — ’ere's the 'ead teacher as sick as a dorg.”
G. H. Reid held N.S.W. Treasury port-
folio from 30th August, 1894, till June 30, 1899 —
four years, 10 months; the longest continuous
official grasp in N.S.W. “responsible ” history.
James Watson (4 years, 1 month) comes next.
“Pukaki” writes of the bad old days of
Provincialism in Maoriland :
In Canterbury, M.L., the provincial Govt., having
ukased that no person could take up a block of land of
less than 20 acres, proceeded to cut up a large portion of
the province into 21-acre sections alternated with blocks
of 19£, so that the holders of the former had the free
use of the latter, the 19-acre blocks not being legally
saleable. In Hawke’s Bay, where stock bad to be carried
in proportion to area held, when the inspector was ex-
pected at squatter A’s place, all the stock from the
neighboring stations would be mustered in A’s yard, and
when the inspector had arrived and duly noted the num-
ber, he would be asked inside for a “ Presbyterian.”
Generally he would remain for several Presbyterians, and,
meanwhile, the collected stock would be passed on to
squatter B’s homestead —and so on. The Provincial
Council of Hawke’s Bay once bought a big block of land
from the Maoris, and immediately sold it at an absurdly
low figure to 12 gentlemen, known locally as “ the
Twelve Apostles.” And by a curious coincidence the
Twelve Apostles were the Provincial Council.
Brisbane Twaddlegbaph has an idea about
the recent N.S.W. referendum :
Reports in Sydney newspapers make it clear that the
victorious voting in some of the suburbs of Sydney
against the Convention Bill was due to good organisation.
Equally good work, elsewhere, must have produced at
least as heavy a-vote against the Bill as there now is re-
ported to have been for it. The reason is on the face of
the facts. There were about 120,000 persons to whom
voting-papers were sent, who took no trouble about it.
Either they thought that the Government could not be
serious, would not go on with Federation—a very reason-
able supposition—or they supposed the opposition against
it good enough to obtain a great victory.
The idea that it might be the other way about—
that the 120,000 were Federalists and didn’t vote
because they felt quite sure that Federation was
safe, and that it wasn’t worth while to kill the
already-dead parochialist over'again—is quite be-
yond the range of the Geebung’s understanding.
Items from N.S.W. Federal referendum
poll: The largest vote “ for ” —King Division,
3622 ; largest “against ” —the same division, 2922 ;
the greatest majority “for” —The Murray,
2044; the greatest majority “against”—Nor-
thumberland, 916 ; the greatest number of in-
formal votes —The Murray, 30; the least
number of informals—Newcastle West and
?• Newtown (St. Peter’s Division), 1 each.
T. M. Slattery wants the Commonwealth
Houses to be called Parliament and the State
Houses Legislatures, as is the casein Canada, and
rates the Federal Bill drafters for “gross inac-
curacy,” because they failed to notice the point.
But there is no reason why Australia should go
out of its way to be like Canada. Common-
wealth Parliament and State Parliament
stand boldly contrasted in the public mind,
and that is the main thing. The constitu-
tional difference between a Legislature
and a Parliament does not apply to the
State Parliaments of Australia, for these
will still be “sovereign” in many respects.
Premier Turner’s proposal to re-enact the
Income-tax on a reduced scale —when Victoria has
still between two and three millions of deficit to
pay off, and its Old-Age Pensions to provide for,
and wants money in all directions for public
works—is a lamentable backsliding. Of course,
the situation is a difficult one. The Income-tax
Bill was merely a temporary measure, and expires
this year. The House of 48 Rich Landlords
would probably throw out the new Bill altogether
if it provided for a continuance of the Income-tax
on the present scale. It may be a question of
taking a reduced tax or none at all. But at least
it was worth while making a fight over the matter.
Jagged truth from Orange Leader :
Dr. MacLaurin is already talking about the opinions of'
“ the large minority of electors being respected' by the
Parliament.” This is all very well, but isn’t it nearly
time the majority had a show?
The new F ederal movement appears to be
fast gaining strength in Maoriland. If that
province—the third in point of population— oame
into the Commonwealth it would lend
a tremendous democratic impetus to
Federal legislation; it would prao-
tieally compel the Federal Go-
vernment to establish an Old
Age Pension system all over
the Commonwealth (the
Federal Govt, would have
to take over the M.L.
Old Age Pension busi-
ness, and it could
hardly do that without
making the system uni-
form throughout Fede-
ral territory); and it
would bring a group of
the ablest democratic
_ statesmen in the world
into the Australasian Par-
liament. Maoriland is a cold
country where the people are
really alive, and its influence would do
a great deal to counteract the mental
lassitude of the North.
The Fates are unkind to Rockhampton.
She is, at present, fighting an utterly hopeless
battle against Federation while the Bananaland
Govt, is pushing on the connection between the
Central line and Gladstone, which is to deprive
the city of sin, sweat and sorrow of its daily bread.
Sweating, according to S.A. Factories
Inspector, was never so rife in Adelaide as now.
S.A. has no minimum-wage law, and the local
Factories Act, which Premier Kingston intends
to amend, has not been a success. S.A. workers
cry out that the cheap alien hawkers, who swarm
over the country, are the main factors in reducing
wages to starvation point.
How would the Transvaal Outlanders take
it if the Paul Kruger Government offered to re-
organise its political system on a purely British
model? Kruger, with his big belltopper and the
huge grey door-mat under his chin, to be made-
hereditary monarch so that no Outlander need
hope to have a hand in the election of the Head of
the State. The First Raad, which is purely Boer,
to be made a House of hereditary Boer aristo-
cracy, with the same power of blocking innova-
tions as the British House of Lords. The Out-
lander to have a vote for the other House after
five years residence and naturalisation ; to pay the
same taxes in the meantime as anybody else;,
taxation to be adjusted so as to fall mainly on
wealth—the Outlanders have most of the wealth ;
and there to be no guarantee that one one-man
constituency won’t contain ten times as many
voters as another one-man constituency—in other
words, that the vote of the Outlander in the big
city won’t be just one-tenth the value of that of
the Boer in the small towns.
Cabled from London that the Agents-
General advise a reduction in the compensation to
be paid to the Vine-Lowles syndicate. According
to law, the three provinces (Queensland, N.S.W.,
and Yic.) which contribute to the cost of govern-
ing British Papua have to be consulted re all im-
portant acts of government. The Vine-Lowlea
syndicate engineered a huge land-steal and trad-
ing-monopoly concession without reference to
N.S. W. or Victoria —a concession which was care-
fully kept dark lest these provinces would kick,
and which was wholly illegal. The swindle was de-
feated at the last moment at great expense in
cablegrams, whereupon the defeated boodlers ask
Queensland, N.S. W., and Victoria to pay part of
the expenses they incurred in trying to defraud
Queensland, N.S.W., and Victoria out of their
governing rights in this matter. And the Agents-
General, instead of kicking these impudent and
rapacious frauds right into the North Sea, are
actually haggling about the amount to be paid
them.
Politically the people of Maoriland lead
the world. And the most democratic people on
earth are so impressed with the beauties of the
Federal Constitution, with its glittering Braddon
Spot, that a meeting at Auckland lately assem-
bled itself together and resolved :
First resolution : “ That, in the opinion of this meeting,
the Federal Constitution of Australia is the most nobte
monument of Government that human wisdom and
statesmanship have yet evolved ; just and equitable to
the confederate States, and carefully conserving the
rights and liberties of each, in all matters purely local
and this meeting expresses its entire approval of the-
same.”
Second resolution : “That, in the opinion of this meet-
ing, the time has arrived when the attention of the-
people and Parliament of Maoriland should be earnestly
directed to this great question. That Maoriland has-
everything to gain politically, commercially, and socially
by casting in her lot and becoming one with the federated’
States, thus consummating an Australasian Federation ;
that to delay is fraught with imminent peril, there being
great danger of a Confederated Parliament, with Maori-
land left out, imposing restrictions which may delay or
defeat further efforts to unite with them."
The M.L. people know at least a little aboutr
democratic institutions, and this opinion ought,
to count for something.
M‘ILWRAITH.
“ Back ! back! ” he cries across the seas,
“ These others are thy enemies.
And, Queensland, all I ask of thee
Is—trust no enemy but me ! ”
E.D.


PALING’S
Cheapest
and Best
House for
PIANOS
We Stock
The Leading Makers
of the World.
Write for Particulars.
:ORGANS
By The Estey Co.
Renowned for
Tone and Durability
f
PALING’S
ARE
HEAP
QUARTERS
EOR
EVERYTHING
KNOWN
IN
MUSIC
CALL
J* OK
WRITE
j* foe
CATALOGUES
a— EREE
music :
The Most
Up-to-date Stock
In Australasia
Entrust us with your Orders.
[ Band Instruments [
Bv Boosey
Besson and
Couesnon
The three Best MaJcerm.
Musical li}StrOn)eot&
Of €ycry Pescriptioi)
Violins
Banjos
Cornets
Concertinas
&c.
Guitars
Mandolins
Autoharps
Accordeons
&c.
W. N. PALING *C° L™ 338
SEORSE STREET,
SYDNEY
Brisbane
Newcastle
HATTE’S WONDERFUL FAIR.
“ /DOMING EVENTS,” says the poet, “ cast their shadows before.” What, you may ask, has that
much-used quotation to do with Hatte’s 17th Great Fair —now on? Wait a minute, and vou
will see the application. Probably you know Hatte’s at Newtown ; but possibly you don’t. The
most famous people and the most wonderful things are not known to everybody. When Napoleon
was at the height of his glory, when his victorious armies were marching everywhere, a peasant was
found only a few miles from Paris who had never heard of the man. who set up or knocked down kings
at his pleasure. So we will assume you have never yet heard of Hatte, though, in that case, you
would be almost as ignorant as the French peasant. However, we have something to say about this
same Hatte ; and when we have finished you will be a deal the wiser, and regret you did not acquire
the knowledge long ago. You will regret it because such information might have saved you scores of
pounds.
But, to come back to “ events ” and “ shadows.” Hatte’s establishments occupy a long stretch of
the main thoroughfare in the heart of busy Newtown. Had you passed along that thoroughfare
during the past fortnight, you would have seen drayloads upon drayloads emptying themselves on the
pavement till the piled-up cases cast long “shadows before.” They indicated a great “coming event ”
an event which has now come —his 17th Great Fair. Thus you will see how well the quotation
applies.
And it is a great Fair—not a miserable twopenny-halfpenny thing so often denominated a
“fair.” Hatte has held many fairs, but this “takes the cake,” as they say. There are special
reasons why the present fair is better and more attractive than even its predecessors, why you will get
even bigger bargains than before. Do you want to know why? We will tell you. At the close of
the late season in England—which, you no doubt know, precedes ours—Hatte’s home buyer
cleared out a deal of the surplus stocks of the home manufacturers, of course on very favorable terms.
It was hoped that these shipments might arrive in time for the commencement of the Autumn and
Winter Season here ; but they came just a little too late. Now all these goods Hatte has determined
to put into his Great Winter Fair. They include the newest, freshest, and most fashionable obtain-
able—everything either lady or gentleman can want in the way of clothing—and they are all of
superior quality. Thus you see why the present Fair is specially worthy of your notice and patronage.
Everything will be sold at Fair prices ; and there will be big bargains in every department.
Ladies should not fail to inspect the large display of elegant Parisian millinery. The charming
bonnets and gems of hats cannot be surpassed anywhere. Mrs. Hatte brought them direct from Paris
during her recent visit; and they are such as are worn by the leaders of fashion in the gay French
capital. They are all marvellously cheap.
The collection of dress materials is one of the largest and most carefully selected ever offered to
public notice. The designs are beautiful and fashionable and very durable, and will make very pretty
dresses —just the thing for winter wear. It will be seen that the prices are fabulously cheap.
In the gentlemen’s departments, Hatte has this time excelled himself. Such an assortment of
winter clothing was hardly ever before got together. Fancy a fashionable, well-made, stylish Chester-
field overcoat from 12s. lid. to 255. For 17s. lid. you may secure a garment fit for a prince. Macin-
toshes are also going at bargain prices—from 12s. lid. to 355. These are some of the best goods
obtainable, and are warranted to keep out the wet. Then, again, the ready-made clothing—a single
garment or a complete suit —is equally notable. For a pound, or even under, you may appear attired
as a perfect gentleman.
There are also big lines of mercery and underclothing, too numerous for specification in a news-
paper article; but a casual glance will show you what remarkable value is offered you during the Fair.
The boot and shoe department deserves particular notice during the currency of the Fair. Hatte
keeps one of the largest and most varied stocks in the colony. They come direct from the manufac-
turers, being bought on the spot by Hatte’s home buyer; and include all the best makes, both Conti-
nental and American. There are some special lines suitable for hard country wear ; as, for instance,
the new military cossack. This is a handsome boot, of great durability, made of the very best
leather ; yet it is sold at the low price of 7s. 6d. The American boots more particularly are noted for
their excellence of material, ease and elegance. All going at Fair prices.
No finer display of blankets is to be seen anywhere than at Hatte’s Fair. You may get a pair of
these useful articles for 2s. lid. ; coloured from ss. 6d. ; and very serviceable, warm bush rugs from
2s. 6d. The ordinary price of these goods would be just double. There are miles of flannels and
flannelettes —the latter from 2s. lid. a dozen yards. Remember all these goods are the newest and
best.
Hatte’s ironmongery department has now become as famous as the others. Here you will find
all kinds of agricultural implements, saddlery and harness at prices, during the Fair, fifty per cent,
below those of the city. It is impossible to detail the items in this comprehensive department; but
you will find in it everything you can possibly need.
Residents in the country, who find it inconvenient to visit the town, can share the benefits of
Hatte’s fair. They have only to write for a copy of the Fair book and patterns and they will be
posted free. You can thus make a selection of what you require, and the arrangements for trans-
mitting goods by post, rail and steamer are now so sure and simple that your orders will be as satis-
factorily executed as though you paid a personal visit. Hatte pays the freight on parcels of £2 and
over by rail or boat.
Gentlemen would do well to note the advantages of sending their tailoring orders to Hatte. His
two guinea suits to measure (including extra pair of trousers) are the marvel of the day, having
effected a complete revolution in tailoring. There’s a splendid assortment of the best and newest
materials to choose from ; the fit is perfect, and the workmanship of the best. Write for patterns f]
and self-measurement forms, and the garments will be despatched in a few days. These suits give
every satisfaction, and hundreds of letters have been received from country customers, expressing
the utmost appreciation at the extraordinary value given. In fact you could not get a better suit for
double the money at any other establishment.
C. 6. HATTC, NEWTOWN.
Continuity of (||ear
Soon shows up the
weak points in cheap
grade tyres whilst
it only serves to
emphasise the fine
quality of material
and workmanship
embodied in
MULTIPLEX
m
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 months,
FIRST in 1888.
FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [ld.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
AND AT J J ’
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, fta
Mill. UN de Piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Largis Whith Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbrofcinc/ Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
FKJbt month;.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The City Plutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^#
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, £500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company) : 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin »- r Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. | ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Policies issued at Lowest Rates in the Life, Accident,
Disease, Employer's Liability and Public Risk Depart-
ments.
Write for prospectus of the Combined Life-Accident-
Disease Policy. E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
I Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty. j
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TT'KrTTmj OAT land and DEPOSIT
U JWI V iV£ls2i.jLl , BANK LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874.
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fixed Deposits
Received for •
&5*C
1
Year at Ub per
Years at 5 per
Years at 6 per
cent. p.
cent. p.
cent. p.
Advances made upon Freehold property. Temporary
loans on deposit of deeds, without valuation or mort-
gage cost. ERNEST O. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Oueensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doi} & LaiKaSbir*
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
}
95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
, Banking, Public Companies, &c,
T<>€ TrOstccs, €xec<itorS,
And
AgWV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1898 ...
£160,000 0 0
£73,375 15 0
£150,000 0 0
£6,135,298 13 4
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I.
trustee.
Barker registered
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
_No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. .. £3.123,555 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C :
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Niool, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager ; Edward Smith. Assis. Manager : Daniel Weir.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
'London Office: 1 JBishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Banners : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW
SYDNEY -
SOUTH wales:
273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 Pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Bates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
THE-f.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
Gent’s Kid-leg Galf Goloshed 10/6
„ „ Patent „ 10/6
„ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
~ All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Bail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
n
. . SEND FOE . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OE OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies 9 , Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS .
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BO LUKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday. July 15, 12 Noon.
"Peregrine, Sat., July 22,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine, Sat., July 22,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNRURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
- Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, July 15, 2 p.m.
-Burwah, Tues., July 18, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 22, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Leura, Saturday, July 15, 2 p.m.
"Tyrian, Saturday, July 22, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST €ll It It ENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith !s Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
IH‘|iuirafth, f|)‘Eacharn & go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
Mhlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements^
9 Revolution in Dentistry^:
The patients who had their aching, decayed
teeth and roots painlessly extracted, and
teeth painlessly stopped, bv the aid of Mr.
J. I. MARSHALL’S (of 28 Wynyard
Square, SYDNEY) Newly - Discovered
Local Specifics for one month numbered 500.
That is equal to 6000 a year. This is un-
doubtedly the largest register of painless
dental treatments in Australia. Letters of
thanks may be seen at the Parlors, 28
Wynyard Square (permission having
been given to show them), from doctors,
clergymen, literati, chemists, and many
leading ladies of society.
FOREI&KI
Sets 12 Russia, 6d; 9 British North
Borneo, Is 6d ; I G Roumania, 6d ;
8 Bosnia, 6d; 50 Spain, 2s; 3 Chili
Telegraph, 3d; 1,0 Heligoland, Is;
10 Turkey, 9d; 6 Labuan, Is 6d ;
11 Finland, 6d; 5 Tunis, 3d ; 10
Portugal, 6d; packets 30 different,
Gd; 50, Is; 100,256 d; 150, ss. Re-
mit by P. 0.0 or P.N. Illustrated
iiiHßiaifPii
Catalogues post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
CO X "ON & OCXS
SPECIAL OFFER.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6cl; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite ditto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d: ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons, 4/6,
6/6, 10/6, 12,6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.,
745 GEORGE ST., lIAYMARKET (Opposite
Christ Church), SYDNEY.
KEEP YOUR HAIR ON
By using our CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash which beautifies the
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERMANENTLY,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or splitting.
It gives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple. PRICE, 10/6 and iilj- per Bottle; Postage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEN,
680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY:
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOIi MELBOURNE 1
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.B. Ointra, Friday, July 14.
Connecting with S.S. Wollowra,
leaving Melbourne July 18.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Ointra, Friday, July 14.
Connecting with S.S. Wol-
lowra, leaving Melbourne
July 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Eoekton, Friday,
July 14.
Best & Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YU ILL and CO., Ltd., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Britannia
India
Oriental..
Victoria ..
Australia
Commander.
6525 F. Seymour
8000 T. Leigh
5284
6257 E. Crewe
69011. Reeves
Sydney,
Noon
July
July
Aug.
Aug.
Sept.
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
15 July
29 Aug.
12| Aug.
261 Avjg.
91Sept.
Ade
laidt,
2 pm.
July
Aug.
Aug.
Aug.
12lSept. 14
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
w COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
r T a ? ?J erffis for Passages from England. EDWARD
IKELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [ine
—TO— |
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti.e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particul rs apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Forts and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S. S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co ~ Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
G T°
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING! . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons' cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co.,
General Agents, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI- Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from tlie Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge St ret
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Age.
* Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


HEW DISCOVERY!
52*
n
BRANDTS
I' ACEmtNt|
VasGenerator
A convenient portable ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR,
for Household, Shop Windows, or Lantern Work.
Price (Generator only), 255. Pillar Light, with shade
and burner, 17s. 6d. Rubber Tube, 6d. per foot.
Calcium Carbide, and all accessories stocked.
BRANDT BROS.,
Acetylene Lamp Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Fair girls and gray horses!
Second Edition. 220 pp.— 4s. 6d.
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine!
This inducement is Offered You to know the
TIME to STITCH !
-- - WATCH THIS -- -
The British Watch Co.,
of George Street, SYDNEY, desiring to introduce into
every household its stock of watches, chains, bangles,
rings, etc., GUARANTEES to present a Solid Silver
Keyless Watch to any person guessing the following
Puzzle
W * T * H T * E T * M *
CONDITION : Send your answer with a stamped-addressed
envelope for reply, and if correct you will receive a Solid
Silver Keyless Watch free of charge, on condition that
you purchase one of our Solid Silver Single or double
Chains to wear with your Watch.
Address— THE MANAGER,
PRICE
27/6.
British Watch Company,
George Street, Sydney.
NEWMAH,
CHEMIST,
King Street, Sydney.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
CETS of 22 French Colonies, Is ; 5 Tunis.
° Id ;10 Brazil, 6d ; 3 Chili Telegraphs,
2d ; 12 Mexico, Is ; 50 Belgian, 2s ; 16 Rou-
mania, 5d ; 8 Esrvpt, 6d ; 3 Deccan, 6d ; 40
Japan Is 0d SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for
6d ; 250, Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE
COLLECTIONS 1000 differents (mounted)
only 20s ; postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N.,
or stamps. Price Lists, Foreign and Aus-
tralian, free. WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbour k.
The Australian Mining and Property Sureau,
CABLE ADDRESS: 222 CANNON ST. HOUSE^«^ra^A
Donned,” London. London, e.c.
Established as a connecting- link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
z&’RAiKrit jarvis
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing 1 several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
Address till end of June, Aaron’s Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
ft
f 7/
COLEiAME’B EUGALYPTE EXTRACT
For Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Fevers, and Chest
Complaints generally it can’t be beat.
GUARANTEED PURE, AND SOLD ONLY IN Joz. and
ioz. BOTTLES.
Insist always on Colemane's.
* THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTFKS
SOI,D ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., iand a/, each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TU,I,OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOE STREETS. SYDNET.
ASK FOR
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
John Hunter $ Son’s (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
The jfustraliai Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
r | 'll IS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting’ all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood,
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness*
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWIOK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman J
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.C*
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] QEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
THE BRAND
ASK FOR
d .c.l« y
FROM ALL HOTELS
& SPIRIT MERCHANTS
D.C.L, ONE QUALITY ONLY
21
OF MERIT.
ask for
D.C.I«
THE PUREST SPIRIT MADE
THE BEST. ALWAYS THE SAME
Registered.
.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2/6.
Solid Gold, 12/6.
SOUVENIRS OF AUSTRALIAN FEDERATION.
WH ARE AGAIN TO THE FORE WITH
UF-TC-DATE SOUVENIRS,
COMMEMORATING THE GREATEST EVENT IN
AUSTRALIAN [HISTORY.
Solid Silver HAT-PINS, 3/-; MATCH-BOXES, 10/-, 12/8:
BELT-CLASPS, 13 6 and 15/-.
BADGES, CHARMS, &c., in GREAT VARIETY.
Registered
mat
BROOCHES.
Sterling Silver, 3/0.
Solid Gold, 13/6.
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 25/-
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Heart and Chain Brooch, 9/6.
ii
Gold, with 1 Bell, 10/6 ; 3 Bells, 12/6.
Silver, with 1 Bell, 3/6 ; 3 Bells, 4/6.
2 Gold Bars, set with 2 Diamonds, 17/6.
FEDERATION SOUVENIR SPOON,
SOLID SILVER.
PLAIN BOWL, 12/6; with MOTTO IN BOWL,
IS 6.
2 Lovely Pearl-Set Gold Birds, 17/6
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21/-.
am
1
15e., 5 Diamonds and 2 Rubies, Sapphires
or Opals, 70/-.
15c., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, 42/-.
2 Gold Doves and Heart, 8/6.
Lucky Bell and Chain Brooch, 10/-.
(Registered).
POST FREE.
Set with Ruby or Sapphire, 90., 13/6:
15c., 18/6.
*^AR£:ABSENh
WEEFROm
BETWEEN^
NiOITJHIE
Solid Gold Cross, Mizpah and Ivy,
12/6.
Gold Bars, set with 6 Pearls.
9c., 15/-; 15c., 22/6.
PLEASE SEND
FOR OUR
Illustrated Slips of
Latest Novelties.
S Lucky Bells, Chain and Bamboo, 10/6.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY.
1
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool ; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Co-
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E.KICH&CO.LTD
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Jbilacls, HFTeci, and Bine. 3s 6d per gnll. in Mlelb. and. Sydney; 3s 9d per gall. In Brislaane.
James H Ewan &
panv
(SUNS.
Special Notice to Sportsmen.
Note Our Surprising Prices.
Limited.
6UNS.
D.B. B.L. HAMMER GUNS, 12g.
Reduced
From To
Uoates’ Bar Lock, Doll’s Head
Extension 13 15 0 13 5 0
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Doll’s Head Extension 5 5 0 4 12 6
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Solid Strikers, D. and E.
Bolt 6 10 0 5 5 0
Cashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
Solid Bar Action, Cros-
Bolt 8 10 0 6 6 0
Webley’s, Damascus Barrels,
Risrht Cylinder, Left Choke 10 10 0 9 12 6
Cashmore’s, Solid Bar Action,
Damascus Barrels, Cross
Bolt, Solid Strikers 17 10 0 12 15 0
Beduced
From To
W. and C. Scott and Son’s
“Excel” Club Gun, Damas-
cus Barrels, with case and
tools 25 0 0 21 5 0
Oashmore’s, Damascus Barrels,
32in., Wedge-fast, clips ... 27 10
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels, Side
Clips 22 0
Cashmore’s Whitworth Fluid
Compressed Steel Barrels,
in case 45 0
Cashmore’s Solid Bar Action,
Cross Bolt, Damascus Bar-
rels 13 0
0 21 5 0
0 17 5 0
0 32 15 0
0
10 5 0
D.B. B.L. HAMMERLESS GUNS, 32a.
Reduced
From To
Field’s, Damascus Barrels,
Cross Bolt £l3 10 0 £ll 5
J. Reeves’s Damascus Barrels,
Doll’s Head Extension ... 12 0 0 10 0
Tisdall’s, Damascus Barrels,
Right Mod., Left Choke.. 18 0 0 14 10
Tisdall’s, Damascus Barrels,
Cross Bolt 22 10 0 18 0
Oashmore’s, Damascus Bar-
rels, Treble Wedge-fast ... 25 0 0 16 10
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels,
Wedge-fast, Side Clips ... 30 0 0 23 0
Cashmore’s, Steel Barrels,
Treble Wedge-fast, in case 25 0 0 18 5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Reduced
From To
Cashmore’s, Damascus Bar-
rels, Wedge-fast, with case <£3s 0 0 f 26 0 0
Cashmore’s, Whitworth Fluid
Steel Barrels, Wedge-fast
Clips 45 0 0 34 0 0
E.G. Cartridges, Eley’s Loading,
Best Cases. Per 100.
42 grains 16s Od 12s 0d
45 prams 16 0 12 6
47 grains 16 0 13 0
Schultze Cartridges, Eley’s Loading, Best Cases.
45 grains 15 a p 2 0
47 Grains 15 6 12 6
Per lb.
E.C. Powder, in flasks 7 0 6 0
JAMES M‘EWAKr & CO. Ltd., IX9 to 125 EUzat>etll St.,
Melt


%
i
i I
A QUESTION OF PRICE.
The Best Price to pay for a Cycle is
the Price of the Best Cycle.
What’s your neck worth? That’s what we say, too. Would you risk it on a
CvclT(so-called) thrown together in a plough, chair, or stove factory ? We think not.
Cyclists are now becoming educated on Bicycle Values, and decline to pay their
good gold for the products of a repair-shop.
We are the only Direct Branch of an exclusive Bicycle Factory represented in
Australia; consequently, “ RED BIRD ” riders get better value for their money, as
they save the intermediate profit.
Our 1899 Model “ RED BIRD SPECIALS ”
await your inspection.
The Goold Bicycle Co. Limited .
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office) ;
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE ;
261 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ;
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
Mr. Gerard Miller explains the origin of Ihe Cake Walk
as datin" back to the bad old days when the South per-
petrated the horrors of Legree. The slaves only amuse-
ment was to deck themselves in the cast-off fiuei> of-their
tyrants, and imitate on grassy lawns m the moonlight
the minuets of the aristocratic ballrooms. And at Sidney
Palace the Cake-Walkers are arrayed to represe t that
remote period. It is an easy matter, watching their
graceful P movements, to imagine that time has iolled
backwards and left one among the gardens of the Old
Dominion. .
Impecunious musical talent can’t be easily boomed in
Holland, seemingly. A young Dutchman, with a passion
for the piano and no means of raising a benefit fund, was
advised to put his hard case before Queen Wilhelnnna.
The practical damsel responded with an otter of six
months’ tuition gratis from a leading professor, the prp-
fessor to report on the young man’s alleged genius at the
end of that time. If the report is favorable, the pupil
will be commanded to thump away and complete his
musical education at the Queen’s expense.
Titus Salt” : In all my life I only met one juggler
who could “lay over” Cinquevalli. This man used to
throw a blank cheque, a pen, and a bottle of ink in the
air,and the cheque would come down filled in and signed.
It was a perfectly good signature, too, and the bank paid
the money without any question. He came to grief in
Carolina (U.S.)—this was about ’59, in the old slavery
days. Just by way of giving a finish to his performance,
he threw a nigger-slave up in the air, and he came down
free, and the crowd lynched the juggler on suspicion of
being an abolitionist. His name was something like
Cinquevalli, too ; I think he called himself Stinkynioun-
tain or something like that. He was a very remark .ble
man with pale black hair, and used to have 18 hard-boiled
eggs for breakfast.
Old “Dad” Williams, who died at Collingwood the
other day, aged near 80, was a great song-and-dance
“ artist ”’in the early days of Victoria. He was a sailor
in youth. Settled in Melbourne in the forties, and per-
formed at John Thomas Smith’s Queen’s Theatre in
Queen-street, now a furniture-maker’s. Smith kept the
pub next door, on the corner of Little Bourke-street,
and called it “ St. John’s Tavern.” He had arrived at
Melb. as a 0. of E. scripture-reader, and gave his pub. an
ecclesiastical title. Williams was one of the first in
Australia to “do” Chinese parts. The old man danced
and sang in private up to the last. Another old Melb.
mummer is Charles Walsh Pugh, who lately became land-
lord of a pub. in Smith-street, Fitzroy. He played and
sang in the old theatre in Lonsdale-street, now Carton’s
livery stables, opposite Melbourne Hospital. Pugh, poor
old fellow, is now blind.
Curly-headed musician Scherek has a big memory. As
a boy, he was a prodigy pianist in Europe ; even now he
is a better artist than many of the stars who are brought
out for people here to marvel at. His memory enables
him to conduct without the aid of a score. But in doing
this he runs the risk of criticism of the kind that assailed
Wagner when he first went to England. Wagner, know-
ing Beethoven’s symphonies by heart, at first conducted
them from memory. But some of the critics found fault
with him, and said he would do the business better if he
conducted from score. At the next concert Wagner con-
ducted with a mighty big score on his desk, and he
turned over the pages solemnly as the music proceeded.
The critics said it was all right then. But Wagner let his
friends into the secret that he conducted from a score of
Rossini’s “ Barber of Seville,” placed upside-down on his
desk.
Few people outside the theatrical profession knew that
George Gordon was at the top of the tree as a scenic
artist in London when Garner persuaded him to come out
to Australia. He came for the sake of the change chiefly,
and the change suited him so well that he made his home
here. London has no great charm for scene-painters.
When Walter Spong returned to the Big Smoke he wrote
to George Gordon in terms of .disappointment and dis-
gust at the sunlessness of the city.
It is a long worm that has no turning. Rougemont has
rounded on one of his critics, and offers to bet the Daily
Chronicle a large sum of filthy lucre that he will ride
a turtle in any aquarium, and guide it by jabbing his toe
into its eye. But what aquarium proprietor is going to
risk the eye of his expensive turtle against the great ad-
venturer’s toe-nail ?
The old dodge of having the Mexican gold and
Abyssinian diamonds stolen wore out. Then the divorce
was worked till it grew hollow and transparent, and now
Alma Stanley has struck out on a new track by periodi-
cally catching cold and dying in various parts. It was
Alma’s second or third death that was recently reported.
Charles Arnold was to have sailed from London on 6th
June for Cape Town, British Central Africa (which sounds
like a new locality for a dramatic co. to go to), Australia,
and Maoriland. L. J. Lohr will manage for him in Aus-
tralia. Arnold is bringing out three plays : “ Captain
Fritz,’’ “Paul o’ the Alps,” and “What happened to
Jones.” “ Hans the Boatman ” and “My Sweetheart”
are both on the printed circular, but they are scored out,
so apparently the good old play with the big dog and the
“kiddies” has been dropped from Arnold’s repertoire.
The Bulletin weeps.
Said that the graceful chansonette sung by a recent
much-boomed debutante at her first concert, was written
in her honor by a foreigner here resident, and that not the
song, but the singer, was encored—a distinction too
subtly painful to suggest itself to the mind of any ordi-
dinary man of crotchets and quavers. But —“ You must
sing my song again,” said this one to the singer as both
stood in the wings listening to the applause. The damsel
smiled mysteriously, went out again, and sang “ Home
Sweet Home.” And when that composer heard he rent
asunder the MS. of his gem and danced a fandango on the
fragments.
Soult, the “dead bird” for the G.N. Hurdle
race last Saturday, went out at 6 to 4 and made only a
poor show considering the starting price. He had the
best of claims to win “ on paper," so Tub Bulletin fancied
Iln,atter 1 l n , atter of forn) - In remarking that “ next to
the dandy black gee-gee. Mystery, Valdis and Nilus may
be worth talking about, just for the sake of argument "
this mcredulous newspaper saved its prophetio bacon.
Valdis and Mystery were bracketed as second favorites
afc *? wi-?? ch . an ul th S? fin « s hed first and second. The
Mark Whitty stable adherents proved to be the knowing
ones this year. Ourtin took the mount on Valdis for
choice, but felt pretty confident that Mystery would get
there or thereabouts. The winning stable backed both
and had a calmly happy time as the two leaders came
down the straight with the rest of the field fairly out of it.
Soult, perhaps, was not at his best on Saturday,
for, granting that he held a bad, boxed-in position most
of the journey, there was no visible reason why he should
not have gone to the front half-a-mile from home if he
had been capable of the effort. The favorite didn’t look
bright enough to please everybody in the “birdcage,"
and it is hard to believe that he ran true to the “form’”
of a fortnight previous, when he gave Borderer 41b. and
beat him handsomely over the two-mile course at Caul-
field. On Saturday he met the same Borderer on 181 b.
better terms, and finished lengths behind him, whereas
Mr. Miller’s horse, in getting third place for the big
event, showed that 0 to 4 was a fair price about Soult’s
chance—on paper. So much for “ certainties."
* * • •
The satisfactory dearth of casualties—only two
falls in the three races over the sticks —suggests that
cross-country jockeys may congratulate themselves on
the present mediocrity of jumping horses in general.
The Flemington course was certainly no heavier last
Saturday than when Redleap (with list. 101 b. up) scored
his second G.N. Hurdles victory in 9sec. faster time.
There were no first-raters to force the pace, and conse-
quently nothing came to grief in the 3-mile raoe. Slow-
running makes safe jumping.
• * • •
Backers of coincidences will naturally go for the
double V, and take Vigil in the G.N. Steeplechase.
The son of Lord Wilton has shown himself to be in form ;
he beat Troy and Hayseed a few days ago, and may do it
again over the longer course, nevertheless he will not
carry the present writer’s two-and-sixpence. The Steeple-
chase is a very’ open-looking handicap. Floater, Domino,
Ditto, Hayseed, Pirate, Doondiah, Mistletoe, Troy, Vigil,
Ouyen, and even Comboyne, appear to have chances.
The weight will not stop Domino, if he can go the three
miles over heavy ground, but this is a doubtful point.
The writer prefers the chance of Pirate to beat Hayseed,
Floater and Domino.
* * • •
Coincidence at Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) races
last Saturday : The first race was won by Lady Lygon,
and the next by Oast Iron, a son of imported Beauchamp.
* * * »
The nearest approach to the renowned “ Malua
rush ” seen in Sydney for many days was shown by the
big-framed black Sunrise horse Eastern King, in snaring
the principal handicap at Warwick Farm on Saturday.
At 100yds. from home the favorite, Mayo’s Carberra, and
Bellwood were in front and going strong with Eastern
King apparently lost in the crush ; but a little further on
a dark shadow flitted down the centre of the course and
when the judge was reached the lengthy descendant of
Sunrise was found with his head poked out in front of
the field. Since Wallace, Australia hasn’t produced
many nags that can down E.K. at the finish of a slow-run.
race.
* * * *
Saturday's hurdle race fit Warwick Farm was
a stirring event. Four started : Sammy Brass, a large
shapeless hunk of beef on four shaky legs, an embittered
grey .mare rejoicing in the name of Lady Lygon, Satan, a
real good cut of a ’bus-horse, and an indescribable quad-
ruped called Escape. Lady Lygon was a slightly-better
favorite than Satan, and, climbing the fences and jump-
ing them sideways and backwards and any other way
that came handy, she got home first in the break-neck:
time for two miles of 4min. Bsec. Satan was second, and.
Sammy Brass, who when galloping his hardest goes up
and down in the same place, arrived late and was third.
Escape got round some time before the last train left.
The prize was £5O, or thereabouts, which would have
been an extravagant figure to give for the whole of the
starters. There is big money waiting for anyone who.
will quietly start a strong jumping stable in Sydney.
* * m *
The column wheeze in Sydney D.T. last Friday
re the attitude of the A.J.O. towards registered book-
makers running “ shops,” much amused turf circles, and
is generally put down as having been written in the in-
terests of one man. Only two or three of the leather-
lunged are in the “ shop ” business now—the others'
having given up when warned to do so months ago.
* * * *
Cross-country jockey Rheece, who died at Syd-
ney St. Vincent’s Hospital last week, was as game a man
as ever rode a horse. Injured on June 3, and suffering
from fracture of the base of the skull and laceration of
the brain, he remained unconscious for over a month.
The tenacity with which he clung to life defied medical:
explanation, but it was characteristic. For no other
rider was the ambulance waggon so frequently called into
request. Many a gruelling tussle has Rheece had with,
the scythe-bearer, but none so prolonged as the last.
“ Poor Billy ” was carried-in on a stretcher so regularly
that his very escape from accident was food for com-
ment. Not to see him in bandages and splints or using a
sling was rare.
* * • •
An Auckland (M.L.) sport has imported from:
England Oyrenian, a 6-year-old son of St. Simon. There
should be good results from the crossing of the St. Simon,
stock with Musket mares.
* * • •
The Australian XI. up to Saturday last had
played 17 matches—won 9, lost 1, and drawn 4, and had
scored 6710 runs as against the Britishers’ 6420. Noble
heads the batting-average with 46 per innings ; Hill is
next with 42, Worrall 41, and Gregory, Darling, Trumper
and Trumble all over 30. Noble had made most runs
(953), and Hill held highest individual score (160). Laver
had scored most “blobs,” viz., 6; Howell was second
with 4, Noble, Gregory, Trumper and Jonah 3 each, and
Hill 1 only. In bowling, the consistent Trumble is an
easy first, with the fine average of 13 6 for 70 wickets,
Laver next with 17, Noble and Howell.lB, and Worrall 69.
Hill and Noble have three times soored centuries, and'
Worrall, Darling and Gregory twice, whilst Laver holds
the distinction of having pjayed in a match without
getting a strike in either innings, owing to one being
closed and the Other unfinished. To date, the XL has a-
finer record than any of its predecessors.
* .•
With Iredale,'Worrall and Hill temporarily
disabled, it is lucky for the Australian team that 14 men.
were taken. Iredale is credited with having been the-
source of opposition to the inclusion of the last man on
the ground that two extra were ample ; it was the irony
of fate that he should be the first to be unable to take the
field.
* * * »
The finish of the Notts matoh will rank as one-
of the curiosities of the present tour; two innings were 1
declared closed on the last day. Australian XI. was
lucky not to lose the match, though the daring experi-
ment of closing its first innings when only 50 runs aheadl
deserved a better result.
» * * •
‘ ‘ A shocking decision from Barlow, the antique-
stonewaller,” writes Tub Bullbtin’s London correspon-
dent, “ lost Australia the first test-match. For a specimen
of blind umpiring it “ laid over” anything I, or any other
Austral, had ever seen on a first-class cricket-field. Ran ji,.
in the second innings, had made 38 when Tyldesley called,,
but Kelly had tfie ball in his hand, and the bails off while
the Indian was a good yard off the crease, with his bat in
the air. ‘Jim’ threw the ball up in his certainty, and
Barlow required some of his stonewalling in. his cheek
when he said ‘ not out.’ The press-box gave it ‘ out,’ SO'
did Att.ewell and other players on both sides, but a team
is only as strong as its umpire in its chances for victory.
The decision was too glaring to be passed over, W.G.
was complained to and the M. 0.0., and never again will
Barlow call ‘ over ’ for the Australians this tour. Rami s
luck was phenomenal. In the first innings Iredale
dropped a ‘sun’-catch when nine was his total runs.
That cost 33 runs and time, but the second-innings,
blunder saved the match for the ‘ homers,’ and well they
knew it.”
“ But the whole English cricketing world, bot
THE ADMIRAL, sold by Q. Maiden (of Gainsborough Mort & Co.) for 1500 guineas.
Photo, by Kerry.
supporters and players, is in a conglomerate tangle of
blue-black funk, and I’m sorry to say it and see it. Half
or more of the-batsmen are ‘out’ before they're ‘in.’
Jones, who is bowling better than he ever howled in his life
before, frightens ‘hell and purgatory ’ into them. He sends
them down like the first place and they whip back like a
released soul from the second. Sid Gregory got a painful
blow stopping a ball in the field. The web between the
thumb and forefinger was split in a ragged, ugly manner,
compelling him to stand down against the M.G.O.
Trumble is not too well. He had chased a ball full speed
to the boundary at Nottingham, and felt a pain in the
chest followed by a blood-expectoration. It is supposed
to be of little importance, and all hope so, for any break-
down of Hug.hiew.Quld be a much more national loss than
the analysis up to the present shows."
• * * •
Jim Phillips’ report on the match with Oxford
University goes to show that the Australians might have
fared badly at times but, for the terrible deliveries of
“ Jonah.” The fast bowler was holiday-making when the
team tackled the Oxonians, and Phillips writes :—“ For
the University Champain and Collins gave an elegant
exhibition of batting. Try as Trumble and Howell would
they could not effect a separation. . . . Darling was
sorely tried, his bowling, for the first time on the tour,
being fairly collared. He made frequent changes, but it
was not until 190 were up, with only two wickets down,
that Champain was well caught at cover-point for 120,
made without a real chance.” At Cambridge, where
Jones bowled, but failed to come off (one wicket for 124
runs) in the first innings, two of the ’Varsity batsmen
scored 248 runs between them. Again, at Yorkshire,
where Jones was not seriously on the job, little Brown
knocked the bowling all over the place.
Shrewsbury seems to have excused himself rather
feelingly from playing in the third test on the ground
that he didn’t “ feel equal to the strain.” The strain of
wanting to beat ’em would be pretty severe in his case,
for he cherishes an old resentment against Australia.
The last team that Shaw and Shrewsbury brought to this
country was neglected in favor of another English Eleven
captained by W. W. Read, under the patronage of Melb.
Cricket Club. The pro. crowd returned ’Ome vowing
eternal unfriendship for everything Australian. They
were not even given a chance to try ©occlusions against
Read’s opposition lot, though the public would have
rolled up freely to see a match between the two English
■elevens after they had, in turn, defeated the chosen
“ Our Boys,” who were about to try their luck in Hing-
land. What a difference in relative “form ” since then !
a * » *
Mention of Yorkshireman Bates as one of the
few bowlers who have done the “ hat-trick” in an Anglo-
Australian contest is another reminder of the present
lack of “all-round” talent among the English pros.
Bates and his contemporaries, Ulyett, Barnes, and Bar-
low, were valuable batsmen as well as bowlers in their
day. With the exception of Hayward, who never bowls
brilliantly even at his best, these isn’t now a pro. worth
talking about in comparison with Trumble and Noble. In
the three test-matches up to date, 60 per cent, of the
Australian wickets fell to Hearne, Rhodes, and Young,
who played six innings among them for a grand total of
17 runs.
* * * *
Weather-conditions are singularly against the
present Australian team in England in the matter of
records. With its splendid batting-battery, it should at
least make one sensational score. The 1893 team put up
843 against the combined ’Varsities at Portsmouth, which
is the second-highest record in first-class cricket. Strange,
too, that Murdoch’s record-innings for an Australian
eleven in England—2B6 against Sussex, in May, ’B2 has
never been topped since. Against the weak county
bowling it should be easy for one of the present team
during August—the real English batsman’s month.
Darling does not seem to have yet struck the
proper pair of batsmen to start the Australian batting.
In every match, so far, the first wicket has fallen cheaply.
A few years ago, when Lyons and Bannerman were the
opening pair, you could pearly always depend on 100 at
least for first‘wicket. Darling’s opening seems to be
always two hitters —one of whom generally fails to hit.
He might try Blackham’g plan of a hitter and a stone-
waller ; according to English criticism he has enough of
the latter to choose from.
* • * •
Clem. Hill has suffered from a nasal trouble for
the last three years, and Adelaide doctors told him he
would have to undergo an operation. But he ignored
their advice to have the affection—a small polypus—re-
moved before leaving last April.
* * * *
Football match N.S.W. v. Q., at Brisbane, last
Saturday, was the 39th, of which .N.S.W. notches 24 wins
and Q. 12 ; three were drawn. Visitors in latest meeting
scored 11 points to 5, and the game was about the best
’seen in Brisbane for years. The N.S.W. men, though by
no means the crack 15 (keenness of interest in club-com-
petitions precluded a better selection), out-played oppo-
sition in almost every department. The Queenslanders re-
cently “ laid over ” Britishers by 11 points to 3; then what
might almost he termed a N.S.W. scratch lot comes along
■and vanquishes the Bananalanders. Ergo, it is just as
well our friends from “down under” are not going to
visit M.L. .
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Condole with N.S.W. and
■Queensland on the shocking moral and physical depravity
of their footballers as made manifest in Bulletin “ sport-
ing notes” of July 1, wherein appears note after note
proving the local players to be sneaks, wasters, weak-
lings, blatherskites, and cowards, as compared with the
angelic Englishmen whom they beat. Queensland has
since beaten the immaculate Britishers, probably by a,
further display of sneaking, cowardliness, ruffianism, and
skite, although Rev. Captain Mullineux generousy
blames the umpires. Don’t deal much in football myself,
but The Bulletin has convinced nie that local parsons
should follow Mr. Mullineux’s noble example, and set, upas
missionaries to the Rugby footballers of Australia. Of
course, a few of them would be eaten, but the parson is
notoriously heedless of the scoffer. —Snell.
* * *
The brilliant game played by N.S.W. forward,
Norman Street, in the Q. v. N.S.W. Rugby match draws
attention to the mistake of leaving him out of the so-
called “Combined Australian” team.
* * * *
The Victoria Club (Melb.) billiard tournament
this year seems likely to end in blood and hair. A certain
member —playing under the name of “ Prosper”—who,
somehow or other, had not, to put it mildly, shown his
best form in practice, received a handicap of 160, others
being as many behind scratch. As usual, there was much
betting, and £l4OO was taken about Prosper at odds of
100 to 1 for the final. But, in his first heat, he showed
such form that betting: was paralysed, and odds of 3 to 1
on him for the final were laid. He continued gaily on his
way, and, at time of writing, is quoted at 10 to 1 on.
There are six left in the battle for the £250 prize, and J.
Cohen, who was drawn against the cert., refused to play,
leaving him the bye. Then the crash came. Bookmakers,
who laid him at 100 to 1, say they won’t pay. They have
appealed to the committee to disqualify Prosper, but the
committee admits that it is powerless, and the affair
will probably end in law. Coleman, one of the best
players in the club, met Prosper in a heat, and caught
him in two breaks, but the “ mug” then took a hand, and
beat the scratch-man pointless.
* * * *
The second engagement between Captain’s Flat
(N.S.W.) miner, sturdy Dan O’Connell, and Jack Conlon,
at Golden Gate A.C. '(Sydney,), on Saturday night last,
drew a packed house. Dan, hardly as fit as he might
have been, looked twice the man whom Conlon so off-
handedly defeated some weeks before, and shaped twenty
times as well, for though he stopped dozens of hard jabs,
swings, hooks, and uppercuts (which left palpable traces
of their effect), and was spreadeagled on (probably) 30
occasions, Dan came up full of sand and had the danger
signal flying all the time. Round after round did Conlon
jump nimbly away from savage lunges and sweeps that
would have sent him out of the ring had contact been
made, and such an amount of vim were they carrying
that the deliverer of them frequently went sprawling into
the ropes or slithering on all-fours along the floor.
O’Connell had the crowd with him to a man through his
plucky display ; even “ Ironbark ” Burge, who had backed
the other fellow, was beside himself with excitement,
urging the gritty Dan on. The twelfth 3inin. provided
something to be remembered. O’Connell landed a fear-
ful punch on the back of Conlon's neck, sending him
prone as if felled by a club. The crowd rose upon its feet
and howled again. Conlon staggered up like a drunken,
man. O’Connell lost his head and missed with several
mad rushes. Meanwhile Conlon pulled himself together,
reached the point hard, and down went Daniel. The tables
were turned; O’Connell weakened as the battle pro-
gressed, Police stopped it in round 18, and the verdict
went in favor of Conlon.
• • * *
“Old-Timer”: Witnessed Conlon - O’Connell
fight in Sydney, Saturday night. Saw O’Connell brimful!
of fighting-instinct and pluck, but adopting crudest of
methods—stand up before lusty young Conlon, inches
taller and longer in reach, and take a terrible gruelling
without winking during an hour of very hot work. Crowd
cheered Dan, and jeered Jack for not going in and
mixing. Why should he? Mixing meant great risk to.
him. He was fighting for his backers’ money and the
purse. O Connell is game to the core, and so is Conlon.
First-named pug’s exceptionally short reach handicaps
him much, but, lor’, how cunningly he smothered up t
Referee gave the fight to Conlon when police interfered
in 18th round, but how can stakes or purse be paid over
on that decision—the conditions being best of 20 rounds,
and O'Connell was prepared to keep at it?
* * * *
The battle between Herb M‘Kell (N.S.W.) and!
Dutchman Jim Holloway at Johannesburg (S.A.), June 3,
involved the South African championship and drew a.
£l5OO gate. Barring the eleventh round, wherein M’Kell
tried to bite Holloway’s back and later knocked him
down whilst the referee was interfering and the Dutch-
man had his hands by his sides, 22 very tame rounds were
witnessed. M’Kell kept running away the whole time
and would not fight—the crowd hooting and groaning at
him from beginning to end. Match had to be declared a
draw as conditions provided for that decision if both men
were on their feet at the end of the 25th round. Ih s
occurrence is said to have given the new boom a knock
from which it will not recover. Johannesburg papers
assert that M’Kell would have won had he been game to
fight, but he wasn’t. This pug’s career bristles with
similar happenings; such is his reputation in Australia
that no one would give a purse for him to fight anybody.
• * • *
We are requested to inform Bulletin readers
that the management of the Sydney Safe Deposit (in Ash-
street, back of Paling’s, Sydney) have decided, with a
view to popularising the use of the safes, to offer a special
discount of 25 per cent, to persons paying rent for two
years in advance. At present the annual rents in advance
are from two to six guineas, and the new system will
have the effect of reducing the rents to from 1J to six
guineas. It has also been decided to lease safes at from
15s. per quarter and 255. per half year, a further innova-
tion.*
The Admiral, this year’s g™nd changnop
«+• sheep-show, sold for <£lsoo.
an Eskvale special stud rain of purest nn-n n >
type, and has won amongst other prizes, the
/innth and Grand Championship ot tlie ivnu
fa“A e ‘io»lt»™l Slow, 1898. Even M» Ad-
miral s price, however, is far from being the re-
cord 2000, and even 3000, guineas having been
before now paid in Sydney for a gentleman-sheep.


You Don’t Need
to hunt for
level roads
if you ride a
MASSEY - HARRIS
Bicycle.
Runs Easy and
Keeps Running Easy.
Established 1847.
MaSScy-Narris Co. f Ltd.,
Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headquarters 163-169 William
Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W. Headquarters 385 George Street,
Sydney.
S.A. Headquarters—ls 2 Rundle Street.
N.Z. Headquarters—Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Queensland Headquarters Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Melbourne Depot—294 Bourke Street.
The Amy Castles outburst in Sydney has
excited discussion upon Soul and Expression in
Art. If Soul is Truth, and Art the expression of
Truth, then the more soul the artist is blessed
with the more does he make Truth apparent and
vivid. It must, therefore, be perfectly obvious to
the Sex when we say the beautiful Truths of soul-
delighting female contour are best expressed by
that boonful work of Art the P.D. Corset.*
What can be more uncomfortable in a house
than the continual messing about in the trimming of
kerosene lamps ? This is entirely avoided if you use the
“Albatross Lamp Wick.'’ “It requires no trimming,”
after the first time, emits no smell, gives a better light;
all you have to do is to keep the well filled.*
£
*
*
■>
THE
PERFECT Bicycle
as the name implies, has no superie:.
The DOMINION
affords the best value at a low price.
tar APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK GRIMLEY,
(Sole Distributing Agent for Australasia)
IMPORTER EOR WHOLESALE
B icy clea, Accessories, and
3VT aterial
263-265 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The great White Star Steam Co. intends
to enter the Australasian trade, under its owti
flag, with five 12,000-ton steamers.
E. D. Millen, Land, Mining and Financial
Agent, 14 O’Connell-st., Sydney. Applications
under Advances to Settlers Act prepared and con-
ducted.*
The inventor of the paterit whale-net has
made a . start off the M.L. cdast by catchirig
three whales—good for 26 tuns of oil. Angling
for the sea-serpent will probably be the next
sport.
Mr. Meyer Blashki, a young Sydney artist
who lately went to the U.S. to try his fortune, is
represented by some excellent drawings in recent
numbers of the Overland Monthly, Frisco
Sunday Examiner and other prominent publica-
tions.
Paterson’s “ Man from Snowy River and
Other Verses ” (of which 17,000 copies have been
sold) and Victor Daley’s charming volume, “At
Dawn and Dusk ” (now in its third thousand) may
be had for 5/5 each, post free, from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, and all booksellers.
At St. James’ Church, King-st., Sydney,
last week, Mr. Harold Waldron, of Hill View,
Wollongong, was married to Miss Clarence Vere
Deniehy, daughter of that distinguished man of
letters, the late Daniel Henry Deniehy. A sister,
Miss May Deniehy, acted as bridesmaid, and Rev.
W. Carr-Smith was the celebrant. D. H. Deniehy
has been dead over 30 years.
Roderic Quinn’s charming selection of
verses, “The Hidden Tide,” has been warmly
welcomed everywhere. The price is Is. 9d., post-
free from The Bulletin office.
The advisers of young Newman, the inven-
tor of the new noiseless and smokeless electric-
gun, must have vast confidence in the weapon’s
possibilities, if, as alleged, Newman has refused
<£75,000 from the Admiralty for his invention.
The little model gun, weighing no more than a
light rifle, has shown great effect at five miles’
range. Newman, an apprentice at Whithead’s
torpedo-factory, is only 20 years old.
Oom Paul and his Boers will either have to
move with Progress or be moved by it. Only those can
survive who adapt themselves to the ever - improving
developments of Progress. And it is because we keep
pace with Progress, or a few paces ahead of it, that we
are always first in the race for public approval. Send for
our catalogue of stylishly-architected clothes and every
description of outfit. Prices moderate, satisfaction im-
moderate. London and American Supply Stores, Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
Mr. S. A. Palmer, sole Australasian agent
for “Vitadatio,” will arrive in Sydney during
next week. He purposes establishing in N.S.W.
branches of his already extensive business in con-
nection with this famous herbal remedy for most
of the ills which flesh is heir to. “ Vitadatio ” has
had phenomenal success in Victoria and Tas-
mania, and its immense sales are the best criterion
of excellent virtues. See advt. on page 28.*
When Bourke (Afghan) Carrying Co. be-
gan to flourish its notorious agreement and crack
the whip over recalcitrant drivers at Broken Hill,
there was a prompt rally among local Labor-men,
and a searching cross-eximination was promised
if Abdul Wade, the general manager, got into the
box. And Abdul Wade promptly climbed down—
told a local interviewer that he wasn’t going to
prosecute any men for anything they had done,
and had, moreover, put up the drivers’ wages all
round to <£3 per month as a minimum. Also, he
explained that it was the prospect cf the passing
of the Alien Immigration Restriction Bill which
led him to post off an agent to the Punjab (he
says that most of the drivers are not true Afghans)
and fix a consignment for a long term. Hence
the six-years’agreement, with the right of “ sack ”
on the co.’s part at any time.
Re the alleged mysterious robbery of £9OO
from Perth (W.A.) G.P.O. It will be remembered
that the Commission of Inquiry recommended
that Mr. Stevens, who had charge of the monthly
pay, should refund the amount at the rate of £lOO
a year. When Stevens went to lunch, he and his
assistant put the money in a black bag, which was
deposited in a cupboard, and the office-door closed
with a Yale lock. When they came back the
money had disappeared, and neither the police nor
the commission was able to say how the trick had
been done. Stevens, acknowledgedly an old and
trusted officer, has received final notice to refund
the loss on the monthly time-payment system. As
a victim of circumstances, Mr. Stevens is to be
commiserated, but a head department of Govern-
ment which is in the habit of leaving <£9oo with
only a Yale lock between it and the hungry
world is evidently a peculiarity peculiar to Groper-
land.
Will Ogxlvie’s book of verses, “ Fair Girls
and Gray HbVses,” continues to sell splendidly. It
is unquestionably the most generally-attractive
poetry-bodk yet issued in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.,
post-free from Bulletin office.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this isßue. *
Captain Russell’s rush for the Maoriland
Premiership on a motion of censure was defeated
by 36 votes to 29.
THE WHISKY OF THE WISE
Is the title bestowed on D.C.L. Scotch (black
bottle) by many hotel-keepers. They remark that
the more brainy customers, veterans who think
twice before ordering, say—“ Mine is D.C.L.” *
“ Iron Red Kelly and His Gang” is the
title of a thrilling story of the notorious Victorian
outlaws whose ultimate capture cost the combined
Governments df New South Wales and Victoria
.£BOOO. The.bq'ok, issued by the Modern Publish-
ing Co., of 16 Park-street, Sydney, purports td bd
the only reliable account df the personal
and bushranging exploits of a gang whose daring
reads more like fiction than fact.
Woman exclaims man knows nothing
about the worries and trials connected with house-
keeping. Man knows woman spends about 75 per
cent, of hi 3 earnings. A man must live to earn,
therefore woman must study to keep man’s diges-
tion in good shape, and see that his food is pro.
perly cooked. Woman can do this by procuring a
Primus Chief cooking apparatus complete with
Primus Kerosene Stove. Price, 305., 405., 555.,
625. 6d. each. Also, the Improved Primus Chief
cooking and steaming apparatus ; pricey 70s. to
80s. It will cook a large dinner, and steam at the
same time 9 to 12 different vegetables at a cost of
three farthings per hour. After all, man invented
the Primus Chief Cooker to lighten the labor of
woman. If woman will call on M‘Lean Bros,
and Rigg Ltd., Furnishing Ironmongers, Eliza-
beth-st., Melbourne, or George-st., Sydney, the
Primus Chief can be seen in full operation. Cata-
logues posted on application.*
The Nordach consumption-treatment, re-
cently started at Yass (N.S. W.) new sanatorium,
consists mainly in abundant and generoi s dieting,
with plenty of fresh air. The climate of Yass
(190 miles from Sydney) is ideal for the pur-
pose, as the place, besides being 1600 ft. above
sea-level, is upon the western side of the dividing-
range, and is thus sheltered from the pulmoni-
cally-injurious moist sea-breezes. The building
was erected as a country d welling by Hamilton
Hume, the explorer, and is surrounded by garden
and orchard grounds of no less than 186 acres’
extent. The whole place, though every attention
has been given to sanitation and disinfection,
gives more the impression of a private country
home than of hospital or sanatorium. It is under
the management of Mr. H. A. Unwin —himself
an exemplification of the curative effects of the
local atmosphere.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THIS GU-LIGIITLY KIM' ).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED. .
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estah
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers. 1
Terms on
Application.
«/. JF. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . .
“El'is King-street Coffee Palace,’'
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
The Golden Group of the Golden West.
Every Westralian Investor should have Clark and
Co.’s Revised Map of the famous
BOULDER BELT OF THE KALGOORLIE
GOLD-BEARING MINES.
Showing Late Developments, Underground Workings,
and Trend of the Lodes. Price, 10s. 6d.
CLARKE & CO. (A. Rutter Clarke), Adelaide.
For Sale.
■pUBBER STAMP Making Plant. Large Improved
-*-* J Press, 2 Chases, Gas or Oil heating arrangement, 21
Complete Founts New Type, Type Cases, Pattern Holders,
Compound, book of instructions, &c. Everything com-
plete for making Rubber Stamps. Address, A. J
LAURENCE, 26 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
Jb® ‘ Alfred ’ has a great reputation for suc-
cessfully treating typhoid. Lots of lads of 15 and
upwards go there m summer suffering from this
complaint. Whether released by death or re-
covery, these susceptible sufferers to a boy go
their ways deeply in love with ‘night nurse.’
“Delirious cases are always anxious to get
home. A lady driving past the ‘Alfred’ was
accosted one day by an escaped patient with
nothing on but a shirt. He begged and entreated
her to take him to his wife and children. She
didn’t like the responsibility but hadn’t the heart
to refuse, so just remained passive. He jumped
in, took the reins, drove to his address—and
finally recovered.
“ Lady Mary Lygon should be in Melbourne on
a visit to the Brasseys by the time this Bulletin
is published, and several dinners and dances have
been arranged to allow of the Very Nicest meeting
her. Also, she is to be taken to race-meetings and
generally shown round the place. The Brasseys
will probably return to Sydney with Lady Mary,
and go on thence to Brisbane.
“ One of the attaches on an Australian Gover-
nor’s staff seems too chirpy for his surroundings.
At a recent function he skipped up to the host
and said, ‘Do you want to get rid of H.E. yet?
Say when you’ve had enough, and we’ll let him off
the chain. We woke him up to bring him here,
and the sooner he gets his ticket-of-leave the better
for this child and eo.’ The outraged entertainer
recoiled, inwardly recited what he could remember
of ‘ Gorsave, ’ and at last broke the awkward pause
with a solemn reproof to the scoffer.
“The grey-gowned, white-gloved Mayoress got
through with her second reception on July 6th.
Some of the newest tailor-suits which waited upon
her at the Town Hall trailed all round and had
scalloped Goat-skirts, to the knees at the back,
but shorter in front.
“In a letter from Mrs. Titheradge, published
locally, she says fldunces are past ih London,
Skirts uiicohifortably long, pockets non-existent,
garments tight ori hips, coats short and scalloped,
blue bhiffbn popular iii millinery. Provisions
dedr, servants difficult. Hubby got much kudos for
‘ Grierson’s Way, ’ but it was not a popular play. At
tittieof .writing Mr. T. was playing the Abbe in ‘ A
Court Scandal. ’ Daughter Lil has been to several
theatres with Mr. and Mrs. Cartwright, next-door
neighbors. Was to become member of Actors’
Association and developes good singing-voice.
Younger sister Dolly gives satisfaction as typist
at Barnett’s (Falk’s). Letter goes on to describe
Guy Boothby’s home, charming wife, two small
daughters. 27 servants, hot-houses, grounds, gar-
dens, bull-dogs, greyhounds. G.B. wants to buy
a yacht and cruise to Australia. Is writing six
hooks at once. Speaks them into phonograph.
Secretaries take cylinders, put them into another
phonograph, and typewrite. Mrs. Titheradge
enthuses over Dan Leno. '
two or three Conservatorium stu-
dents are gathered together the interview sparkles
with conversational gems culled from directorial
words of wisdom, uttered in the intervals of
finger-drill. ‘ I told him I was 16, and he said,
“ Better than 32 !” ’ simpers one blusher. ‘He
told Fritzie that when he (himself) couldn’t get
the girl he wanted, he married the first one that
came handy, with disastrous results,’ giggles a
second. ‘He says to play this line with both
hands going different ways, like husband and
wife; and that one only feels really musical on
St, Kilda pier at two o’clock in the morning,’
climaxes a third. The prescription of St. Kilda,
pier in the small hours as a suitable site for musi-
cal composition recalls Lowell’s poet who wrote
his ‘Winter Ode ’ in bed with his arm through a
hole in the blanket,
“The winner of a recent technical - college
cookery competition sensibly chose a set of sauce-
pans as her prize. The committee was at first
about to approve of the selection, until one shocked
member pointed out that the Governor was to
make the presentation, and ‘we couldn’t ask his
Excellency to handle saucepans, you know.’ ‘Of
course not! ’ chorused the committee, and the
frize-winner was awarded Milton’s ‘ Paradise
iost,’ as it had a pretty cover and would look
Well in the Governor’s hands.
“A woman hereabouts has an antipathy to cabs.
Once upon a time, as Mine Host’s buxom daughter,
she was engaged to the late Lockie M‘Bean, the
Deniliquin millionaire. The furniture was bought
and the cage all ready for Lockie’s bonnie bird,
when, arriving unexpectedly at her mother’s house,
he saw the bride-elect, who was slightly indis-
posed, driving off in a cab. ‘Was that -?’ he
asked. ‘lt was. ’ ‘ Did she take a cab ? ’ ‘ She
did.’ ‘Well, good-bye, Mrs. , to you and
your daughter. No man could stand such extra-
vagance ! ’ And so ended Lockie’s young dream.
“According to authorities, the head gardeners
at Kew (Eng,) belong to the flower-loving sex,
while their subordinate diggers of earth and
drawers of water are mere men. Those girl-
grafters at our own horticultural reserve
listen to lectures and potter at light jobs.
When there’s perspiration to be shed, the de-
moiselles relapse into the rdle of ‘weak women.’
That’s where the male students come in. By-and-
bye, when the fair horticulturists win their
diplomas and set up ‘on their own,’ they’ll be
eaten out of house and home by able-bodied he-
apprentices, indispensable for the manual labor.
“The other day, a card, inscribed ‘The Hon.
Miss Jobson,’ was sent in to a lady at South
Yarra. Thinking Gov. Brassey had sent one of
his friends on a morning visit, she tripped to the
drawing-room, paused suddenly on its threshold,
and exclaimed, ‘ Low—Kate ! ’ It was old Jobson’s
eldest and most ambitious. Jobson is M.L.C.
“Nowadays if Mary Jane, the servant ga,l,
expresses her unpolished opinion of things in
general when out with her young man she runs a
serious risk of being mistaken for a member of the
highah circles. A voice from the drapery trade
whispers that the daughter of a gilded landowner
on being shown some gowns which were more
expensive than she wanted them, said, . Oh
thanks! She-wasn’t-taking-any. ’ Then, again, the
daughter of an official personage went shopping
with a large, untidy damsel from Sydney, and the
astounded ‘young persons’ behind the counter
didn’t know whether to treat the visitors’ Billings-
gate as simple sportiveness or polite conversation.
Anyway they thought it best to give a respectful
hearing to such remarks as ‘Oh my ! we-can-get-
them-anywhere-up-the - street -at - ninepence. Oh,
lor ! five-shillings ! take-me-home ! ’ And that
awful customer, it seemed, was taken home in a
carriage behind a pair of quite well-bred horses.
“How the tailors and haberdashers do lay
themselves out to cater for the foibles of the men !
Last summer the Melb. craze was to have the
riband round the gay youth’s straw hat decorated
with what purported to be a yacht-club badge j
this winter the nautical notion is still to the fore,
the straw-decker being exchanged for a yachtsman s
blue cloth cap, whereby the bold counter-jumper
and the buccaneering barber’s-assistant fascinate
the giddy bar-lady.
“A leading politician’s daughter is one of the
Flossiest trippers on the block. Cheeks be-rouged,
eye-brows blackeiied, thatch dyed a Id Bernhardt,
languishing Pottetesque hats, and costume so ldud
that you can hear it coming.
“There was a fair audience at Scherek’s sixth
concert (Saturday, July Bth). ‘Athalie’ and
Handel’s ‘Concerto,’ both turned off in tanieish
style, were followed by Gounod’s ‘ Berceuse.’ The
last-mentioned was sung by Minnie Waugh, whose #
smart lilac-silk blouse opened over chemisette and
under-sleeves of ivory satin, while her becoming
hat and brocade skirt were black. ‘ Danse
Macabre,’like all the less heavy numbers treated
by Scherek’s orchestra, was served-up to perfec-
tion. After cock-crow, when the clicketty-
clacketty dancers had scattered, the last faint
rattling of their bones as they huddled back into
their graves was quite pathetic. And Bertie
Zelman piled on the pity by his wailful rendering
of Death’s lamentation re the vanished revel.
Fair-haired Una Bourne, who rattled a pair of
bones during this item, hopes to carry on her
education in Europe some day, but will not ‘go
a-begging.’ Meanwhile she will learn and practise
here, accept musical engagements, save her earn-
ings, and watch for some lucky breeze to waft her
into the haven where musicians fain would be.
“Miss Hansen-Knarhoi, the Bendigo violinist
who lately electrified the Austral Salon, is en-
gaged to play at Mrs. Doubleday’s concert at
Melb. Town Hall on 29th inst. She is of Danish
extraction, and her real name is Knarhoi ; but
finding that people could not pronounce it, her
father, some years ago, dropped it, and took the
better-known Danish name of Hansen, which she
now retains in conjunction with her patronymic.
She is an unaffected young girl, tall and good-
looking, with the most passionate love of her art.
A travelled lady who heard her play lately said
that, with the exception of Sarasate, no one had
made her feel as Miss Knarhoi did. Her double-
stopping and technique are marvellous, and she
has not had a lesson for the last seven years. Yet
she is little over twenty.
“ Three ‘ high-class ’ little love-songs have been
forwarded to Allan’s by Mr. Albert Mallinson
(Madame Steinhauer’s hubby) late of Melbourne.
Composed and published in Germany they have
the words in both German and English. ‘The
Plaint of the Leaves ’ is graceful in a slow and
mournful strain, the ‘ Slumber Song ’ —difficult to
interpret—is an artistic thing with a fetching
accompaniment, and ‘O, Thank me not,’ can
almost be called lively. As compositions the
three Mallinson efforts are good as far as they go,
but they seem rather unfinished. Probably they
are a little too good to live —in a robust sense.
“ In one of Melbourne’s fashionable tea-rooms
the wages earned by one of the kitchen-maids is
about a shilling a day for a day of 12 hours. She
is going hard all the time, and receives a penny an
hour for ber pains. The girls who wait earn the
munificent wage of nine shillings a week for all-
day service, five or seven for two-thirds of the
day. And as these girls are ladies, tips are out of the
question, so they agree to look spruce and smiling,
to run about all day with trays, to display sym-
pathy with the needs of each customer, to be
affable, but not free; dignified, but not haughty—
in fact, to cultivate an amiable tea-room manner
which must be as far removed from the seductive-
ness of a barmaid as the comedy of Peggy Pryde
is from the tragedy of Sara Bernhardt—for about
twopence-farthing an hour.
“ And, again, about tea-rooms. They have
washed clean cup and platter, but it is as well not
to inquire what lies behind. In one room (unlet
at present, I fancy) there was much to tempt eye
and appetite; but I went behind the scenes on one
occasion, and from out of drains, from lavatories,
from everywhere arose odors unspeakable. Germs,
probably of all sorts, gathered and gloated over
masses of butter, the cans of milk, the jars of
cream.
“ The place to me was intolerable, and I asked
one of the girls if she did not suffer from it. ‘ Oh,
yes ; we all get sore throats now and again, and
at first I thought I could never stand it, but I am
so used to it now I don’t notice it. Some of the
girls get sick, but I am very strong. ’ And as she
spoke a kitchen-maid set down a can of milk
beside the drain, remarking— 1 It’s best to leave it
in a draught.’
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


The Falling Leaves
Give Warning ofwinfer
So the falling of the hair tells
of the approach of age and declin-
ing power. No matter how barren
the tree nor how leafless it may
seem, you confidently expect leaves
again. And why ?
Because there is Life
at the Roots.
So you need not worry about the
falling of your hair, the threatened de-
parture of your youth and beauty. And why ?
Because if there is a spark of life re-
maining in the roots of the hair
Ayer's
Heir Vigor
will arouse it into healthy activity. The
hair ceases to come out: it begins to grow:
and the glory of youth is restored to you.
Prepared by Dr.J.C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropa.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRATAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingth. constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/<ftaiaH
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
“Ol n BY CHEMISTS At.L THE WORT.D OTEB.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine T should
prefer to take abroad with me, as lik ly to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
rHLOROPYNE
Two Hebraic gentlemen came in with two
tinted ladies ; likewise a fire-eating major arrived.
They all gave their orders at once : “ Stewed
oysters ’’ “ Raw oysters ” “ Curry.” Waiter :
“ Beg pardon ’ ” Major : “Curry, d’ye eear me—
hurry!” Gents: “Two stews.” Ladies: “Two
raws.” Waiter (rushing up to slide) : “Two
stews for two Jews ! Two raws for two ——’s,
and one ourry in a blanky hurry ! ”
The Queensland anti-Federalists are telling
the local workers the same lie that did so much
service in N.S.W.—that under Federation their
wages will be “ reduced to the low standard of
N.S.W. and the other provinces.” In N.S.W.
the wail was that Cornstalk wages would be
reduced to the low standard of Queensland, Vic-
toria and other provinces. In W.A. the cry is
that wages will be reduced under Federation to
the low standard of N.S.W., Queensland, Vic-
toria and other provinces. The anti-Federal
theory is that in every province the wages are
higher than in any other province, so Federation
will reduce vyages in every province to the abject
level of all the other provinces.
The Prince of Wales is credited with hav-
ing said—“ After my mother, the Baroness Bur-
dett-Coutts is the most remarkable woman in
England,” which was a very natural remark for
Albert Edward to make under his royal circum-
stances. The Queen is remarkable for having
held an imposing billet for 60 years, and the
Baroness is remarkable for having been a very rich
woman all that time. They did their duty up to
a certain point, and the duty didn’t put any strain
on their constitutions. They are chiefly famous
for having lived in exceptional comfort, whilst
the “ masses,” for whom they have both expressed
much sympathy, were dying off at a comparatively
early age. In an intellectual sense, neither the
Queen nor the Baroness is great, and, as for physi-
cal endurance, any octogenarian female in a work-
house can produce a grander record.
A genuine-looking yarn, incidental to
the marriage of Lord Rosebery’s daughter, ap-
peared in M.A.P. The tale runs that a London
“district-visitor,” going her rounds among the
slums the day after the gorgeous ceremony, dis-
covered a carman’s wife preparing to pack up her
best bonnet and her one other apron and clear out
of the ’appy ’ome. “ I went to the wedding yes-
terday,” snorted the carman’s missis, “ becos I
was once in Lord Rosebery’s service—before I had
the misfortune to marry. When I saw the Dukes
and Duchesses riding by, specially the Duchess of
Cleveland, I made up my mind that I couldn’t put
up with Bloggs no longer. He’s so big, and such a
hearty eater, and so common, and he fills the whole
place, and I’m going.” Similar yarns might be
told, with more or less truth, of a hundred work-
worn women after every public pageant. A horny-
handed toiler who marries a “gentleman’s servant ”
is simply asking her to despise him as soon as the
sordidness of her new life has got fairly on her
nerves. She has lived in a world where the first
duty of man is to look always clean, and the
thought that Bloggs can’t help having blue and
broken finger-nails gives her no solace when she
sees him cutting a thick slice off the loaf. “ The
Manxman ” was very much the story of Mr. and
Mrs. Bloggs, with a well-educated bachelor thrown
in.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press vour finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps yyur knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue w r ill deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-strcet, London, England.
Agents-- ELLIOTT BROS., Sydi cy. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen la) el on •. ach box. (Regd. c-npyri: lit).
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
Solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
.
2ta
an
F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DBJs*Y COMZFEXIXIOKT.
WINES °" lv ° f SPIRITS.
OC
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
€si iTnniiiji.
O
DiVPTO (Lake
(u m tted),
Hlawarra),
near SYIDOWE^
SMELTERS,
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
in
*
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.'’
.London Medical Recopd
FOOD FoR
INFANTS
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Nir:RaSSn)(iSSes)’S Alfalioc Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have baen before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
a Great Cure at the ivanhoe jj ow £ 0 obtain Free Book, “ The Natural Doctor.”
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
1111
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN,
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12, 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “The Natural Doctor” —sent free.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM'ATKINS.
For sworn declaration and further testimonials see my
book, “ The Natural Doctor ’’—sent, free.
Bxood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
thej’ have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KINCk Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
rm
m
:
raaaai.Mji
m
ikl®
m
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
AIF alike VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
A SALINE BLOOD pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying'. the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmnssen.
his
his
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
desires to inforr
patrons that
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADYICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover - unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his .Branches or to his Head
APVIC€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
— itiihiiii mm
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars (iesired s'ent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Declaration-
Statutory
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
. CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
For further testimonials, see my new book, “The
Natural Doctor”—sent free.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder
ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thi*
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Kerr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
S9inE9,
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z , WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOIaGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell's, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-street (opposite P. 0.)
Henry-street (near High-street)
FREMANTLE


“Young Bill” Roberts, who died the
ciher day, aged 54 years, was a Sydney solicitor
6f long standing. He was so named to distinguish
him from his father, “ old Bill ” Roberts. “ Old
Bill,” erstwhile the king of the criminal side of the
police-courts, who conducted the defence of mur-
derer Bertrand, is a Sydney native, and was
admitted a solicitor in Nov., 1845, having served
articles with the historic “Bob” Nicholls, with
whom also James Martin learned law. Old
solicitor as Mr. Roberts is, there is one older—
Mr. Andrew Hardie McCulloch, who dates from
Feb., 1844. Two other ancients are John Dawson
and ffm. Russell, both dating 19th Nov., 1846.
T".‘ HIM PINE.
Winter Evenings
are long and cold, and
residents of the interior
of Australia can beguile
the weary hours by entertaining themselves and
their friends with the
<SRAM-0-PNON€.
This instrument has now reached a high state
of perfection, and is widely known and appre-
ciated. It fascinates the listener by its marvellous
reproduction of sounds, originating many thou-
sands of miles away ; it brings those sounds within
the hearing of all, and gives amusement and plea-
sure. It makes the weary and tired man or woman
bright and cheerful, gives the children endless
amusement, and is at the same time a money-
maker. If you desire to hear Sousa’s military
band, you can do so in your own home in the
interior of Australia, by putting a record on the
6RAM-0-PHONC,
just as easily as any of the residents of New York
city.
Albert Chevalier will sing to you on demand»
and gives you encores ad lib without getting tired,
and he will do this in any part of Australia, and
save you going to London, provided you buy a
CRAM-O-PHONe.
This illustration represents the instrument de-
•oribtcL
Further information will be continued next
♦veek. In the meantime, apply for full particulars
A. P. SYKES,
227 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
The Victorian Federal referendum 'will
probably be taken on July 27th.
The Sydney press is a whale oncogra-
phy.” The Sunday Times gravely informed its
readers t’other day that the man-of-war Sfax had
“landed” Dreyfus at Rennes, and the D.T.
recently mentioned a cable-vessel engaged in lay-
ing a cable from Cuba to Manila! Same print
once stated that American warships were patrol-
ling the State of Michigan 1 But, after all, these
things have nothing to do with cricket 1
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Hamit Rickards.
WONDERFUL SUCCESS OF THE WORLD'S MARVEL,
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
VIRTO and Miss IRENE.
Bessie—VALDAßES—James. Mr. R. H. DOUGLAS.
The Leslie Bros. Chas. W. Cogill.
Fanny Powers. Keenan Bros. Howard Chambers.
Fred Duncan. Jas. Mooney. Violet Bishop. Ida Holbein.
Lulu Zesch. Nita Clarke. And all our Double Co
Plan at Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokards.
PAUL PELHAM, England’s Comique.
THOS. and LILLY ENGLISH, Artistic Musioal Team.
SPRY and AUSTIN, Duettists and Dancers.
3—KEZIAHS —3, Marvellous Lady Gymnasts.
MANUEL WOODSON, the Lightning Contortionist.
Continued Great Success of BELLMAN & MOORE,
WILL WHITBURN, and all our Brilliant Company.
Plan at Allen’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
ANOTHER FURORE!
The Unique, Picturesque, and Romantio Franco-Algerian
Melodrama,
STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART.
First Time in Melbourne.
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and Arthur Shirley.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENB.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM I
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYOLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10—5. Daily.
Admission—ONE SHILLING ; ; Children—SIXPENCE.
KIN CESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
Tbs Kiog’s litisksteer.
The Famous RomantAtA'rama. in 5 acts, by Henry
Hamilton, founduTon Dumas’ Great Romance,
“ The Three Musketeers.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Town hall, Melbourne.
2./- Saturday, 15th July. 1/-
Gigantic and Unique Entertainment. Pop. SHILLING
From London to Niagara.
V&- Mr. JOHN FULLER’S MYRIORAMA COMPANY.
Mr. John Fuller, the Popular English Tenor,
NEW PICTURES! .-. NEW PICTURES 1
NEW ILLUSTRATED SONGS.
NEW ILLUSTRATED RECITATIONS.
NEW ARTISTS. NEW ARTISTS.
Plan at Glen’s. Booking Fee, Is.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING, at &
the BroOgb Coipgdy Co.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
“ One Summer’s Day.”
SATURDAY, July IB—"THE PHYSICIAN."
PRICES—Ss., Ss., Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
A Genuine and Established Dramatic Success!
EVERY EVENING!
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And his Popular Dramatic Company, in
T()€ : Merciless : World.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Last Appearances in Sydney of Mr. Harry Conor
and Hoyt and M'Kee’s Company.
10 MORE NIGHTS !
A TRIP TO CHINATOWN.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and is.
f'IRITEKION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. M. B. CURTIS.
Grand Afro-American
Minstrel Carnival.
Greeted Nightly with Unbounded Outbursts of Ecstatic
Delight.
See ERNEST HOGAN, the Unbleached American
See BILLY M'CLAIN, the Black Buffalo
See MAD AH H. HYER, the Bronze Patti
See Miss M. BLAKE, the Gifted Female Baritone
See BLACK DANTEJ,
the Phenomenal Prestidigitateur
See The Kentucky 4 Le Duel de Noirville
See OUR 50 ARTISTS The Ragtime Opera.
PRICES OF ADMISSION (EVENING):
Dress Circle, 4s ; Reserved Stalls, 4s ; Stalls, 3s ; Family
Circle, 2s; Gallery, Is. Children in arms not admitted.
LIONEL SOLOMON, Representative.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE. '
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON (at 3 o’clock).
Scbcrek** Orchestra.
ORCHESTRA Of 45 INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Principal Violin, Wtr. GEO. WESTON.
Conductor, HERR UENNO SCHEREK.
Popular Programme.
POPULAR PRICES —2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Dailv Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
IDfedCx*. i’rederic V illiera
The Famous War Correspondent and Artist,
Will repeat his Great Success,
“KHARTOUM AT LAST,”
At MECHANIC HALL, GEELONG—Monday, July 17.
ROYAL PRINCESS THEATRE. BENDlGO—Tuesday,
July 18.
MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE, BALLARAT, Wednesday,
July 19.
BROKEN HILL and ADELAIDE to follow.
Manager, Mr. WALTER PONTIN.
For" Sale.
A MATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY Snap Shot Cameras
taking pictures 1J x IJ, 6/- ; 3£ x 3j, 12/6. Includ-
ing Book of Instructions, Plates, Developing Outfit, &c.
Write for proofs, &e. A. J. LAURENCE, 26 |Jamieson-
street, Sydney.
Miming Friends.
THOMAS FLETCHER.
JNFORMATION is wanted about this person, who if
7, l lv “K, ,sent .t |e dtoa sum of money under the will
’ ° “ En « ,and awards of twenty
In or about the year 1880, Thomas Fletcher was living
in the neighborhood of Mount Cornish, Aramac whines
he communicated with his relatives in England and in
the year 1836 he was heard of at Croydon. S ’ m
£ n ,JL information as present whereabouts of tha
ff a, ( f P Jd h 3l S h Fl^° h lV f n 0r P of Ws death
if dead, will be thankfully received, and a suitable reward
given on behalf of his relatives by reward
MARSLAND, JARVIS & CO., Solicitors,
Gill-street,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
Publications, etc.
Books! Books! Books!
Popular Educator, 6 vols., £4 for £1 ; The Home
£ k V°s for 17s6d ; Universal Instructor, £llss
for 15s Webster s Household Dictionary, 25s for 10s I
of Se cond-hand Books in N.S.
f i? r Ca l talo «' ues - 1 have also three Choice
Books Is 6d each, or three for 4s. Can only be procured
by Post; all Book sent post free.
R- W. SKINNER, Second-hand Book Arcade
105 Oastlereagh-street, SYDNEY. Telephone 3043.
CAULFIELD * MELBOURNE CUPS 1-9 )
J, j, milled mum pamphlet
And Athletic Rjccord.
Price Is. All Booksellers and Newsagents.
CjUNG BY OVER TWENTY EMINENT LONDON
° VOCALISTS :
“I ONLY LIVE FOR THEE”
Words by Edward Oxenford ; Music by E. J.
Emmerton. In Three Keys—E flat, F, and G.
Of all Music Dealers. W. PAXTON, London ‘
and Melbourne. Also,
“ Sabbath Evening Chimes,” P.F.
By Willie Pape. Played by special command of
their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales.
U ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Masohera,” “ II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Music Sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements]
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C- ELDBIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y OIL It STKJHHT, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
f3T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a oountrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands ol sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Wbat i$ tb« njatt?r witb yo£i ?
Feel Breakipg Up ? Feel Lapgtiid ?
VITAPATIO baS conje to SaV« yoO.
Incurable Diseases cannot remain where Vitadatio is used.
Dreadful enemies, such as Cancer, Consumption, Hydatids, Bright’s Disease,
Debility, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver Diseases, Kidney Diseases, Gall
Stones, Gravel, and all Blood Diseases are conquered and banished.
VITADATIO is conquering the world of these distressing calamities.
LADIES, please study what is of VITAL IMPORTANCE TO YOU ALL.
VITADATIO is Guaranteed Pure Herbs. No
Poisonous ingredients ; and every testimonial bears
the stamp of truth and gratitude. There are many
thf usands of testimonials.
VITADATIO has proved to be the Best in the
World for Female Ailments.
VITADATIO, the Wonderful Remedy,
can be had everywhere. Price (large)
ss. 6d.; Lesser, 3s. 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s. 6d.
LADIES,—The deadliest enemy of health and beauty,
clearness of complexion, and buoyancy of
spirits, is Constipation.
VITADATIO is the DEADLY ENEMY of
all THESE TROUBLES.
LADIES,—VITADATIO is a most magnificent
cleanser of all the blood disorders. There-
fore, is the perfection of FEMALE MEDI-
CINE.
VITADATIO is undoubtedly a Perfect
Wonder in its Marvellous March of
Success.
LADIES, THE FOLLOWING SHOULD INTEREST YOU.
NEVER FELT BETTER IN HER LIFE. HAD NO IDEA VITADATIO COULD DO FOR HER WHAT
IT HAS DONE.
“ 10th April, 1899.
“ For a number of years I was troubled with indigestion, and what those of our sex know as general
weakness in various forms and wavs, accompanied by the usual gloomy forebodings, and, of course, as I find
now, unnecessary cares of mind, producing all kinds of discouraging anticipations, in which the common im-
pression would constantly intrude itself that life was not the flowery bed of ease that one used to read and
sing about in one’s childhood hours,
Mv food did not nourish the body, and I carried about with me, much to my discomfort, an emaciated form, and the common remark of my friends was,
,rh r would not admit the truth of their opinion, yet my own conscious feeling assured me of the truth of their observation. There were many other ail-
Ul i huuiw . .. ... l i__ i i • „ i i l. 1.1.!. t _ _._i _ c . i j_ i •i • - t tolro o nnnrao
verily" Rlfevc of Vitadatio^ill’give them"back tte blessing oYgood health, such as I enjoy* and for which I desire to be truly thankful. Vitadatio shall always have my strong
recommendation. - « y<)urB gratefully> M SERGEANT,
“ Redfern, Sydney, New South Walea.
LADIES —The Best Preserver end 'RonnHfler is VITADATIO.
rtf
/
nm further extending to Sydney and Brisbane, and will shortly have Institutes and Depots in both Colonies.
VITADATIO has been victorious.—S. A. PALMER.
The onward march of
The insidiousness of Disease creeps on you like a thief in the night
VITADATIO is a Wonderful Medicine. It has cured many thousands. It will
cure you, and the ease and simplicity of its cures are quite in accord
w'ith Nature’s Laws.
LADIES, VITADATIO OUGHT TO BE WRITTEN IN LETTERS OF FIRE TO
BURN INTO THE MEMORY OF EVERYONE.
REGULATE THE LIVER.
REMOVE the CONGESTION FROM
THE LIVER AND KIDNEYS,
Expel the Deleterious Poisonous Uric Acid, and you
will Regain Buoyancy of Health and Spirits worth a
King’s ransom.
The machinery of the Human Anatomy requires
quite as constant attention as the machinery of the
factory, locomotive, or steamship.
The doctor tells you you have got clogged.
VITAPATIO
IS THE MODERN DISCOVERY
HAS AND IS DOING
i UCH GRAND WORK.
The
Wheels
of
Life
must
be
Kept
Clean
and in
Good
Repair.
99 per cent.
of our
troubles
arise
from
Sluggish,
Torpid
Liver,
or
Inactive
Kidneys.


WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
D. S. Mair for Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches.
4 Jewels. Grand Timekeepers, 17/6. Guaranteed 3 years.
D. S Mair for Solid Gold Wedding- Rings, 46. Kxtra
heavy. 9/6. Solid Gold Bar Brooches, 4/6.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ Solid Gold Keyless Watches.
Guaranteed 3 years, 35/-.
Note address — 684 George Street, Syatiey.
THE ACME OF MECHANICAL SKILL-
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece.
A wonderful invention; a
handsome ornament; will
plav popular airs at will, and
is a perfect timekeeper. The
case is solid Nickel, orna-
mental brass front, brass
handle and pillars with srlass
sides ; unlike any other make
of alarm, you are awakened
by the strains of “Home,
Sweet Home,’' “There’ll come
a Time Someday.” “ Daisy
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,”
“ Sweet Marie,” and or,her up-
to-date tunes. It will always
tell you (he correct time, and will play choice selections
the u hole dav, or as desired. Sold retail for £1 10s. ;
OUR PRICE IS 155.; carriage paid in N.S.YV. 12
exira any other colony, 2/2. Sent on approval ; if re-
turned within 14 days, money refunded. H. Potter
tint! Co., Importers, 24 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
TO L&PIES
Ladles’ Naturally CUIILY FRINGES, from
4 0 to 3.) - each. English lIAIRTAILS, from 56 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending - you the very best value. Send
pat 'em of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakeis
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward tiiem. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
OEAIGr & AITKEU,
680-682 Gborsb St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales’ Barbers’ Supply House.
BISHOP’S
CITRATE OF
MAGNESIA
A
(jA
R&MBMBER IN TA&
NURSERY IT IS A POSITIVE
NECESSITY, as AU- C/\ILDISrt
AILM EN T 5 Cl VE WAY To A
DOSE OR TWO
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI*
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
sale, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
Unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent, in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
• !rfyg —L. Er*,..in Wesley 89 Pitt St., Syaney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
“E.H.,” Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
Grootl Healtla
TS THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE.
L The GLORY OF MAN is
STRENGTH. Hon' to attain
PHYSICALand INTELLECTUAL
perfection is fully explained in
our little pamphlet, which is sent
post free on application.
EVERY MAN should jREAD IT
Address: The Proprietor,
l'.O. Box 462, Sydney, N.S.W
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any i In-mist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
H
A A R F A G E
is the Finest Hair Dressing in the World.
NATURAL CURLY HAIR.
R
H AAR FAG EE curls the hair naturally and permanently
in a few hours without curling tongs or pins. Will make
the straighfest hair curl beautifully without trouble.
HAARFAGER restores the hair and will prevent the hair
from falling out. All chemists. Price 3s. 6d., postage 6d.
extra. Wholesale Agents. ELLIOTT BROTHERS,'Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydnp.V. If notcobtainable at your
chemist, send stamps or 1.0.0. to The Argyle Apothecary
Co Old Canterbury-road, Lewisham, N S.W.
NOW READY.
I ROM MED KELLY
AND HIS (SAM(a
IRON aiBLLY
NED v Hls GANG.
THEIR ASTOUNDING CAREER
OF CRIME.
AN ENTIRELY NEW BOOK JUST PUBLISHED.
The long 1 , notorious career of the KELLY GANG probably
represents, better than anything else, one extreme of the
wild and lawless possibilities of bushranging in its most
successful form.
Unrestrained either by civilisation or law, and well under-
standing the forces with which they had to deal, they were
successful for over two years in their depredations.
£BOOO in Rewards secured the destruction of the most
successful outlaw gang Australia ever produced. The
amazing story of their lives is
told in this Book.
This Book is written by an eye-
witness who investigated their
entire career.
• • •
ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTO-
GRAPHS TAKEN ON
THE SPOT.
JUST ISSUED!
Send for One.
Post Free Everywhere.
Price, Is. 6d. post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
16 Park Street, Sydney.
SIR ROBERT
B
EAR’S
I G
OOK.
CATALOGUE.
The Life of the System.
WESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
MINING MACHINERY.
MINING
LOCOMOTIVES.
MINING HOISTS.
MINE HAULAGE
PLANTS.
i
NA/l^
WestiNC*H oijSE
Coaß^
MINING
PUMPS.
POWER
TRANSMISSION
PLANTS.
SOLE AGENTS:
NOTES BEOS.
31 O’Connell-st., Sydney;
17 Q,ueen-st., Melbourne.
BARON
B
C
B
U
Baron Berzelius’ Report.
These Bitters I recommend in DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
NEOUS AFFECTIONS. The action of Bucliu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant; and it also assists persons suffer-
ing from Skin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
Head What Medical Men Say About Them.
BJERKIN M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. -BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
Tonic being pure and strengthening ; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Digestion. I therefore
thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. :—lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar influence over the
Liver. .
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY.
WILL
ANDRADE
PUBLISHER
& IMPORTER.
CHEAP BOOKS
Wl LI- ANDRADE!
P mm HOWE TALK.
By Dr. E. B
FOOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 200 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 padres, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d, post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6. The
Kelly Gang (illus.) post 1/6. Australian Handbook op Midwifery (illus.), 2/6 ;
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post Is 2d.
Healthy Mothers and Sturdy Children, 2s 6d ; post 2s 9d.
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Five Hundred Ways of Making
Money, 6d. Fountain Pens, write 30,000 words without dipping, Is. How to
Dance, Latest Ball-room Guide, Is. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian Clubs, etc., Is 3d.
How to Behave, Etiquette of Dress, Parties, Weddings, Dining, etc., Is.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Ketail.
WILL AWDRADE,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
tf
SECOND EDITION. 220 ppa=/e.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses.”
Medical.
.ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor •
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in all
•stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (po-tt
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A Bit of the Truth.
The most pertinent and startling question ever
asked is this :—“ What is truth?”
A Roman Governor propounded it once, under
circumstances which greatly worried and perplexed
his official mind. And he was not the first man
or the last —not by myriads. So far as I know
there has been no satisfactory answer. Some
people (radicals and come-outers of various sorts)
fancy that in this, the tail end of a rather braggart
and conceited century, they have flushed a fair-
sized covey of truths by firing speculative shot-
guns into every wayside bush and bog.
But have they done it ? No, gentle reader, no.
They have put up crows and sparrows, the same
crows that picked the bones of the cave-dwellers,
and the same sparrows that sold two for a farthing
in the time of Pilate. There were plenty of fools
of old, and there are plenty now. The ancient
doctors, indeed, prescribed some horrible stuffs as
medicine—they used electuaries of viper’s flesh and
recommended pomegranate seeds for toothache
because those seeds resemble human teeth. Very
shallow and silly, to be sure, this sounds to us.
But if you wanted to find things that come very
near matching them in modern practice, I could
show you where to look. On my table I have a
list of about 300 new “ remedies ” introduced to a
suffering world within the past twelvemonth.
“ Must be some good ones among them,” do you
say? Possibly ! Time will tell. Meanwhile let
us stick to whatever we are sure of. “We learn
how to cure diseases,” said Celsus, “by experi-
ence, not by reasoning.”
“ Some of the greatest truths in medicine,” said
a learned Scotch doctor, “ came by the humblest
means ; not by synthesis or venesection, but by
the observations of peasants and the experiments
of motherly women.”
Concerning a medicine discovered by one such
woman, thousands of stories have been told and
letters written. Here is an example
“ For many years I have suffered from indiges-
tion and weakness. I seemed to have no energy
for anything. I had a poor appetite, and what
little food I ate caused me violent pains in the
chest and between the shoulders. Frequently I
had attacks of giddiness, and when I stooped I
suffered from an unnatural rush of blood to the
head. The pain which I was called upon to bear
was often very severe ; it affected all parts of my
body, and at night I got little proper and refresh-
ing sleep on account of it.
“As time went on and the complaint grew
fixed upon me, I came to be exceedingly weak,
and now and again was obliged to take to my bed.
I lost flesh and became quite thin, living, as I
did, only on milk, beef tea, and other kinds of
liquid food. It will be understood, of course, that
I had medical care, besides attending the South
London Dispensary. Yet I received no benefit
from what was done for me.
“It happened that in January, 1889, a friend
—Mr. Pullen—told me he had suffered in a similar
manner, and been cured by a remedy called Mother
Seigel's Syrup. Acting on his suggestion, I got a
bottle, and, after having taken it, I found great
relief. Presently my appetite returned, and food
no longer distressed me. Convinced that Mother
Seigel’s Syrup was adapted to my ailment, I con-
tinued the use of it until it was no longer needed.
My health and strength were re-established, and I
have since been well. This medicine has done
what no others had been able to do. My husband,
who suffered from biliousness, used it with the same
result. You have my free consent to publish this
brief statement, if you desire to do so.”—(Signed)
Mrs. Julia Massey, 133 Lorrimore-road, Kenning-
ton, London, S.E., January 20th, 1898.
There is no royal road to. the discovery of truth
or knowledge. Anybody may find it anywhere.
It is not always he who seeks that finds. Valuable
discoveries are usually made by what, for lack of
a better word, we call accident. The medicine
that cures is the medicine we want, no matter
whether it is as old as the earth or was picked up
yesterday in the fields by a child. That Mother
Seigel’s Syrup cures is proved by a cloud of wit-
nesses. It is a bit of the truth. Therefore it will
not die out, and nothing can take its place.
Catarrh C6rg<l
CURE YOURSELF with our In
strument and Home Treatment.
Our MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Neuralgia, Hay Feyer, La Grippe,
Asthma, Catarrhal Deafness, Coughs
and Colds (Diseases of Head, Throat
and Lungs).
Free Treatment at Office. Complete cure
by mail, 10/-. (Postal Notes all Colonies
taken, except New Zealand, from where
Money Orders must be sent). Hundreds
in use, giving perfect satisfaction. Write
for Booklet and Testimonials. No Agents.
Order direct from
Home Catarrh Cure Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET,
Mention" The Bulletin ’ when writing.
MEDICATOR


miR
FOR
Warmth and
Cornfort_
MiSERIDERR
IN WINTER.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, Cotton, or Lisle Thread,
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
43T CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ go
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and I' O UNO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising- One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716}4 and 718 SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY I'ltUAi 06 AiNo>
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned t
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
TJSE
Spooler's
!c pl’ti*'*
iROYALMfDIEM
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS St SHOES
DF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
; DIREC lIONS FOR USE
]ffllHilUiUlnthliilm.Hiiiim«ill
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING-,
UNIVERSAL CREAM.
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing- Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
THE
DEAF
HEAR
“Common Sense
« * Ear Drums ”
Relieve Deafness and Head
Noises. The only scientific
Sound Conductors.
Invisible ....
Comfortable
Efficient. ...
They fit in the Ear. Doctors rec-
ommend them. Thousands testify
to th ir perfection, and to benefit
derived. Book of Information, ajid
letters from'many users mailed free the qr
WILSON EAR DRUM CO A vent, , N POsm ™
QHALMEnS, 229 CollinsSt Melbourne (invisible) |
Mention “The Bulletin” when writing.
DRUNKENNESS
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCRASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURE, AND
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can be given in Coffee, Tea, or Food without detec-
tion. Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS : THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
The Thermal Springs District.
WONDERLAND
THE
tnn< Hotel, ROTH
The Largest and Best-Appointed Hotel
in New Zealand.
H, V. Gardner o ate of the p. &o. ser-
vice) begs to inform the
Travelling Public of
Australia that he has taken over the management
of the above magnificent establishment, where
visitors will find—
1. Lofty sumptuously furnished apartments
(with perfect sanitation).
2. A cuisine that places it in line with the
first London clubs.
3. A position in the immediate neighborhood
of the famed “ Priest,” “ Rachel,” “ Post-
master ” baths.
4. A tariff lower than will be found in any
hotel of the same class.
These and other advantages make it the most
popular and most'Comfortable hotel in the colony.
Letters and Cablegrams addressed "Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
ipHE GKAND HOTEL, ZEEHAN, TASMANIA.
“* This fine new brick building- is NOW OPEN for
BUSINESS. Splendidly furnished, and up-to-date in
everything, it offers visitors ail the comforts of a first-
class metropolitan hotel, at reasonable rates. Address
letters and wires to Manager, Grand Hotel, Zeehan.
A Beautiful Fabric.
THE
‘[ouis*
VELVETEEN.
NOTE WELL !—Each yard of
Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled LO'IH'S
and in no other way) and is
stamped with a guarantee of
wear.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
££i
K
“ I us 3 a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” — E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott • Hoffnung ; Duerdin ;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Fauldlng; Falk.
CURES COUGH
“I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. Gd.
Sole Agents :
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
“ Bohemian”
FORTUNE TELLING
and Flaying Cards.
Latest Novelty I
Most Amusing and Entertaining.
Post free to any part of Australia, ONE SHILLING and
TWOPENCE (1/2).
53S - These Cards are a Full Set and may be used as
Ordinary Playing Cards.
The "ARCADIAN” Razor : Hollow Ground, equal
to any Razor advertised. This article we guarantee,
and is stamped with our name. Post free and regis-
tered, 6/6 (Six Shillings and Sixpence).
It USSELL WILKIIS S,
RED ARCADE,
Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Branches—
Ipswich, Maryborough, Mackay, Warwick, Gladstone,
Townsville, and Charters Towers.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Arnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT.
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
OTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping 1 cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use ; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Hilda, on label and wrapper.
By post 1/6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
A Debilitated Nervous
System.
RESTORED TO ITS NATURAL VIGOR,
THE CASE OF
Mrs. William Hanchett.
[From the Windsor , N.S. W., “Australian.")
(by our special reporter.)
“No one knows how I’ve suffered,”
said Mrs. Hanchett, of Macquarie Street,
Windsor, New South Wales, to a reporter
from the Windsor and Richmond Gazette,
who waited upon her with a view to obtain-
ing an account of her ailment and her
recovery.
‘ From wl.-a t did you suffer, Mrs. Han-
chett ? ”
“ From
BSoodlessness ant? Nervous-
ness;
also from awful nervous headaches. First,
my appetite began to go, till I didn’t care
if I never saw food. Then the headaches
came on, generally twice a day, and lasting
an hour or more at a time. Whilst they
lasted the pain can only be described as
agonising. My head was fairly racked with
it. The pain was of a piercing, shooting
character, and flew backwards and forwards
all round my head like shaip
Knives in f*sy Brain;
As the days went on I wasted away. I did
not seem to have sufficient blood to keep
me going, and, although I tried all sorts of
nourishing foods, they did me no good. My
face became pale and waxy, and my lips
were as white as my face. The whole of
the day
I Felt Languid and Tired.
My household duties, which I formerly did
in the course of an hour or so, now proved
too much for me. W T hy, if I only tried to
wash up the tea things I should have to
give it up and sit down. My nights were
always restless, and it’s nothing but the
plain truth when I tell you I didn’t get ten
minutes’ sleep from the time I w ent to bed
till I got up in the morning. It wasn’t long
before my
Nervous System Broke Down
under the strain that was put on it through
the want of sleep. I was so nervous that I
positively daren’t go to bed at all without a
light burning. If I dropped a knife I
screamed out loud. Little things like this
gave such a shock to my nerves. I was
frightened to go out at nights, even with
someone with me. This may riot seem re-
markable to you, but when I tell you that
before I was ill I could go anywhere across
the bush in the blackest night without the
least hesitation you will understand what
a change my
illness Wrought in Me."
“Your nervous system must have been
very weak.”
“It was, indeed. My nerves were all un-
strung. If anyone spoke to me unex-
pectedly I trembled like a leaf. I wouldn’t
answer the door unless I was absolutely
obliged. I didn’t care to see strangers at
all, but felt I should like to be away from
everyone.”
“ Did you keep up your spirits under all
these afflictions ?”
“No; I don’t believe anyone coull. I
became very low spirited. Things which
formerly gave me pleasure did not now
interest me. When neighbours or friends
came in to have a chat to try and liven me
up a bit, I should merely say yes and no ;
and, to tell you the truth, although I appre-
ciated their goodwill and kindness, I was
always
Pleased to See Them Go."
"Did you take any medicine for your
complaint ? ”
“ Oh, yes ! I took many different things
till I really got tired of taking physic.
Some of the medicines and pills I took were
advertised to cure complaints such as mine
in two or three weeks.”
“Did these so-called remedies do what
they pretended ? ”
“ They did nothing at all, except the
pills, and these gave muoh pain to swallow,
and I could feel them *
Sticking at the Bottom
of my throat for hours afterwards. I he*
lieve I should have been just as well off if T
had saved the money I spent on these
things and swallowed bread nills and
water.”
“ Did a doctor see you ? ”
“ Yes ; and prescribed for me, but unfor*
tunately his medicine proved of no value in
my case. I was really in a very precarious
state, and, what was worst of all, the future
held out to me no hope of getting better.
One must get better or worse. One doesn’t
remain stationary in sickness, and I recog-
nised that day by day I was growing a little
worse.”
“ But you look alright now. How do you
account for the change ? ”
“My husband brought me home a bottle
of Clements Tonic. He said, ‘ you must try
this,’ and, as he insisted, I took a few doses,
but I must confess with very little hope of
any good.”
“ Did it have any good effect ?”
“ Yes ; my nerves felt slightly calmer in
tone, so I continued taking Clements Tonic,
and I was very pleased to find that it
enabled me to sleep better at night. I now
felt
Sure of My Ground,
and I never missed a dose. The condition
of my nerves improved every day, and along
with this I lost that despondent, hopeless
view of life, and began to look forward to
health and strength again. Nor was I dis-
appointed. I steadily improved, my head-
aches went, and once more I could take a
cheerful interest in my daily work and
surroundings. Clements Tonic
Plucked Up My Spirits
wonderfully. It braced me up all over, and
I soon began to eat well and put on flesh.
That strange waxy appearance of the skin
changed to a healthy hue, and by a steady
use of Clements Tonic I gradually attained
my present
State of Health and Strength.
I am not a bit nervous, and I can go any-
where and do anything without the least
feeling of fear. If you like to see my hus-
band he can endorse what I’ve said, and
he can also tell you what good Clements
Tonic did for him.”
“ What ailed him ? ”
“ He got ill through exposure, and he got
so thin that a four suit fitted him when he
once wore a six, and that was too small; so
you can guess how
He Fell Away.
His liver was affected, for he got as yellow
as a guinea. Clements Tonic put him right,
and he’s working to-day.”
“ May I publish all this in our paper? ”
“ Certainly.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, AmcbHanchett, of Macquarie Street, Windsor, in
the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of nine folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to nine, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish the same in any way ; and I
make this solemn declaration, conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act. made and passed in the
ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty*
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken aiul made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Windsor this 28th day of July, 1898,
before me,
W. F. LINSLEY, J.P
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all imported Fruits.
BIR
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive oish.
BIRO'S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders,. Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.


THE OWL
Consulting and
OTJT RATE,
DRUG CO.
Dispensing Chemists,
Corner
Wholesale and Retail-
Elizatoetli and. Bathurst Streets,
CUT-RATE PRICE LIST FORWARDED FREE ON APPLICATION.
MEDICINES FORWARDED TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA-
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, JB1; Cub Price, 18s. 6d.
Sydney.
Wholesale and Retail*
Shots that Reach the Spot
I Clements Tonic, 2s; Cod Liver Oil, Is 3d;
l Fruit Salt, 2s; Pain Killer, Is.
Dr.
Clarkson’s
REINVIGORATOR.
A Concentrated, Vitalising, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE and
BLOOD STIMULANT : a remedy known to Dr. Clarkson only.
We still offer £lOO for any case we cannot pure. Price, 7/6 per
Bottle; Three Bottles for £1 —post free any part of Australia.
i Paxxiplilet Poet Free.
ELECTRIC BELTS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Restore the Weak.
Refresh the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Revive the Depressed.
Act Like a Charm.
Country Persons, save your money. Don’t squander it on quack
nostrums before trying our New Belt.
Pampb.let Post Free.
EPILEPSY and PITS
Dr. HUGHES’S Celebrated Remedy, “ FITSEPILEP,” has proved to be one of the wonders of the age. So successful
has this remedy proved in Epileptic Cases, Fits, etc., that it has elicited favorable and spontaneous testimony from the clergy, doctors,
gentry, and the public generally—ra testimony endorsed by the Press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
PYRAMID PILE CURE
The Latest Specific for Curing 1 Haemorrhoids. The most chronic and obstinate character of Inward Or Out-
ward Piles readily yield to this improved mode of treatment. Price, 3s. 6d. per Box, or 3 for 10s.; Postage, 6d. extra.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Specialist to give ADVICE FREE to all sufferers.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
COUNTRY TRIAL ORDER RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
On the Track.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SWAOOIE, on his way to God-knows-where, strikes
some hard cases among squatters. One afternoon
he pulled up at Dustangibba and hailed the boss.
« Any show of a job, sir ? ” (The “ mulga wires ”
had posted him as to civilities.) But Woollen-
skins surprised him.
u Are you a big eater “Well, I dunno,
stammered Swaggie ; “ don’t see as it signifies,
anyway.” “ Don’t it, by jingo ! D’yer expect
me to be stuffin’ gluttons when I can get good
workers with small appetites.” “ Well, you’ll not
find many smaller eaters ’an me, anyhow,” said
Swaggie. He was a small man. “ Good. Do
you take sugar in your tea?” “Why—yes!”
“ Oh, then I don’t want you ! Too d much
sugar used in this kitchen already.”
* • * •
Next day Swaggie called at Muckwood and
asked for beef. “ I’ll see directly,” the manager
said, and went inside. An hour later he came
out and entered the men’s hut close by. Swaggie
was waiting. He’d come a long way with empty
bags, and was tired and hungry. He tightened
his belt to keep his trousers up. The manager
was yarning. He yarned till dark. One of the
men then told him Swaggie was still waiting.
“I know. I’m just trying his patience,” was
the reply.
“By Jove!” said the man afterwards, “he’ll
get a maulin’ for his tricks yet, an’ if anybody
interferes, I’ll wooden him / ” He was sacked that
week. The inevitable crawler informed. . . .
“ Patience-trying ” is a common diversion, prac-
tised in the hope that the cadger will go away.
In one case, a Queensland woman said to the girl,
among other things, “ Tell the loafin’ cow to
wait! ” And the.“ cow ” waited accordingly, till
the handyman and the cowboy had got their
dinners and filled their pipes. Then, to a second
message, the girl brought reply, “She can’t come
out—she’s got her baby to mind ; but the boss will
be home to-morrow night.” The “cow” waited
some more. The next place was too far off. The
“ missis ” started on the piano—to amuse the dear
baby. Then she played at kangaroos, and the 1.0.
grew desperate. “ Tell your mistress,” he said,
“ that I want to buy some meat.”
That fetched her. She came out singing “ After
the Ball,” entered the meat-house, and uncovered
the “ swagman’s cask ” of neck-pieces. “How
much do you want ? ” “ How much a pound is
it?” “Thrippence.” “Gimme one pound.”
She laughed. “ A pound ain’t much.” “ I know
it ain’t,” he retorted—“for thrippence!” She
cut off a hunk of gristle and weighed it. Being
a quarter over the pound, she hacked a slice off.
Payment, two 2d. stamps. “I haven’t a penny,”
she said. “ Will you take the other piece of meat
for the change?” “Good Lord! woman, I couldn’t
think of it,” gasped swaggie ; “ such liberality on
your part would break this God-forsaken station 1
Good-day, ma’am ! ”
Old “Daddy Pintpot,” of the Dawson, had an
awful hatred of ’Tilda’s men. One stuck him up .
for flour once, and gave him a surprise. Daddy
was dipping the flour out of a bin with a pannikin,
a spoonful at a time, when the swaggie interrupted.
“ ’Ere, you dunno how to dip up flour. Lemme
showyer;” and, grabbing the pannikin, he had
dipped about 301 b. into his bag in half-a-minute.
“There,” he said, “ that’s the way to dip up
flour I ” And, slinging the bag across his shoulder,
he was gone before “Daddy ” had got his breath
back.
There’s a genuine pleasure in taking-down a
skinflint. The Hard-Case is the man for that.
They met one morning, and the latter asked for
rations. Said Skinflint: “ There’s an axe and a
heap of wood over there. Apply one to the other,
and apply to me after.” Hard-Case went
ahead till all the wood was “smalled.” Then he
sought Skinflint. “ Got your bags ? ” said S. He
was pleased. “Nevermind the bags jes’ now,”
said Hard-Case; “pay me my wages fust.”
“Your wages ! ” “ Jes’ so 1 I s’pose you know
something o’ the Masters and Servants Act?”
“ But, man, I didn’t put you on! ” “ You
ordered me to cut wood, an’ I cut wood—which
entitles me to a week’s wages. Your sort’s been
gettin’ at my sort too long with yer bloomin’
woodheaps. Pay me a pound now, or keep me
the week.” Skinflint paid ; and for years after
the application of the axe to the wood-heap was a
byword on that station.
Another Hard-Case, who professed to be a born
rainmaker, was refused supplies at a Q. station.
He knelt down in front of the house, took his hat
off, clasped his hands, and prayed that the cream
of damnation would fall to that squatter and all
belonging to him; and that for ages no rain might
fall on that accursed run. As he was scorching
the last blade of grass, and singeing the only
remaining shade-tree, where the one surviving
moke was seeking shelter, a shower of rations
dropped about him, and the drought was broken
up.
Grass-eating as a means of softening the callous
hearted was a common dodge, now played out.
Last case I know of was on Lower Lachlan. A
gaunt-looking tramp, being refused, dropped on to
his hands and knees, and began to browse like a
cow. “ Here, you mustn’t eat that! ” said the
squatter. “ That’s imported grass, and I can’t
import grass for the likes of you ! ”
E.S.S.
According to Cecil Rhodes, “ there should
be only one language in the world—English ! ”
A distinguished German philologist has said that
“if there ever shall be a universal tongue, that
tongue will be English ; ” but, all the same, a
little modesty wouldn’t hurt the Colossus.
A girl of 16, who recently married in
Monaro (N.S.W.) district without her parents’
consent, is alleged to have resorted to a very old
and useful device. She painted “21” on the soles
of her shoes, and then assured the parson quite
truthfully that she was “over 21.” At least.it
was absolutely true if she wasn’t sitting down
with her feet spread out in front of her when she
said it, also provided she was a reasonably-per-
pendicular girl. There are a good many varieties
of this trick. Many years ago, in England, a life-
insurance office disputed a claim on the ground
that deceased hid greatly understated his age,
and that he dit dat 53, whereas he should, accord-
ing to the policy, have been only 43. Deceased’s
son swore that the old man was “just under 44.”
While he did his swear he had a friend sitting in
the rain on the old man’s tombstone with 44
shillings in his pocket to save his soul from per-
jury. Deceased was just under 44 shillings.
An Epicure in Emotions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was small and slight; there was something
foreign about her bright dark eyes and scarlet
lips, a vivacity and devilry which had lifted her
from sordid beginnings to the unlimited creature-
comforts so dear to women of her type. She sat
alone at an afternoon concert, and appeared indif-
ferent to the fact that she was the cynosure of all
eyes. She was beautifully dressed, perhaps a
little overdressed, but everything she wore was
perfect of its kind, and she divided her pleasure in
the music with a sense of amusement in the know-
ledge that the furs she wore were the gift of the hus-
band of a woman near her, and felt that the woman
suspected it. It made an absurd bond between
them. The other woman wore a tailor-made
gown on a home-made figure, her gloves were
sloppy, her hair just “put up,” not arranged.
Her eyes eagerly devoured every detail of her
rival’s dress and features; she tried to persuade
herself that there was paint on the soft skin, dye
in the glossy coil of hair. But the only art was
borrowed from the masseur and the hair-brush.
Some few feet away sat a handsome youqg man
with a girl. The man had colored slightly on
meeting the dark, bright eyes, but they had
vouchsafed him not the smallest spark of recogni-
tion. If there was one thing more than another
on which Rose Reid prided herself, it was her
tact. She declared that it was infinite, that it
embraced the whole secret of life. That it began
with a keen sense of the social and moral atmo-
sphere wherever she might be, and merged into
second-sight. There were many men she knew
among the audience, and it was her relations with
them, and with their womankind through them,
that gave a zest to her afternoon’s enjoyment. It
was as caviare to the palate. She knew that
many women had already inquired of brother,
husband, or lover, “Is that Rose Reid?” or “Is
that the creature you men rave about ? ” or “ Do
you mean to tell me you call that skinny, oat-
faced thing pretty ? ” Once she lifted her hand,
apparently to settle her hair, but in reality to
show a man she was wearing the bangle he had
sent, and at that very moment the girl beside him
was whispering, “ Harry, would you like me to
get pink or yellow for my new ball-dress ? ”
Then, as presently the hall was hushed to listen
to some marvellous, daring conception of Schu-
mann’s, and the fancy, fed with delicious sound,
fled eagerly to riot in the glorious mad Paradise
which music only can create, Rose Reid leant
back, her lips parted, her bosom heaving, her spirit
away in the world that only a Bacchante with a
Soul may enter.
When the item was concluded, she came back
to everyday things with a start, and, glancing
round, saw that the tailor-made woman was sup-
pressing a yawn. .She felt amused contempt,
and ostentatiously diew her furs closer about her
throat. Then she saw that a little girl sat beside
the woman —a thin, tired child, timid and de-
pressed. She took occasion when the concert was
at an end to get close to her, and with a quick
movement grasped the little hand in hers. The
child glanced nervously at the broad back of her
mother looming in front, then up into the
stranger’s laughing eyes. She smiled back from
sympathy, nodded as Rose Reid laid a warning
finger on her lips, and, a moment later, found a
Sold coin in her hand, but the pretty lady had
isappeared. •
“ Poor George f ” murmured Rose as she stood
for a minute on the kerb outside. “What a
woman ! Poor little girl! ”
A drizzling rain was falling. The streets had the
miserable, deserted air common to Saturday after-
noons. They looked like a . series of bareback-
yards. People hurried away as fast as trams and
cabs would take them.
Rose had raised her umbrella to hail a hansom
when her attention was arrested by the face of a
man passing by. Not one of the crowd from the
concert, but a miserable, shabby man, with his
thin coat pulled up about his ears, and his hands
thrust deep in his trousers’ pockets.
“ Ned ! ”
He started.
“ Rose ! ”
“ That’s me. You’re down on your luck.”
He shrugged his shoulders, but made no answer.
There was answer sufficient in his appearance, in
his hopeless glance, his slouch.
“ Come home with me, I’ll ”
“ Home with you, be damned ”
“The same as ever. You could make me.loye
you again, I half think. I’ve never ceased to.”
He looked for a moment into the bright eyes,
and a sardonic smile crossed his face.
“Is it worth while talking like that to me/”
“It is only to you it is worth while talking so.”
“That’s pretty; your old tricks are as neat as
ever.”
“Ah!” she frowned, “you never understand.
I loved you —but I loved the others too. You
were stupid to be jealous ; you were more stupid to
find out. ' Where are you going? ”
“To the dogs—there are a fine crew on the
road. We start down the road in broadcloth,
but as we near the last turn this is the correct
uniform ” —and with a wave of the hand he signi-
fied his rags. “ You’ll follow me—and we’ll meet
again there—among the dogs ! ”
Her fingers played with the clasp of her purse,
and his eyes rested on them for a moment.
“ Do you think I’d accept any help from you?”
“As snarling as ever ! You are the only naan
who has insulted me, but you are the only man
who knew just how to kiss me. Ned,” her voice
dropped, “ wouldn’t you like to kiss me again ? ”
They had moved to some little distance from
the crowd, which had now almost dispersed.
He looked into her eyes again.
“ Are you a woman or a devil ? ”
“ Whichever you want. Come home with me.”
“ Bah! Like this, and be grateful for your
bounty. Home be damned ! ” and he flung away
down the street.
She told something of the story to another man
as they sat together over the fire that evening.
“You would have liked me to do something for
him, I knew,” she said, “for you would never
have known me had it not been for him, and ”
Her eyes completed the suggestion.
MARS.
E. J. Brady’s book of ballads and verses,
mostly from The Bulletin, is now ready; and
will be sent post-free from this office on receipt of
price, ss.
Be the Cromwell bi-centenary: it is alleged
that Cromwell’s name was Williams, and his
grandfather changed it in compliment to the great
Minister of Henry VIII. Oliver had a daughter
named Bridget Cromwell.


A NEW BACK FOR AN OLD ONE!
AND HOW TO GET IT.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
<v>
/*
&
9^9
7
v
4?
\
7S>
The greatest enemy to the
enjoyment of hearty, comfort-
able old age is—Backache.
An active, bustling life has
put too heavy a strain on the
kidneys. These delicate filters
of the blood were never in-
tended to do such hard work —
can’t do it, very often, without
help.
Backache is simply the cry
of over - worked kidneys for
help in throwing off: the poisons
from the system.
If they do not get it, there
is serious trouble.
DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS strengthen
weak kidneys; help them to
keep the blood pure and the
system strong and vigorous;
help people to grow old slowly
and comfortably —are doing it
every day here in Sydney.
Here’s a Sydney man’s statement
Mr J. Frodd, china and glass ri vetter, a resident of Sydney for over 34 yeara, now living at
99 Crown-street, says: “I suffered from the effects of kidney complaint for three years. The small
of my back ached very severely, and when I had occasion to stoop down I could not straighten myself
without great pain. I was also afflicted with various urinary troubles. lam glad to say that Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills, which I obtained at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street, have completely cured
me, and I can honestly recommend them to any person suffering from kidney complaint..Yon m&y
publish my statement at any time, and should anyone wish to call on me I will be pleased to verify
this statement in detail.”
SYMPTOMS OP KIDNEY DISEASE.
Its symptoms are numerous and varied, and but little under-
stood by the majority of people. That “ Backache is a sure
indication of weakness. That unusual desire to urinate, especi-
ally at night, indicates an irration caused by brickdust or other
sediment. That hot dry skin, that uncertain appetite, that soui
stomach, that scalding sensation, that abundant light-colored
morning flow, that heartburn and dyspepsia, those rheumatic
pains accompanied by chills and fever, that coated tongue, that
loss of memory, that bad taste in the mouth, are all evidence of
the presence of some form of kidney disease.
It is honor enough for one remedy that it can cure well and
absolutely one class of diseases. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
do this with kidney disease, and that is why they are gaining
ground so fast here in these colonies. If now or at any time the
reader have any kidney trouble, remember the medicine that’s
made for the Kidneys— Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and be
sure you get Doan’s.
Please bear in mind one thing: Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are not purgative pills. They have no action on the
bowels. Their action is on the kidney, and for their purpose are
absolutely unrivalled.
I ;. ... v-• . .Jl';,.. " ' 1
-rwr> * Ts.T)a tj amr a nTT¥ "RTTYWEV PILLS mav be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers generally throughout the Colonies for 2s. 9d. per box
of sterS[ciellan Co 76 Fitt-street, Sydney (Main Office); 292 Flinderr-e.reet, Melbourne ;54 King Will..
Eagle-street, Brisbane (care Elliott Brothers); St. John-street, Launceston (care Fairthome & Son).
er dox, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will be posted on receipt
William-street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.;
Our Friend —the Enemy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Away through the Ages he bruised us and bat-
tered,
For mighty of muscle and wary was he ;
He wielded a cudgel that shivered and shattered,
He gave us a physic and never took fee.
He taught us to stiffen our back to the blow,
He taught us to weep and he taught us to crow,
And he taught us to greet with a grin our defeat
—and to stand up again to the Fist of a Foe !
Whenever he thought we were lazy and tender,
He rolled up his sleeves and the game was begun;
He blew a big horn and he bade us surrender,
And called for a crowd to look on at the fun.
He laughed when he found we were flabby—“Ho-
Ho!”
And he winded us clean when he landed us low,
And he taught us to train, till the limb and the
brain were a match for the might in the Fist
of a Foe !
O dear is the hand of the friend that we cherish,
The girl that we love is the light of our soul;
But manhood that dallies for ever must perish
And Peace hath a drug in the deep of her bowl.
But a hater of ease and of sham and of show,
A stirrer of blood when the pulses are slow,
And a Call unto Fame, and a flash and a flame to
the tinder in Man is the Fist of a Foe.
He started the fight in the gloom of the chasm
That yawned in the bed of the infinite sea;
He followed it up from the budding of plasm
And measured his might with his mate in the
tree.
He’s guiding us whether we like it or no,
He’s moulding a race by the grace of his blow,
And he’s bruising our poll for the good of our
soul—this Bigot who’s shut in the Fist of a
Foe!
He’s blended of Preacher and Bludgeon arid
Prophet,
He driveth a spur in the spiritless drone ;
He’s salt in our blood and we hate him like
Tophet;
He harries us on from the Pit to the Throne.
He’s tethered the cravens and got them in tow
(O, little he recks of their railing, I trow);
And the trusty and true, when their season is due,
get a benefit too from the Fist of a Foe !
He’s rough and he’s tough and he laughs at re-
verses,
To drub and be drubbed is the goal of his game ;
He giveth us grit and he getteth our curses,
And leathers us lustily ever the same.
He pounded the cannibals ages ago,
Till Culture and Learning were born of their woe,
And we’re deep in his debt—for he’s pounding us
yet—this Angel of Light with the Fist of a
Foe !
Brisbane.
P. LUFTIG.
Tonkoko, the Peacemaker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hosking’s girl, coming out marry
him, was annexed on the passagi y »
warrior ; whereafter the coffee- planter, wander g
disconsolately eastward, fell among friends at
“BBfS of these : “ Why d»t. joj |oW>
Celebes ’ They’re great on coffee in the nortnern
SfSi I Sold Van der Kuyter, the Reg-
dent at Manado. If I give J™ 1 » letter to Lim
DuSnan ’-saith British bureanoracv
in the Bast—“ is a bad master and a worse ad-
ministrator.” Which thing is bunkum Your
Hollander —pretending not to seek, before his o
material interest, the Malaysian s moral welfare
yet be-gospels his brown brother hardly less
assiduously than the Briton, and administers him
a great deal better ! Nor is the Dutch offici
like, the too frequent British —an official and n
more ; he is generally a man as well. Which was
why—when it was represented to the: Resident oi
Manado that he couldn't appoint an Englander o
a Government plantation —that rubicund old
potentate had answered—not without luyjelai
—that it appeared to him he could, for he had
just done it I
So Hosking went- forth unto the uttermost
parts of Celebes—into Minahassa the volcanic,
and found a paradise of industry, order, and uni-
versal Malay speech, where, 40 years had
been a hell of head-hunters and cannibals—a Babel
of conflicting dialects. All this Dutch rule had
accomplished ; so Hosking, with badly-shattereu
prejudices, settled down, and dwelt in peace with
all men, until —he ran out of pocket-handkerchiefs .
. * * *
To Hosking’s crib—a bamboo bird-cage on the
mountain slope, hedged in with ever-blooming
roses and fragrant with jessamine and oleander—
came, early one morning, the native overseer of
the plantation. A pure Minahassa, but brought-
up in Madras, Wadi spoke English pretty well
hence his present ambassadorial capacity. Hosking
read the letter, swore the swear of astonishment,
and came out in his pyjamas.
“Look here, Wadi! —do you know what this
letter’s about ? ” , _ . „ ,
Wadi showed his white teeth. “Yes!’ he
said—“ he knew.”
“ Well, who is this Mynheer De Veyva, any-
how? I never heard of the fellow before.”
“ He the Districk-Controllah, sah ! He come
yesserday on monthlee inspeck is hon. He see you
vipe vou nose wid Dutch flag, and he verree
angree, sah ! ”
“Dutch flag? Why, what the devil —stay,
though ! ” Hosking went inside, and came out,
laughing, with a handkerchief in his hand—
broadly divided into red, white, and blue. “I
never thought of it before, but this certainly, is
the Dutch tricolor, if you hold it this way ”
bringing the red uppermost —“but, hold it this
way, and it’s tlie French one? Aren’t there any
fiery Gauls on hand to resent their share of the
indignity?” ....
Wadi didn’t laugh. He liked this big, frank,
easy-going Englander, and he knew that the Heer
District-Controller De Veyva was a person to be
taken very seriously.
“ Bettah you ’pologise, Misser Hoskin ! Dat no
hurt you. Controllah, he shoot man one time
’fore—because no ’pologise ! ”
“ Devil he did ! Never mind, old chap—l can
take care of myself. But I’ll go and see this
swashbuckler, at all events ! ”
The physical persistence of the warmer-blooded
races was well exampled in De Yeyva. Descended
from a soldado of the Spanish occupation—half-a-
score generations of Low-Country blood had failed
to make him other than a Spaniard lean,
swarthy, saturnine, honorable, and self-conse-
qi" Look a deal more like a Dutchman myself ! ”
thought Hosking, as he answered, in tolerable
French, the threat man’s formal salutation. But
no further went this amicable tone of matters.
In vain did Hosking demonstrate that the insulted
handkerchief was as much the French tricolor as
the Dutch. In vain—as proof that the rnouchoir
was but one of a batch sent up from Goeontalo—
did he produce the black-white-red of Germany,
the Spanish red-upon-yellow, and the white cross
of the Danes. It was a singular thing, sneered
the Controller in his most mordant French, that,
amongst the national emblems which monsieur had
seen fit to put to such degrading purposes, there
appeared neither the Union-Jack nor the Stars-
and-Stripes ! No ! —no ! —an apology humble,
ample, and immediate must be tendered to His
Netherlandic Majesty’s Government, in the poor
person of him, the Controller ; or
“ Or what ? ” and the smile left Hosking s face
as he stiffened-up his back. He, too, had an
ancestry—with Viking in it!
“ Ou V altcrnatif ordinaire, monsieur 1
“ Oh ! hang such unmitigated rubbish !
Hosking, in Fnglish, and half to himself. I d
apologise fast enough, just to avoid this torn-
foolery, only X suppose this fellow d think he d
frightened me ! ”
The Controller understood but a word here and
.there, but one of these was “fellow.” Accepting
this at its most opprobrious value, he returned it
with “ Lia-r-r ! ” and was promptly knocked into
the corner with a left-hander that put matters
—even from the British point of view—on a strictly
war-footing.
* * * *
“ The whole thing’s too d d ridiculous ! ”
muttered Hosking, as he sprang out of his ham-
mock next morning. “ A duel in the last quarter
of the nineteenth century!—and all about a
wretched colored rag ! I won’t let any man call
Tom Hosking a liar, though ! and I’d have floored
his ‘ Royal Master,’ as he calls him, for the same
thing ! Feel devilish queer, too, this morning !
Surely can’t be in a funk without knowing it ! ’
“ Devilish queer,” in this case, meant a dull and
sickly languor —a weight at once on soul and body
—like nothing Hosking had ever felt before.
“ Were his eyes disordered, too ? ” he asked him-
self, “or why this smoky, sunset look of things at
early morning ? ” He went out. The same un-
canny glare was everywhere ; behind the weirdly-
contorted wisps of coppery cloud ; upon the pale-
green sea of coffee-bush around ; upon the black
volcanic peak above ; upon the sweltering plains
below. A huge, ungainly hornbill flapped,
screeching, to and fro. On the teak behind the
house a flock of yellow bee-birds roosted, in
frightened silence ; the bullocks at the pulping-
house stood huddled, heads together, in. a tremb-
ling group. All nature spoke, but Hosking didn’t
understand. “ A storm,” he said, and started up
the mountain-track.
* * * *
The Dutchman, first upon the ground, stood
gazing at a little rounded cloud, scarce visible
against the darkening sky. Not much, to look at,
but for a slender filament that joined it with the
summit of Tonkoko, and De Veyva—he was a
Oatholio—crossed himself and wished devoutly he
had been about some other business that day.
But then, striding through the fan-ferns, came the
Englishman.
“We have no need of seconds, sir. You have
struck me, and we cannot both leave this spot
alive. And, since swords are not procurable, you
cannot have the challenged party’s choice of
weapons. You have, I presume, no objection to
these revolvers—they are exactly alike ? ” Thus,
with elaborate politeness, the Dutchman.
“ Whatever you like !” said Hosking. “Only,
in Heaven’s name, let us get the foolish business
over ! ”
“ Heaven, sir,” returned the Dutchman gravely,
“ has but little to do with this affair ! ”
Hosking stepped eagerly up to him. “Well
then, Mynheer, if you think so, let it go no
further. I’ll apologise for the blow ! ”
De Veyva took off his hat and bowed. “ And,”
said he, “ for the insult to the flag of His Nether-
landic Majesty?”
“ Damn His Netherlandic Majesty! ” burst out
Hosking, goaded at last into full-blown Bullish-
ness. “ And. his flag, too 1 I wish I’d never seen
the beggarly rag !- or the punctilious idiot who
must have murder about a trifle ! Take your
place and blaze away ! —you’ll get no further
apology from me ! ”
Bristling now with rage, the Dutchman strutted
off. “ Restez-vous la!” he cried. “Abreast of
that arenga I will turn, count three, and fire ! ”
The tree he spoke of —the sugar-palm of Celebes
—stood solitary within five feet or so of a steeply-
sloping bank that ended, a hundred feet below, in
one of those black, unfathomable fissures wherein
the pagan Minahassas still believed their gods to
dwell. But now, as Hosking looked, the palm
bowed gently away from the bank—then swept
suddenly Over in the opposite direction, and
Hosking, with a sickening jerk from below, was
flung down upon his side. His eye fell upon Ton-
koko as he lay. The mountain’s head was
shrouded in a cloud of sable smoke, shot here and
there with snowy jets of steam and darting
tongues of ghastly, greenish flame. Then from
underneath came an awful, smothered, rushing
sound, like nothing but itself. Again the eartli-
wavepassed, the palm-tree nodded, and De Veyva,
who had fallen, with the first shock, close to the
precipice-edge, was jerked clean over it by the
second, and hung there, shrieking piteously—with
nothing of him visible but his desperately cling-
ing fingers, while faintly to the ear came up the
report of his pistol—exploding as it bounded
into the rocky abyss below. In an instant
Hosking was up !—down ! —up again !—and, rush-
ing to the arenga, curved one arm round the
slender stem, so that, stretching with the other,
he could barely grasp De Veyva’s wrist. Drag-
ging, then, for every ounce he was worth, and
helped a little by the other’s frantic digging of his
toes into the not quite perpendicular bank, the
Briton slowly hauled the Dutchman over the
edge, and crawled away with him from a spot
whence another shock might at any moment have
hove them both to perdition.
A dozen times or so, with lessening strength,
the imprisoned spirit of Tonkoko, the volcano,
strove to burst his bonds ; then, sick and sweat-
ing, the Dutchman sat up, and wept, and praj'ed,
and blessed his saints, and embraced his preserver.
Unto all which the Briton — being a Briton.!- —
said :
“ D d close shave ! Got a matoh? ’
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


In Bed for Months; Terrible Suffering;
Rheumatism Cured; A Limb Saved; Now Works Hard at 72*
Ayer ’ s Sarsapari 11 a
i
m
'VxY
02
S.S,
'■'/ .
w
rl^
“While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good.
“As spon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
“ One doctor told liie I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose my leg.
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
“I am now 72 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
day.”
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such testimonies have given' to this remedy the name of
“The Vforlcf’s Greatest ramify Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
AYEI S Sar*fertlla
It Acts on the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Coated, Easy to Take.
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOB,
irbridae’s
m
BE SUBE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , ivhich saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bott’es, at Is. 1 2s. 9d„ 4s. <i&
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
D
¥
WORTH
A GUINEA
A BOX.
THE
WORLD’S
MEDICINE .
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver, Female Ailments,
AND ALL
BILIOUS MO NERVOUS DISORDERS.
They brace up the nervous and muscular systems, revive the long-lost
complexion, bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into action
the too-often slumbering energies of mind and body. As a blood purifier
it is not too much to say that they have no equal. They eliminate what-
ever septic matter may have altered the condition of the vital fluid, while
at the same time they induce a new “building-up-force,” the effect of
which is quickly visible in the most marked and gratifying improvement
in the general health. One of the best guarantees that can be offered to
the nervous and debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have by far the
Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in the World, being over Six Million
Boxes per annum.
This has been achieved without the publication of Testimonials. The
convincing fact is that Beecham’s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEEOHAM, St. Helens, ENGLAND.. Sold
Everywhere in Boxes, 13Jd. and 2s. 9d. each.
BEECHAHTS
TOOTH PASTE
Recommends Itself^^
It is Efficacious, Economical, Cleanses the
Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and is
a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
In Collapsible Tubes, of all Druggists,
SHILLING EACH.
Are the LARGEST IMPORTERS of
ORGANS, and MIJSIC in Australia.
GERMAN PIANOS by the most celebrated makers
ENGLISH PIANOS $l the best makers
AMERICAN PIANOS at surprisingly low prices
AMERICAN ORGANS £ great variety
ALL THE NEWEST AND MOST POPULAR MUSIC.
LOGUES FREE
PLICATION.
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
SEN-seh
w THROAT EASE.
mmm
mVAmABLE T 0
|—r E \ SINGERS & SPEAKERS
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
THE MARVELLOUS CURE FOR
WINTER COUGHS
BRONCHIA
INFLUENZA.


Established
1847.
T HEIAR G
Qtt|M
E sf
?£ f 4R^M D ,. AKERS
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq'rt’rs, 168-169 William-st. Melh.
Now South Wales Address :
8S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue Ires, on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brockman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S 9 S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
OTEL
Board or Apartments at Option
The H)ost powerful driving gelt in the ||)orld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, a/nd in
Australia, Africa, South America,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Tiists, Samples and Testimonials may
be ob uined from the bocal Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
Wholesale Depots :
LONDON ... ... ~. Quean Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... .... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINCHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville’ St.
'
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
IMTEDT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents: iiutTHII
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Eeid & Sons, Adelaide;
Bobertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
IMPORTERS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION OF
Mining & Engineering Material, Furnishings,
AND REPRESENTING IN AUSTRALIA
TANOYEB LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
Pumping Plants a Speciality.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much tor
the colony and colonies) ; the Creamery S\ stem of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGHNTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,”
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT
25 HARBOUR STREET,
ATTENTION.
$9l
m
OTTUMWA WINDING ENGINE.
Catalogues Free on Application.
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS
OF ALL KINDS OK
mining machinery,
STEAM ENGINES
AND
BOILERS.
®0 O? Mm JO
s ?**l
ZTd
***»<* J
_ Jr > J\T «j ~
*®Hr.
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
EKrGIKTE33RS’ FITTINGS, ~~
MINE & .MILL SUPPLIES.
“Tbe R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
g^ P c;on &G O O C^L, SolG JLSS.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & C 0.,,
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth’ 1
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, toCLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading- Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£8 reduced £2 its Bd each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price t'lo 10s, reduced £i 1/S■ od each,
complete* 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
veil l *' . . 7 __ , . ji r.r- .1. 1 i „ . lO TV T) X)*.nAnVi lAorJinir Omvo cnonml niialifir
All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun-
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
B.S.A,
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, i? 7 ELIZABETH street
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
Hozen oairs) Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double Butted Spokes, plated all over, Perry’s
s n" WsT" SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
ner cent cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
Bate £7 < 8 ±9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
° a TRADE SUPPLIED—GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
■
&
ry
General 'Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
435 Bourlte Street, MelHonrne.
min ,nTOro FOR
The Mason Regulating Co’s
steam and water reducing valves.
L. Schuttes & Co’s
KORTING’S BOILER FEED INJECTORS & EJECTORS.
Blake’s
SINGLE & DUPLEX STEAM PUMPS.
J. A. Fay & Egan Co’s
WOODWORKING MACHINERY & TOOLS.
W. F. & Jno. Barnes Co.
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & WOODWORKING MACHINERY
Always in Stock:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Lifting Tackle, &c,
