

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY,
PIG STOUT.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, TWinimy Reonisiteq
EXPIOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE *
Yv
Over 24 JO -iyaro-iix tractirs work
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
aysTßULia.
SSt Send for Price Lint
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-s5 ntt street, SYDNEY.
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
, ■** * ntl educed throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool Launrln'or?
uction of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPADE PABTS STOCKED. Sender
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel.
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Airs. Ki)minster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
MANLY BEACH.
ft.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
1 » P -? LE, £. george hotel, oppositest,
Hilda Railway Station and CabJe Trams. Largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF tor
Boarders, os. per Bay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ECOBART.
— —
Hadley’s Orient (jotel.
5> W't
a/jt y
oo
*
Bottles
860,112
Sold
One
Month
THE
CHEAPEST
AND
THE
BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prides and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICfSc son, ltd.,
York. Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
U
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S AUSTRALIAN
erang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
n
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Haw no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON l m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE.
SYDNEY.
FTPPTptn n£ en r C 7, *°F Laro P 3 : NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
VJ nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
TEACHER’S “HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY.
SOLE AGENTS}
Plummer Love & Co.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
¥ol 20. No. 1028. J
[Saturday, October 28, 1899.
Ppostered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


— : i : .
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure.
A
m
lA. The Larysx, or organ of
voice.
I{. The Traciiba or windpipe.
O’. The I'ronchi .I Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe pi one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOB OLD
AND YOUNG.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous <lrur/ ... U
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor-a. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT-S. TAYLOR, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
UNDER
THE
GUMTREE
A Naughty Book of
Balzae’s.
Have you ever read
“ I’hysiologie du Mar-
riage”? It is French,
of course (shrug!) and
conventionally shocking ; hut- —
can we not take our literature
philosophically, as students and
spectators of life? Women are
permitted to view the strange
s “otacle of men in Parliament,
"■th a grating to spare their
biusttes—or even without. And
if here and there it be necessary
to avert a head when Balzac,
lecturer upon the anatomy of
woman's soul, dissects his flut-
tering subject with a learned
sealpej; be sure, at all events, the
fault is not Balzac’s. He is dis-
creet, most discreet—an innuendo
ere, an allusion t here; hut never a wink, hardly the
tail of an eyelid fluttering—and that may be a mis-
take of yours. Besides, to guarantee his probity,
he does not accept ladies for his physiological
course. They need not seek admission, he Tays;
they already know a ll he can tell them. No man
can ever sav ab rat w.rnsn more good or more evil
tlian they think them selves. So at the beginning
of Balzac s book lie erects the sign which you may
see in certain places : Les dames n’entreat ,>as iei —
Ladies Not Admitted Here:
Before me, says Balzac, no geometer has dared
to trace the lines of longitude and latitude upon
the conjugal ocean. Shipwrecked husbands have
been ftsh&med to indicate the sand-banks, reefs,
sunken rocks, dangerous shores, disastrous cur-
rents, which have- destroyed their little gaily-
freighted galleys. There.iwas need of a chkrt and
pilot for married pilgrims ... and here they
are.
The first thing to do. is to settle your statistical
basis. There are in France,, says Balzac, about
thirty million inhabitants. Say fifteen millions
are women; and - commence by deducting from
these. about nine million creatures who at first
sight seem to be rather like Woman, but
whom one is compelled to reject on care-
ful-examination. They "have indeed the thirty-
two vertebrae, the tongue-bone and so on, which
cause them to be classe d with the human species ;
but they hew wood and carry water and wash up •
their hands are black and their skin tanned ; they
have harsh voices, no intelligence, and an mien-
durable odourclearly they are not Women
within the scope of the science of marital physi-
? lo «y- -Chat leaves only six million women
in France for a man of sentiment to busy himself
with ; f and -of these two millions are too old and
two mUhoils too young for the purposes of the
enquiry. Subtract further 100,000 poor girls who
are iaifie, or humpbacked, or consumptive, or
blind, or squint ; subtract 100,000 governesses
nurses, nuns, and such ; subtract 500,000 daugh-
ters of Baal ; subtract others who for various
reasons must unluckily be subtracted and you
have in France-a little flock of a million white
sheep a privileged fold which all the wolves are
prowling round. It is in this flock that must be
sought—
The number of respectable women ;
The number of virtuous women ;
and Balzac sets himself to scientifically find them.
He proceeds warily, with axioms.
A respectable woman is necessarily married.
A respectable woman is less than 40 years old.
A woman who does her own cooking is not a respect-
able woman.
The wife of a banker is always a respectable woman ;
but a woman who acts as cashier is only so if her husband
does a very large business, and if she does not lodge
above the shop.
There are nine other axioms in point: the vir-
tuous woman has hardly so many to her dowry— :
Virtue is perhaps only the p >lit eness of the soul.
The virtue of women is possibly a question of tem-
perament.
A virtuous woman has in her heart a fibre more or less
than other women : she is either stupid or sublime.
In the most virtuous women there is always something
which is never chaste.
To a mere 400,000 Balzac reduoes the number of
respectable women. The number who are virtuous
eludes him. But, judging by the fact that there
are a million bachelors of the best class in France,
each of, whom can claim three raging passions at
least, it must be inconceivably small. From a
consideration of husbands who are predestined to
evil spring the axioms of the conjugal catechism—
Marriage is a science.
A man cannot be married without having studied
anatomy, and dissected one woman at least.
In love, all sentiment set aside, woman is like a
lyre which will only yield its secrets to him who knows
tnw to play it,.
La puissance ne consiste pas k frapper fort ou souvent,
uiais a frapper juste.
The order of pleasure is from the distich to the
quatrain, from the quatrain to the sonnet, from the son-
net to the ballad, from the ballad to the ode, from the
ode to the cantata, from the cantata to the dithyramb.
The husband who commences with the dithyramb is a
fool.
Chaque nuit doit avoir son menu.
After quoting Walter Shandy’s advice to Uncle
Toby, Balzac proceeds sagely to consider the
honeymoon and the first symptoms of coming ill;
and so his first part, his part of statement, closes*
His second part'discusses means of defence, inter-
nal and external, against the famished bachelor.
To begin with, marital diplomacy consists only in
the constant application of three principles—
N ver believe what, a woman says.
Always search for the spirit of her acts without stop-
ping to consider the letter.
Don’t forget that a woman is never so talkative as
when she is silent and never acts with more energy than
when she is in repose.
Thus and thus, says Balzac, you should instruct
your wife ; thus you should feed her, and thus
yourself;—and the important Theory of the
Bed is fully discussed. Should there be two beds
side by side, twins ? or two separate rooms ? or
one bed sole and indivisible? Pros and cons are
arrayed ; the story of that Great Frederick is
quoted, who contemplated a beautiful frosty night
and exclaiiiv'd, “This is weather which is worth
many soldiers to Prussia ! ” and the end returns
to the beginning-
the woman is for her husband wlmt her husband has
made her.
Follows the Art of Marital War-its strategy
ambuscades, encounters —a hundred pages of
tactics ala Machiavel. And many eloquent anec-
dotes, such as——
No, it would not do; some ladies may have
transgressed the injunction not to enter here. If
so, their shameful curiosity shall go unsatisfied,
rsesides, one never knows
. "
t( It ismeoess/try to explain. Edwin Markham’s
, ai .‘ Wltl) tlle , Hoe” was recently printed
because tis reasonable rhetoric, and because it is
seein^TV f ndo to I'l’P'ibar taste in America-
thereSh,ahaS| V 6 ? 1 . re P r, " t «l hundreds of times
there, has enabled the author to tradeoff a book
like the'.'‘ri at r < nubbles bin. to sell pieces
nwl t Dreyfus in last McClure’s Magazine-
E . f frT^T l^, ,nSlgned - One is glad to
Mil er° Ut t U i- i J le , Man . Wlth the Hoe ” carries
tW thf f 1 ? 0 *? 011 . t() thepoint of absurdity, seeing
t i ‘ , e eo . °" (big, but useful word labelling
tn a'P? t persist in referring everything
i ,/ ea t First Cause which they know nothing
). seeing that the teleological inferences have
wlla tever. No Lord God ever made any
o ucultural labourer to have dominion over
a , and M l .- the agricultural labourer has
evolved painfully like the rest of us from a proto-
plasmic primordial globule, or thereabouts ; and if
agricultural Hhourer spent his time on
tracing the stars he would probably trace
a crooked furrow : and if he felt the passion of
Eternity—whatever that is—he would probably
sow fewer potatoes, and earn less wages, and get
less cabbage-soup Further, his brow used to
slant much more than it does now; and there used
to be much less hght within his brain; and alto-
gether Ins condition is improving as fast as can
reasonably be expected: Arid when we know
what seraphim are, we . can measure the gulf
between Hie man with the hoe and the seraphim :
while we are ignorant, Mr. Markham’s comparison
is pleasant poetic nonsense. The masters, lords,
and rulers in all lands have nothing to do with the
case : even supposing that Millet’s type applies to
all lands—which it doesn’t—the lot of the labourer
is settled by causes ninety , per cent, of which are
out of the masters’, &c., control. Mr. Markham
has tried t° put a second-hand brick on top of
Millet s pile, and -crash !
f% J* ■ J* ;
Mr. John Ptefry writes
■ About five years ago' when settled in Gosford, N.S.W.,
Miss Sten house showed ,me the following poem in Ken-
dall’s MS. It appears to be strangely at variance with
Kendall’s opinion of N. D. Stenhouse, as expressed in the
letter to Chas. Harpur which you recently printed.
W. B. Yeats, the tr.an with probably the most
essentially poetical temperament among younger
English writers, and a poet of high performance,
writes of Roderie Quinn’s verses in a letter re-
ceived the other day—
Mr. Quinn has real imaginative energy; and the
mastery of expression, of precision of music and pre-
cision of phrase, which time will doubtless give him
should make him a very interesting writer. “ The Camp
Within the West” lias a true solemnity and beauty in its
fundamental thought.
The method of Mallarme’s obscure verse was re-
cently compared by an enthusiast with the method
of musical counterpoint. In Lavignac’s “Music
and Musicians,” he defines :
Counterpoint is neither the preamble nor the comple-
ment to studies in harmony, though it is often so re-
garded. It is something different. Counterpoint is a
study of the procedures, sometimes rudimentary, em-
ployed by the old composers. ... It is, so to speak, a
dead language. . . . Counterpoint might be defined as
the art of juggling with notes.
Ergo, Mallarme is a juggler with words—as has
been said already.
“LOOK AT THE SHOULDER ON HER! AND THE LOIN SHE HAS!”
—From “ Steele Rudd's” book
Anti-climax is a figure admirable’and interest-
ing: we must talk about it one of these days.
Therd is a good recent-letters example in Max
Beerbohm’s “More,” when the bright young man
commiserates Royalty on the monotony of its
thornless rose-path. “ Would anyone choose to be
born, in their purple, to their life of morbid and
gaudy humdrum ? ” Better, surely, be an ordinary
child. For—
Who shall oast the horoscope of an ordinary child? Who
knows'the vioissitudes of his journey ? Be he suckled in
a pit, or in a castle on a mountain, who shall prophesy
the level of his last bed ? Cast him up naked to the pit’s
edge, send him in purple down the wide steps of his
father’s castle, you know not how long he shall fare in
the gloom or light of his Origin, nor whither, and by
what hostelri 's, he shall pass. He may come to a dark
woodland, where, all night long, the ferns snap under the
feet of elusive Dryads, and the moon is privy to the
whole grief of Philomel.' He may never ieave that
gentle labyrinth of leaves, or he ma.rtarry there but for
one night. Mocked and footsore, he may shuffle along
the highways, till he come to that city whose people stone
him or make him ruler over them. Exile or emperv may
he his, flowers or ashes, ari aureole or a noose. There
are seas for his drowning, and whirlwinds for his over-
whelming, and sheer rooks for his ascent. He shall
clutch, and falter, and be afraid. No bloodhounds but
shall follow'swiftly on his track, nor any nets hut shall
enmesh him. He shall latigh and conquer. He shall
prosper in a greac dominion. In strength and scorn there
shall not be his equal. But the slaves whom he tor-
tured shall prick him in his exultation. His wine-cup
shall be a cup of gall, and a harpy shall lurk in the canopy
of his bridal bed. In the blood of his children they shall
bathe him. From a clear sky the lightning shall slant
down on him. And the ground shall yawn for hi nin the
garden of his design.
Then, having caught you looking at him, the
author adds —
That, despite certain faults of exaggeration, is a piece
Of quite admirable prose ; but let it not decoy the reader
from consideration of the main theme.
A wickedly neat anti-climax.
JX jX
But often the anti-’climaxes come in life.
“G.0.M.,” from the backbloeks, tells how a
few shearers were warming themselves round the
fire in a shearers’ hut early in August—the rest
scattered about—when a strange-looking, old, veru
old “whaler,” with long, white hair, came in at
the door. He stooped slightly, with his hands
carried behind him. He walked up to the nearest
mail at the fire, and, with his hands still behind
him, peered up into his face with a long, intense
gaze that drew his;face into wrinkles. A burly
young fellow in a trip,blink opposite the door sat
up, stared in a fascinated way At the old whaler,
and shrank back against the wall, saying in a loud
whisper, without taking his eyes off, “He's
got a tomahawk !” After a deadly stillness of
almost a minute, the old man muttered Some-
thing as if dissatisfied, and moved up to the
next man and fixed him with the same search-
ing gaze. By this time the first man was gone.
The old man muttered in a dissatisfied way again,
and moved up to a third man. By this, the second
man was gone. As each man was peered at and
passed he left si'ent.y, till the old man was left
alone peering up at the burly young fellow, who
was shrinking back in the top bunk like a bird
held by a snake. The old man then brought the
tomahawk round into view in his right hand, and,
holding it up at the top bunk, said in a piping
voice :' “I borrowe 1 this tomahawk off some young
feller here, but my eyes are'not as good as they
were, and I can’t rind him to give it back.” “It’s
Jem Fraser’s ! ” said the man in the top bunk with
a gasp.
“ Stickle Rudd’s”
book is approach-
ing completion ;
and the advance
sheets' bear out
one’s preliminary ~
judgment that it
will bo the j oiliest
volume yet issued
is Australia. The
author has the ad-
vantage of carry-
ing his characters
right through to
the end, through
all the vicissitudes
of life “on our
selection ” ; and,
taken together, he
gives an excellent
picture of the ups
and downs of
backbloeks life.
The bdok is very
liberally illus-
trated, and one of
the pictures is
printed on this
page. Old Dad is
showing his cele-
brated racing
n a Bess to the
wondering family.
& JX
As J. A. Barry
is a writer located
here, and T care
little for his work
myself, it seems
fair to quote
Lond. Athenceum
on the other side.
Of his Son of the
Sea that journal
says —^
Of its kind it is a
remarkable narra-
tive. Its interest is
varying and well-
sustained, its ac-
.. ■ , count of a -sailor’s
life is well rendered, and it can be read without disad-
vantage by young and old alike.
And the Athenceum is reasonably hard to please.
J* :;
Some correspondents—
H.G.C. : “ When similes are going, remember Philp’s
‘ He hasn’t got the manliness of a trouser button,’ in
the tale of ‘ Miss Maloney’s Reppitation.’”
Melb. : “In Rev. Fitchett’s ‘ Through Australian Spec-
tacles’ in Eng. Spectator I note that ‘ Ruskin could
have written his immortal description of the grass only
on the suggestion of English meadows. That famous
passage is unintelligible to the Australian, who knows
nothing tut the thin tall grasses of' his own brown
plains.’ But the famous passage in question was clearly
not written ‘on the suggestion of English meadows.’
On the contrary, Ruskin writes : ‘Go out in the spring
time among the meadows that slope from the shores of
the Swiss lakes to.the roots of their lower mountains ’ ;
and it is that Swiss grass which he is expressly describing.
Haikais (abominable) from J.B.C. ; triolets
(ditto) from Walien ; remarks from Tucker-bag;
texts from D. W.M.8.-; clippings from B.S.
“ Ardnagowan ” has found an unknown poet to
be compared-with Patmore—but not here.
JX jt
Undertakers’ speeches received from E.S.S.;
J. J. W. ; Gienhu ; Mawreen ; C.D. ; T.P. ; Count
Brenn; Splinter; W.B.M. ; J.M.D. ; Native
Jack; C.H.S. ; Via ; T.P, (2); Oom Paul; Banool;
Nemo ; E.W.D.;R.H.; J.F.M. ; Smoker; Dingo;
P.A.; G.E.C. ; Wil; Tim B.; Funebre; Hat-
band; Yarrevah; A.A.A. ; C.E. ; Asa D. ;
J. ; Amb. G.J.J.G. ; Alice E. ; Romeo ;
K. ; A.L.C.—most of them so lugubrious that
decision is deferred to ascertain precisely which
plumbs the deepest depth of Woe.
THE BOOKFELLOW.
IN MEMORIAM. - NICOL DRYSDALE STENHOUSE.
Shall he, on whom the fair lord, Delphicus,
Turned gracious eyes and counten nice of shine,
Be left to lie without a wreath from us,
To sleep without a flower upon his shrine?
Shall he, the son of that resplendent Muse,
Who gleams, high priestess of sweet scholarship,
Still slumber on, and every bard refuse
To touch a harp or move a tuneful lip?
No ! let us speak, though feeble he our speech,
And let us sing, though faltering be our strain,
And, haply, echoes of the song may reach
And please the soul we cannot see again.
We sing the beautiful, the radiant life
That shone amongst us like the quiet moon,
A fine exception in this sphere of strife,
Whose time went by us like a hallowed tune.
Yon tomb, whereon the moonlit grasses sigh,
Hides from our view the shell of one whose days
Were set throughout to that grand harmony
Which fills all minor spirits with amaze.
This was the man whose dear lost face appears
To rise betimes like some sweet evening dream t
And holy memories of faultless years,
And touching hours of quietness supreme.
He, having learned in full the golden rule,
Which guides great lives, stood fairly by the same,
Unruffled as the Oriental pool,
Before the bright disturbing angel came.
In Learning’s halls he walked—a leading lord,
He trod the sacred temple's inner floors ;
But kindness beamed in every look or word
He gave the humblest Levite at the doors.
When scholars poor and bowed beneath the ban,
Which clings as fire, were like to faint and fall.
This was the gentle, good Samaritan
Who stopped and held a helping hand to all.
No term that favored of unfriendliness,
No censure through those pure lips ever passed ;
He saw the erring spirit’s keen distress,
And hoped for it, long-suffering to the last.
Moreover, in these days when Faith grows faint,
And Heaven seems blurred by speculation wild,
He, blameless as a mediaeval saint,
Had all,the trust which sanctities a child.
But now he sleeps, and as the years go by,
We ll often pause above his sacred dust,
And think how grand a thing it is to die
Toe noble death whieh deifies the just.
There is a little variance; but riot much.
Kendall s letter to Harpnr deals with Stenhouse
as critic ; his memorial verses deal with Stenhouse
as a man. They are not very enthusiastic verses
either —have an air of being written “ for the
occasion, ’ not on account of overwhelming im-
pulse ; whence their poverty of spirit and parase.
HE PRISTS.
Anonymous Lovers.
Dear, if you change, I’ll never choose again ;
Sweet, if you shrink, I’ll never think of love ;
Fair, if you fail, I’ll judge all beauty fain ;
Wise, if too weak, more wits I’ll never prove.
Dear, sweet, fair, wise! change, shrink not, nor be
weak ;
And, on my faith, my faith shall never break.
Earth with her flowers shall sooner heaven adorn ;
Heaven tier bright stars through earth’s dim globe
shall move :
Eire heat shall lose, and frost of flame be born ;
Air, made to shine, as black as hell shall prove:
Earth, heaven, fire, air, the world transformed
shall view,
Ere I prove false to faith, or strange to you.
MADRIGAL.
My love in her attire doth show her wit
It doth so well become her ;
For every season she hath dressings fit
For winter, spring, and summer.
No beauty doth she miss
When all (i ei oes are on,
But Beauty’s se., she is
When all her robes are gone.
Love not me for comely grace,
For my pleasing eye or face,
Nor for any outward part:
No, nor for a constant heart!
For these- may fail or turn to ill':
Bo thou and I shall sever.
Keep therefore a true woman’s eye,
An 1 love me still, but know not why !
Bo hast thou the same reason still
To doat upon me ever.


keep yotjr hair on
CELEBRATED ROSEMARY HAIR
TONIC, an astringent Hair Wash w L Y
Hair and effectually removes Dandruff PERM AN LNIL. Y,
and is a most effectual Hair Rejuvenator. By its use the
Hair is prevented from falling out, breaking, or 8 f
Tf rives the Hair a lovely gloss, and renders it soft and
supple PRICE, 10/6 and 21/- per Bottle; lostage
Paid Anywhere. CRAIG &. AITKEN,
fiSO GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
kfkin Wi4ea4e6.
tffleu) WkcoOery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
g AR Qoo RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTOHS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and .you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —X have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21 st, 1893.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record progress
with regard to my old enemy, “ Eczema Capitis,” from
which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treatment for
some years under the prescription of Professor M'Call
Anderson and other eminent dermatologists, with only
partial and temporary relief. When I met you I com-
menced somewhat sceptically your ointment Ligmolliene,
and after about two months’ treatment I may honestly say
my enemy is defeated, and I am perfectly well. I will only
add that since I commenced the treatment of myself I have
prescribed it to others, and am still doing so with brilliant
results. Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours
sincerely, THUS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRYMALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and 7s. 6d. Kacß.
anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COUIS BROWNE'S
rmORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRH(EA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.CCLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its host recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
PER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
PER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'Wiaj all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
tl does not blachen the teeth.”
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AM THE WORLD OYEB.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
CYANIDE,
QUICKSILVER
NOYES BEOS.,
31 O’Connell Street
SYDNEY.
17 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stobes - Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE-3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Life of the System.
LID
BRUSH'S!
To-day, as hitherto, we lead the way with a
reputation of 58 years for Sound, Reliable
Goods. We solicit your commands, and we
do so with every confidence.
The STANDARD HARNESS
of A TJSTRATI A
mi.
p|pw
/'
SAW
Brush’s Fashionable CARRIAGE,
BROUGHAM, TANDEM, DOG-
CART, arid BUGGY Harness in
best Brass, Nickel, and Plated
Mountings.
SATIN ROSETTES for the above
harness our own manufacture
and of the latest style and pattern.
A choice assortment of perfect
Satin Rosettes are kept in stock
or made specially on the shortest
possible notice.
CRESTS AND MONOGRAMS
TO ORDER, Designs Submitted.
Seven FIRST PRIZES last year by
exhibitors using Brush’s harness
at the different shows, and with-
out any effort on our part ; and
the same NICE APPEARANCE
and FINISH which attracted the
judge’s eyes is seen in our every-
daywork.
Reliable Sulky or Buggy Harness,
in Rlack, and the Fashionable
Brown Leathers, with Collar and
Hames, and fitted with the most
modern furniture, from £4.
VERY SUPERIOR HARNESS,
£5 10s.
Do. Do. Part lined, £6los.
Do. Do. Full lined, i 7 10s.
BRUSH’S TANDEM HARNESS,
from £lO 10s. up, Extra for
Improved Bars.
BRUSH’S PAIR-HORSE LANDAU, VICTORIA, or CARRIAGE HARNESS, 18 guineas and up.
BRUSH’S PAIR-HORSE BUGGY HARNESS, 15, £5 10s., £0 10s., 17 10s., and up.
A GOOD SET OF BLACK LEATHER SULKY HARNESS, with Collar and Hames, £3 15s.
Orders of the value of £3 up sent Carriage Free to any Port or Railway Station in N.S.W., or 5 per cent
discount to the adjoining' colonies.
Price Lists and Illustrations and any information about harness will be sent on receipt of postcard.
THIS' IS THE ADDRESS :
John Brush, Son & Co.,
403-405 GEORGE STREET,
SYDIEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
TfkTEW FURNITURE
« (Best Quality). \
)
BUY FROM US AND
SAVI4 50 PER CENT.
ij 1 Saved is equivalent
to JB6 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent., less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Qeorge-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
888 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3/-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32/6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15/9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia, of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
E. V. FINCKH & GO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
‘.Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
fringes,
Natural Curly, fr.om 3/6 eaotk
PLAITS andVTAILS,
20 in. lons, £/0. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 7/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Ao*-
Walla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H-V/iszcll,'
110 WIbLIAM STR BET,
corner of Palmer street.
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List,
prompt attention «i v en to Country Orders
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamnhlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
:
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo'n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
‘ • . - ' ‘ •' 'J>3
HI CH-CFt A DE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
(Slep’s Specialities
Julius Bluthner
PIANOS
Price from £65
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
Price from £4O
August Heide
PIANOS
Price from £36
Raid. Brehmer
PIANOS
Price from £34-
W. N. 6LEN & CO.,
They are obtainable for Gash or on very Easy Terms from the Sole Agents
359 George Street, Sydney.
2*72 & 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERS ALLS.
Address: Oar© GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
MELBOURNE C. Nov. 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
MELBOURNE 0. Nov. 7,
100,000 Cubscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
shares in the
£
Address
MELBOURNE C. (Special)
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
Drawn Morning- of the Race
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in above.
Name
Address.
£
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


9
Chills
Ever become
chilled through and
through ?
The acute sen-,
sat ion of cold is
followed by fever,
ishness and aches in
all parts of the body.
Finally the whole
trouble settles in the
throat and lungs in
the shape of a cough.
There is nothing
so bad for a cough
as coughing.
pectoral
will cure these chills and coughs. A
few doses are sufficient at first. More
time is required later on. .
Stop coughing and you will get well.
Keep coughing and you invite bronchi-
tis pueumonia, or even consumptior
itself. Better stop your cough at once
and thus end the whole matter.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.* Lowell* Mass., U. S. A*
<*
jS>
X
G
Modern.
Milling
Machinery,
\
Si
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
william Fleming,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oilg, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
MHOS» “HAIR
Discoverer, Christopher Mudd, f. 1.5., Prince of Wales’ Botanist
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Dr. J. Robert Lee, M. 8.. B.S. (Melb. University),
file^^"/flltci\obisri'iitgl'ediilts’AntKbs’ FoVfjiir
ie« ferowt
hi' \
rr ot£3\ i
reSfee
tiSfie i
is wi 11 hs stier &
f the
< nan it
ait i
li 1
‘ Antnot ” prevt nt
allin
o it
liar
; \
t d i ddtei!
1 lot Her.
e i,
tatio
ros
rdlthls
o i hil links and
ircpsn
beln
pi rfcoet <p&asagippai|i)jt laijgje
I —"sample bottle oi " Anthem.”
Colonial Representative for tbe Proprietors:
Fred. J. E. Phiuips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne.
••••••••••••••••
mwtrawa
? msm >
Cfwwv\f\
<3-0 TO HELL-
I (JO RAND for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good .stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Sbarc of tbc Profits
of the AUSTRALIAN
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
MUTUAL
by effecting:
a Policy with thafc Office before the close of the year. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before the end of the year
WILL PARTICIPATE in the BONUS TO BE DECLARED AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1899 (all bonuses vest
Immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). The amount of Cash Bonus distributed among the
participating Policy-holders for the single year 1898, was £479,742.
- EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully and send in their applications early either direct or through the
Society's Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. Abbott, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman;
A. W. Meeks, Esq. ; Joseph Abbott, Esq. ;J. T. Walker, Esq.; R. J. Black, Esq. ; and B. Short, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEEOE, F.1.A., P.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office, 87 Pitt-st., Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 80/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£gr Send for Price List. 1S&
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN*
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
M r. . im'c FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use m all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OE ALL DEALERS.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S
S. FREEMAN ✓ SONS L!!S!JE?
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD office
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
TiuTLondon & American Supply Stores.
UPPLYnsKESSStORE
E LONDON & AMERICAN
FOB
GENTLEMEN’S
AND
YOUNG GENTLEMEN’S
CLOTHING.
The Largest Assortment in
Victoria.
OUTING & HOLIDAY
SUITS.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
A. W. FERNE & CO., Directors.
THE
- Plum
THU
Plum
( who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
JR trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle" in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and, sent Post Free to any part of the tvorld.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
iVI o S . "W . Carriage &i Saddlery ManF
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company
SYDNEY
When in town, pav 11s a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies” the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double' Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay IB per
sent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Symonds, a native of Petersham,
Sydney, and B.A. of Sydney University, is toil-
ing over the education and conversion of the
blacks of the New Hebrides. Apparently a finely-
polished tool for coarse work. On Erromanga,
one of these populous islands, Rev. H. A. Robert-
son, once of Balmain, Sydney, is the only white
man. Three of the missionaries on these islands
are diplomaed doctors.
The Life of Love.—A Rhapsody.
I was a bird, in a darkened cage,
I dashed against the rusting bar»—
I would be free,
Though I should di6t
O’er Earth and Sea
To sing and fly}
To learn new songs from the whirlwind’* rage,
The deeps of space, the teeming stars.
I heard a Voice in the silent night—
I soared above the mists of Time {
I saw in All
The Face of Loveg
For Love is All,
And All is Love.
I fled afar, and my heart lay, light,
On swelling waves of Song Sublime*
I sing to you what Love sang to me
In sighing wind and bending gale,
In flowing tide,
In night and day—
“ I, Love, abide,
I am the Way ;
I reign supreme o’er the Earth and Sea,
I dwell in Light that shall not pale.
“ I am a Child in my Father’s House,
I read in all my Father’s Will;
He bends o’er me,
He bends o’er you f
On Earth and Sea
His Word is true.
There is no Curse in my Father’s House;
But some with dust their hearts will fill.
“ There is no Night in the Life of Love,
There is no breath of winter rime;
Love floats on waves
Of melody;
Below are graves
And threnody.
There is no end to the Life of Love—
It glides from Deep to Deep subhme.
“I, Love, am Death. You must rest awhile,
And sleep, to wake in native air;
One pang of pain,
A sweet release,
And all is gain,
And all is peace.
I, Love, dwell not in the cloistered aisle,
I am in All, and Everywhere.
“ I will not blame, if you have striven,
For some are weak, and some are blind ;
The faltering aim,
The feeble eye,
The flickering flame,_
The flowers that die
In stricken hearts, are all forgiven—
I, Love, know All, and I am kind.”
v.
ANDREW SARD.
Out of Eden.
’Mid the bushy recesses of Eden
All fitting felicities throve ;
No really nice thing was forbidden
To Genius, Pleasure, and Love.
Shut-off from all care and all friction,
With every kind comfort shut in,
Mere life was a bright benediction ;
But Eve plucked the Apple of Sin !
Were it not so, how sweet our position !
How fragrant our loves ! and how pure !
We’d need neither priest nor physician
To make our serenity sure.
We’d know neither prude nor precisian,
We’d neither grow fatty nor thin :
We’d move in a glamour Elysian . . .
But Eve plucked the Apple of Sin !
Had she not, we would live and be merry,
Not knowing the sting of a care . . .
’Neath that tree the divine Ellen Terry
With Le Gallienne (clothed in ’■ - hair).
Here and there, flashing out ’gain >t the greenery,
The Paphian nymphs and Nell Gwyn
(All greatly improving the scenery) . . .
But Eve plucked the Apple of Sin !
Had she paused, we had never known weariness,
Nor loved but the fleeciest gold,
We had never known ennui or dreariness,
Nor hunger, nor worry, nor cold.
Walter Pater had tutored Semiramis ;
There’d have been no “ Called Back,” no “ East
Lynne”
(I’d have known fifty endings in “ iramis ”);
But Eve plucked the Apple of Sin !
Alas for our pestilent crudity
And morbid perverseness ! We’re hurled
Away from our natural nudity
Plun-nk / into a frock-coated world.
But . . . tell it to Grand and Corelli,
And all of that ilk—rub it in ! j/
When the snake slithered in on his belly,
It was Eve plucked the Apple of Sin !
V.
F. MORTON.


The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
London, E.C.
Established . a «»«*»* between P«,p, rt |„ a„ d ,h. „. rk ,r.| w
Jt? Jfcrt JXT 3ESI J jfILR’V'XS
(who has bad 20 years 1 experience in the Colonies') and i* in tA„«v, wsf u u“T « . , . , .
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertok.^"^^n^l4^o^^^m? ,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
Q.
CO
TattcrSalTs Hotels
Pitt Street, Sydney. w, J. Adams, Manage*-.
Tour Minutes to Leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
This Hotel has been built for
this purpose i —-To give visitors
to Sydney the best cuisine,
accommodation, attention, and
facilities in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
joodon j)ental
Institute,
Dj(. S. LEVEL!, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. I). ASM lilt, Dentists.
tSf" Modern Dentistry in all its Xiranches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY - ON>LY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKH&C&33 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
Clr'cgticsi demand
Cameo Ci es'* stus
Because the Best.
NOBEL-6 LAS'-, Oil? EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
c
o
/
50
sXr
RADEMAR
C 4aso^
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
Al>li CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BAIaIiXSTITE won over <£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
ham in April and May, 1899; or over £lOOO more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PAEpVO 2-ineh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
A GENTS: N.S. W. 9 Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria, Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
lbs
B
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 90i Tons above any other manufacturer.
Dixson’s Great Leading 1 Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Out, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Poet as a Newspaper,
Vol. 20.— N0. 1028.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1899.
Prior 6d,
USEFUL PRACTICE-"BLOODING THE PUPS.”
FATMAN (the patriot of Property and Privilege): “ Go, noble boy, and fight for Freedom! Learn how, for who knows? yon may some day be called upon to fight for ME!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by Wilmam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bur.LE'rm
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Gkorge Street North, Sydney,
New Sooth Wat.es.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... A 7 0 0
Half-yearly ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you maxi pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drails, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oireclor.
Literary Communications to he addressea *. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The xvliole contents of this neivspapet' are copyright by
the publishers. The right, to rcpwduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
< Correspondence " column all contributions submitted. —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian sxibjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly Confidential.
The Bulletin xvill return all unsuitable MS. xvhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But xve
desire those sending MS. to distinctlxj uxiderstand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Axiyoxie supplying ?oThe Bulletin original humorous or
other topical draxvings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a. current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct, reproduc-
tion — i_e., any picture xvhich has to be re drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestioxi only. The conditions under
xvhich such artistic contributions will be received are those
applxjing to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; S reel
A Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutler-street,
South Africa. /?. A. Tnoxnpson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Uout-st., Cape Toxvn, South A frica.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
I Vest r alia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Ixilerprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, uhth 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
Cs. Cd. added ,for postage.
No nexospaper can be sexit unless the subscription is
prepaid. There xvill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland xvill be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To case off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—l)d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — novc
exacted by the Queensland Post. Office, a special Thyxuxe-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1899.
Naboth's Vineyard.
The scrimmage for the possession of Naboth’s
vineyard commenced a few days ago in an un-
usual fashion. It. commenced by Naboth
rushing out of his vineyard and hitting out
wildly at Ahab with a club. Of course he has
no hope of ultimate success—not the slightest
possible hope. The odds are too heavy. Of
course he was a fool to precipitate a war against
such odds. Of course, also, he would have been
a greater fool not to precipitate the war. If he
gave the Uitlanders the franchise and thereby
preserved peace his independence was gone ;
the multitudinous strangers would swarm into
all the high places, and boss his country, and
make him an inferior and conquered person in
his own land. If he refused it meant war, but
he couldn’t lose his country more completely
that way than the other. But he had his
choice of war immediate, or war a few weeks
ahead. Immediate war meant attacking
an equal force with the chance of a
few weeks of victory before he was
snuffed out; the possibility of one last blaze of
glory, and the chance of damaging Ahab and
burning Ahab’s country a good deal before the
odds grew too heavy. Delay meant waiting
till the war came into his own country, and
making it certain that all the burning would
be on his own territory, and also waiting till
the enemy was so strong that the hope of
snatching one last dazzling victory, and making
a respectable end and a final red smudge on the
page of history, would be gone. Any man who
meant to fight, and who knew that his great
slow enemy expected 50,000 more men and a
new general of high capabilities, would attack
before the 50,000 men and the new general
arrived. Besides, his ally was ready, and it
wasn’t good policy to give that ally time to
cool and think better of it. So Naboth, with
a wise and well-thought-out recklessness, rushed
out of his vineyard in four directions at once
and hit Ahab on the toe —not being big enough
to reach any higher.
• • * *
About two dozeh infuriated people have
written to The Bulletin in words of strong
jingo curse about its “anti-British*’ attitude
in this matter of Naboth and his vineyatd.
The Bulletin wasn’t very sure that it had an
anti-British attitude in the Matter, though as
to its anti-Australian Contingent attitude there
is no matter of doubt. It believes that the
reasons assigned on the British side for the war
are almost wholly lies, and that the attempt to
represent Britain as a chivalrous redressUr of
wrongs is mere snuffle, and that the attempt to
throw a veil of piety over the business is a thiU
and dismal misery. But it recOgUis'es that
Britain is pushed on by circUMstances almost
beyond its control* and by snuffle for which it
isn t wholly responsible. From the first day
when NabotH was such a fool as to leave his
vineyard there the trouble was inevitable. But,
Whatever the war is it isn’t about any
one of these six reasons :
, ' s £ n because the Uitlander is refused sufficient
facilities for becoming a naturalised, Boer, and thereby
abjuring his Queen, country, dag, traditions, history, his
national pride, his “Rule Britannia,’’and all the rest,
and becoming a small, bogus, manufactured Dutchman
witna vote. He doesn’t want to throw overboard all his
proud traditions and become a little penny Boer. He
didtt t stipulate for the right of naturalisation in the
famous Convention of ISS4. And there is ho righV of
naturalisation in any country. If anyone proposed to
give foreigners the right of naturalisation in England
he would be sc uted as a lunatic.
(2) It isn t because he isn’t allowed A Vote without
being naturalised. No such thing is done in any coun-
tr\, and even Britain lacks the gall to openly put its
claim that way,
(3) It isn’t because Britain respects the sacred principle
of no taxation without representation. There is no such
principle. Of the 383,000,000 people who pay taxes in the
British Empire, more than three-fourths have no pre-
• P e P leseri fc/ifcion whatever. And in every part of
the British Empire where there is representation the
alien pays taxes like everybody else, yet is denied a vote.
(4) It isn’t because of excessive taxation. The taxa-
tion per head in the Transvaal is less per white inhabi-
tant than that in the adjoining British colony of Natal.
The burdens on the gold industry are far less than in the
adjacent British territory of Rhodesia. They are less
than those levied in several of the Aiistralias. And the
British Government doesn’t interfere in these cases.
(5) It isn t because the Boer is ignorant and dirty.
There are plenty of places in the British Empire where
the inhabitants are even more ignorant. And Britain
isn t going to war with a piece of soap in one hand and a
sponge in the other. She isn’t going to wash the Boer.
(6) Also it isn’t because of a few isolated Outrages on
British residents. There have been fat more unpunished
outrages on British citizens during the last ten years in
Queensland than there hare been in the Transvaal, and
Britain didn’t tUrh a hair.
* * * *
But while there isn’t one of the reasons
alleged for the war which can stand inspection
yet Britain is, to some extent, the victim of
circumstances. The Briton isn’t accustomed to
be the non-governing class in any country.
His situation in the Transvaal is exactly that
of the alien everywhere; it is the situation
which he thinks quite good enough for the
alien where he is on top—but he isn’t used to it
all the same. He wouldn’t own eleven Million
square miles of territory if he was. Providence,
or something, made him the great successful
robber and snuffler and buccaneer he is, and
he can’t chahge his nature. He is intolerant,
and to have the rules he applies to others
applied to himself is beyond bearing.
If he wasn’t intolerant he wouldn’t be
himself. He is proud with a terrific pride,
and the sin he never forgives is the sin of
the man who once defeated him. The one
exception is with regard to his defeats by the
United States ; they were to a great extent the
work of people of his own race, therefore they
stand to the credit of the race, anyhow. He
admires courage even when it is exhibited
against himself, provided he wins ; then it is
great valour, but a shade less than his own.
The courage that may even profess to be
greater than his own is intolerable. And if he
hadn’t these qualities he wouldn’t have done
all the immense good (as well as the great deal
of evil) that lie has done. He is proud and
offensive in his allegation that one Englishman
can beat six Frenchmen, though he can’t under-
stand how utterly offensive he is ; and when
he meets a man who thinks he can beat three
Englishmen, his wrath rises. He understands
exactly how offensive the other fellow is. He
can’t help being all these things. Other nations
are built the same way, though, as a rule, on
rather a smaller scale. The fact that John
Bull owns eleven million square miles of the
earth’s surface is sufficient evidence that he is
braver, more proud, and more intolerant than
the average. He lias got all these qualities in
an alarming degree ; still if he had them less
some other community would have them more,
and then lie would have less square miles, and
the other fellow would have a larger number.
And there is no positive evidence that the
other fellow wouldn’t make a worse use of
them.
» • • •
It is partly because of the Briton’s courage and
his success that he is afraid. He is afraid that
if he doesn’t grab at Naboth’s vineyard the
world will assume that he dare not face Naboth,
and a possible aspersion on his courage is
the most awful thing you can heave at him.
He is afraid that if he recognises the perfectly
legal position under which the British majority
in the Transvaal is not the ruling force the
world will think he is scared at the Dutch
minority. If the Boer had been born with a
stoop in his back—if he had grovelled suffici-
ently to show that he was afraid—then the
situation would be different. But he is as arro-
gant and as regardless of odds as the Brition
himself. And there is an impression in England
that all the other large buccaneers are looking
on to see if Britain is equal to the situation.
If Britain doesn’t take Naboth’s vineyard and
kick Naboth to the far end of nowhere
the theory is that Britain’s prestige will suffer.
Among the three or four great land-stealers
Britain, while not more unscrupulous than
others, has been more successful. But if J. Bull
doesn’t steal something now and then to show
that his vigor hasn’t declined the other stealers
will probably assume that it has declined. Then
there may be trouble. And if he doesn’t steal
something now and then he is liable to lose
confidence in himself.
* * * •
The one thing which makes cynical people
shudder at Bull with an extra large shudder of
disgust is that he carries a bigger Bible than
any of his rivals. The said Scripture is such an
enormous Bible, and lie looks like such an un-
necessary Pecksniff as he totters beneath it.
It is melancholy to preach that the meek shall
inherit the earth, when Britain holds eleven
million square miles of it, and not one aore was
acqUited by meekness. It is a solemn thing to
preach, as an axiom of justice, that there must
be no taxation without representation* whteh
Britain taxes a larger proportion of its subject's
without representation than ally other (ir'e9,t
Power on this earth, Russia al'On'e 'eic'ept'ed. It
is a gruesome thing to toaUhaet about how
theft and cOVetoilsiiesa are sins, and to be
the greatest )feacher-out after territory in ail
this eatth. Of course, if Britain lived up to
the doctrines of the Sermon on the Mount,
there would be no Britain, for the meek don’t
inherit the earth. And, if there were nO
Britain, there would be some other place which
might, perhaps, be a great deal Worse; And to
the person annexed it is just as Wfetl to be
annexed with shuffle as annexed without
snuffle; Britain certainly treats its stolen terri-
tory much better than most other great stealers,
and this is probably owing mainly to the fact
that it believes to some extent in the dqctrtofek
that it doesn’t practise. It believes to justice,
on the whole* when jttstiee doesn’t preVettt the
expansion of the empire, but thtougb touch
humping of its enOrtoOus Scripture it has got
into that frame Of toind that whatever suits its
interests is justice. Consequently, Naboth’s
Vineyard would be a great deal safer alongside
the territory of a good many Powers which ate
less violently religious than Britain. Britain’s
promptitude at ejecting Nabolh is something
Shenomenah Very often it is toiich better for
f a both in the end to be annexed, but that is a
side-issue. It is a 'case of doing evil that
good may come, of doing evil and the
good coming afterwards fro'to forc’e of habit.
The Frehch method of annexation is different.
The Frehch in Algeria looked long and cove-
tbuSly oVer the wall into Tunis, just as Britain
Would have done, and then one morning, with-
out warning, without snuffle, without any pfce-
tence of a Divine mission to right anybody’s
wrongs, their troops poUr'ed across the border,
and Tunis came t’d the end of its semi-indepen-
dence. The only explanation that appeared
was that they couldn’t stand the sight of
Naboth’s vineyard any longer. Probably for
want of the saving vice of snuffle they didn’t
treat Tunis so well after they had it as Britain
would have done, but the method of taking it
looked better. Perhaps the difference is that
one nation makes a lying apology to its con-
science and the other hasn’t any conscience to
apologise to.
So the verdict is that theoretical justice, if
there is such a thing to such matters, is with
Naboth, but as that bind of justice has never
been practised so far back as history records,
the world lias begun to have doubts as to
whether there is any justice. And Naboth’s
carelessness in leaving his vineyard in sUch an
exposed situation, instead of taking it ihdoors
and concealing it under the bed, pUts him out of
court so far as practical politics are concerned.
The short and simple law of practical politics
is that the person who leaves his vineyard
lying about in a public place when Britain is
around must expect to lose it. Also he must
expect to lose it sooner or later when any other
Power is around.
Over Suffield’s Grave.
Sydney Sunday Times —a very good paper in
its way—a famous servant girls’ paper—an admir-
able paper for the multitude of little women who
gossip over back fences, and for the ordinary non-
intelligent man with hazy impressions to take the
place of ideas ;—a paper which sells because the
intelligence of its conductors is on a level with
the intelligence of its audience, and it does not
fly above their comprehension; on the whole, a
truckling and time-serving paper, dexterously
pandering through the vanity of little local
notorieties for the applause of the mob—
the Sunday Times recently interviewed the
three N.S.W. Ministers of Justice—or Injustice—
who had to do with the Englishman Suffield—now
lying calmly at the bottom of his grave in
Rookwood cemetery—and printed their little say-
so, or refusal to sa,y-so, about the case which, in
the infinite inscrutability of things, they exercised
some brief authority over,—and that ends the topic
for the Sydney Sunday Times.
The interviews made a good little half-column
article, with no thinking needed ; and all
Mr. Slattery’s friends, and Mr. O’Connor’s
friends, and Mr. Gould’s friends, naturally
like to hear what they have to say ; and these
gentlemen, knowing that notoriety is the
breath of a “public man’s” life, are not
averse from chatting to a reporter, if it is
only the reporter of a paper like the Sydney
Sunday Times— which, besides, is a Respec-
table paper; and the Sunday Times trium-
phantly closed discussion with the remark that
three famous Ministers of Justice—or Injustice—
like these having decided there was nothing to be
done for Suffield, why there was nothing to be
done for Suffield, and the best thing is to forget
that clamorous Englishman (who lies so quiet now),
and let bygones be bygones, and pass to the con-
sideration of an unsettled question with some real
back-fence interest in it. “Do women wash them-
selves ? '’ for instance.
The Bulletin regrets—no, it does not regret—
that it is not built that way. This paper would
have a more peaceful mind if it was built that way,
and it. knows that there are few people in Australia
who would take the trouble to have a personal in-
terest in Suffield's matter, and to say The Bulletin
was wrong if it rested placidly in the shadow
of three Ministers of Justice —or Injustice. And
Suffield as an individual was nothing to this
paper—nothing to anybody except the few
friends who believed in him, and clove to
him. Suffield was an ordinary, decent, good-
natured fellow —“ a good sort’’ —but with not too
much iron in his character, an easy prey. Yet
The Bulletin from the bottom of its soul does
abominate injustice, does believe in fair-play, does
hate to see any man or dog trampled on without a
chance of resistance, by overwhelming force, no
matter with what parade of prerogative or make-
show of necessity. That is an instinct apart from
the solemn league and covenant of a civilised
State with its citizens—the assurance that the
community will give to every man the justice
which it exacts ; and if The Bulletin sometimes
transgresses its own code, and in the hurry of
journalism or the heat of controversy forgets to
some extent the other side, it pleads that we are all
mortal and fallible, and humbly asks pardon.
It is the principle of the Suffield case which has
stirred The Bulletin. Here you have a man to
whose good character everybody—even the police
—testified, charged with a gross offence, brought
to a trial at which not one tithe of the facts in his
fa vor were estimated, not one tithe of the weak-
ness of the case against hiin Was di sc l°
brow-beateri by the J udge, convicted _by a
tihiid jury donrihated by the intelligence,
authority and Aggressiveness of the Judge, and
thrown into prisotl for ten years —convicted in
the teeth of the evidence, and refused an en-
quiry into his mockery of a trial in the teeth of
the law. That is absolutely true. It is not a
statement of opinion. It is not the exaggeration
of a partisan — if The Bulletin had found the
facts opposed to Suffield it would never have
troubled its head about him, And, being true, if
is a disgrace to this community; aiid it is Th£
Bulletin’s duty, arid the duty o,f every riiaii Whd
realises the value Of jdstice, to Vehemently protest
agairisk this shocking travesty of justice.
The Sydney Sunday Times, and papers of
like kidney, declare that as tlftee Ministers of
Justice —or Injustice—have sanctioned the WtOrig,
it is the part of commott tfieri, Whorii the accident
of politics haS riot elevated to Such lOfty positioiriS;
tO hold fch'eir tOhgues. . What dOe,S it matter if
three thousand “Miriistets of Justice” have
sanctioned it ?
Who are these “Ministers of Justice,” and what
did they do ? There was Mr. Thomas Slattery,
a politician of no particular character or convio*
tions. His sole traceable connection with the cash
is a minute upon one of Suffield’s appeals fot
enquiry) declining, to, recommend fevtisbidVi di his
Sentence; As Suffield, rieVet Asked fot remission;
that shows hrtw much Mr. Slattery knew about
the cjtSe, Arid what iriterest he took in it. Prisoners
Are always Asking for remissiori—arid, pdpei - cent.
Of theni ask without justification. , Ttts Bulletin
believes that Mr, SlAttery simply lumped Suf-
field’s petition with the ruck ; learnt, maybe, that
there was a, damning confidential report from
Judge Windeyer against him ; and dismissed him
in short order. In any case, the glib and,prqmis&-
ful Mr. Thomas Slattery, as an ex-official and a
practising attorney, is not exactly the man whom
you would Select to determinedly champion a
prisoner’s cause against the powerful Judge
Windeyer, and against the other secret influence
persistently brought to keep the facts of Suffield’s
case from the light.
Then there was Mr. R, E. O’Connor, who, there
is evidence, went into the matter fully and con-
scientiously ; and Upon him too judge Wiri-
deyer’s confidential report lay like A night-
mare ; and .he too lacked the codrage td
stand Up for the right in What seemed,
after all, a doubtful issue. How can an
Ordinary lawyer, rio matter how coijseientious',
dare to oppose himself alorie to the weight of judi-
cial opinion in a judged Case; —unless he be a man
With _ a big heart to hack a brilliant brain, and
imagination enorigh to realise that Justice is the
end, and red-tape, and precedents only a poor
means for guiding hesitating judgments to the
end ? So Mr. O’Connor was “ strongly ire-
pressed, ” and hesitated, and did not venture to set
his doubts against the, overwhelming opinion of
that born, prosecutor Judge Windeyer, and he,
too, not without qualms, whistled Suffield down
the wind. And, to justify his legal conscience, he
put forward the quibble—(in defiance of the clear
statement of Section 383 of the Criminal Law
.Amendment Act that “whenever after the con-
viction of a person any doubt or question arises as
to his guilt, or any mitigating circumstances in
the case, or any portion of the evidence therein, it
shall be lawful ”to hold an enquiry)—that nothing
but “ material facts not under consideration at the
trial ” —in Gould’s words, fresh evidence not avail-
able at the trial—could justify any enquiry.
Came Mr. A. J. Gould, with the dead hands of
his predecessors heavy on him—the case against
Suffield made stronger by the refusal of
Slattery and O’Connor to re-open it, and
the force of the reasons which pled for action
reduced by O’Connor’s quibble. It would have
needed a very strong man to take action then—
and Gould was a weak one. But he, too, was
strongly impressed by the evidence in Suffield’s
favor ; and his conscience was salved by the thrice-
repeated offer of his Department to let Suffield
out of gaol if he Would petition for mercy—thereby
inferentially acknowledging, as Suffield pointed
out, that he was guilty and deserved mercy, since
the innocent do not ask for mercy, but for justice.
And thrice Suffield refused to petition for mercy ;
and in gaol he remained till nis sentence expired
in the ordinary course.
And, all the time that iVtr. O’Connor was
asking for fresh evidence iri favor of the prisoner,
he had heeri biassed by fresh allegations against
the prisoner—-Judge Windeyer’s confidential
report, to wit; which was not evidence, but never-
theless was calculated to strongly impress the
mind of a hesitating Minister. The Prosecutor-
Judge had the ear of the Court, and distilled his
poison into it ; while Suffield was prevented from
supplying the antidote on precisely the same terms.
So much for departmental equity !
Sydney Sunday Times points out that a
Minister of Justice is likely to know more about
the Suffield ease than irresponsible outsiders*
The Bulletin, on the other hand, declares that it
knows more about the Suffield case than did any
of the three Ministers of Justice who considered
it. For The Bulletin did not wholly rely upon
the notes of the Prosecutor-Judge, which omit
essential portions of the evidence. It compared
those notes with the reports in the Maitland
and Newcastle papers—which are fuller, and,
in parts, more correct than the Judge’s notes —and
deduced innumerable evidences of the inadequacy
of the trial, and of the bias of the Prosecutor-
Judge. In addition, it has taken many statements
from residents of Lainbton and others, not pre-
sented at the trial; and all the deductions from
these statements were in favor of Suffield. Yet
when Suffield, after his release, applied to the
Department of “Justice’’for an enquiry, speci-
fying fresh evidence which he would call, and
pointing out how material light could be thrown
on the old evidence, the Department took no
notice.
But controversy is endless : look at some of the
indisputable facts: —
“ The conviction of this man rests upon the uncor-
roborated evidence of one witness ’’ —the prosecutrix.—Mr.
O’Connor’s minute, 16/4/’92.
That witness contradicted herself. She swore at the
police-court that she reached Lambton at a given hour,
which did not tally with the evidence of other witnesses.
At the trial, she altered her evidence to suit.
She contradicted herself twice. Two persons swore
she told them that she was struck with a stone. The
doctor found no corresponding mark; and at the trial
she swore there was no stone.
She contradicted herself thrice. A witness swore she
said she would know her assailant by his hairy coat.
Sutfleld had no hairy coat; and when she came to give
evidence, prosecutrix remembered nothing about it.
She contradicted her employer and his son, and the
doctor who attended her after the assault. They swore
that at various times after the assault she was conscious
and conversed with them ; she swore she was absolutely
unconscious from the time of the assault till the follow-
ing morning.
On the other hand, Suffield’s evidence was uncontra-
dieted ; his character was unblemished ; and two wit-
nesses swore he was at his lodgings a considerable
distance away when the assault occurred. (All these
things can be checked by the police-court evidence and
the Judge’s notes.)


Add that, at the time of the assault, when her em-
ployer and his son swear she was conscious, prosecutrix
charged the assault on the bull; that soon after the
assault, when the doctor attended her and swears she
was perfectly sensible, she charged the assaulton the bull,
that not till next morning did she say it wasaman;that
not till later in the morning did she say it was Suffield ,
-and you have some measure of the hideous ’cjusticeo
the trial at which Suffield was convicted-upon such
evidence!
Add that the doctor who attended her immediately
after the assault, and examined her on the followin
dav, refused to swear she had been touched by a man at
all; and that another doctor, who saw her first on the
second day after the assault, would only swear theie
were certain symptoms which might have been caused
bv a man, or by fifty other things ; and you have some
measure of the shocking incompetence of the tnree
paraded Ministers of Justice who refused Suffield an
enquiry into his case-an enquiry authorised by law ! .
Add to all this that the bull first charged with
assault was a vicious animal, which assailed
another woman subsequently, and was shot forit;
that all the remaining evidence went to show
Suffield,’s innocence, and much of it went to show
that prosecutrix had lied ; and you will have some
measure of the regard for justice of the Ministry
and the Parliament which voted the matter down.
Note that these things are not matters of
opinion; they are matters of fact, which anyone
who reads the evidence can verify. Note that
Suffield never asked for release; he never asked
that his innocence be proclaimed ; all that he ever
at any time asked for was AN ENQUIRY into
his case. He was refused —scores of times refused
to the disgrace of the community,, to the everlast-
ing disgrace of the administration of Justice (?) in
New South Wales.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Transvaal and “Confused Writers.”
“Falcon,” of Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald
speaks in reply :
Editor Bulletin.—ln your current issue you publish
the following : “ The most; confused Australian writer on
the Transvaal question to date is “ Falcon,” of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Herald. That brilliant individual explains that
the Transvaal was part of the Dutch territory ceded to
Britain at the beginning of the century—whereas, in fact,
it was a good 200 miles outside British territory when the
Boers settled on it ; and he holds forth about the time
when it was first * given ’ to the Boers by Britain. Pre-
sumably, therefore, history, when it tells how the Boers
trekked many miles away beyond the last semblance of
-British-authority, and. built their new republic out on. the
wilderness, isn’t the kind of history they have in coaly
Newcastle.”
lam afraid the confusion rests with yourself. Cer-
-tainly the Transvaal, or the greater part of it, was in-
cluded in the Dutch cession, as until the treaty of the
Sand River, British jurisdiction extended to the 24t,h deg.
of latitude. By that treaty, on 17th Jan., 1552, Great
Britain, or “Britain” as you have it, handed over the
territory to the Boers with certain limitations. You
speak of me as the most confused journalist in Australia
simply because you are a typical Australian journalist,
and most A. J.’s are singularly confused when they get to
discussing anything "away beyond” (Bulletin, not
coaly Newcastle English) their own borders. As a
slight example of your own particular confusion, permit
me to draw your attention to a. paragraph appearing in
an issue of The Bulletin a few weeks back, affirming
that Dutch is a forbidden language in the State Depart-
ments of the Cape. This was an answer to a real or sup-
posititious correspondent. As a matter of fact, Dutch
and English are equal languages in both the Par-
liament and the Law Courts of Cape Colony. With
further reference to the Dutch cession and British
jurisdiction to the 24th degree of latitude, you had better
not trust your history so much on the reports of the
Convention referred tq Or, perhaps, you might dis-
cover your unreliableness on reading Mr. Archibald
Forbes’ “ The Battles of the. Boer War.” Regarding
cyour-generally seditious policy on all matters affecting
the success of the Flag—the Flag which has given you a
country and enabled you to make a fortune by belittling
its glory—there is no need for me to say anything.
Those who run may read, and the doctrines of the
journalistic Ishmael are too well known to need adver-
tisement at my hands.
And, in reply, The Bulletin goes back
to the original point. “ FALCON ” alleged
tliat Britain had a claim to the owner-
sliip of the Transvaal because it was part
of the original Dutch colony ceded to Britain
at the beginning of this century. The Bulle-
tin’ said that this was rot, and “Falcon ” says
in a lofty fashion that it isn’t rot. And yet it
is rot all the same, and gross ignorance to boot.
The Dutch colony ceded to Britain included
neither the Orange Free State, the Transvaal,
nor Natal. It didn’t even include British
Kaffraria, which is south of Natal, and it
nowhere extended north of the Orange River. In
the west, it didn’t even reach the Orange River.
The Boer farmers who left the Cape in the
late thirties established the first two States on
territory never previously occupied by either
Dutchman or Briton, and the settlement of
Natal was effected by Boers and British almost
simultaneously, though it was the former
who defeated the Zulus, and who built
the capital—Pietermaritzburg. But in 1843
Britain declared Natal a British colony, and in
1847 it issued an off-hand proclamation de-
claring the Orange Free State British territory
also. The Transvaal it neither annexed nor
formally recognised, though it maintained
that the trekkers were still British citizens,
and a proclamation was issued by Lord Glen-
elg to the effect that they would not be
allowed to establish separate states. But in
1852, by the Sand River Convention, it
acknowledged the Transvaal, which it had
never owned or occupied, as an independent
republic. This implied no more pre-
vious British ownership than did the British
acknowledgment of Chili, Peru, and other
South American States. In 1854, by the
Bloemfontein Convention, Britain reversed the
annexation of the Orange Free State in ’47, and
recognised its independence. In the early 70’s
Britain partially changed its mind again, and
took the Diamond Fields from the Orange State,
and in 1877 it took possession of the Transvaal
for the first time. “Falcon’s” story about
the Transvaal being part of the Dutch colony
ceded to Britain, and about it being benevo-
lently “given ” to t,.e Boers by Britain, is just
ignorance and fairy-tale. Also, “ Falcon’s ”
remarks about the Dutch language at the Cape
are more ignorance, and that supercilious
Briton (if he is one) need not worry so much
about The Bulletin’s typically Australian
lack of knowledge; it is his typically Eng-
lish ditto and his typically English
bumptiousness that are at fault. Eng-
lish tvas made the official language at the
Cape as this paper stated. It was not till
1882 that Dutch and English were put on an
equality in the Cape Parliament. “ Falcon,”
by the way, can’t even quote a simple par. cor-
rectly, for The Bulletin never said that
Dutch is a forbidden language at the Cape,
and it never used the word “ forbidden ”
at all. It merely said that Britain started
by making English the official language
—which it did. The rest of the story
boils down to the theory that a paper
which won’t lie in the British interest is dis-
loyal and run by typical Australians. Perhaps
it is. The “patriotic” Frenchman told lies
about Dreyfus rather than admit that his
army was in the wrong. And apparently
“Falcon” reckons that a patriotic Briton
ought to tell lies about Kruger and his party
rather than admit that his country is in the
wrong.
4. *—
The Squeal of the Sweater.
Victoria’s Factories Act Amending Bill comes
up for its second reading shortly. It is a very
considerable improvement on the about-to-
expire existing Act. The chief innovation is
that it gives power to the Governor in Council
to appoint boards with authority to fix a
minimum wage—not only in certain specified
trades, but in any trade usually carried on in a
factory. All outdoor work in such trades must
be paid for at piece-work rates. Also all per-
sons employed in such trades must be paid in
cash and not in kind. Power is further given
to enable an to recover wages
due in cases where he has been paid
less than the legal rate ; also the mere offer-
ing of a lower than the legal minimum
is made an offence. The time-limit of 52
hours for female shop-assistants is extended to
all shop hands. Regulations may be subse-
quently gazetted limiting the hours of all
carriers .and carters connected with factories,
though nothing is said about the numerous
parcel and furniture carriers running on their
own, and in some cases owning two or three
waggons, who probably work longer hours than
any other class of men in the province. 'Waiters
and billiard markers are, in future, in the
matter of hours and the weekly half-holiday,
to be treated similarly to waitresses, but the
fascinating bar-lady, who dispenses the lengthy
ale, has been overlooked —which is an usual
circumstance as between legislators and bar-
maidens. Finally, Sec. 24 “puts a head ” on
the pleasant little game practised by some
employers of demanding a premium from
their—-female apprentices, said- premium
being paid at the rate of 2s. 6dr a week,
the girls thus practically handing back
their poor wages as premium, and working for
nothing. The taking of a premium from any
female in a factory is now made illegal; but
this should certainly have been made to apply
to shop assistants as well—in fact, to all ap-
prentices or .improvers. Having considered
this Bill and grasped the situation as well as
its limited powers would permit, Melbourne
Chamber of Manufactures—which doesn’t by
any means represent the manufacturers of the
province, and which includes among its most
vociferous members many mere traders and
agents —arose and made irrelevant observa-
tions upon the danger of progressive legis-
lation, and remarked in a pained tone of
voice that the common sense of the com-
munity would be “outraged” by theseproposals.
Likewise Chairman Derham vapored largely
about how the measure would check employ-
ment, and drive capital out of the country.
(The Bulletin ventures the opinion, after care-
ful cogitation, that it has met this yarn before
somewhere.) he wanted to know
why the Govt, confined its attentions to factory-
workers only ; why shouldn’t it also attend
to clerks and other wage-slaves? Well, the
chief reason is that Detuiam and Co., and
their representatives, especially in the Upper
House, so continuously and persistently block
all progress that no Govt, has yet had time to
attend to more than a few of the worst-sweated
wage-earners. But there is no reason why the
House of Fat, in a fit of temporary lucidity,
shouldn’t get its massive stomach to work on
the subject, and produce an Offices and Ware-
houses Act, dealing with clerks and gentlemen
employed in the silk and ribbon line.
A National Bad Debt.
Victoria proposes to have even a larger clean-
up of its irrigation business than was originally
intended. Out of £3,014,199 advanced to irri-
gation and water trusts it proposes to wipe off
£1,820,900 as bad debts. N.S. W. has already
done something of this kind with a lot of its
country water-works, and it looks as if it would
be necessary to do more. One principal woe in
regard to these latter is that the municipal
councils agreed to the construction of water-
works at a certain fixed price (the price at
which the Government officials declared the
work could be done), and undertook to pay
interest on the money. And then the Works
Department’s estimates proved about as useful
as an umbrella to keep off a cannon-ball. Goul-
burn Council accepted a water-works scheme
which was to cost £25,000, and was flabber-
gasted by the news that it had cost £55,000,
and interest had to be paid on that amount.
Albury’s bill went up from £22,000 to £46,000 ;
Bathurst’s, from £32,000 to £55,000 ; Wagga’s,
from £20,000 to £38,000; Deniliquin’s, from
£7500 to £17,000 ; Wentworth’s, from £5OOO
to £11,500. Most of them are bankrupt in
consequence, and are fighting the Government
over the interest bill, or not paying at all.
Tamworth is particularly aggravated, for not
only has it been struck by a bill of alarming
and unexpected dimensions, but its alleged
water-works are dry in bad seasons. Sooner or
later it looks as if a whole lot of the N.S. W.
country water-works expenditure, like the
Vic. irrigation money, will have to be written
off as a bad debt, and after that much more
energy will have to be put into the collection of
the debt which remains good. At the end of 1897
£72,000 had already been written off out of the
£491,000 originally expended, and even then
things were not going much easier. Bourke,
for instance, was supposed to pay £486 a year
off the principal of its debt, but in four years it
paid nothing. Manly was supposed to pay
£1368 a year, but in five years it paid nothing.
Out of 20 municipal water-works built with
Government money to the end of ’97, only four
appear quite solvent. About half-a-dozen of
the bad pays have a reasonable grievance on the
ground that they got a poor water-supply at an
unreasonable figure, and most of the rest are
behind owing to weariness and muddle. Still,
with all its confusion, the country towns water-
works scheme has done a lot of good. It is pos-
sible to get a civilised wash now in many towns
whose inhabitants seldom had anything better
than a dry polish a few years ago.
Curious anti-Federal item from a Maoriland
paper (Karangahake Advocate) :
What has Australia got that we have not? Sugar—a
luxury that pan easily be done without. But what have
we that Australia has not ? Wheat, which cannot, be done
without. Should the Federal Parliament shut out our
grain in time of drought, we should see the Australians
storming the House of Parliament and forcing the mem-
bers to repeal a law, the absurdity of which would be ex-
posed. Therefore, on such important points, it can be
logically contended that no countries in such a condition
with regard to one another should ever federate. New
Zealand has all to lose —Australia everything to gain-
A great many people in Maoriland actually
believe this kind of twaddle, too. In a very long
series of years there has only been one, the
great drought year of ’96, when Australia
didn’t grow enough wheat for its own con-
sumption and something over ; ' >t year it was
about 4J million bushels short, ut as Maori-
land had only 780,000 bushels to spare —about
one-sixth of the amount Australia required—•,
the latter country would have been in a bad
way if it had depended on its neighbor for
supplies. Certainly 1896 was an exceptionally
bad year. Compared with 1891 Australia’s
wheat production showed a decline of 20 per
cent. —and Maoriland’s showed a far worse
decline of nearly 50 per cent. Australia is
becoming a very great wheat-growing country
now, and even in its worst years turns
out three or four times M.L.’s output. And
when a bad year comes, as it did in ’96, the
Protectionist provinces of Australia don’t
storm their Parliaments to have the duties
taken off—they just go on as usual. Of course
if M.L. joins the Federation its wheat will
have free access to Australia, but if it doesn’t
and its product is shut out it isn’t likely that
Australia will notice the difference. Australia
doesn’t need it in good seasons, and in bad ones
there isn’t enough to make much difference.
The sea-girt province apparently takes itself
too seriously in this matter.
♦
A regent leader in Sydney Telegraph under
the heading “ The North Sydney Problem ” is
a fine example of how that paper barracks for
the syndicate and the first robber and the wild
cat. It starts by ignoring altogether the possi-
bility of the municipality building the famous
North Shore bridge; its off-hand theory is that
though a company which will have all manner
of promotion and flotation expenses to pay, and
which can’t borrow money below 5 per cent.,
and which will want at least 5 per cent,
dividends, can build the bridge and make it a
paying spec., yet the municipality, with no com-
pany-promotion and flotation expenses to pay,.
and with its ability to borrow at per cent.,
can’t possibly do the same. Then it assumes
off-hand that the State, which can find over
£2,000,000 a year for public works, can’t
possibly find £500,000 for this work, though
the payment would probably be spread over
three years, so it would only be £167,000 a
yeat. If the work was started in May, 1890,
the first instalment would fall in this fihancial
year, and if the job was finished 16 months
later, in,September, 1901, the Bill would-spread
over three financial years easily enough.. But
the syndicate paper just assumes that
State and municipal construction are quite
impossible, and, having so assumed, the
inference follows naturally enough that the work
must be done by a private co. There is a
fine large revenue for North Sydney munici-
pality, or for Sydney and North Sydney to-
gether, if the sleepy municipal fathers would
only wake up and build their own bridge ; but
the sleep of the municipal fathers is apparently
too deep.
The following is an example of the prayers of
the followers of the meek and lowly One, who
is alleged to have brought peace on earth and
good will to all men :—
PRAYERS FOR PEACE.
At Congregational Union.
Prior to (he commencement of the business at the
meeting of the Congregational Union and Mission of Vic-
toria this morning, the chairman (Mr. Geo. Bell) referred
to the latest development of the position in the Trans-
vaal, and said that while any action of the Union to
avert war would, no doubt, be useless, he would ask the
meeting to engage in prayer to the Heavenly Father
before proceeding with the ordinary business.
Rev. \V. II. Lawrence then engaged in prayer. It had
been hoped that the sword would not have been un-
sheathed, yet after the Gospel had been preached for
nearly 2000 years it had been decided to once more resort
to the “devil’s weapon.” Still, even at the eleventh
hour, Congregationalists trusted that the war would nob
be persisted in, and they petitioned the Lord to interfere
and prevent it. (Amen.) But recognising that He had
led people through the baptism of war and brought them
by that means to a proper knowledge of the Divine
Word, they humbly petitioned that if war were to be He
would stand by the British nation, which was the up-
holder of righteousness among the peoples of the world.
(Amen.) They prayed that the campaign might be a
short one, and that none of man’s inhumanities to man
would be committed. (Amen.) If war was unavoidable,
then His will should be done, and they had the assurance
in that case that the influence of the Gospel would be
extended and the Kingdom of God on earth be enlarged.
(Amen.)
Several other members of the meeting also prayed to a
similar effect.
The above was solemnly printed in Melb.
Evening Herald on Thursday, Oct. 12, as a
piece of news !
♦
Article XIV. of the Convention between
Britain and the Transvaal, the one which
defines the rights of foreigners in the Boer
State, reads thus :—
All persons other than natives conforming themselves
to the laws of the South African Republic—(a) will have
full liberty with their families to enter, travel or reside in
any part of the South African Republic : (b) they will be
entitled to hire or possess houses, manufactories, ware-
houses, shops and premises ; (c) they may carry on their
commerce either in person or by any other agents whom
they may think fit to employ ; (<l) they will not be sub-
ject, in respect of their persons or property, or in respect
of their commerce or industry, to any taxes, whether
general or local, other than those which are or may be
imposed upon citizens of the said Republic.
There is nothing in it about the alien having
any rir/ht of naturalisation—in every country
naturalisation is a privilege, not a right ; nor
about him not paying taxes unless lie has repre-
sentation. The row centres round the last
clause. Of course the alien is charged the same
duties as the native Boer—no more and no less.
But the Boer uses very few imported articles
and the Uitlander uses many. And the Uit-
lander holds that when an article is taxed, and
the Boer doesn’t use it, and the Uitlander does
use it, the Stale thereby discriminates against
him, and makes the taxation unequal. In
other words, when the N.S.VV. Government of
which Holy Joe Cook was a member taxed
drink and tobacco, and Holy Joe Cook (who
may be called the Boer for the sake of argu-
ment) didn’t use them, and the writer of this
par. used both of them as often as he could get
them, therefore the Holy Joe Government dis-
criminated against the writer and in favor of
Holy Joe Cook. That’s the Uitlander’s argu-
ment.
The Queensland police - enquiry commission
cominues to dig out strange and alarming infor-
mation about how the aggregate Queensland
hobby is constituted. A thrilling specimen of
evidence :—
Acting' Sergeant Crawford, watchhouse-keeperat Bris-
bane, made a statement that two officers in the detective
branch were implicated in an attempt to get the man
Wilson hanged for the Oxley murder on false testimony.
From April 11 to April 18, he said, Wilson was in the
« uchhouse, and for some time a man named Jones was
detained there on a charge of stealing a handkerchief.
These officers, he said, “ got at ” Jones, apd induced the
latter to say that Wilson confessed to him that he had
killed the boy, Alfred Hill, at Oxley, and thrown the
knife away.
Mr. Sadlier said the commission could not protect wit-
ness if he made accusations of that sort against other
members of the police force.
The Chairman, however, assured witness that he should
have every protection from the commission.
Superintendent Garvin asked witness if he did not
think he acted very wrongly and unjustly in withholding
his suspicions until now.
Sergeant Crawford answered, if he had made a report
of that sorb to his superior officers he would have'lost his
billet in a very short time. Some charge or other would
have been brought agairisb him directly or indirectly.
If these statements are true, then the Queens-
land force is one of the most demoralised things
of its kind in existence. And if they are nob
true, then it contains in the above witness one
of the greatest rascals in existence, with large
possibilities of other rascals as well. Either
way it doesn’t look well for the force.
“ Do you want the Boers or the British to win? ”
asked Edmund Barton of Holman, the recal-
citrant Laborist, during the Transvaal contin-
gent debate in N.S. W. Assembly. An adroit
question which, though it served its purpose,
was distinctly beside the issue, which, of course,
was whether N.S. W. should send 200 or 300 men
to help, or perhaps hinder, as the case might be,
the stronger side in an unjust war with which
this country has absolutely no concern. To
judge by the frigid tone of the cable message
accepting the offered “ help ” it looks as if the
War Office would gladly dispense with it, and
regards it as something of a nuisance. 250 half-
drilled, undisciplined men are not a particularly
desirable addition to any military force in the
field, and the particular injunction to “sendno
officers above the rank of captain ” is a clear
proof of what the Imperial army bigwigs think.
All of which was, of course, carefully put out
of sight in the debate. When the big guns of
the House, the decorated, and those expectant
of titles, started to talk of “ treason,” most of
the professedly-democratic members began to,
tremble at the knees, and set about swallowing
their alleged backbones. Even Sleath ftredi
his little popgun into brother Holman, whose
outburst, it seems clear, added Labor-leader
M‘Gowen to the Jingo majority.
The Jingo Parson’s Creed.
“ I WOULD rather a man earned his living bv
fighting than by batting. . . . And I say it
sternly and deliberately. I would rather a
man slay his neighbor than cheat him.—Canon
Tucker, recently at South Yarra, Melbourne.
Now that war is in the air, e’en the parson in his lair
Is seized with wild desirings for the sight of spurting
blood.
And he pitches it so strong to his sanctimonious throng
That they almost hear in fancy bodies falling with a
thud.
Let me see my neighbor’s blood
Spouting out in crimson flood ;
Oh, don’t ever stoop to rob him,
Hire a thug to come and “ job ” him—
Nip your baser inclinations in the bud.
Be upon them with the sword —’tis the mandate of the
'Lord—
And expose your neighbor’s vitals to the healthful at-
mosphere ;
Do not misapply your skill to the doct’ring of his bill,
But just cleave him through the skull with a gash from
.ear to ear.
Don’t put water in his milk,
Nor mix cotton with his silk,
But just bash him like a Christian-Brother-dear.
Do not ever play at cricket—sinner, shun the wicked
wicket!
For to out a bound’ry “ fourer” is the shortest cut to
Hell.
And you’re safer spilling gore than in whacking up a
score, —■
For the “pro.” is of the devil, and shall with the devil
dwell.
Let us deify the smiter,
For the Lord God loves a fighter,
And the Gospel is suspended while we thrash each other
well.
But it seems to me this Tucker, in his logic comes a
“ mucker,”
Let us take the point ad hominem, and put it to him
straight—
Would he rather that his neighbor should exploit him
with a sabre,
Than purloin his Sunday surplice or put buttons in the
plateS?
Would he sooner “ stop a bullet,”
Or be slashed across the gullet,
Than that Smith should soil his conscience with a but-
ton in the plate ?
But this Spartan parson’s creed has been built to suit the
need
Of our ultimate intentions with regard to Uncle Paul.
Yes ! before we’d stoop to cheat him we would cut him
up and eat him !
And we wouldn’t steal his gold-mines, whatever might
befall.
But when there is no Boer
He can’t want ’em any raore-
So we get them square and honest after all!
Melb.
R.S.


Bakers Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
. . . THE CELEBRATED . . .
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, axd DURABLE
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
lUuttrcded Catalogue* Frtt,
375 George-street, Sydney.
§”•
3? an
:
‘‘••i*. .-n '• ;
The
JENNINGS
PATENT
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
For TAILINGS, SUCTION DREDGING,
ALLUVIAL MINING,
IRRIGATING, 4C.. &C.
DEMONSTRATED
to hold
FIRST PLACE
for High
EFFICIENCY
and Remarkable
ECONOMY.
Sole Manufactories
for N.S.W.,
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
(Ltd.) GRANVILLE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Him Majesty’s “ The Christian.”
Lyceum “ When the Lamps are Lighted.”
Criterion “ Dreyfus.”
Palace Rickarils' Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Comio Opera Co.
Theatre Royal “ Our Native Home.”
Bijou Rickards' Variety Co.
Fitzgerald's Circus.... Flinders-street.
“ And he spoke such French as pleased
God.” _ This is the story of “Dreyfus,” gathered
partly in Sydney Criterion, partly outside between
the acts, and partly in adjacent hotels. Hang-ri
(or else Hong-ri) and Esterhayzy made a precarious
living by selling military secrets to some foreign
power. Being in danger of discovery, they con-
spired to lay the blame on Dreefuss. Then Dray-
fuss was tried and convicted, mainly on the evi-
dence of Hong Ray and Ester hazzy. As the
natural result, Dryfuss was degraded and sent to
life-long penal servitude. (The degradation of
Drayfizz was a most painful spectacle.) Largely,
however, through the heroic devotion of Madame
Dreefoos, the unfortunate Dryfuzz got a new trial.
This was after Angry had confessed and been
arrested. The said Ong-ree Committed suicide or
was murdered in gaol, his name turning to Hengree
in his last moments through loss of blood. He
was buried in a dishonored grave, and the name of
Hungry is now only remembered with detestation
as that of a man who brought the honored desig-
nation of Hung-ri into contempt. Dryfoos
was recalled to France, and thereafter
something not very clearly defined happened
to Dryface, and the proceedings closed
just in time to let the audience catch
the 11.15 boat for home. Anyhow Dreefizz and
his devoted wife, Madame Dryfish, and their son,
young Alfred Drayfoos lived happily, and the
name of Dryfoos was rehabilitated, and the dread-
ful days when Dreefiss and Drawfuzz and Dray-
fizz were all confined together in a cell on Devil’s
Island were forgotten. As for Esterhasy his
name, despite bitter attacks on it, seemed to be
gifted with more permanence, and he retired
covered with obloquy, partly as Esterhazzy and
partly as Esterhashy. The Criterion co., it may
be mentioned, is in no way responsible for these
doings. It seized on one pronunciation and stuck
to it. But the audience got out on the footpath
in the intervals, and there it spoke such French as
pleased God, and took no responsibility for details.
• * » •
Walter Bentley is understood to be the
chief perpetrator of “Dreyfus” as that hero
appears at Sydney Criterion this week. He
has built a good, plain, ordinary, hard-
working version of the tale. It isn’t bril-
liant, but it is a perfectly sober version, which
can be relied upon to go to bed early, and
not give way to drink or call out after girls in the.
street. It sticks so closely to the old recognised
canons of melodrama that it starts with Ester-
hazy sneaking round the Dreyfus mansion trying
to purloin the Document. Seeing that the Docu-
ment is only a letter asking Dreyfus to call and be
arrested, and Esterhazy wants him to be arrested,
the latter’s energetic crawl after the Document is
inexplicable. Esterhazy has the old, old motive
—that motive that never quite perishes or dries
up—gnawing at his chest; he has wanted all his
life to hug Dreyfus’s wife, and he thinks that she
may be made more huggable by having her hus-
band gaoled. It is a tired kind of motive, but it
may pass. The writer ends his story by the
triumphant acquittal of Dreyfus while the mob
pursues Esterhazy with paving-stones. Picquart
saves him, after his clothes have been badly
damaged, and sentences him off-hand, on the
pavement, to imprisonment for life. Esterhazy,
by the way, is Governor of Cayenne and Devil’s
Island at one stage of the tale, and amuses
himself by howling at Dreyfus in his cap-
tivity. He proposes to howl |the prisoner to
death, but the arrival of Picquart, as the
new Governor, averts this awful disaster. Before
Picquart turns up, the prisoner’s only hope
lies in the funny Irishman with red hair who
drops large insects in the gaoler’s pocket. The
author has stuck so closely to the conventional
lines that he even has a funny Irishman on the
Devil’s Isle. Sweeney, as a red headed private in
the French army, struggles with this part, and
tries to drop reptiles into the gaoler’s pocket with
a light heart. Also, Miss Lilian Wheeler makes
a fascinating Madame Dreyfus, though this young
lady’s characters have the misfortune to look so
much alike that many of them might be most of
the rest if need be.
• * • •
As for George Rignold, his Dreyfus would
have been better on the opening night if that
persecuted Jew had known his lines—which he did
now and then. Miss Roxy Barton makes a very
considerable success as the Austrian lady who
buys secrets from Esterhazy; and Miss Brandon
strikes a considerable patch in a very small
character. Diver’s Esterhazy is a rather ordinary
conspirator in acts I. and 11., but in act 111. he
has a chance to let himself go on the Devil’s Isle
as a villain of the most tremendous description,
and for a few minutes he is magnificent, or so
close to it that it doesn’t matter. Godfrey Cass’s
Picquart is also good enough, but Colonel Henry
is a shock. He is played as a gentleman with a
suspended-dog expression and a perpetual eating
motion of the jaws, and he isn’t quite like any
other military man within this paper’s recollection.
** * *
Last week, Maud MacCarthy, the Sydney-
born violinist, made her first appearance in that
city since her childhood. When she left Sydney
10 years ago, her fiddling was regarded as promis-
ing. She was then about seven, presumably, and
now she returns with the approval of London
critics writ large all over her advertisements,
“greater than Neruda,” “Joachim’s legitimate
successor,” and so on. For a girl of 17 her fiddling
gives promise of a great artist coming, but not
arrived yet. Tenderness takes the place of fire,
and naturally her lack of strength doesn’t tide
over the places where you expect passionate
playing, and get a gently sympathetic touch
instead.. The little, thin arm was obviously
attempting too much as it struck out those
opening bars of the great Kreutzer Sonata.
It stands for a musical epitome of all the deep,
dark passions, and was rather unwisely attempted
by a 17-year-old girl, vVho is allowed to look only
15 in a short frock and hair down. The great
piano part of the Kreutzer, which really is more
Important even than the violin, was entrusted to
Miss Irene Fletcher, a Melbourne pianiste, suffer-
ing badly from nervousness. She played with her
eye frantically chasing her music, her elbows
working, and her body jumping about on itsseat—
little ways that scared the audience into wonder-
ing nervously if she had rehearsed her work
beforehand. Also, this scribe observed with
wonder that she played with the piano
down. Was that to save Maudie from
being drowned by the accompaniment ? Still, the
Kreutzer was a thoughtful performance, on the
violin side. Other things that didn’t ask so much
from the young fiddler were the Banshee song by
Vilhers ptanford, a powerful, creepy, unpleasant
thing, played with mote “tone” than her other
selections called forth, and Schumann’s “ Abend-
hed. Maude’s leaning is to the severely classic,
rler execution is splendid, quick passages admi-
rably manipulated, and her expression, limited
now, but suggestive and satisfying as far as it
goes, promises great things when her youthful
heart has been broken half-a-dozen times over.
P lre ■?' nc | dash and great tone are not there yet,
but if she is as young as is stated, there is no
reason to suppose they are not going to arrive
later on.
At Sydney Palace, where Cinquevalli is
n °n fi . l ? lshln ? hls 1 3,8 * an d positively final fare-
weH, there is much weary Jingoism to wade
through these times. At one point the stage is
plunged into sudden darkness, and a heavy silence
falls over the theatre; then a blaze of red light
arises, like the lamp in front of a doctor’s pre-
mises, and in the ruddy glow appears helmed
Britannia with shield and trident. The company
Tf- Rul ?’ Bnt-tan-nyia!” and the audience
throws up its hat deliriously and roars that
patriotic ode all it knows, and the curtain comes
ll ke a Britlsh char ge and smites the eyes
with the announcement that somebody’s pink
footfall is good for boiled people, and other
irrelevant information G. W. Hunter and
r Pelllamare ln Jheir last week, as well as
the Marvel. G. W. Hunter is a sandy-wigged
man with wide pants and a great stock of indif-
ferent stories which he tells with a certain dry
humor. 1 aid Pelham is the energetic young man
who. writes his own sketches, composes his own
music, sings his own songs, and builds his own
poetry He can t sing much, and his poetry
won t rhyme, but one sketch, “Klondike,” regii
larly moved theTivohans to tears. When Paul
descends to war-songs he is too dreadful. The
chorus of one of them runs thus
Then side by side we’ll stand or fall,
AncJ fijrhfc for freedom's pause ;
So up with the glorious Union Jack,
And down with Kruger and the Boers.
The man who makes “ fall ” rhyme with “ Jack ”
and reckons “ cause ” good enough to go with
Boers, is too awful for words.
** * *
John Sheridan, the pleasant little man
whose legs ate hardly long enough to reach the
ground wheh he is standing up, is in his third
Week it Sydney Lyceum, and still doing well in a
large number of disguises.
** * *
“ Ma Mie Rosette,” now being produced
for one week only at Melb. Princess’s, has no
special claim to popularity as an opera. The
catchiest of the music in it is not the best, and the
best sounds rather like something we have heard
elsewhere. The opera’s attraction is in the story
of how a royal historical masher fixed his sinful
gaze on a gardener’s bride-elect and invited her to
bring a cup Of milk to his chateau, after dark.
Whereupon she began to think the gardener a
plain, ordinary young man as compared with his
Nibs* And the agriculturist, noticing a sudden
chillness in Rosette’s manner, told her to put off
the wedding whilst he went away to win glory by
fighting the Boers, of the period. Then the girl
fainted away on a heap of straw placed there by
the stage manager for that purpose, and in her
faint she dreamt the awful things that would
happen if she were to take milk to the King. It
is an utterly absurd dream if you look into it
closely, but it makes a fine naughty second act,
and is much admired by ladies in general. Every-
body knows the plot of “Ma Mie Rosette.”
Everybody who sees it this time will be disap-
pointed with the performance.
• * • •
Lauri plays his old part of Bouillon, the
valet; also Howard Vernon appears again as the
battered warrior, who says, “other side, please;”
and Miss Dorothy Vane is a satisfactory Martha
(the relict of three departed husbands), although
she looks too young for the billet. In one respect,
the show is even much better than it was afore-
time, for Kenilingham acts the gardener as he
should be acted—in a manly, handsome, heroic
style. The difference between Tapley, of old,
and Charles Kenningham in the revival, is
the difference between chalk and cheese.
As regards William Paul and Miss Florence
Perry, in the shoes of Wallace Brownlow and
Nellie Stewart the change amounts to the
difference of cheese from chalk, and the previous
people were the cheese. Paul can’t look or play
the picturesque sentimentalist, Henri of Navarre,
neither does his richer voice enable him to sing
the music more effectively than Brownlow, who
suited the action to the melody, and seemed to
mean what he warbled. The Bulletin will not
dispraise Miss Perry’s Rosette in detail. It will
merely remark that the nice little lady’s ladylike
style is out of keeping with the character, whilst
her singing is apt to be out of tune. Miss Nina
Osborne plays Cqrisande, and the last week of the
opera season, which begins on Saturday next, will
be devoted to brief revivals. “Gondoliers” for
three nights.
* * * Kt
At Melb. Royal the guillotining of the
stuffed villain is to terminate on Friday, after
which hero Saunders will struggle against unjust
suspicion in another drama. The title of the
approaching narrative is “Our Native Home,’’and
the Holloway Co. purpose to unfold it in five acts,
with all possible earnestness, and a number of
startling mechanical effects. If the new drama
proves to be a little more reasonable than “The
Merciless World ’’ it will be gratefully received ;
for the backbone of the Holloway Co. is strong,
and the stage management good, and Melbourne
at the present time is in a horsey, uncritical mood.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus came back to the old
pitch at Flinders-street on Saturday night, and a
great rush of multitude filled the tent as usual.
Also, the populace applauded with customary
vehemence when elephant Lizzie treadled her
low-gear bike around the cage for the amusement
of the British Lion ; and the tiger-cum-horse act,
and all the other items, old and new, got a
cheerful greeting. Fitzgeralds’ show seems to
be quite as smart and a trifle more various
than it was last Xmas. If The Bulletin
could think of anything original to say
about the Circus that has “grown with
the people ” (vide advt.), and shared all the
joys and sorrows of Australia for many years, with
the strictest attention to business and a noble
determination to prosper, the original remarks
would be slung into the paragraph at this point.
Unfortunately there are none on hand just now,
owing to the lamentable decease of the Bunyip,
which has plunged The Bulletin into temporary
gloom. The Bunyip died of cold weather whilst
the circus was touring Tasmania, and its furry re-
mains have found salvation in a glass case.
** * *
A large change of bill is to happen at the
Bijou this week or next, but full particulars had
not been announced at time of writing. It is
merely stated, as a lamentable fact, that Tom Cos-
tello will go away for the present on Thursday
night (26th).
*m * *
A re-opening of the Alexandra, by Myra
Kemble and Gustus Glover, falls due on Satur-
day week.
“THE CHRISTIAN,”
A Sh t°a!e and grievOUS story > a most discouraging
Of one Storm who was a Christian, and his sweet-
heart. Glory Quayle.
She was a daughter of the gods, divinely tall and
fair ;
Her eyes were deep as ocean ; there were sun-
beams in her hair.
He had a big uneasy God, and a mission in the
street
To bang the hollow scripture and the hollow drum
to beat,
In the slums and down the bye-ways where the
lost dogs congregate ;
Where the yawning pub. gives up its dead when
nights are cold and late.
The roar that went up from the slums, the fighting
and the din, s
The voice of beer and blasphemy, of wrath and
fog and gin.
The clatter of the ’busses, and the barrows, and
the feet,
The shuffling of the broken boots that hustled
down the street,
The whiff of whisky that was new and whisky that
was stale
Were to John a voice from Heaven that called on
him and Glory Quayle.
He looked out on the world and saw the world
was all askew,
He girded up his hat and went to build the world
anew.
The two tails of his murky coat Hew out in dens
of sin,
He bade the husky coster to be good and Dure
within,
He told the world to fix its mind on better things
on high. 6
The world was rushing for its beer, and passed the
prophet by.
He grew thin, and wild, and crazy, and bowed by
loads of care ;
Also hollow-eyed and weary, and neglectful of his
hair.
The season was a dry one, and no crop as yet had
grown J
On the paving-stones of London from the seed that
John had sown,
And a/ 16 f?i°be too heavy to carry all
So the prophet aged and faded till at last, one
summer day,
He set the globe down on the pavement, and his
spirit passed away.
The notice on his tombstone says God’s Word
shall never fail,
And the dreamer’s widow weeps there—poor blue-
eyed Glory Quayle.
At Poverty Point.
Signor Foli (otherwise Foley, of ’Ould Oireland) has
died at an age comparatively early, for a great singer.
Probably the noble basso didn’t take as much care of
himself as his voice deserved, for when he came to Aus-
tralia some years ago, with Orlando Harley, the tenor, as
chief support, Foli was already an old-looking man. It
was still a treat to bear him all the same, the deep-end
of his voice was so melodious, and he had in his high
notes the tenor quality which no ordinary basso can even
suggest.
Cabled that Sir Hubert Parry, director of the British
Royal College of Music, is so delighted with Amy Castles’
voice that he offers her a year’s free instruction.
A Sydney authority prints that the late Charles
Burford appeared as Cassio in the first production in
Australia of "Othello.” If that be so, Burford must
have been much over 77 at his death. In 1838—sixty-one
years ago last March 26—a Mr. Groves played Cassio to
the Othello of Mr. Arabin at the opening of the Victoria
Theatre, Pitt-street, Sydney. As the co. supporting
Arabin nearly all came from Hobart Town, it is safe to
say that "Othello" was played in V.D.L. before it was
staged in Sj'dney. Burford was Cassio to Brooke’s
Othello when first performed in Melb. in ’55.
Old friend Emily Soldene was announced to appear
in a scene from " Genevieve de Brabant” at one of the
London houses last month. This resurrectionary per-
formance was for the benefit of old Charles Morton, the
manager of the Philharmonic Theatre when Soldene
made her great hit in “ Genevieve ’’ eight and twenty
years ago.
Skull Costello, the new man at Rickards’s Melb. show,
is clever, but the atmosphere of the theatre goes blue be-
fore he has been “on” many minutes, and his turn
representing an ancient and scrawny ballet-girl, with
shrunken shanks, obtrusive bladebones, and withered
purple bosom is simply awful as a spectacle. Only the
man whose feelings toward the sex have been debauched
by unremitting courses of music-hall song and comedy
can smother the healthy disgust this caricature provokes.
Rather the fatuous generosity of Mark Twain’s Germans
who applauded the withered performer for what she once
was,
“ Constance Clyde ” : A medium crowd turned Up
at Sydney Town Hall the other evening to greet
violinist Maud while the fragrance of royalty was
still perceptible about her smooth-brushed Sabbath
School little head. Maud’s very visible feet chased
themselves about so much in the first part of
the programme—she plays with soul and soles, as it
Were-that in the second she sat down to her business.
This brought the skimpy blue frock well over her ankles ;
likewise it brought her age, for the time being, up lo nine-
teen. Otherwise she seems tall enough to tuck the azure
frock up to her knees and pass for twelve and a bit,
Ma. i,l brings her music from afar off; her effects are
beautifully ventriloqlilal; the melody seems to come from
heaven or Georgb-street, or somewhere down the harbour
or anywhere except from the well-advertised violih. Fot
playing beautiful broad silences wilh just the faintest
golden thread of music running .through them the small
girl with the prosaio cognomeh is all right. “ The Ban-
shee ” is an item generally given only by Irish ghosts
when they want to signify an impending death in the
family of their patron. It is the sort of thing for which
any decent UiUsic-lOver would gladly sacrifice any num-
ber of relatives. The concert was not hindered by the
assistance of Bums Walker, Kate Rooney and John
Lemmone, Miss Fletcher played exquisitely with her
nose ; she is hereby advised to get spectacles.
Mrs. Langtry's new 23-year-old husband comes of
very wealthy people, but his own future is believed to
consist liiostly of expectations. Mrs. L. is said to have
lost large sums on th« turf, and to he under the necessity
of retrieving blatters. “The Degenerates,” the new
liaymarket piece in which she plays heroine, was written
for her, and apparently round her own very mottled
career. Writes Emily Soldene to Sydney E. News:—
“The piece is audacious to a degree, inasmuch as it por-
trays the career of Mrs. Langtry With wohderlul fidelity,
and how well she plays it! She is a comedian and polished
woman of the World, par excellence—hot a melodra-
niatic-taking-the-stage-stand-in-the-liinelight woman, but
a de ightful woman, who lias lived her life, and owns up.
* I’m what I am,’ says she, with a charming moue, ‘not
what I ought to be.’ I wish I could tell you half the
clever things she has to say, and the clever way she says
them. Soe likes a gallop in the morning with the ‘ Liver
brigade ‘ because it’s mostly men.’ She is a divorcee,
and her late husband ‘suffered dreadfully from decree
nisi, and died—of ‘ruleabsolute.’ She races, she gambles
(there’s a roulette-table in the drawing-room). She owns
horses. She's good for nothing, but such a fascinator.
‘ Well, Bobby,' says she to the Duke of Orme, ‘you used
to go the pace with me.’ ‘ Only for a few furlongs,’
says Bobby, cuddling his knee ; ‘ you're such a stayer! ’
Talk about a stayer! Mrs. Langtry played at the Hay-
market Monday evening, was in the selling-paddock,
Doncaster, Tuesday morning, and played at the Hay-
market Tuesday evening. Now, about. Mrs. Langtry’s
looks. She absolutely looks just about as old as she is,
neither more nor less ; a little thin in the face. The once
beautiful ivory complexion, soft and white, has gone.
She has the appearance of a real hunting woman—cross-
country rider, flying her fences like a bird, her face
tanned, figure slender, exquisite, shoulders square, head
Well up, the blue eyes, once upon a time soft and wonder-
ing, are now bright, shining, and bluer—much bluer.
They rival the wonderful diamonds and turquoises she
wears on arms, neck, round the waist, on her
diamond-dusted bodice. Her expression is charm-
ing—such good temper, such a dare-devil, such
a good heart—when yon get at it (she doesn’t
wear it on her sleeve). No wonder the men fall in love.
1 myself am full of admiration for her and her special
and highly-entertaining gifts. But she is not an object
of reverence to all persons. Dining up the river the
other day a peripatetic nigger put his head in the open
French window. ‘ Gif hus er job. Mister. Hi can sing.
Hi sting ter th’ Prince down hat Cowes ; an’ Hi've sung
ter Mrs. Langtry an’ hall ’er 'usbands—dead an’ halive.’ ’*
Eliza Johnstone, the genial “ old woman ” of the co.
that J. L. Toole brought to Australia, died a few weeks
back. She had been ill and off the boards for a long
time.
Curious that the cable has had no more to
say re the fairy-tale about those Lyddite mines
and the 1500 exploded Boers. Buil, of course,
has full control of the only wire, and Australia
now knows what it is to be “at the end of a string.”
A small member of the Victorian Assem-
bly (M‘Gregor, of Ballarat) has brought in a Bill
for the abolition of the coupon system. It is
called the Trading Coupons Abolition Bill, and
its object is to knock out one of the many middle-
men who live upon industry. Considering
that the commercial atmosphere of Melbourne
is none too pure, and that middle-men are
too many to count, this angry smiting of
such a very small middle-man has created some
surprise; but possibly M'Gregor is in the
situation of the nervous executioner who com-
menced by beheading a cockroach, and proposed
to work up gradually from that small beginning
till he came to the extirpation of a real human
being. Or possibly he saved the coupons himself,
and was dissatisfied with his butter-dish when he
got it. Some men are insatiable about their
butter-dish.


». E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNQ & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYRR OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
nd particulars apply
ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney
D
‘foA
Smoke
fob gentlemen ■
OF TASTE. 1
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY <s: CO M —Sydney.
Mr. A. Gilfillan, R.Sc.C.E., is visiting the Cool-
gurdie goldfield, and is prepared to report on mining
properties, and to attend to the flotation of approved
propositions on the local and London markets. All com-
munications to be addressed to Fremantle.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharjre,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street
Melbourne ;
tl Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-.<treet,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are considering
i scheme under which tramway, like railway, travellers
will be able to buy return tickets at reduced rates. It is
to be hoped that while at it they will go the full length of
the proved successful scheme at work now in London.
There the returns are available for a second journey by
any person, either way, at any time, on any day, and by
any car.
• * • *
That the Westralian Government is in bad
straits is shown by the fact that it is raising a temporary
loan of £1,00u,000 in London by the sale of 4 per cent.
Treasury bills with a two years’ currency at a minimum of
£9B. If they sell at that price net, W.A. will be
paying 6 per cent, for this temporary accommoda-
tiod. Presumably there was no hope of selling a 3 per
cent, permanent loan at anything like a decent figure,
and even the chance of a 3i per cent, permanent loan
must have looked dubious. So the next best thing was to
borrow temporarily at 4 per cent, and trust that when the
loan falls due two years hence the London market may be
better and Westralia’s tottering credit a good deal
stronger—or that the federal Govt, may be ready by then
to take over the State debts. Its credit will be good
enough for 3 per cent, anyhow, and it is a solemn fact for
the anti-Billites of Groper Land to consider that on this
one deal Federation could easily save them £lO,OOO a year
in interest 1 Westralia never got money at less than 4
percent, till 189.3, when it floated £750,000 at 3 j. In ’96
it borrowed £750,000 at 3 per cent. In ’97, £2,100,000 at 3
per cent. In January, ’9B, it raised 11,000,000 at the
same low rate. And about that time its credit seemed to
go bad, so it has since led a precarious existence by the
issue of short-dated Treasury bills, mostly at 4 per cent.
The debt at 30th June last was i 62 ss. per inhabitant,
which is an appalling burden to totter under, especially
when so much of the country’s prosperity depends on that
one glorious square mile of auriferous ground at Kal-
goorlie.
* * * •
“A Shareholder”: Can’t trace the co. Think
it must have completely perished very long ago.
* * * •
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) makes another
material advance. Net profits for the half-year to 30th
September, 1899, after paying the full 3 per cent, interest
to reconstructed depositors, are £7078, which is equal to
£3 12s. 6d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders'
funds. A 3 per cent, dividend to preference share-
holders absorbs £4561 ; 11940 is added to reserve fund
making it £6(100, and the other £577, added to £lO4O
brought from last year, leaves £1617 to carry forward.
The Colonial Bank has gone through three stages since
1893, as follows :
Period during which the Colonial Bank paid its recon-
structed depositors 4J4 per cent. :
September, 1893 Profit £5966
March, 1894 .. „ £9853
September, 1894 „ £2247
March, 1895 .. Loss £4694
Period during which the Colonial Bank paid 2% per
cent, on reconstructed deposits. Profits :
September, 1895 £7BO March, 1897 .. £3043
March, 1896 .. £2564 September, 1897 £3312
September, 1896 £2094 March, 1898 .. £3398
Period during which the Colonial Bank paid 3 per cent,
on its reconstructed deposits. Profits
September, 1898 .. £853 I September, 1899 .. £7078
March, 1899 .. .. 5601 |
The Colonial Bank’s progress in the last two half-years
has been very good. At the same time it is to be hoped
that the management won’t get excited too soon about
this unexpected prosperity and start paying away the
proceeds in big dividends. The Colonial Bank is a very
small institution since its writing-off was completed, with
£385,902 paid-up capital, and £5OOO reserve; and an
affair of that size wants to spend many years re-building
its reserves before it is quite a real bank again.
The only other notable feature about the ac-
counts is that the reconstructed deposits are now reduced
to £1,037,150, being £115,000 less than they were six
months ago, and £230,000 less than the amount owing in
September, 1898. These long-dated deposits began to
fall due a year ago, and will continue now to drop in by
instalments, but the Colonial Bank has nearly got over
the shock of ’93 and can meet the bill without difficulty.
Another good feature in the accounts is the investment of
£19,841 in Victorian Government securities, which
should be the beginning of much larger investments in
the same direction. Too much unrealisable mortgage
business and too small a reserve of liquid securities are
things to be carefully avoided, especially as most of the
Australian banks have “ been there before.”
* * • •
The United Insurance Co. (Sydney) shows
much better this year than it did last, the profits for the
12 months ended 30th September, 1899, being £7302. A
dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum absorbs
£3411 of this; £5OO is added to reserve, making it
£55,500 ; and the other £3391, added to the £4770 brought
forward from last year, leaves £Bl6l at credit of profit
and loss. The record of the L’nited Insurance Co. for the
past eight years has been as follows :
Profit. Dividend.
September, 1892 ... £13,231 ... 12J per cent. = £8,528
„ 1893 ... 17,389 ... „ = 8.528
„ 1894 ... 20,053 ... „ = 8,528
„ 1895 ... 10,663 „ = 8,528
„ 1896 ... 11,406 ... „ = 8,529
„ 1897 ... 9,952 ... „ = 8,523
„ 1893 ... 3,722 ... „ = 8,528
„ 1899 ... 7,302 ... 5 per cent. ■= 3,411
8 years’profits ...£93,783 ... 8 years’divs. = £63,108
During these eight years the United has added rather
•over £30,000 to its reserves, which now stand at £94,161
(reserve fund, £55,500 ; re-insurance reserve, £12,500;
appropriation for unadjusted losses, £6000; reserve for
.equalisation of dividends, £2OOO ; reserve for depreciation
<of investments, £lO,OOO ; and profit balance, £8161). The
management has most commendably cut down the
•dividend ; considering that the 1898 div. absorbed nearly
£5OOO more than the earnings, that the margin in
T 895-6-7 was none too large, that this year’s earnings
would not cover the usual 12j per cent., and interest
earnings have fallen off greatly, it was certainly the only
wise course. The United is a distinctly strong company
with a very large business and a long record of success.
•Perhaps the worst feature is the falling-off in the returns
■from investments. In 1893 £134,910 of property and
invested funds yielded £4557, or £3 7s. 6d. per cent, per
annum all round. In 1899 £143,491 of property and
investment funds yielded £3637, or £2 10s. Bd. per cent.
The increase of assets, by the way, is very largely repre-
sented by these two unremunerative items, “agency
•balances ” and ” debts due at head office.” In 1893 these
represented £11,660, while in ’99 no less than £22,076 of
the assets consist of these two items.
* * * *
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Associa-
tion (Melbourne) shows a considerable improvement, and,
in a very small way, it resumes dividend paying. The
recent career of this institution is shown hereunder :—
Dividend.
1892 ... Profit £3191 ... 10 per cent. * £3000
1893 ... „ 1423 ... 8 „ 2400
1894 ... Loss 204 ... 4 „ => 1200
1895 197 ... Nil
1896 ... Profit 85 ... Nil
1897 957 ... Nil
1898 ... „ 211 ... Nil
1899 ... „ 1265 ... li per cent. = 375
Out of the remaining £890 the co. carries £500 to con-
tingency account, to cover known and possible losses;
writes £159 off its Government stock, to bring it down to
par. ; and writes £20 off furniture. This leaves £211,
which, with £818 brought forward, raises the profit
balance to £1029. Assuming that the £5700 or so at
credit of contingency account is sufficient to cover all
losses, which seems probable, the Perpetual Executors
and Trustees Association has £30,000 paid-up capital in-
tact and £1029 accumulated profit, the reserve-fund of
£16,500 having disappeared by various instalments since
1892. The absurd feature about this little company is
that the earnings of its trustee business have been quite
insufficient for a long time to cover expenses. This year,
despite a very great improvement, the trustee business
shows a loss of £96. In 1898 it showed a
loss of £900. In 1897 the loss was £790. The
shareholders have £30,000 of their own capital invested ;
during the year ended 30th September last it yielded
£1361 in interest, and after making up the loss on the
trustee business they had £1265 for themselves. This
isn’t a joyful state of things for the shareholders, and it
has been'going on for six years now. The only consola-
tion is that the trustee business is apparently getting
near to the paying point once more. But if the Per-
petual of Melbourne is ever to get a firm hold of public
confidence again, it badly wants to rebuild its lost
reserve.
Now that the Perpetual Association has
scraped up a humble 1} per cent, all the 13 trustee com-
panies of Australia and Tasmania are on the dividend-list
once more. The National of Melbourne top3 the list with
8 per cent., and the Perpetual, of the same city, puts up
its humble record at the foot.
* • • •
The Permanent Trustee Co., of N. S. Wales
(Sydney) closed its twelfth year on 30th Sept., with a profit
of £2807, which is the best year’s record up to date. The
following are the profits since 1892 : —
September, 1892 .. £147 September, 1S96 ..£1035
1893 ..£1358 „ 1897..£1671
„ 1894 .. £764 „ 1898 .. £2250
„ 1895 ..£1007 „ 1899 .. £2807
The Permanent Trustee Co. became a dividend-paying
concern in 1895 when it divided 4 per cent. It paid 4 per
cent, in '96, and 5 percent, in ’97 and ’98. It now pays
another 5 per cent. (£1250) and the remaining £1557,
added to previous balance of £2251, leaves £3808 accumu-
lated profit. Of this £2500 is applied as the beginning of
a reserve fund, and 11308 is carried forward. About the
wisdom of this policy there can be no question ; a Trustee
Co. depends so largely upon public confidence that it is
absolutely necessary for it to have a strong reserve. The
Permanent has now, as a guarantee that the cash of the
widow and the orphan will be duly forthcoming when
wanted, £25,000 paid-up capital, £2500 reserve fund,
£1308 profit balance, and a callable capital of £975,000.
No private trustee can show such solid security ; in fact
the private trustee in very many cases shows nothing at
all except, a sudden pair of heels. The Permanent’s busi-
ness is steadily increasing, and it has now £1,230,958
worth of estate's in trust. Its own funds are presumably
well-invested and bringing in a decent return, but as com-
mission received from the trustee business and interest
derived from the co.’s own investments are lumped
together (which they shouldn’t be) the earnings from the
latter source are indistinguishable.
• • * •
The eminently unfortunate Colonial Finance,
Mortgage, Investment, and Guarantee Corporation (Syd-
ney) closed a very bad year on 31st August, 1899, yet in
some respects it was not quite so bad a one as its prede-
cessor. Some particulars are as follows:—
Working Ex-
penses, Interest Depre- Net
Income, on Deposits, &c. ciation. Loss.
1893 .. £760 £4,8S5 £2.755 £6,880
1899 .. 987 4,167 4,356 7,536
The net loss is a little larger ; still, against that, income
has increased, working expenses and interest have
diminished somewhat, and but for the increased provision
for depreciation things would look a good deal belter.
The institution this year has earned almost one-fourth of
its outgoings, whereas last year it didn't earn quite one-
sixth. Therefore, while things are truly awful, they are,
in one sense, less awful than they were. The total short-
age is now £138,735, whereas a year ago it was only
£131,198, but during the year £9475 has been collected in
calls, and the amount owing to depositors and others has
been reduced by over £6000. So the situation at the two
dates was as follows
31st August, 1898.
Capital .. .. all lost Various assets ..£64,226
Various liabilities.. £67,565 Deficit .. .. 3,339
£67,565 £67,666
31st. August, 1899.
Capital .. .. all lost Various assets ..£59,790
Various liabilities.. £61,191 Deficit .. «. 1,401
£61,191 £61.191
It is rather a solemn situation to pay up £9475 extra
capital and get only £1933 further forward, but, though
the co. with the long name is still insolvent on paper, it is
rather less insolvent on paper than it was. Its paid-up
capital of £137.334 is wholly lost, but there is £64.316 still
callable, and apparently it is intended to call it up to the
last farthing if necessary, aud honestly pay all liabilities.
This is about - he only strictly honest finance co. of the
boom-time that The Bulletin has met.
» * * *
A wool-selling record was made at Golds-
brough, Mort's Melb. auction rooms the other day when
44 bales from Wragge's Deniliquin station passed out at
the rate of Is. Id. a pound. The golden fleece 1
* * • •
The Western Mine, Zeehan, Tasmania, has cut
six inches of first class ore at No. 7 level in the south
drive on the main lode. A complete Luhrig concentrat-
ing plant on the gradual reduction principle is erected at
t.hTs mine with a capacity of 100 tons per day, and consists
of stone breakers, trommels, rolls, jigs, classifiers, Luhrig
Tanners, etc. Since the erection of this mill the company
have paid about £106,000 in dividends and the mine still
promises to continue its prosperous career. Luhrig
machinery mav be obtained from the General Agents, W.
and J. Lempriere, Melbourne and Broken Hill. A iwo-to-
five ton experimental plant is erected near Melbourne.*
No cause has yet been publicly assigned for the
rather severe fall in Sydney Fresh Food and Ice Co.’s
shares.
• » • •
B.H. Block 10 at 1015ft. has a lode over 40ft.
wide, assaying from 14 to 17oz. silver, 11 to 13 per cent,
lead, 15 to 174 percent, zinc, and up to 1£dwt gold- The
lead contents" are comparatively poor ; it would have to
be easy stuff to mine and dress (which it isn't) to give a
profit with the appliances now in use. Investors as a body
have not. vet quite realised that they do'not know every-
thing when they know the size of a lode and its metallio
contents. Ore heavy in rhodonite, for example, besides
being most expensive fo mine (rhodonite is harder than
ordinary steel), can only be dressed very slowly and with
much wear-and-tear of machinery. That is the trouble
with the Junction North stuff, and also with much of the
product of Block 10’s deeper levels. It is printed in Melb.
(where Block 10’s shares have been lately boomed
with more energy than discretion) that a process
has been discovered at Broken Hill, and has favor-
ably impressed directors, for the magnetic extrac-
tion of the rhodonite ; but if any such process does
exist it has been kept very dark at Broken Hill. There
are, however, numerous contrivances for magnetically
treating the “ zinc concentrates"—that is, the ore from
which as much as possible of the silver and lead have
been taken—and one is now being worked by the Aus-
tralian Metal Co., on plans successfully adopted in Ger-
many and America. No doubt (as already foreshadowed
here) the next important steps in sulphide treatment will
be along those lines.
When those who are energetically bulling a few
Broken Hill stocks talk of millions of tons of zinc-ore
assaying from 20 to 25 per cent, zinc lying on the surface
of B.H. mines, and then naively add that zinc is now £23
or so a ton, and when they also add that the ore contains
a fair quantity of silver and lead besides, it is time to be
careful. Three or four things should be remembered. (1)
Block 10's zinc product is the richest along the line ; the
best price got for it has been 6s. per ton. (No doubt, how-
ever, a very handsome profit was made out of it by the
German firm which handled it.) (2) Zinc is almost all
produced by distillation. The process is slow and expen-
sive, and, so far, has only been possible where labor and
fuel are extremely cheap—notably in Belgium. It is quite
out of the question in Australia. (3) The presence of lead
in the ore is a serious disadvantage ; a deduction is made
in respect of it, just as a deduction is made in respect of
zinc in lead ore. (4) The only treatment of zinc product
(it used to he called “ tailings ” ; they call it “ zinc ore ”
now) so far suggested, or at least attempted with any suc-
cess in Australia, is concentration by magnetic separators.
In this treatment a considerable, but varying, quantity
of the zinc and silver is lost. The concentrates must be
shipped to Europe. (5) The spelter (zinc) market is ex-
tremely capricious. At the beginning of March the metal
was worth £28 per ton ; by the end of September
it was down to £21 10s. These are only reasons,
of course, for not putting an extravagant value
upon the zinc asset. That most of the “tailings”
are worth something now is certain ; also, it is tolerably
certain that they will be worth a good deal more before
very long. For the minds of all the best chemists and
mechanical engineers are turned upon their treatment;
while the electricians, Ashcroft included, do not despair
yet of getting the zinc out of the crushed crude ore.
Compare Block 10 ore at 1015ft. (at the best,
17ozs. silver, 13 per cent, lead, and 17£ per cent, zinc)
with the one which B.H. North is handling, with infinitesi-
mal profit:—lOoz. silver, 18j per cent, lead, and 16'8 per
cent. zinc.
One point in connection with the Broken Hill
zinc “ tailings” (wanted : a word to aptly describe these
zinciferous res ; dues) is that, having passed through the
mill already, they are fine-crushed. Not only' have they
not been taken into account as an asset hitherto (except
by Block 10 to a limited extent), but they have already
passed through one expensive process.
“ Maori Tyke ” : “ John Turon ” is still trifling
with truth. On 19th July the issued capital of Turon
G. Co. was £30,000, later it was increased to £36,000,
its present figure. “ J.T.,” to suit his wicked purpose,
bulges it to £42,000 “at least.” Co.’s opening-out opera-
tions began 19th June and resulted in 93oz. Systematic
dredging began 24th July to 19th Aug., resulting in 152oz.
From 19th Aug. to 16th Sept, a delay occurred—machinery
had to he awaited from Sydney, and experiment of pad-
dock-pumping was tested ; result, a disappointing 6oz.
From 18th Sept, to 23rd Sept, (leaving bottom for future
operation), 34oz. The above is official, not tittle-
tattle nor taradiddle. Excepting the returns of Golden
Beach, Eureka, and Ngapara dredges, these initial results
compare favorably with any on the Molyneux “ J.T.” can
qtioie, not omitting Hartley and Riley’s. “J.T.” counts
the days from floating of Turon dredge (throwing in a few
for luck) and say s in so many days so many ounces, ergo
a year’s operations will only yield so much gold. He
might as well take last month with its incessant rain,
multiply the inches by 12 and predict a second deluge.
“J.T.” ignores that Turon dredge has so far only been
“ feeling its way” to the rich ground, ignores the three
additional dredges going on the river, ignores Golden
Point—Ghost of Tom Pepper 1 what doesn’t he ignore?
a a a a
Reported that Neelds have refused <£250,000
cash for their Wvaiong property. They have on hand
some 7000 tons of six-to-seven oz. stone, and the reef is
now 10ft. wide and of similar value. One of Australia’s
greatest gold-mines, but you never hear anything about
it. The gold is all sold at Melbourne.
• * * *
Mr. F. A. Keating, Australian managing
director, has gone to England to attend the annual meet-
ing of the Sulphide Corporation—and to be on hand, no
doubt, when the first div. is declared. It was Keating,
who, with Moreton Frewen, engineered the sale of the B.
H. Central and the Ashcroft process to the Sulphide Cor-
poration. After a most awful slump, the co. has made a
splendid recovery. The management is packed with as
much brains and enterprise as any business concern in
Australia owns, and deserves all its success. Just now, it
is meditating coke manufacture on a pretty big scale at its
works near Newcastle. ,
a * * *
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Ltd., South Melbourne, to build a pair of compound con-
densing engines of 700 h.p. to drive their extensive mil-
ling plant. These engines will be of the latest type, with
Proell valve gear; the flywheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes, and weighs upwards of 22 tons. The
total weight of engine will be 85 tons ; the engines are to
be completed by the end of the year and will be the finest
and largest plant on the field. The engines under con-
struction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie Goldfields
have an aggregate of 1S00 horse power.*
Baker’s Creek, the Ilillgrove (N.S.W.) mine
which Adelaide mostly owns, has just declared its 50th
div. This brings the gross dividend since 1887 to £276,500.
And it has never made a call.
• * * •
According to the N.S.W. Mines Department’s
figures the province produced £3,846,707 worth of
minerals this year to the end of September—£776,425
more than it did in the same months last year. Of this
increase silver-lead was responsible for £271,452; gold,
£252,531; copper, £157,692 ; tin, £59,235 ; coal, £14,658.
* * * *
A peculiarity of White Cliffs, the far-back
N.S.W. field which sends out between £80,000 and
£100,000 worth ol opal a year—that has been the average
for five or six years —is the occurrence of a mineral, locally
known askopai, which renders the skin remarkably brittle.
The slightest scratch will bring Wood from an average
man working in this sort of country.
a a a a
An alleged copper-mine in Broken Dill district
was wound up in Adelaide the other day. The Chairman
stated that the co. should never have been floated—that
the mine mostly consisted ol a block of copper shown in a
broker's office. This might be applied to more than half
the copper-mine9 lately floated, nevertheless it is refresh-
ing to have the fact mentioned this once.
a • a *
Dear Bcm.ktin.—It is evident that enormous
harm will result Irom the wholesale granting of dredging-
leases. In view of the fact that at present many hundreds
of men get a living by digging on the various rivers and
creeks, surely it i9 matler for sprious consideration
whether this means ol support for such a large number of
persons should be closed. Some will argue that employ-
ment will be found for them on the dredges, but it must
be evident that for every one who will be thus provided
for ten must be deprived of the means of making a living.
A poor living it may be in many cases, still it is a means
whereby many are enabled to maintain their indepen-
dence and self-respect. Also, cases where men have cut
long and expensive races should receive special considera-
tion where leases are granted.— J.H.
• • * *
It begins to look as if the dredge is going to
knock the stuffing out of the old yarn about the thou-
sands of ozs. of gold which would never have been re-
covered but for the Chow fossickers, said yarn having
always formed the chief argument of the apologists for
the presence of yellow agony on goldfields. ‘‘Never ”is a
large order. The process may yet come along which
will make more than its tucker even after the dredge has
been there.
* * * •
Scottish Critic, September 1899.—“ The most
striking feature noticeable in the accounts of the Colonial
Mutual for the past few years, and especially for the past
twelve months, is the degreee of stability which has been
attained by the Society."*
* « • •
The only noticeable feature of the Sydney
mining-market during the week is the big rise in Wood-
lark Island G.M. Co.’s shares, which jumped from four or
five shillings to five times as much within a few days. It
is stated that an enthusiastic report re the prospects of
the show was despatched to Sydney by the co.’s manager,
but the message somehow went wrong, and the loose
shares, of which there were many in the market, were
snapped-up by a big N.Q. firm, represented in Sydney,
which got the earliest information. Glittering stories
concerning the richness of Woodlark —a reef yards wide,
going 300 z., &c., &c.—are current, but no definite direct
report from any sober and responsible mining authority
is as yet available to the public. People will do well to
go slow over a mine so isolated and difficult of access.
• • * *
The Engineering Works of Mephan Ferguson
are at present fully occupied, giving employment to a
large number of hands, in the different colonies. In
Western Australia, the patent rivetless locking-bar pipes
for the Coolgardie Waier-supply are now being delivered.
The South Australian works are busy manufacturing and
supplying pipes for the Bundaleer Water Scheme, and at
the General Engineering Works, Melb. orders are being
received for bridge work, pipes, burning, earth scoops,
forgings, refrigerators, machinery and ironwork. A large
number of patent Nelyatnbo scoops or tank-cleaners are
being manufactured to meet the increasing demand.*
♦ * * *
Dear Bulletin.— You say that according to
Schlapp’s report the lower levels of the Hampden (Olon-
curr.v) copper-mine are not opening too well. Here are
some facts. In No. 4 shaft (the deepest on the lode,
being 100 ft.) a level was put in at 60ft., and after being
driven 30ft., two crosscuts were put in to prove the width
of the lode. In these cross-cuts a shoot of ore 78ft. wide
of fully 40 per cent, copper was exposed and no walls ever
touched. The shaft was then sunk, and after going a few
feet a mixture of white quartz, iron and copper pyrites in
small veins were got. Every foot sunk these grew larger,
and as at the bottom the whole shaft is one mass of ore, X
think this a good sign of the lode being wider. The
reason of Schlapp s report being adverse is easy to under-
stand. [Our correspondent here proceeds to assign a
cause which would get the man who printed it about two
years’ gaol.—Ed. B.J 1 predict that the Hampden is the
mine of Australia, and, with railway communication, I
consider the shares good buying at £lOOO each. I have
been all my life among mines in Australia and South
America, and nowhere have 1 seen such a mine both for
quantity and quality of ore. One shoot 16ft. wide will go
80 per cent. I have no interest whatever in
the mine, though I have in other local shows—l only write
to see if I cannot, in a small way, block this district being
damned by one man. Let you or any other man try and
buy Schlapp’s shares at the £lOO that they were issued at
and see. I have worked on the mine since the first day of
starting. Every man on it shares my opinion concern-
ing it, and there are men here from Cobar, Copperfield,
Peak Downs and Mt. Lyell, &c. —Ci.oncurry.
• • • •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Griniwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• • • •
According to the Mines report for ’9B, the
Palmer goldfield (estimated to have turned out some 53
tons of gold in its time) is now in a very bad way. Out-
put for year, 1078 tons crushed for 12370 z. Number of
quartz miners employed on field, 75; alluvial, 435,
Average earnings per man, £l6 Is. lOd. per annum—for
alluvial workers. Quartz miners average out- £OO per
annum—lowest in province. Cloncurry supports five
quartz miners and 62 alluvial diggers, of whom 12 are
Chinese. Alluvial output, 5780 z., of which a stony' patch
at Agate Downs gave 17()oz. Horn Island for the year
crushed 3794 tons for 25590 z. Eidsvold output was
83490 z., an increase of 46740 z. on previous year.
Mr. Wallace, M.L.C., of Victoria, is said to
make £35,000 a-.vear profit out of his Staghorn sluicing
property, near Beechworth, alleged to be the richest in
the province.
• * * *
“ The king is dead ; long live,” &c. When the
Westralian gold boom was at its height, Menzie, fresh
from his victories way-back from Kalgoorlie, gave his
patronage and pounds to an ancient Barossa (S. A.) gold
show, and the Menzie’s Barossa co. was the result. The
rocket was pretty brilliant, but it went out with the first
crushing. And now Copper being the new king, “ the
Sliding Rock Copper Co. has purchased the winding-plant
belonging to the Menzie’s Barossa co.” The Sliding Rock,
bv the way, is one of a dozen northern S.A. copper shows
which, after a short-lived prosperity, were abandoned 15
to 20 years ago.
* • • ■
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National and Ingersoll
Rock Drills, Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
» • • •
September gold yield of Westralia, 107,0760 z.;
for Sept., '9B, 89,1790 z. ; Sept., ’97, £71,776. July-Sept.
quarter, this year, 450,4060 z. ; iast year, 255,5560 z. First
nine months, this vear, €4,408,767 ; all last year, £3,990,697;
’97. £2,571,028 ; ’96, £1,068,808; ’B6, £1147. And fora
final comparison : Transvaal—August yield, 452,1090 z.
(average value, about £3 10s.); eight months, 3,674,8920 z.
Curiously, Westralia had in all its history down to tha
same month (end of August) produced 3,676,0000 z.
* * • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» » * •
Great P>onlder, which has tested its ground at
900 ft., is pushing down to 1000 ft., and may be there by
the end of the year. The Golden Link also owns an 800 ft.
level and is sinking. These are the pioneers ol deep sink-
ing at lialgoorlie.
Ladj* Shenton G.M. (W. A.) crnshing : Battery
ran 292 hours and crushed 650 tons for 8220 z. lldwt.
smelted gold. Tailings assay ftjdwt. per ton. Total out-
put (exclusive of tailings and concentrates) to date,
63,5170 z. 15dwt 3gr. from 24,972 tons. The 12th div.
declared, of Is. per share. Total distributed to share-
holders so far, £96,000.


A NEW DEPARTURE
David .Tones & Company
are now TAKING ORDERS for ORIENT GARMENTS (to
measure) at MODERATE PRICES. This addition to their
LARGE READY MADE ORIENT DEPARTMENT is-made
to meet the requirements of those who require CLOTHING of
MORE ACCURATE FIT and EXTRA FINISH than the
EXCELLENT READY MADE CLOTHING provides ; who do
not, however, care to give the higher prices of the REGULAR
ORDER TRADE.
S3* We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE and BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A PHOTOGPAPHIC OUTFIT
s3£->,
m
FEDERAL
OUTFIT
Camera and Lens, Plates,
Paper, Mounts, Chemi-
cals, Printing Frame,
Dishes, etc., with Book
of Instructions.
The whole set, ss. ; or
post free, ss. Bd.
A PERFECT
CAMERA !
Not a
CHILD’S
PLAYTHING 1
Size of Picture, inches.
Brisbane Branoh—34 Queen Street
Melbourne Agents—
Graven & Go., 179 Gollins-street.
HARRINGTON * CO. LTD.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS,
66 King Street, Sydney.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
[?]
Mr. W. J. Lyne had only been two days
N. S. W. Premier when his wife was in vi ted to lay the
foundation-stone of a new church. The church in
question is Anglican, and makes fully the half-
dozenth C.E. building foundation-stones of which
have been laid by ladies in official positions in
and around Sydney in the past six months. It
would appear that when a C.E. stone is to be laid
the lady-like Gov. is first coveted to wield the
trowel; in his absence, his sister ;in her absence,
his aunt; and in the absence of all, the Premier’s
or Mayor’s wife. Is not this new-fangled
church practice the most abject form of
homage addled ecclesiastics can pay to worldly
rank, accidental or otherwise? If the church
worship the world, what is the world to worship ?
♦ * * *
Pathetic matrimonial announcement from
Castlemaine (Vic.): “Private Duggan, one of
the volunteers for the Transvaal, was on Saturday
evening married to Miss Maggie Sampson, sister
of one of his comrades, who is to accompany him
to the seat of war.”
The departing Australian warriors have
been wept over, prayed over, played at, sung at,
speeched at; but there is one tiling lacking—they
haven’t, been kissed. If the Australian woman is
as enthusiastioas the Australian editor and par-
son, 10,000 of this country’s best-looking girls
will cad round and kiss the contingent—five
pretty girls to each oontingenter—and give the
contingent their photographs to wear next its
chest. Then the shooters will feel that their
country really appreciates them.
The prevailing war-spirit recalls a Sydney
Quarter Sessions incident at the time of the
Soudan bugaboo. A stalwart, soldierly-looking,
one-legged man was charged with theft before a
Judge, himself very much gone in the legs—in
fact, a cripple. The case was quite clear against
prisoner, but it was equally evident that the
matter, a very trumpery one, should have been
summarily dealt with at the police court; accused,
not getting bail, had been in gaol awaiting trial
long enough to serve as much as the otience was
worth. The jury, in convicting prisoner, strongly
recommended him to mercy by reason of the long
delay which had occurred in bringing him to triah
and also on account of his having lost a leg. The
crippled Judge expressed great approval of the
recommendation, and said he would see it was
attended to ; then, turning to the arraignee (who
stood 6ft, 2in. and weighed 16st.) he said, with
infinite compassion in his voice, “ Prisoner : I see
you are of very soldierly bearing; tell me—did
you not lose that leg in the service of your Queen
and country?’ “No, yer ’Oner,” replied the
long larcenist, “I was run over by a Sydney
night-cart, that’s’ow I lost it.” “Six months;
remove the prisoner!” roared the Judge in
disgust. The court also roared, and the Judge in
his indignation walked up and down, as was his
habit when excited, leant over the reporters’ box
and said : ‘ You grinning newspaper apes, if you
dare put that in the paper I’ll see that you are all
hanged the first chance I get, and I’m bound to
have a chance some day.”
The usual war lunatic is on hand. With
a revolver he repelled an attack of Boers at Rush-
cutters’ Bay (Sydney), and was thereupon locked
up. Judging by the American hysterics during
the Philippine scrimmage, it is.about time for the
casual Sydney citizen to start dropping dead of
excitement. Anyway, the man who blows lead
into imaginary Boers will break the monotony of
the other man who drowns his own real children
because God told him to, or because he didn’t
like his wife. Nothing like one lunacy for killing
another.
* * * *
What does N.S. W. Govt, mean by raising
the price of soldiers against the British in South
Africa? British pay is 2s, 3d. a day ; N.S..W. is
going to double it. , Soldiers in the field get
rations free, and have no lodgings to pay for;
therefore, with this 4s. 6d. clear of all deductions,
the soldier is better off than the laborer with 7s. a
day. Pity that the “guardians of the public
purse “ cannot take the sensible view that if any-
one feels impelled by “loyalty ” or “patriotism ”
to go soldiering his virtue should be its own
reward, and should require no added inducements
in the shape of double pay or life-insurance.
“ RAPID.”
RAPID LADY PASSENGER ( towards end of voyage): "Do you know, captain, of all the boats I ever
travelled by, this is absolutely the slowest.”
OUTRAGED SKIPPER: “ Well, madam, I must admit she’s not quite so fast as you are.”
. Ryde (Sydney) doesn’t seem to be a para-
dise for publicans. T’other day one of them was
fined because his wife, in her private capacity,
gave a mild hop to a few friends without obtaining
a permit; and now another has been informed
from the magisterial bench that if a traveller
should arrive late at night and the house should
be full, it would oe the pub-man’s duty to give up
his own bed to the stranger. Now, considering
that Bung is mostly married !
“W.J.Y.” : Recently the
melancholy anglers on a Melb.
pier were being filled with envy
by the luck of a group of small
boys. They had secured a
basket of fine, fat flat-head be-
fore the police interfered and
fished the fragment of a corpse
from beneath where they had
been casting. Then I began to
feel an interest in the fate of
those fish. The small boys
were about to tip them back
into the deep when a local
celebrity interfered. He pro-
tested at the impious waste and
secured the flat-head. I have
since learnt that he hawks fish
through the suburbs.
* s> * *
During luncheon at a
Fremantle (W.A.) hotel the
other day, a well-known local
man rushed in with an excited
request to be allowed to use the
telephone. Then the lunchers
heard—“ Is that yon, Fred ?
Well,. your brother dropped
dead in the street a short time
ago.. He’s in the morgue now 1”
Dear Bulletin. —lt is irritating to hear
so much of late about “ wiping-out the Majuba
disgrace.” The Majuba Hill affair was simply a
glaring blunder on the part of the man who paid
for it with his own life. The plight of 600 men
surrounded by 6000 would actually have been less
u°n 6 1 S - S upon level ground than perched upon a
hill which, though it afforded the assailants cover
to within 20 yards,of the defenders, was so naked
on top that every man showing at the edge of the
little plateau madqof himself against the sky-line
a perfect “cock-shot” for the Boer riflemen
posted at a distance from the hill-foot convenient
for thus covering the advance. The position, in
a word, was absolutely untenable in the circum-
stances by men with only what ammunition they
had in their pouches; -and its loss, instead of
being a “disgrace,” was merely a foregone con-
clusion.—Dum-Dum.
* * * •
From Jan. Ist, ’9B, to June 30th, ’99,
Q’sland Govt, collected .£33,692 ss. 4d. opium
duty. To this Townsville contributed £10,«)')1 ;
Brisbane <£5340. There’s somebody in Queensland*
who gets a lot of joy out of the opium-pipe, and
by all accounts it isn’t always John Chinaman.
Queensland justice is fearfully ancl won-
derfully made. At Cairns recently it got on to a
Japanese for absenting himself from the employ-
ment of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. He had
been away about two hours, and before he went
away he got another Jap. to take his place and
do his work. His explanation was that he had
been attacked with illness, and no evidence what-
ever was called to show that the statement was
not correct. Fined .£1 and £3 Bs. costs, or one
month’s gaol ! There were two J’s.P. on the
bench, and a Queensland paper states that one of
them was an employe of the prosecuting company.
If so, it is a fair inference that.he couldn’t afford
to find the Jap. not guilty and leave his angry
boss to pay the costs. What show has the de-
fendant when the plaintiff keeps his own tame
J.P. on the premises, so to speak ?
* * * *
A Largs Bay (S.A.) magistrate lately fined
a publican for supplying Sunday liquor to persons
who said they were 11 bona fide travellers,” but
weren't. He said the publican ought to have
“made inquiries” before supplying the liquor.
Query: How would the Largs Bay magistrate
have set about making inquiries himself? A
bona fide traveller, in the Sunday beer sense, is a
man from a town (say) a dozen miles away, who
isn’t known in the town where he wants to buy
drink. Is the publican supposed to inquire as to
his bona tides of the people here who don’t know
him and can’t supply information, or to walk to
the town he conies from and inquire there, and
then walk back and give the thirsty waiting wan-
derer his beer? What kind of an ass is the Sun
day travellers’ beer law, anyhow ?
* * * *
A Vic. backblocks farmer landed in Mel-
bourne the other day for the first time, strolled
into a pub., and handed the landlord £65 for safe
keeping. Then he went out with £l5 for a high
old time and had it, finishing up at a police station
three miles out of town, and plaintively asking
the grinning bobbies to find the rest of his money.
He explained that he didn’t know the name of
the hotel or the name of the street, and he could
describe the house no further than that it had a
pair of glass doors. Fortified with this concise
description, the visitor and a policeman peram-
bulated Melbourne for two days, calling at every
pub. and having bitter rows with nearly every
landlord, whom the countryman invariably-
accused of being a thief. Eventually the publican
who had really received the cash took it to the
police himself, thinking that he was being made
the innocent holder of stolen property. The money
was then restored, and its owner returned to the'
backblocks determined never acain to venture
near such a complicated place as Melbourne.
** l ’ * *
The confessional is getting a grip in Sydney
Anglican circles. In a certain church where
“penitents ” most do congregate, there is quite a
swell coterie who, having gone,aptray ’mid the
roses and raptures of vice, are no w being carefully
guided through the lilies of virtue by a muscular
Christian. Confessions, however, are heard in the
vestry ; there is no “ box.”
A FAREWELL SONG.
Just a word or two at parting,
Though too late to give you pause,
You are flushed with thoughts of starting
’Midst a tumult of applause ;
You are off to fight for England
(Vide patriotic odes),
Or, in other words, your mission
Is to shoot for Cecil Rhodes.
You will think, when we are cheering
With our British “ Hip ! hip ! hip 1 ’*
That there’s joy in volunteering
For a summer picnic trip ;
But when cannon answers cannon.
And the giddy bomb explodes,
There is little fun in falling
On behalf of Cecil Rhodes.
Don’t get drunk on British Glory
When the stronger force prevails :
“The Land Board considers that the bathing facilities of Sydney arc far behind those of other
parts of the-world in both appointments and accommodation.” —NEWS ITEM.
THEN WHY NOT MAKE MANLY UP-TO-DATE?
Pay no heed to cacklings Tory .
Re the Queen and Prince of Wales ;
And speak fairly of the Dutchmen,
Who must trek to bright abodes,
Where they’ll not be bossed by England
And will not meet Cecil Rhodes.
PASTOR RENTOUL’S LITANY.
From Battle anti Murder,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From Pride, Vain Glory, and Hypocrisy,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From “ Narrow-Browed ” Judas Chamberlain,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From Wasting A Hundred Thousand Pounds,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From Coveting Naboth's Vine3’ard,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From becoming Britannia’s Great Toe,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From making Widows and Orphans,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
Both in Africa and Australia,
Godd Lord Deliver US.
From Blasphemously Invoking the God of Battles,
Good Lord Deliver Us.
From Cursing Australia with Militarism,
Good Lord Deliver Us. Amen 1


Cable message from the G.O.C. to the
Premier. Just leaving for the front. Forward
with Australian troops large consignment of
ZETZ SPA. The latter preferred to all other
natural mineral waters.*
rpHE ACETYLENE GAS COMPANY OF AUSTRA-
-*• LASIA, Limited,
Offices, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney,
■have completed arrangements for regular shipments of
Carbide of Calcium, and are now prepared to enter into
•Contracts GUARANTEEING CUSTOMERS CONSTANT
•SUPPLIES at FOURPENCE PER POUND by the Drum.
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS for large quantities.
TO POPULARISE THIS BEAUTIFUL ILLUMINANT
the Company sell the Apparatus for its use at very
low prices :
Portable Generator, Stand Light, and Burner ... £1 5 0
Automatic Generator for Household Use, Piping,
Brackets, complete ... ... 10 10 0
Perfection Bicycle Lamp and Tin of Carbide,
sent post free any address 0 10 6
Carriage Lamps, per pair 2 2 0
The Company owns the Sole Right to Sell, Use and
Manufacture. Beware of Pirates.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Bracing E
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magicaf.
All Substitutes are inferior.
Insist on Buying “CONDY’S FLUID.”
WW*W ■
{{untight Qj
FOR ALL STOCK and POULTRY.
Lever Bros. Ltd,, Sydney.
Prices range from £5 to £6 10s. per ton, according to
quantity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout,
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
H A LF- c I C K Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
P£OPL r . lazy, and shiftless; to have no app tite;
to sleep badly; to have what you eat fe* 1 like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, o(
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do
RAFFAN’S HEPAT C
S’JIPHUR PILLS
Try-
Per post, Is 3d.
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATUONAGK>>
.. 0n...
Mr. Frafyk Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Rejjal Chemist.
From Perth (W.A.) Daily News
Alleged Lunacy.-W. C. Schreiher. charged with being
of unsound mind, was cautioned and discharged.
* * * *
Apropos the recent instructions to the
police in N S.W. country districts to collect
the aboriginal names and the meanings
thereof, this same idea was once attempted
in Maori land. An official was appointed
to carefully edit the names before pub-
lication, in case some of them should
be un,suited to a mixed community.
But when the first lot came in the
editor’s back hair rose up and re-
fused to lie down again. They
could not be edited—they had to be
dropped out of sight altogether.
Anyone who cannot understand
why the project had to be aban-
doned is hereby invited to hunt u;>
the meanings of Tap.inni, Hurunui,
and Waitara. If he can mention
them aloud in the street and not be
run-in for indecency he is fortun-
ate.
A certain Australian under-
taker recently charged the sorrow-
ing relatives ss. extra for a feather
pillowto be placed beneath the head
of the corpse. The son of the de-
ceased, taking a last look before the
coffin was screwed down, noticed
something peculiar in the set of the
pillow, and, on examination, found that the
“ feathers ” were four bricks !
• -* *
The ground of North' Sydney Cemetery
(St. Thomas’) which is just now the subject of a
sanitary dispute, was a gift from the late Alex.
Berry. He reserved for himself a spot in the
centre, on which he built a massive stone vault
topped with a pyramid. Strange to say, Mrs.
Berry’s was the first body buried in the cemetery
(1845). Alexander Berry was under the impres-
sion that he was soon to follow, but 30 years
elapsed before he occupied his corner. He was 93
at his death.
* * • *
During the past nine months over 250
inquiries after lost friends have been made at
Kalgoorlie police-station. The Great Disappear-
ance Land.
An origi-
nal swindler
is “doing”
Mel bourne’s
small private
schools. Wrll-
dressed man
calls to ar-
range terms
for his two
daughters as
boardeis, and
after inspect-
ing bedrooms,
requests cer-
tain altera-
t i o n s for
which he will
pay. Returns
after a week,
expresses sat-
isfaction, and
writes school-
mar n a
cheque for
quarter’s fees
and cost of
renovations.
Finding he
will not be
able to reach
his bank be-
fore closing-
time, he asks
permission to
add a couple
of pounds to
carry him on
till morning.
School-marm,
in anticipa-
tion of bene-
fits to come,
gives him the
cash, and, of
course, finds
that her well-
dressed client
is unknown
at the bank—•
except, as a
swindler who
has been at
the same
game before.
When the gay local preacher wants to
swear he compounds with his scruples and says
“darned”; and he isn’t sure whether that gets
entered up or not. Speaker Coles (S.A.) has
decided that it does. Labor-man Coneybeer,
damning the Safrican Contingent proposal, told
Kingston that he “darned well knew ” something
or other. Whereupon Mr. Speaker promptly ruled
“that is an expression which should not be
used.” Of course Mr. C. was ready to argue
about it; but the Speaker was decided -“ it is
unparliamentary, and must be withdrawn.” So
the equally senseless “blamed well” was substi-
tuted.
* • * *
Nationalities of Queensland lepers (nearly
all from sugar-districts) discovered during the year
ended June, 1899 : English 3, Danish 1, Queens-
landers 1, aboriginals 2, Chinese 1, Pacific
Islanders 14. Nine came from Mackay. No
wonder the Government had the Mackay kanakas
inspected by medical officers lately.
A UTILITARIAN.
SMITH : “ Well, Jacobs, I heard you were goiny to
enlist for service in the Transvaal."
JACOBS: “ Vot rot! Vy, if I did kill a Boer I
couldn't eat him.”
Be that “ early-closing ” fining of a barber
at Horsham, Vic. (8., 30/0/’99), what The Bul-
letin anticipated this sort of thing might come to
has since happened in Geelong, where the offend-
ing razorist’s customer was actually compelled to
leave the shop with only one side of his face
shaven. Not that it matters much. A man who
cuts things so fine deserves to be half-shaved.
* * * *
According to official documents there were
80 bodies in the old Williamstown cemetery. The
Railway Department has dug up no less than
950.
An attorney’s clerk the other day told The
Bulletin that in a Sydney court, long before
a case is concluded, experienced solicitors
will tell you exactly the verdict of the jury.
There are certain manual positions which signal
how things are going. One position means
“Guilty,” another “Not guilty.” Then there
are positions indicating “Disagreement,” “Work-
ing hard,” “ Just a chance,” “ No hope,” “ Fight
for all you’re worth,” “ Cut it short,” “ Leave
that line alone.” These signals are always sent
with the utmost caution, and are so simple that
only one who knows would have any idea of a
message passing from the jury box to the advo-
cates’ table.
Sleath, M.L.A., on the Sydney jury-
squaring industry :
The jurymen of Sydney have a trades-union ... a co-
operative society—and if any of your relatives get into a
tight corner, and have rio hope of getting off if justice is
done, you may see hanging about the courts a number of
men who will say. “Well, how much can you give to
make a certainty of it” ; and if you can bid up to their
figure they make some mystic signs to the chaps in the
box, and it is all right ; there is no conviction. That is
done regularly.
Query : Does the jury-squarer arrange for con-
victions against the weight of evidence, as well
as for acquittals ? Presumably the thing works
both ways, so long as it is worth anybody’s while
to pay for a conviction. And when the wrong
man is accused it is always worth the right man’s
while to get him convicted and thus end the
matter to the public satisfaction. Besides,
almost every man has some acquaintance whom
it would pay bijxi to have out of the way.
Mel b .
“push” in-
cident:—
Peaceful lit-
tle citizen,
returning by
night to his
humble
home in
“The Port”
is waylaid in
a dark street
by s i x or
seven
“ pebs,” and
“socked’’ all
over the
road. Pre-
sent 1 y ,
whilst the
push is rest-
ing its hoofs,
one of them
makes a dis-
cover y—
“ Gor bli me,
this aint the
right covey!”
The acting
head strikes
a match, and
investigates.
“Strike me
purple,
neither it
ain’t ! ” he
remarks with
infinite dis-
gust, “ never
see this bloke
in ine life be-
fore.” Then
planting his
toe heavily in
the ribs of
the prostrate
m an, ho
snorts indig-
nant 1 y
“ T h a t ’ s
keeps, for in-
terferin' in
other peo-
ples’ bi z-
ness ! ”
* *
Hughen-
den (N.Q.)
folk are des-
pera t e 1 y
proud of a
patient in
the local hos-
pital. Hi s
list of casual-
ties : Right
hand broken
in two
places, left
hand broken
in t h re e ;
laid up nine
months with
broken
ankle.
Wheel of a
fully-1 a d en
waggon
passed over
iiis stomach,
but didn’t
kill him.
Latest trou-
ble—a dray with four tons of timber crushed his
hand almost into pulp, necessitating amputation.
* * « *
Of one thing The Bulletin is quite sure :
when the existing Sydney cable-trams have given
place to electric-cars passengers will be deeply
sorry. The electric tram is cheaper—that is
why, in America, where private companies
are allowed to grind dividends out of their
sweated employes’ bones, it has been so widely
adopted. But, in point of comfort, the electric
system can in no way compare with the cable.
Electric traction is noisy, jerky, rushing and
bumping; comparatively speaking, thb cable-ear
glides smoothly, softly, like .a sailing-ship befo
a hght breeze; and, beside*, the electric systeffi
is comparatively unsafe. The Ocean-street oable-
tram is paying excellent dividends to Govern-.
ment, and it will be a pity to alter it for the sake,
of an extra ss. per cent! Sydneyite who wants
effectively compare the two systems has offiy
to cable .tfroniKmg-strc-et to Ocean-street, and
then step into the electric-tram to Rose Bay.
•*. * *
Coincidence reached its long arm out after
a Vic. family a few weeks ago. The father and
two sons were camped near timber on a windy
night. A tree came down over the tent, killing
the father, and pinning one son under the ruins.
g tm No. 2 ill the endeavor to extricate his brother
upset a billy of boiling water over his foot, scalding
himself badly. Assistance was obtained, and the
fcwo su ff erers removed for medical aid, a third
brother being wired for. He arrived the following
got a kick from the faithful steed which laid him
on his back beside the other two, with a badly
damaged leg. Two sisters were also smnmoned,
a nd in driving down were upset from a gig, and
added to the list. Up to date the remaining
unhurt member of the family has been able to sue*
cessfully dodge misfortune,
* * * *
Greek Gipsies have been playing-up
a{ . Warrnambool (Vic.), the Mayor of which place
fch e y p U t to ignominious flight with firebrands,
when he went to re monstrate with them about
gome o{ t h e j r p i ea sing little ways. The wanderers
have consequently been once more severely moved
cu.
THE END OF BROTHERHOOD.
SHE : “ How came Dick and Harry to fall out? They were such yreat friends."
HE : “ Easily explained. Their wives became acquainted .”
Grimly humorous, death - notice from
Hawkt's Bay (M.L.) Herald:
. —At the Western Spit on Octoher 8,
Mmol He'ona. infant daughter of , aged 9
weeks. “ Suffer little children to come unto me.”—
T. Durnky, undertaker.
“ To rue! ”
THE BAD OLD
MAN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vic.
For the fools who still are youthful
One is sparing of disgust,
Be they profligates unruthful,
Or light revellers in lust,
We regard their passing fancies
With a calm, forgiving eye,
For we know they all have chances
To get moral by-and-bye.
But. in fact, as well as fable,
Since the Universe was born,
Since the sun and moon were lighted
To betoken night and morn,
Common sense has ever told us
There's no blot on Nature's plan
So aborn-abominable
As the Bad Old Man.
Then, in honest dog’rcl verses,
Ere we mingle with the mould,
Let us hurl our hardest curses
At the vices of the Old —
At the blackguard, bent and hoary.
Who sardonically leers
As he tells a ribald story
To a pal of tender years,
In the language of the stable —
At the pantaloons who buy
Little feeble fledgling “ birdies ”
With a richly-gilded lie.
’Tis a duty and a pleasure
Th us to fulminate our ban,
So abom-abomin-able
Is the Bad Old Man.
We, who vent this indignation,
Are but sixty-five, or so :
We enjoy our dissipation
As in days of long ago :
We are middle-aged as ever
When we toddle round the town,
And our hair-dye — well, you never
Saw a better shade of broivn.
If we slip beneath the table,
As on gala-nights we may,
You will find us sternly sober
Like a learned judge next day.
And we warn our giddy elders \
That their life is but a span :
Yea, abom-abom-inable
Is the Bad Old Mttn.
E.F.


Spring BOdS l?av/€ BOrSt
at
MRRK FOY’S!
A Riot of LoVlil)cSS.
All Drapers Everywhere.
It is encouraging to notice in a recent number
of Pearson’s Weekly that the public in England were
appreciating the South Australian invention, the “ Alba-
tross Lamp Wick.” They endorse all that is claimed for
it, viz., “ that it requires no trimming,” saves oil, gives
better light, and is far safer.*
Rcrsj^njb^r!
THAT YOU WILL ALWAYS OBTAIN
THE BEST VALUE
IN DRESS FABRICS,
IN STYLISH GOWNS,
IN NEW MILLINERY,
IN FUR TRIMMINGS,
IN FEATHER BOAS,
IN HOUSE LINENS,
IN RELIABLE GLOVES,
IN REAL Irish Linen HANDKERCHIEFS,
IN WARM UNDERWEAR,
IN REAL GOOD HOSIERY,
IN MANTLES, JACKETS, CAPES,
IN LACES, RIBBONS, and
EVERYTHING FASHIONABLE.
W. T. WATERS & CO,
Ladies’ and Children’s Outfitters,
King & George Streets, SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS liav ° wo E< i uai -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ ~ Sydney, October 23, 1899.
My Deah Myeb,—'
Maud MacCarthy’s concert was the only green
spot man otherwise arid week. The season came
to an end with a couple of hops—the Fleet Ball,
and a big private dance at Wahroonga; but
oociety made one last effort to attend this much-
talked-of recital, and fitted tightly into the five-
shiihng seats. Other parts of the house were only
fairly filled—frightened away by the Kreutzer
bonata, perhaps, and the strictly-classic selection
of Maud’s first programme. And, speaking of
classic, what could be in worse keeping with a
violinist of this girl’s quiet intellectual calibre
than the florid, patent-pill advertising that set
forth her merits?
A little pale-blue liberty frock took the place of
the white muslin we have always had with us. It :
was a skimpy little garment, high-waisted, and
not as short as you might have feared, with a
deep yoke of fine lace, elbow-sleeves, and a posy of
roses tucked in at the waist. Pale-blue shoes,
and pale-blue stockings went with this. Straight
fair hair brushed back from the forehead and tied
behind, uncurled and uncrimped. A thin little
serious face, looking rather sun-browned against
the blue frock, no eyes for the audience, and a well-
trained bow—there you have the young fiddler
said to be going out to oust Joachim.
As for her playing, the first piece was delightful,
for Mendelssohn doesn’t get into the deep-sea
storms of some composers, and the thin childish
arm was able to interpret gracefully, and with
meaning, and a thoughtful strain of tenderness
that could never have been bought from a music-
master. This characterises her playing always,
and is repeated in the quiet intent face bent over
the fiddle. No fireworks and gymnastics, and a
remarkably true, pure tone. Encored, of course,
for the Mendelssohn, and after a heavy rain of
flowers—by the way. floral tributes are* getting
immensely large in baskets; the size is approach-
ing clothes-baskets; and in bouquets, it now
takes half the performers to haul them off the
stage. To start this sentence afresh—after the
heavy rain aforesaid she tripped out and played
in a sweet religious way a thrilling little thing of
Schumann’s.
But the Kreutzer Sonata—and Miss Irene
Fletcher, in yellow silk, at the piano—well, the
Kreutzer wasn’t written for “ the Young Person ”
to listen to, according to Tolstoi, and it doesn’t
need Tolstoi to tell the world that it was never
written for two young persons to play. Miss
Fletcher’s piano accompaniment was colorless and
crude, and she danced in her seat and bent her
front hair against the music-book in a way that
was truly painful to look at. Maud’s interpreta-
tion was intellectual and sweet, but always savored
of the nice “ Young Person ” —never the wicked
Kreutzer. The rest of the programme was sup-
plied by Lemmone, who thoughtlessly refused an
encore; Miss Rooney, Mr. Burns Walker, and
Miss Irene Fletcher, whose jigging-elbow style—
I hear she is a Fanny Davies pupil—doesn’t re-
flect too much lustre on her mistress. For my
part, I should think it would always give anyone
pleasure to hear Maud MacCarthy play, and there
can’t be two opinions about the satisfaction of
watching her. She only looks at the audience
when she comes out. Playing, she seems wrapped
in a psychic mist, and when the violin ceases
never raises her eyes, but bends her head quickly,
and slips hastily off the platform. No, nothing
could be more at variance with Maud MacCarthy,
her cultured playing, her taste in music, her ap-
Eearance and platform manners, than the Maud
laeCarthy of the Interview and Advertisement.
_ After watching a good many instrumental ar-
tists, one comes to the conclusion that the man or
woman who can keep the mouth straight and
“ pretty,” through a big piece of work, is no good.
When you see a mouth getting uglier and uglier,
twisting down at one corner, and making the
cheek bag-out underneath, sometimes biting, some-
times sucking, sometimes open vacuously, some-
times unconsciously spread out in a savage leer,
there’s your artist, or chance of an artist, particu-
larly if it’s a woman who is so far forgetting herself,
as to look awful when she plays divinely.
By the way, Woman’s Life (which will be
the death of somebody sure enough), dictates that
the fashion in mouths is to have a large one. The
rosebud has gone right out of flower—too uselessly
ornamental for an age when all the Women Do
for themselves ; although, mind you, rosebud lips
do very well for other people. And then Wo-
man’s Life goes on to say that we must keep
our lips apart, and look innocent, if we want to
be fashionable and up-to-date. A world of women
with big mouths slightly open—that must fill
man’s dream henceforth.
But Mrs. Maesinore Morris—Australia’s love-
liest example of the rosebud type—doesn’t seem to
find herself out of it in London. She got an en-
gagement very quickly. I saw a photo, of her
lately, taken in Sydney before she left, in a match-
girl’s get-up. “In case I have to take to that in
London,” was her comment on the photograph.
All that is left of Society is vigorously discuss-
ing that affair of the Fleet Ball, when a Sydney
Jirl (who hadn’t been axed) went in as Mrs. (say)
ones on Mr. Jones and wife’s invitation card, the
genuine Mrs. Jones being unable to attend.
This season has been quite remarkable for the
fewness of its private dances, and Mrs. J. T.
Toohey’s brilliant house-ball, given at Innisfail
last week, was a refreshing change after all the
“ present-card ’’ hops, where the Best people
squabble publicly over invitations, and nobody
gets a chance to turn round three times in succes-
Sion. Mrs. Toohey’s house is just the one
for a ball roses and palms decked the
ball - room, and supper was served in the
billiard-room made beautiful with pink roses
and lilies, and the moonlit grounds well,
grounds are very important at a ball.
Crowds of people went up from Sydney, coming
back by special train. Society showed discretion
by wearing its best frock, for it really matters
what you wear at a private dance. If you have
anything particularly passee always wear it out
at a big crowded public ball where nobody sees
anybody. Mrs. Toohey played hostess in a lovely
frock of black net and black pailettes, and dia-
monds, and a long white feather in her white
hair: there is nothing smarter for white hair
than white feathers. Her sister, Miss Egan,
was also in black, touched up with geranium pink.
Pretty women abounded: Miss Wade-Brown,
Miss bee, Miss Elsie Austin, Mrs. Tom Rolin, Mrs.
Dicken, Miss Irene Marks and many others, and
when 1 say that the conservatories were open all
over the gardens, also, strawberry - and - cream
resorts, and staircases, you will understand what
a particularly jolly dance farewelled the season.
The Ome brand of loyalty seems to be the ordi-
nary land of thing that might be mistaken for
snobbery in clear daylight. I have just been
perusing pensively thirty-two cuttings from thirty-
two English, Irish and Scottish papers. Some time
ago the Bulletin held its sides over the Sydney
bazaar that exhibited a pair of Her Gracious’s
stockings as an allurement to Sydney snobocracy.
Ihirty-two papers for certain (and no doubt
a lot more) copied that news from The Bul-
letin. All over England, all over Scotland,
all over Ireland, the news travelled that Sydney,
away in N.S.W., was drawing people into a
bazaar by the Queen’s stockings. “Remarkable
exhibition of loyalty.” “Quaint and touching
loyalty m the colonies,’’ were some of the thirty-
two comments. They do seem to take things
seriously in England. Still more serious were
other papers. They couldn't believe it. They
really couldn’t. Anything so vulgar. Queen’s
stockings! Queen of Spain’s legs ! Church
bazaar! Anything so impossible! “We are
tongue-tied,” they' said, but managed to achieve a
solemn dissertation on the awful manners and
customs of those terrible people in the colonies.
The Bulletin was always amused over those
stockings. And now it hardly knows whether to
be glad or sad or simply mad that Australian
Snobbery is so much fatter and ranker, and more
aggressive, and unwholesome, and tedious than
the English' brand. For the Sydney press set
forth the Royal hose quite seriously. Sydney
people rushed to see them. Only The Bulletin
and a few English papers saw anything—well,
peculiar, and out of the ordinary run of life where
man may not eat peas with his knife, nor put his
boots on his hostess’ mantelpiece—in the idea of
asking the public to pay a shilling to come and
gaze on any woman’s undergarments.
From Brisbane Telegraph I glean the latest
way of detailing wedding presents in print. (The
Telegraph was describing the wealthy Wesleyan
wedding that absolutely bristled with titles and
“hons” last month, and was advertised all over
Queensland.) The list of the presents went under
headings. First, there was Solid Silver; then
came (oh ! what a fall was there !) Silver-plated ;
then, Glass and China; finally, books and miscel-
laneous, such as fur boas, and hand-made d’oyleys.
Oh, the anguish of Sir John and Lady Jones when
they find their tea-spoons branded silver-plated in
the eyes of the world ! On the other hand, imagine
the beatitude of seeing your name the only one
under the heading “ Pure Gold ! ” I wonder if one
little plain gold pin would be enough to get your
name emblazoned in that isolated glory.
It seems terribly risky, if the bride is a silly
young person who doesn’t know silver-plated from
solid silver, and rebels at the idea of having to
slave over her presents all the day before the
wedding, biting hundreds of tea-spoons, looking
into ever so many gross of butter-dishes, tapping
mustard-pots and pepper-castors without end, and
finally putting Charlie’s uncle Samuel’s hot water
jug in the plated list, and for ever cutting off all
hope of expectations.
From Coolgardie comes the sorrowful news of
the death of Mrs. Ellis, an extremely popular
Sydney woman, wife of Dr. “ Harry ” Ellis,
formerly of Double Bay. Mrs. Ellis was the
daughter of Mr. William Spier, well-known in
coal and shipping circles. She was one of the few
really brilliant Australian women, highly edu-
cated, and highly intelligent. She talked well
about everything, and her unpretentious Syd-
ney home was the nearest genuine approach
to a salon known in this city. She accom-
panied her husband West some years ago,
but was obliged to return after a severe attack
of typhoid. Later on, despite her always
indifferent health, she faced the climate again,
and has been living in Coolgardie for the last
three years with her husband. Influenza, which
is raging over there, was the cause of her death, I
am told.
I hear that Miss Pedley’s book, “ Dot and the
Kangaroo,” will be out soon. Miss Woolley is
looking after its publication, and will give what
proceeds accrue to the Pedley Scholarship,
founded in Miss Pedley’s memory, to assist Aus-
tralian singers and players.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At that charity dpll-sale at the Princess (Oct.
20), Auctioneer Fisken, lamenting the non-appear-
ance of male defaulters who had promised to roll
up and knock down their cheques, sounded plain-
tive as a parson bewailing the home-staying sins
of he-parishioners. Dolls dressed by Vane, Perry
and Co., not to speak of ballet-belles, tempted
gilded Johnnies to shed neither blood nor money.
Goods, not secured by charitable society dames,
were mostly bought up by theatricals to keep one
another in countenance. Florence Perry’s “Jewel
of Asia ” brought top price—eleven guineas. The
buyer was Mrs. W. R. Wilson. Actor Pauli was
to the fore as a bidder, so was Dr. Jeff Wood, of
the Children’s Hospital, in aid of which institu-
tion the sale was held.
“At the Doll Sale, Dorothy Yane, in pale-green
silk and white chiffon, was the dressiest member
of a, hen and chicken coterie, which included
Minister Best’s two short-frocked daughters. The
trim Perry sisters, in transparent bodices over
blue, and blue-spotted skirts of grey silk, made
merry in the stage box.
“The first time Ma Mie Rosette walked the
Princess boards, Vincent (Joseph Tapley) was to
Henri of Navarre (Brownlow) as a tiny currant in
a slice of cake is to the same morsel’s most promi-
nent plum. In the present production things are
reversed. Kenningham as a tuneful peasant com-
pletely outclasses Pauli in the part of the ‘gallant
king.’ In the sweet long ago, local damsels who
gushed over Browiilow’s ‘English eyes’ were wont
to fancy that the orbs in question blazed their
bluest in the owner's Navarre role, an illusion due,
maybe, to indigoed eyelids. At no time does the
warning ‘from the glance of his eye, shun danger
and fly ! ’ apply to Pauli, while first night, thanks
to influenza, the poor soul was even more cramped
than usual in the item ‘ windows of the soul.’
“When scheming Navarre gives Rosette
(Florence Perry) a shake-down in his chateau, he
lends her whatever she lacks, not having meant to
stay all night. In consequence, the visitor ex-
plores the premises later on, in such a long-waisted
night-gown as never was, evidently built for a
bigger wearer.. It looks as if the Royal brute, in
dealing with his Old love (Nina Osborne) had added
insult to injury by taking French leave of her
things to supply his new srr.all-sized poppet. As
a woman of spirit Corisandre presumably doctors
the lent haberdashery or makes an apple-pie bed
for her rival. Anyhow, the usurper, so far from
sleeping roams the cold passages in the small
hours. These after-dark wanderings in a strange
house without so much as a precautionary dress-
ing-gown, seem new-womanish. But this scribe,
who once occupied a cabin next trip after a
‘professor of music,’ can excuse the restless
Rosette. You may break, you may shatter that
bunk if you will. But the scent of the hair oil
will linger there still !
“The midnight riot raised by the village belle’s
rival sweethearts brings out all the chateau ladies
in smart sleeping-suits, while the men, more
modest even than the nursery-rhyme male prude,
who “went to bed with his breeches on,” have
apparently turned in, doublets and all, wrapping
themselves in extra rugs at the first mention of
burglars.
“Picturesque night-wear for stage heroes has
yet to be invented. White calico kilts and flan-
nelette pyjamas are alike impossible. Heroines
affect Grecian garb, but on a darkened stage, a
lump of a lad heaped with ghostly drapery would
resemble a white elephant. In the Potter-Bellew
“Chamber scene,” Romeo, in tight velvet smalls
and a floppy white blouse, looked like “giddy-
giddy Gout whose shirthangs out.” Still, it’s in-
congruous to see the harassed maiden persecuted
o’ nights by a bold bad admirer trigged to the
nines, even to ruffles and Royal insignia. ••
“The Firm’s musical conductor, Leon Caron,
claims to have healed the breach between Ada
Reeve and Bert Gilbert, while he was in London
lately. He kissed Ada (observe how these theatri-
cal folks kiss each other on the slightest provoca-
tion), and as Bert was passing at the time, Caron
invited him to come and have one. Hubby
thought he would, and Caron stood by and said,
“Bless you, my children! ”
“Conductor Caron, in his recent published
utterances on the condition of the European
musical stage, omits to give his private opinion of
Melba. According to his remarks to friends since
his return, the divine Nellie is now out of form
and is singing manifestly flat.
“I haven’t one of the new skirts myself, and I
have been wondering all this afternoon how one
gets in and out of them. There is apparently no
placket-hole, and they narrow down the hips, and
spread out again below the knees, and they grasp
the round outline boldly—the rounder the outline
the greater the wonder how the owner got in. A
society afternoon tea showed me all manner of
figures, the stout wrapped in by stays, the thin
padded. The rise and fall of the hips in walking
so attracts the eye, that being a woman one
wonders ‘What on earth the men think, my dear.’
“This is the age of empty show ! Embroidered
pillow-shams in the best bedroom cajole visitors
into believing that their hostess nightly lays her
head on fine linen. With every frock goes an
ornate, moveable flounce to match, to be buttoned
to a plain under-skirt, enabling the suburban
woman to ruffle it with the best in seeming
‘ petticoats ’ of muslin and lace or silk and chiffon.
“ The story of how Lili Sharp came to switch a
skirt train, and coil the adult coiffure is a sweetly-
simple one. She was having a new dress (white
of course) built to order. ‘ I did not tell them
how long to make it,’ pouts the artless young
thing, ‘ because I expected them to take the
length from the last short frock they made for my
coming-out. And they sent it home with a train.
Fancy a great long train ! So Mrs. Doubleday
advised me to put my hair up then .’
“In many a draper’s aocount-book are written
the names of the two feminine belongings of Mr.
Smith or Mr. Jones, and often the trade is
seriously puzzled as to which is the bona-fide Mrs.
Smith, and which the other person. Men of might
in the city seem to actually permit the fair friends
whose chiffon bills they settle to use their names.
Of course, the city man settles the dubious chiffon
accounts, and the suburban householder the family
one ; but the drapers are careful, and never by any
mischance send one to t’other. At least there have
not been any accidents of that kind reported.
“ A marvellously self-possessed young woman
was seated in a window in Collins-street to-day,
arranging a dummy’s hair in all possible fashions.
The thing was a splendid advt. for the Fin de
Siecle Comb Co. But what a poor doddering
sheep the public is ! Why was it interested in the
way a young woman does her back hair ? It had
no intention of copying her ; it just gathered in a
block on the pavement and gaped. And a few
weeks back a shop in Elizabeth-street exhibited a
chain, dug up in Williamstown, which had been
carved from a solid piece of wood by some con-
vict. The first links were rough, but the last
were perfect. It was a fine and curious piece of
work, and carried one back, and swept a chill
air of romance and dull misery from those for-
gotten days into these prosaic ones. But the
crowd ignored the chain ; it preferred the girl with
a comb.
“Consider the exquisite taste of the woman
who, at a “novel-tea,” recently given by a promi-
nent doctor, appeared with a couple of “fine-
combs ” dangling from herneck, to represent “The
Scalp Hunters.” For vulgarity, this beats even
the Epsom Salts for “ A Disturbing Element.”
“Recently in the Royal d.c. were those firm
friends, Carrie Moore and Cesca Vollugi. The
former, a little dark slip of a thing with brown
eyes, fluffy hair, and as much twitter and vivacity
as this season’s sparrow, or more like one’s pre-
conceived notion of a damsel of Italian descent
than her placid, buxom, golden-haired comrade.
“In the ‘Bird cage ’ at Caulfield, last Wednes-
day, a dude who is visiting Melbourne to see the
gee-gees, dontcherknow, made the Melbourne
dandies’hair stand on end by smoking his cigar-
ette while he chatted to Lady Brassey—in fact,
talking while he held the weed negligently be-
tween his teeth ! One supposes that he was a
very distinguished Johnnie armed with the very
latest London mannahs.
“ The Municipal Association of Victoria and its
wife were entertained in the usual swagger style
of the Softgoods Sargoods, at ‘ Rippon Lea, ’ last
Thursday. A garden-party was mentioned on the
cards, but a sing-song, a whiff of rose-blooms, and
tea and wine-cups proved to be the bill of fare.
The ‘ motley gatherers ’ sac-coatbd, horny-
handed, for the most part —sat open-mouthed,
taking in the architectural beauty of ‘Rippon
Lea,’ and afterwards asking themselves whether
the surrounding grounds were the Melbourne
Botanical Gardens or the picnic-side of the Zoo ?
The grand organ in the ballroom that one hears so
much about cost a matter of £4OO, while a rockery
and waterfall in the grounds covered an expendi-
ture of £4OOO. God save the rag-trade !
“ S’Rupert Clarke is off to South Africa, to get
in the neighborhood of the Boers, in preference to
the aggravating bores of his Melbourne circle of
friends. Sassiety, that saw so little of the boyish
baronet, does not feel like going into compli-
mentary weeds at the sad event. His brilliant
wife at the other end of the gay world still hovers
over the honey-pots of ’Ome pleasures.
“ The loyal tradesman of the jubilee period used
to illuminate his wall with ‘Sixty years of a
blameless life. Prime sausages Bd. a lb.’ Or
‘God bless our noble Queen. Pants from 12s. 6d.’
Now he has seized upon the contingent’s leaving
for the Transvaal to further advertise his wares.
In Melb. nearly every grocer, fruiterer and pork-
butcher has made some offer bringing his name
into the papers, while, higher in the scale, lawyers
ape offering to make the wills of the ‘thin brown
line ’ free of charge. Dentists are offering to stop
their teeth, and Bones and Co., the grisly under-
takers, are announcing their willingness to bury
free of charge such heroes as are carted back. The
trail of the slimy advertiser is over the whole
affair, from the ‘statesmanlike action ’ of Premier
Turner to the purveyor of the £4 10s. funeral.
And the poor, plucky, glory-drunken, lads, who
are going to face the Boer bullets, think the senti-
ment is genuine and is going to continue for ever.
“A local hospital doctor, hitherto looked upon as
a confirmed bachelor, has recently announced his
engagement. The Benedict-to-be is lank and
dark, and not outwardly lovely, but fair patients
pronounce his deportment to chloroform patients
‘delicious.’ An anresthetist can’t be considered
competent till he develops a caressing manner and
a convincing knack of murmuring ‘Poor child,’
‘ Well done, little woman,’ Brave girl, &e.
\ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
The Largest Life Insurance Company in the
World, having insurance in force of over
£206,000,000.
CHIEF OFFICES
for the Department of Australasia •
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
Aawita Wanted. General Manager.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. 2—The Postman.
A rural postman writes : “ I desire to add this
unsolicited testimony to the sterling qualities of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. lam a rural postman,
and exposed to nil kinds of weather. I have used
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa daily this last eleven
months, and I believe that I can do my work with
less fatigue since I have used it. I can honestly
recommend to my fellow postmen Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa for its sustaining qualities.”
Of late years many new manufactures, rejoicing
in a multiplicity of names, have been brought
before the public notice, but there are none which
have bounded into favor so readily as has Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. Throughout the country its
sales have increased with great rapidity, and an
article which only a few years back was unheard
of has now become one of the most popular
beverages of the people.
Merit, and merit alone, is what is claimed for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the proprietors are
prepared to send to any reader who names Tub
Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty sample tin
of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa freo and post paid.
There is no magic in all this. It is a plain,
honest, straightforward offer. It is done to intro-
duce the merits of Vi-Cocoa into every home.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, as a concentrated form of
nourishment and vitality, is invaluable; nay,
more than this, for to all who wish to face the
strife and battle of life with greater endurance and
more sustained exertion, it is absolutely indis-
pensable.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 2GD George-street, Syduoy.*
“ D C.L.,”
When applied to a man, is a high academic dis-
tinction. When applied to Whisky, “ J).C.L.”ia
the highest distinction 'tom possess. “ D.C.li.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.*
Durban, Natal, October 18th. The latent
from the seat of war. The British on the defen-
sive, waiting reinforcements, but ZETZ SPA at
the front and driving all others out of the market.*
JLorimcr’s
Compound S>/nip of 11 i/pophospliites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Souk Agent kok N.S.W.:
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard's Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
|3F" A Revolution In Sterilisers.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
TREE BY POST.
QUATD'S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/0 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. LIQU.NTCASTLE Ss SONS, •Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier Forrest (W.A.) delivered his 10th
consecutive Budget speech tho other weok. An
Australian record.
“ Banjo ” Paterson goes to the Transvan!
with the N.S.W. contingent batcli of disin-
terested man-slayers. He will write to S.M.
Herald.
Recently “ passed over ” —a fino old boy,
in the person of Ur. Pratt, N.S. W. medico and
mining-developer. Sydney literary solicitor Am
brose Pratt, is a son of Ur. Pratt.
Jack Annear, member for Maryborough,
Q., has more adipose tissue than Queen’s English,
His face was a picture when Lenina, M.P., said in
Q. Assembly—“ As the member for Mary boro’
would say, “ Uear Hold Ilingland ”
Hori Grey, who spout only seven years in
Capotown, is to bo commemorated there by a
scholarship valued at X'.iMO, while Maori land,
where he spent the best years of his life, wriggles
to escape putting up one-half of that stun.
At the banquet to Gov. Lnmington on his
temporary (or permanent) retirement from Queens-
land, Premier Uicksun hailed 11 is Ex. as the lirsb
Gov.-General of Federated Australia. As well
might Dickson have named himself first Federal
Premier.
The South Australian member has got one
step nearer to his proper level. 11 is free railway-
pass used to describe him as John James Jones,
Eaq., M.P. This Parliament the “Esq.” lias
disappeared ; he is simply J. J. Jones, M.P., and
he is going to be kept at that.
The Aoe is much the more fatuously and
furiously loyal of the two Melbourne dailies in
connection with the Transvaal pillage. “The
Queen can do no wrong ” is Syme’s motto, and the
least.Jler Gracious can do is to justify his faith by
providing David with a baronetcy.
Lyne is the second N.S. W. Premier to
sport the front name “Bill.” Forster, 40 years
ago, was proud of his front “ monniker.” There
were also two Henry’s—Barkos and Barker, and
two Jameses—Martin and Farnell, and two
Georges—Dibbs and lleid, and, among others, one
Pat—Jennings.
The big dailies of Sydney and Melbourne
are sharing correspondents in the Transvaal.
S.M. H kualii goes halves with the Argus in Mr.
Donald Macdonald, of tho latter paper; and
Sydney Daily Tei-kgrai’ii joins with the Age in
sending Mr. W. J. Lambio to the seat of war.
Sydney E. X kws sends Mr. Horace H. Spooner
“ on its own.”
Died the other day a lady, one of the three
or four descendants of the partners in a Sydney
trading firm which
was famous from the
’3o’s to the ’GO’s—the
Woolleys. Wool and
gold export lopped
off nicely a fortune
already built on a
solid foundation of
imports. The recent
death marks the ex-
traordinary change
that has passed over
Sydney in less
than a genera-
tion. Till the
late ’GO’s, the
large houses in
Cumberland and
Fort streets were
the abode of “big
people; ” now
they are, in the
former street
anyhow, of the
slums slummy.
The Woolleys'
homo used to
be the resort
of all tiie
“Dawes
Point
gentry,” and
among the
habitues wcro Ed-
mund Barton, his
brother George .Burnett
(the historian), and D.
S. Mitchell, who made
the memorable gift of Isis library to the public.
These young men used to play cricket on the
battery, the stumps being fixed by the graves
of two soldiers shot for mutiny.
During a more or less recent big Parlia-
mentary debate, the lender of the Government
came on the scene filled with emotion and light
refreshments. After various vacuous remarks
and much flourishing of arms, he was led away
protesting “ Waz/.ermnz/.e—lmalri! ” The Daily
Suppress did its duty faithfully. Unlike his pre-
decessors, the “offender” gets into hiccoughs
quickly. They could plant a bottleful without
ever turning a hair.
Neil Lewis, the new Tas. Premier, is
absolutely the worst speaker who ever held high
office in any Australian Parliament. Every
alternate word is “ah,” or “er,” or “urn,” or
ah um, or er-ah-tun,” and the other words
sound like Brother Petrie feelingly warning sin
ners to flee from the wrath-to-come. A sound
lawyer; a I ory to the verge of pomposity; narrow
but straight-. And even in Tasmania straight-
ness is nowadays a jewel scarce enough to bo
valuable.
At the inquiry into the doings of Cant.
Miles as Master Warden of Strahan (Tas.)
Marine Board, some remarkable statements were
made. One of them was Miles’ solemn declara-
tion that he didn’t recognise the tender of
“Stocks and Co.” as being in his own daughter’s
handwriting. Another was that he didn’t think
there was anything remarkable about that tender,
which purported to be signed at Sydney on 13th
April, being in Strahan, at the far-end of Tas-
mania, some clays before the 17th.
A TRAGEDY IN HIGH LIFE.
(By “ Hop. ’s” Understudy.)
They were the lest of friends, but unfortunately
they got into argument as to whether white or [?]k
ties were the most swagger for evening dress. One
of 'em, you may notice, wears a straw hat with a
brim like a buzz-saw.
"No, sir," said the one with the straw hat,
shaking Ins head excitedly, "I don't agree with
you."
And then the other lost his head completely, and,
of course, got the wont of the argument. If ever
argue with a friend about tr[?]les, I say.
Soino papers seem to think that the six
attempts of Miller (Premier Lync’s late opponent)
to get into Parliament constitute a record for
Australasia ; but it has been equalled by Carson,
now a member of the M.L. House of lieps., who
was only successful on his seventh try. Corson
stood for Wanganui four times against John Bal-
ia nee, and thiice ran Ballance’s successor,
Wills, alio is to oppose him at the present general
election.
Bishop Green, of Armidale, the would ho
Transvaal chaplain volunteer, is not, as lias been
stated, an Australian native. lie was English-
born, but arrived in Victoria in boyhood. 11, d
Bishop (Been gone (and his application was ac-
cepted by N.S. W. Colonial Secretary), thcro would
have been three bishops acting as chaplains in the
Transvaal war. The Bishop of Pretoria, and the
Bishop of Bloemfontein arc already in the field
on Kruger’s side. Bishop Green is an LL.D. of
Sydney University.
“ A BROWN ’E 'EADS ’EM!"
Gov. Gerard Smith, whose Westralian
business transactions excite comment, is still
member of tlm linn of Smith Brothers and Co.,
bankers. Hull (Eng ). lie retained his conned ion
with tins firm while serving as Lieut.-Colonel of
the Scots Guards and Groom in Waiting to the
Queen, and when he retires from W.A. will go
into active banking again.
Captain “Bill” Hopkins, who goes to
Safrica as doctor to the Vic. contingent, had a
grandmotherly parson for his father—hence his
bloodthirstiness perhaps. William was an
Adelaide ’Varsity student, who just missed the
valuable South Aust. scholarship by a point ;
then went to Molb. like so many other Adelaide
students, and “ took up” medicine.
Recent frequent reference to the lost
Leichhardt calls attention to the fact that the
remains of Roper, the last-known survivor of the
party, occupy in Merriwa cemetery a grave with-
out memorial stone or oven enclosure. A Sydney
D.T correspondent, in starting a subscription to
remedy this, truly observes that where the sensa-
tional element is lacking the pnbhc doesn't care a
rap.
“T. Salt ” : Mot George Rignold once in
a Turkish bath, and he had the limelight on him
even there, it was the only thing he had on him.
When we emerged from the boiling down room
dlcuv were three vacant slabs. A solitary ray of
light straggled through the skylight across one of
t mm, and Henry Veo at once deposited himself
there to bo soaped and planed down. It was
instinct, I suppose.
Evangelist Yatman lias a businesslike de-
vice for encouraging the collection at his little
meetings. When the plate is about to go round
he cries “Begin up here.” Then the collector
goes tripping joyfully to Yatman, as though the
“ gag ” had taken him by surprise, and Yatman
planks half-a-crown on the green baize by way of
shaming the miserable sinners out of their inten-
tion to let themselves off with a “ thrippenny.”
W. T. Kench, who at the outset stood
almost alone again-t the .Jingo ft.ver in Perth, is,
curiously, the successor of E. T. Dunstan, who,
not content to be clerical curser-in chief of the
liners in his Sydney tabernacle, has travelled to
Melbourne and Adelaide on the same peaceful
mission. Kench is a young man ,with some good
experience—in London shuns and in Broken Hill
in its most democratic days—and is brainier than
most pulpit punchers of the muscular type.
One of the Vic. officers who goes to South
Africa is not remarkable for the much-belauded
soldierly quality of obedience to and respect for
his superior. On one occasion his senior gave
him the lie, and he promptly “laid-out” that
cold, proud personage with a left on the point.
There was a court-in irtial, and the stricken
officer, desirous of letting the young man down
light, said that he probably act>*d oil impulse and
didn't mean it. “Oh. didn’t I?” blurted the
promising warrior, “call uie a liar and I’ll floor
you again.”
If the S S. Islands must have missionaries
from Australia they may as well have decent ones.
Rev. Patou, junior, recently in Sydney, is a chip
of the old block and about as good a specimen of
Australian as you’ll see. lie plays all games he
understands, makes no difference between blacks
and whites, goes barefooted, bareheaded, and, on
occasions, wears scant raiment ; runs a race with
anybody, leaps from a raft with anybody, climbs
a tree with anybody ; but asks at theend, whether
he wins or loses, a little religious talk with his
competitor. Pity to waste a man like that on
lleaven when lie’s so badly wanted for earthly use.
All tlie Victorian Governors, up to the
departure of Ilopetoun, used to sign official docu-
ment- by hand. Baron Brassey started by follow-
ing the same procedure, but his hand soon became
so shaky from falling off tilings that he persuaded
the Government to accept the impression of a
rubber-stamp. For the first few weeks Uncle
Tom banged the stamp vigorously, but the
novelty soon wore off, and now the work has been
deputed to “ Dicky ” Neville. Brassey is clearly a
superfluous in-titution. Why imt hire a wax
figure in the image of the late Charles Rvley for
Vic-regal beauty purposes, and save £001)0 or
.£7OOO in gubernatorial sal try ?
Ever so many years ago a certain Aus-
tralian Minister, being pressed for a special
favor by the directors of a company, re-
molded the deputation that ho had previously
refused the same request. “ Ah, but you were
not properly approached,” said the spokesman
for the crowd, intending to explain that the merits
of the case had not Iren forcibly stated. The
Minister with the itching palm put on his bpst air
of virtuous indignation—“ Sir, how dare you sug-
gest ?” Before he could finish the sentence
the other fellow bluntly interjected, “ We don’t
mean what you mean,” and then it struck the
Minister that lie had made a fool of himself.
44 Uitlander Sampson,” lecturing recently
at Melbourne in his own dull but patriotic fashion,
told, with horror in his eve, how the Boers carried
their unreasoning hatred so far as to talk of the
Jameson Raid, rs as “traitors, robbers and
murderers who deserved to be hanged.” Well,
supnose a few thousand armed Frenchmen landed
in England in time of profound peace, and tried
to take London, and killed a good many English-
men before they were overpowered and captured
what would dreary little S unpson call them 4 ! The
solemn fact is that Jameson was a pirate and
should have been hanged out of hand. That he
wasn’t hnngo 1 is a striking evidence of the heavy-
going good nature of the Boer people.
The plea for cash for a stone for the rest-
ing place of that good, kind, disinterested, un-
worldly old scientist, Baron Von Mueller, evoked
a miserable response in Australia, for which
country the eccentric old Baron did noble work.
After years the executors are still begging, £lO
being needed to complete the fund. Out of 24
subscribers to the fuud only four names are local;
the others aro those of botanical professors from
all the corners of the earth—Paris, Dresden,
London, Java, Yokohama, Berlin, Geneva,
Zurich, Rome, Washington, Canada. Australia
is no place for such a man to die in. By the way,
Clarke, bart., has got his little monument, and
no' o ly in Java, Paris, or Washington ever heard
of S’william, or is ever likely to.
“ Fossicker ” sends The Bulletin a
Deeming yarn:—
Had this from an old caretaker in Queen’s Gardens,
Macka.v (Q.): ’‘You're sitting on the very spot where
Deeming once sat after he hail just come up from Bris-
bane. Told me he had robbed his father-in-law’s safe
and cleared out via America with his wife- the one that
he cemented under the slab at Windsor. He further said
the police were on his t rack, and pulled out his revolver.
‘Somebody will get f/i*,' he says, * before I’m done with
’em! ’ Then I told him I had known his father and the
two young women lie had married ; an’ he got up sud-
denly and cleared. Same night I found he had gone
back to Brisbane, although he had a ticket to go further
North. Being afeared lie might have confederates l said
nothing at first, but after a bit I went to the magistrate,
and through me Deeming was traced.” Writer himself
saw Deeming in Southern Cross on the mine he was work-
ing at.
Ex-councillor Mrs. Yates, of Onchunga,
M.L., is again officially to the fore in the funereal-
looking town. .Some years ago, when Mayor,
she caused much trouble to M s.P. by her per-
sistent lobbying for a Cemetery Bill. On one occa-
sion she tackled two Auckland members on an off-
night in their lodgings. One of them managed
somehow to escape from the room, but the other
(Mitehelson) had to stay. Mrs. Yates sat and sat
and sat till at length Mitehelson was forced to
arouse his landlady and ask her to put Mrs.
Yates up for the night. He did not comedown
to breakfast next morning till assured she had left
—and the Bill failed after that 1 (This yarn is
probably a lie—but no matter.)
The name Grenfell, the seat of Holman,
M. was not, as some say, a transfer from
England, but the surname of as brave a public
servant ns N.S. W. ever had. Grenfell was Com-
missioner of Crown Lands, and was shot hy bush-
rangers near Dubbo in fit!. lie was on the box-
seat of the mail-coach when two men stuck the
party up and demanded the mails. The driver
and a second passenger were willing to surrender,
but Grenfell deliberately drew his revolver and
fired point blank at the enemy. The ’rangers
returned the fire, and Grenfell fell, mortally
wounded. The Commissioner refused to bo
assisted by his companions, charging them with
cowardice. He was a son of Admiral Grenfell,
His widow and family were provided for by
N. Government.
Harvey Patterson, one of the Broken Hill
directors, turned on the tap of reminiscences for
the benefit of Gov. Beauchamp, at Broken Hill.
Like W. P. MacGregor, Bowes-Kelly, Brodribb,
Geo. McCulloch, and most of the other early B.H.
directors and big shareholders, Patterson was
working a sheep-station in the West Darling,
when the Barrier mines were discovered. Pat-
terson had the job of appointing the first secretary
of the B.H. mine (then including three or four
others, since “floated off ’’ for a few millions);
the salary was £1 per week. The first M.P. for
the district apologised for not making a speech;
he wasn’t a politician, he explained, lint he came
hack 10 minutes afterwards (his colleague was
then speaking) to remark that if anybody in the
crowd thought himself a better man than the
candidate, he (the candidate) was willing to take
him ou and settle the —— election that way. No
takers; elected unopposed.


INFLUENZA
Leading Physicians in Paris advise
the use of “ warm alcoholic ” drinks
as a precaution against influenza.
. . Special attention is directed to . .
WOLFC’S
SCHNAPPS
a preventive and remedy that is
unsurpassed, having tonio properties
possessed by no other spirit, that help
• the sufferer to fight against the lan-
guid and “tired feeling” that in-
.... variably accompanies ....
-^INFLUCNZA^
- Favorite and Best Summer Drink!
Ask FOR, and See that You GET,
Franz Josef Pilsener Lager
Has by far the LARGEST SALE of any LAGER throughout Australasia.
Morgan and Smith, sole agents ... 211 Clarence - street. Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia-—is
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The Australia has been built
to please everyone who desires
the luxury of living in the best
style, at a cost that is strictly
moderate.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Gastkieagh St., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
New-Australian letters published in Glad-
stone (Q.) paper contain some interesting patches •
Gilbert Casey has Los Ovejos for sale, it being on his
patch of sixty squares. Our postmaster sold his stock at
the divide ; he receives 25 dollars a month in stamps from
the Govt. Kidd, our old president, a first-class boot-
maker, sold his stock, went to Buenos Ayres, and tried
bootmaking, but could not make it pay. So he returned,
bought a house from Mr. Casey at Los Amijos (Casey
owns Los Amijos as well as Los Ovejos), but does not get
enough to keep him going, as we mostly go barefooted.
One young New Australian got a good place the other
day and described treatment thusly :—“ We had a good
dinner. We had boiled pumpkin, and the pumpkin-
water was thickened with cracked corn.” The ordy
liquor consumed here is white rum, freshly distilled from
sugar-cane, and eighty cents will buy a quart. The
drinking custom is to pass the bottle —no glasses. The
natives build their drays without iron—not a nail is used.
Axles of wood ;no tyres. The bullocks are tied by the
horns to the yoke with greenhide, and sticks are used in
flace of chains to attach bullocks to dray. As curiosities
enolose you two bank-notes —one for 5 cents and one for
10 cents ; both are not quite the value of one penny.
Writes a New-Australian Woman :
It is really a pretty sight to see a native dance, a rare
exception to see either men or women with boots on. The
dancing is not like an Australian dance. It is a shuttle
and a looping of hands, the women clasping one hand of
their partner in passing, then forming two lines—hands
still clasped—and both lines bowing to one another ; then
a waltz round without partners, the women flipping their
fingers and the men clapping hands. The women have
beautiful hair flowing down past their waists in a plait,
favorite colors red and white. One of the New Aus-
tralian women’s ball-dress took my fancy. It consisted
of mosquito-net dyed in the dye made from the cover of
Thb Bullbtin. No balls now—money gone. From silks,
satins, plushes we’ve come down to a dress (for home,
riding, walking, eto.) of unbleached calico, trimmed with
two rows of black braid, made to fit the figure. It looks
none too bad.
• • • •
Hip Chong’s tale of woe. A true bill: —
"You know, las’ a Tuessiday, Maly tellem me,
‘Hip Chong, me wanta go Mudgee buyem some
flock some ting.’ Me say, ‘ All li, you takem
■plingcar’.’ Maly takem spling car’, say goo’-
bye ; Maly kisseni me. Me say, * Wha’ for you
cly, Maly? Mudgee no’ far—you soon come
back.’ Me can’t savee Maly kissem me. Bym-
bye long tam, Maly no come back ; me tink so
‘wha’ for Maly kissem me?’ Me go look my
dlawer. By Cli ! Fourteen pong all a gone!
Maly no come back at all. Fourteen pong no
oome back. Me savee Maly kissem me.”
* * * *
‘‘Bring a rope, some of you, and lower
Gardiner to cut away this log,” said Johnson,
ganger of a party “protecting” a railway-bridge.
The river was rising and bringing down logs and
uprooted trees, and the log referred to had settled
against the bridge-piles and created a block.
Gardiner objected. “Look here, Johnson, even
if Mary Mack does prefer ine, it isn’t fair to stick
me into danger every time. This is the third ’’ —
Johnson took the axe. “Lower me,” he said.
He went down and chopped, and didn’t notice the
log rising with the water till the slackened rope
fouled the falling axe and was severed. Then, as
the log parted and swung round, he caught a
bridge-brace and climbed up to the crossheads.
That night someone told Mary Mack of the inci-
dent, and a month afterwards she was married to
Johnson.
• • • •
Two Chinamen pulled up at the pab., and
ON THE QUEENSLAND BORDER.
FREDDY : “ Say, 'Arry , why didn’t yer come and yet yer photo, took?”
’ARBY : “ Gam! 'E wasn’t takin’ yer photos., ’e was only looking through that there thing ter see if
yer ’ad any ticks on yers.”
while they were inside the local funny man, who
had been reading a book on practical jokes, took
the horse out of the cart, led him through the slip-
rails into the paddock, ran the shafts through the
3-rail fence, and harnessed-up again, cart on one
■ide and horse the other. When the Chows oame
out and saw the predicament, the funny man pro-
posed a cross-cut saw, which the Chows borrowed
from the pub. Then they sawed out the three
rails and in gratitude shouted for the crowd.
The bike has found a new
use out West. By means of an
attachment to a safety bicycle
the appurtenances of a Wolseley
shearing machine are fitted on,
and the concern is run by
working the pedals in the or-
dinary way. Common machine
shears are used. Clippers are
attached to back wheel of cycle,
which is taken off the ground by
means of a stand. When not
in use the stand is folded up and
carried behind saddle of bicycle.
Two men required—one to pedal
and one to shear; two machines,
however, can be driven by the
one cyclist.
• • •
“ Ngatitamitera ” : Cabled
that 300 Maoris have volunteered
for service in the Transvaal.
Jack Maori, though adaptable
to nearly every other military
requirement, is, as a rule, but a
poor shot. Only knew one Maori
who was a really good marksman.
He was a member of Thames
Naval Brigade, his name Hori
Matene, and he once won the
Thames District Belt with a
score of 56 out of a possible 60
—on the old “ bullseye, centre,
outer ” targets.
“ Gobung ” : I know of a
small mongrel dog that’s a terror on snakes. Hunts
on his own, scruffs snake, and shakes it to death.
Has killed dozens and never been bitten.
• * * •
Mrs. Smith’s husband was a poor con-
sumptive who leased a block to carry his
miserable 500 sheep, and sheared in an adja-
cent woolshed. Dave Murphy leased the next
section, after working a few months for the Smiths
at ss. a week and tucker. The missus, Dave,
and a nigger did the shearing of the Smiths’ flock ;
and the petticoated “ringer” shore more than
the other two, and with less gore. Murphy’s few
sheep began to multiply at the same ratio as the
Smith mob diminished. There was no uncer-
tainty about the case from the Smith point of
view ; but Mr. Smith’s shortness of breath and
sudden demise enabled the hulking Dave to bluff
the J.P., and for the second time in the year, too.
But Dave can’t steal any more of the little
woman’s sheep, because he’s part owner ; and the
five kids are no longer fatherless.
* * * *
“ Yon Kotze ” : “ The Arbitrator ”
(23/9/’99) must have been a particularly unbiassed
one. The shark almost invariably prefers the
colored person to the white man. So does the
alligator, who’ll pick a nigger out of a whole
crowd of white men ; and so, for that matter, do
the anthropophagi of the Pacific.
• • * •
Queensland Minister of the Crown, wish-
ing to show how the nigger was becoming civilised,
told the admiring Q. Assembly that he had seen
up North a little aboriginal girl who “could do
vulgar fractions.” “How beautiful upon the moun-
tains are the feet of him that bringeth good
tidings 1 ” Lo ! the heathen, and they that sit in
darkness generally, are revelling in the new-found
joy of fractions, decimals, cube roots, with occa-
sionally a bewitching gleam of a distant binomial!
* • • •
An old Hawkesbury settler was up before
Sydney Supreme Court t’other day, charged with
making too violent love to a woman ; and got off.
The old man was 85 ; so there’s hope for Australia
yet. Case recalls that of another old Hawkesbury
identity—a chicken of 80 or so, who drank his
pint of rum daily (local make), and throve on it.
The ancient had noticed with pain some of his
neighbors being rammed into readymade coffins,
and charged a big price for them too ; and he
thought he could do better than that. He had a
nice bit of seasoned scantling in the yard, so he
got a carpenter to measure him up, and make a
coffin which should be a credit to the Oxberry.
TENNIS AMONG THE NAICEST OF ANGLEDOOL (WAYBACK N.S.W.).
When the job was half-done, a thought struck the
old man, and he went out and stopped the work.
There was his son, a lanky six-footer, heart-
disease, and might die any moment. The old
man was only tive-foot-four; but he reckoned
that, if the coffin was made to tit the son, he
could get into it, too, if his turn came first, and
all the contingencies would be provided for. bo
they measured-up the son, and made the coffin his
size, with a neat little sliding-partition at the
bottom that the old man could rest his feet
against or the son could take out altogether.
Sure enough, three months’ later, the son died,
and they took the partition out, and gave him the
right sort of funeral. Then the old man reflected
that there was a bit of scantling left, and the car-
penter set to work at his size, and finished a very
neat suit of dovetailing—which is still waiting.
• * * •
Queensland hostess, who has been training
black-boy to table-wait: “T'arboy, haven’t I
told you to carry round the potatoes first, and
the cabbage next?” Tarboy (promptly tipping
the cabbage on to the potatoes): “ Oh, better
me box ’em, missis ! ”
m • • *
“You’re not lookin’ well, Mrs. Mulrooney,
ma’am,” said the hotel-landlord to a
Hiberno-Australian legislator, at dinner. ‘‘lf T
were you I’d see a medical man.” “sure, an Ive
done that same,” said Mrs. M. “Indeed, maam ;
an’ what did he say?” “Well, Mr. Gooligan,
ye’re mighty inquishitive ; but, if you must know,
he says it might be a little mimber of Parleymint or
it might not. But if it isn’t, it’s no fault of mine {
for I have a son of me own by me first. It was
the same lady who, when at a complimentary
dinner, an Australian Governor, seated next
remarked that it was very warm, replied, “ I
am that 1 Does Mrs. Excellency sweat much her-
self?”
* • * *
“ F.E. A.” : Be the ’possum’s food, it is as
certain that the animal eats gum-leaves as that
cows eat grass, and Scotchmen drink whisky.
Did “ J.P.” (B. 26/8/’99) ever examine a white
gum in ’possum country ? I have known them
quite kill these trees. The creature will certainly
also eat grass, and will have a royal tune in your
fruit-garden, but its dietary stand-by is unques-
tionably gum-leaves. When compelled (as when
in a “ ringed ” timber-paddock) to subsist on
grass the ’possum gets much fatter than on gum-
leaves, the latter diet being probably too astring-
ent to favor adipose tissue.
• * • *
Squatter Staughton (Vic.) believes that if
the average bushrnan were boiled, he would
“ render down ” to candy, on account of the
quantities of sugar he consumes. Speaking of
the abnormal sugar-consumption of the people of
this country he says, “I buy my sugar by the ton,.
and my men eat it by the two or three pounds at
a time.” If there is anything in Schenck’s
theory, only girls ought to be born in the Austra-
lian bush.
* * * *
«Old Jim ” : Travelling on the Murray
once, I overtook a man with a 4-bushel bag over
his shoulder. Found him rational enough to talk
to until I enquired about the bag. Then he
dumped same down, took from it a lot of bricks,
placed them in certain positions, and explained:
“That is the dining-room, this is the corridor,
this is the drawing-room,” and so on. “ I’m going
to build it in Swan Hill,” he added. Bush grog ?
• • * *
“A.L.C.” : Be the aboriginal man-making
rite(B. 23/9/’99). The only white man I know of
who has seen the whole of it is Mr. A. W.
Howitt, of Melbourne. Of course men like
Buckley, Morrell, and others, who lived years
among the blacks, must often have witnessed the
ceremony, though they have never given any
account thereof. The bora Howitt saw was among
the Kurnai tribe of Gippsland.
* • * *
The S.A. Protector of Aborigines esti-
mates (and claims the records to be fairly com-
plete) that between the taking of the ’9l census
and June 30 last there were 270 births and 533
deaths within his jurisdiction—-within a fraction
of two deaths to every birth. At the two
southern mission stations (there are three alto-
gether) there are 97 half-caste adults as against
33 full-bloods, and 28 full-blood children as
against 106 half-castes. S.A. now “protects”
2871 aborigines ; Victoria, 462; and N.S.W., 6891.
Vic’s cost the Ms. B d. per head J N.S.
Wales s, £2 Bs. ld.;b.A. s, ns.
* * * *
The lambs found dead by
««;'f»" rR 30/9/’99) with tongues eaten out
were undo ubtedly killed by foxes, which always
firgt the tor ,l ue and lower jaw. Sometimes
wi]l return f or a second feed, but not when
j L are plentiful. In this neighborhood, last
la I hearing a noise in a hollow log,
JJJJ;' in J j fc and f ound a lamb-alive, but
law nnd tnneno
minus jaw and tongue.
*
t ke ra t e of about £3OO a ton was re-
ceTly offered in Melbourne for an old red-gum
S |; Ulr ,p, when some buildings were being de-
molished in Swanston-street. An old man sup-
plied the information that away back, before the
d - lsoovery 0 f gold, there had flourished on that
S p o t a big gum, under which the old-time political
ag itators used to hold their .meetings.
enou gh, the stump was found built into the wall,
The wood, after 50 years in the wall, was perfectly
sound and solid.
A RORKE'S DRIFT DEFENDER.
“A.A.A,”to Billyram (8., 7/10/’99) : The
only green snake in Port Stephens district is a
non-venomous tree-snake, of the genus Pythonidse,
found generally in trees near water.
* * • •
“ Alpar : ” How long do snakes live ? I
passed the same old black snake nearly every
morning—in summer—for 10 years. Last time I
saw him alive he couldn’t get out of my way, so I
helped him into his stump with a stick, and next
day he was dead. Remembered him when he
wasn’t a foot long, and he must have known me,
for he never offered to do more on my approach
than just get off the track.


WATCHES
FROM
Manufacturers direct to User- |
p & A. GUYE’S “London made’’English
Levers know no superior for strength in
rough wear and riding; for reliable-per-
petual accuracy under every change of
temperature.
/
£=3,
WE'are their Sole Agents. One of their best Silver Hunters, extra jewellelled, cost £B 6s.
FAIRFAX# ROBERTS
Jewellers by Appointment to His Excellency the Governor,
, . Earl Beauchamp, K.C.JU.Q.
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
BEWARE of the Party offering Imitations of
MACNIVEN <fe CAMERON'S RENOWNED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edisboroh.
COLE MANE ARSONS
iUCALYPTE EXTRACT
THE nn‘.Y PIIKF IN tHE 'WBRUP.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLIIHS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, £o.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“C.J. ” : Me the
swine’s alleged inability
to locate sound (“ 8.5., ’
B. 23/9/’99), it certainly
isn’t so with the wild pig.
Have often stacked up to
some where they were
feeding on prickly-pear,
but the moment I fired
they cleared-out instanter,
always away from direc-
tion of report.
* • *
“ Hoo-hoo ” noise en-
quired about biy “J.C.G.”
(8., 26/8/’99) ‘ R.A.” at-
tributes to an owl, “R.C.”
to the mopoke, and
“T.W.M.” and numerous
others to the porcupine
ant-eater. Ti|e hoo-hood-
lums will r|° w kindly
hang it up.”
• *j *
Queen Elizabeth, of
the Flinders, on seeing a
train for the first time:
“ Goodness greshus 1 Baal
me bin see bigfulla wheel-
barra liket that 6efore.
Baal got it bulloeky, baal
yarraman ; th&’ fulla jus’
go meself ! 11
• * i'. *
Dear B.—Will the
M‘Cooey, or > any lesser
light, point for me the
exact difference between
kangaroo anq wallaby ?
It isn’t merely size, be-
cause I’ve seen so-called
wallabies much bigger than the small red roo.
—Flabby Paul.
* * * *
““Last Saturday night,” said the pub.
landlady, “ when the coach pulled up at the door,
it was as dark as pitch, an’ the parson comes to
me an’says, ‘There’s a couple of lady passengers
here, Mrs. B.; could you accommodate them for the
night?’ ‘Certinly, sir,’ I says, and he hands
them down, and I directs ’em to the best parlor.
After a bit I goes to see how they was doin , and,
may I never! ’if they wasn’t two black gins ! So
I puts them to eat in the kitchen, an gives them
a shake-dcnvn somewhere. In the morning, the
parson turns up an’ I tells him what I d done
with his ‘ladies.’ ‘Oh, dear,’ he says; you
igrant woman ! They’re mission’ry ladies from the
islands.’ ‘ Well,’ says I, ‘I don’t care what you
calls ’em; I calls ’em gins.’ Then he got quite
huffy and walked off with ’em —one on each arm.
Claude Fuller, one of the Parramatta jour-
nalist Fullers, becomes Natal, entomologist at
£5OO a year. Before going to Natal-he received
iilOO a year in N.S. W. Agricultural Department.
In this issue is the portrait of ex-trooper
J. W. Lyon, one of the Ro.rke’s Drift defenders,
and only remaining survivor of the specially-
decorated 18 who escaped the big Isandlwana
slaughter. Mr. Lyon, who is now mining near
Coramba, N.S.W., gives stirring descriptions of
both these affairs, and says it is impossible to
imagine the effect produced by the on-rushing
hordes of towering Zulus, “ chanting their war-
song and stamping time with their feet till the
earth fairly shook.” With reference to the Prince
Imperial affair, Mr. Lyon says the young man’s
death was directly due to his own disobedience of
the strict orders that the headstalls and saddles
should not be removed from the horses of his
party —the result being that when the Zulus
rushed them they were caught like rats in a trap.
PEOPLE WE PUT ON THE LAND.
SLOUCH : “How do you keep rabbits from bark-
ing TOUR trees? ”
BOWLER: “Erl I don't give 'em a show. I
can generally hit on a plan for most
things. I'm busy just now protecting
these little oranges
SLOUCH : “ What are you painting 'em with? ”
BOWLER : “ Tar."
FANNY POWERS
Probably the brightest specimen of Young
Australian stage talent up to date is little Fanny
Powers, who has been figuring as a variety artist
at “ Rickards’s ” (in Sydney and Melbourne) since
March last. An infant phenomenon’s age offers
a wide field for conjecture in many cases, but the
parental assurance that Fanny is still on the
sunny side of nine may be taken without half a
grain of salt. Off the stage she is simply an
intelligent, winsome, eight-year-old, and the fact
that she happens to be a born actress, dancer and
singer troubles Fanny not at all thus far. She is
a dear, teachable little kiddie, fond of reading,
writing and ’rithmetic in a quiet sort of way, and
free from the ordinary smart infants desire’to
loom large before visitors. Byway of encouraging
the growth of population hereabouts it may be
mentioned that Fanny was the sixth baby
in the Powers| family, her eldest brother
being 17 when her valuable voice uttered its in-
troductory yell. Born at Leichhardt, Sydney,
she was sent to the Kegworth school, and at the
school concerts she attracted attention to her
cleverness. People spoke of young Fanny as a
marvel; wherefore her proud parents were in-
duced to put her under the tuition of Harry Les-
ton, who, by the way, will take her in hand again
when she returns to Sydney from Melbourne.
The child had made two or three appearances in
public wlieii manager Rickards came along with
the offer of.'a twelve-months’ engagement, which
her father accepted. A success from the start,
Fanny Powers is developing her natural talent
all the time, and she bids fair to grow into a
brilliant artist of the Ada Reeve type.
JOE BROWN, AMALGAMATOR.
He grafted at a crushing-mill,
Joe Brown, amalgamator ;
His name for honesty and skill
Enabled him for years to fill
His place of trust through good and ill;
No man was reckoned straighter
Or handier about a mill
Than Brown, amalgamator.
No scandal touched the fair renown
Of Brown, amalgamator : ,
He shunned the sirens of the town
Of ev’ry shade —white, black, and brown
He never knocked his wages down— ’
Of fraud he was a hater.
A poor but pious man was Brown-
Joe Brown, amalgamator.
With crushings always going through,
Joe Brown, amalgamator,
For years had whips of work to do,
And did it well and drew his “ screw ”
And more besides, say some in view
Of facts discovered later—
Affairs of which no person knew
Bar Brown, amalgamator.
For ugly rumors got about
Of Brown, amalgamator.
It seems the co.—from what leaked out—
Lacked evidence, but had no doubt
That Brown, the perfect and devout,
Was not the “ clean pertater.”
At all events, they fired him out
Joe Brown, amalgamator.
JfO'work has since been done by Brown,
The ex-amalgamator.
Regardless of the public frown
He pulled his little cottage down
And built the finest house in town ;
And ev’ry new spectator
Is shown the house that brings renown
To Brown, amalgamator.
A stylish turn-out now conveys
Joe Brown, amalgamator;
He drives a dashing pair of greys
(You’ll guess amalgamating pays);
He’ll never work again, he says ;
His girth is growing greater.
He’s made enough to last his days—
Has Brown, amalgamator.
JAMES SAYERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped.- Name and address must appear on MS.
No Liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
W. F. Stenson : That’s all you know about it!
Why, when the Transvaal Uitlanders petitioned Queen
Victoria to redress their alleged wrongs, a petition of
approximate size, or thereabouts, was presented by other
Uitlanders traversing the allegations in the first petition
and implying that the second lot of signatories were con-
tent with their status under the Govt, of the Boer
Republic Annie C.: Dear Annie, we love you, but we do
not like your poetry.... St andor: The Boers have no earthly
chance of success. The moment war started, and even
before', they became utterly isolated. Britain’s domina-
tion of the sea prevents them from getting food or
ammunition, and, even if they aren’t quickly beaten
right out of shape, which is likely enough, they will
sooner or later be starved out Bounder (Laun-
ceston) Your poem appears to have some mystic
bearing on the arrival from Hingland of a fat fire-
insurance agent. We note that it is “ a matter of absorb-
ing Tasmanian interest.” ...A.P.O. (though that isn’t
how you subsoribe yourself) : We never forget a fist, and
are suspicious of the motives of those who give false
names. ... Flotsam : Two pinches of very stale news
3ohn'SteWar t (Gis. M.L.): No such name on roll of Mayors
from'lB43 L.A.K: Useless sending paragraphs about
aboriginal customs, &c., unless you exactly specify
districtreferred t 0... James Ster. : On the contrary, Till
Bulletin claims that, in criticising the judges named, it
disp.aydd'a, far'truer and more honest respect for the
Supreme Cotirt than the papers which remained silent
dpririg thVcommission of flagrant crimes against Justice.
A man can now without loss of dignity take off his hat to
all the members’of that bench ; hut he couldn't do so in
the days to which, with conspicuously imperfect know-
ledge, you so lengthily allude . Jumbtick : You are
.indeed a lovely specimen of the prig,... E. P.S. : No, but
see there are in England few really democratic daily
"papers- one of them is the London Daily Chronicle....
Sgmpaeh': Received P.M.G. (Ad.) : Will use
,Ferdinand : Too late—and too awful ... T.Q.R. : Not
iip B.A.T. : No ; bawl... .G.E.B. : None of them
quite the thing ...Ul. : “ Fisherman” tops rough on
the whole.. Helen B. : Considering ~.. Eileen : Too
juvenile for B :..Jumbuck ■: Good ; our charity
covers even you f.'.Vosp : Flat item ... A.E.S. : Poetic ;
but form dubious .... Gunner (T. 1.) : Most'of complaint
better ventilated locally .. Chas. F. (W.A.): “ Floater”
h”) merit and may see the light ... F:W.B. : Sonne
lyrical quality, but too unequal Bendee : “Alphabet,”
may use ; “ Milestone,” doubtful; “ Kathleen,-too
■choolgirly .. A.W. : May trim-up ...GtO.R, : Good
idea ; will consider.... F. W. : May x possihly use.V.. E.S.Q. :
Could make out nothing but some of the worst spelling ,
we ever struck ; so the world will have to remain unen-
lightened of your “knole'dg.” Cigarette : Better,
now; will consider... Jack Ham,: Incidents good, but
handling crude .. Alb. de M. : Robustly treated ; may
possibly. use... .C.R/B. I Not bad; but too slight",;...*;.
FtMcM.: Funny ; but spoilt by end. What schoolboy
ever got such grandiloquent rubbish as that off his chest f
...: Geo. S. : Not skill enough in .construction. It alter-”,
nately dawdles and rushes Fred.. B. : Its shortness
may find it grace W.M.F. : “ Selectors ”is pathetic,; '
might “g 0.”:.. .Trotter B. : Too crude. ‘ And that'
sort of snake isn’t venomous anyhow Wombat:
Many thanks Mac. : It was Judge GiLson.
W.H.B. : Right. It teas a hoary chestnut ... W.D.
(Ball.): Received H.B. : Good fragment ; may print.
.. .6.Y-H- “Cold Water” yarn obscure of intention..,..
Nil: Pretty well versed, hut has bit of an anticlimax;
intentional, doubtless, but wouldn’t strike reader that
way Lacy : But “Rooinek” has nothing to do with
the British scarlet. It means “R ; dneck ” (be., from sun-
burn), arid is almost exactly equivalent to our “ new-
chum.”. : .Herb. E.W. : A wilderness of words, un-
inhabited by any discoverable idea .F.B. : A
mopoke (podargus) isn’t an owl. Subject dropped, any-
how Sandy M’T. : Mostly unintelligible Wager : A
matter on which opinion is about equally divided....
H.T. (B. Arrow): No, we would not apply to him .
Abbie : Thanks Cigarette: Girly-girly, and by no
means true to nature Bendee: Not enough in quick-
silver incident ...Widgee: Declined Ciaypan : Too
jerky; written in ordinary• feminine-letter fashion
R.W.S. ; Nobody would believe crow-horhbill yarn
G O.R. : Too bald and sudden ... A.D.: “ Wooll.” too
long-drawn for interest W.G.S. : Good yarn, but most
improbable-looking E.R. : Don’t remember it.
Long ’Un : To hand ... Fred. W. ; Unrelieved horror—
and we aren’t chasing unrelieved horrors Mug
(Terang.): Unconvincing. Hard for a bogus corpse to so
deceive an experienced visitor Porero: Bulletin
Isn’t in quest of such matter R.P. : No necessity to
send them in again. The first copies, if acceptable, "ill
duly appear ; they won't stale. . C.P.A. : But there’s
nothing new in that North Shore doctor’s suggestion as
to abating the mosquito-pest by adding small quantities
of kerosene to the local waterholes —thus forming a
scum on surface and keeping the “ loggerheads’’—from
which the mosquitoes come—securely imprisoned.
That method was long ago described in these columns
Treb (re snakes): Please use another pen-name. Another
contributor has first lien on “Treb” Treb (original):
“ Regret that taste of Bulletin readers should demand
any other.orbi.t than that of merit.” But that's assum-
ing that your kind of merit is the only kind. And yours
isn’t very conspicuous; “Tyrant” is merely of drawing-
room scrap-book calibre Tamb. :2J pp. to say that he
shota watering-can in mistake for a possum Jep. :
Most of what you say about the Boers is mere echo. Jibber
and bullock-yarns both ancient J.H.S.: But hardlyaday
passes without a confidence swindle being exposed in the
press. Hayseed apparently can’t he protected from him-
self Waipiro : Thanks, but .hardly worth while
F. : We like to make such people “ furiously angry”—
that’s what we re here for. The Bulletin is a demo-
cratic Republican paper, and has never been afraid to
avow it. Also, it is a purely-Australian paper, which
cares not one solitary rap for English public opinion
or for the opinion of the Australian knockabouts and
swashbucklers who, for the mere sake of adventure, sally
forth, as the ignorant or careless tools of a lot of Brum-
magem and Hebrew grabsters, to slaughter Boer farmers.
Old Stock : To hand. Expect other will turn up ...
Montrez : Cut ’em shorter .. Bernardine : None of the
power required to carry off the desperate triteness of the
aying-girl theme Tim B«h. : “Euchred" feeble and
foggy Imray : Idea good—handling not S.J.H. ;
Thanks, but sketches wouldn’t reproduce.. Amb. B.: Too
diffuse and dogmatic. Read Lombr bo s “Man of
Genius.” V.A. : Nothing in it hut a bad smell
EM.Me. : “Hail, my beloved, list my parting sigh!”
Exactly J.C.J. : No; Tub Bulletin hasn’t been put
into book form ; but a number of volumes of selections
from its files will be issued next,year Omega : Hope it
is ;..G. W. : Sent to Ogilvie Pan : Some promise ; not
quite’enough performance. Try and get more poeiry of
phrase and idea into your nature-pictures ... Milky;
Triolets are fairly handled ; but want better points. Pass
one ... Veldt ; Not up .... Swift: Down Gornebeak :
No interest or value R.C. ; None good enough
Alone 41 : Ditto J.C.O. : For tracts in verse we keep
a basket-hearse G.J.B. : A small section goes
Fayre : No force .... Stan W. : Doesn’t run logically....
WG.S. : Not interest enough as put Theta: Not
novelty or force enough E.R. :It isn’t amusing
lon M. : Dull commonplaces C.P.C.: Tedious
J.L.H. : You’ll never make a poet; be a fighting kan-
garoo K.W. : Considering .. Nessus: No grit, fire,
force W.S.B. : Omit the S, please H. : Go, bury
thy poem Tristan : No, thanks D.R. :So you don’t
consider Italians and Germans white men? What a
beautiful Briton you are 1 ... P.C.C. : Nursery rhymes
sing ’em to baby... Killara : Boil the billy with said
poems V.C. : Good imitations ; try something original.
And don’t, if you love us, call “chasm ” chazzum
Aione 4: Too dull Tom G. : Not up ...Ratsbane:
Old rata don’t take it O.Y.H. : Neither quite usable ....
■T.Q.R. : Not up R.L.: Small poem—yet the oifio
wouldn't hold it Stnike : Too doggerelish...^J.H.Q.
' Killed by too many little faults Machete: Ballade has
no thrill Ricean : Flat H.M. : Not in tbn< K* I *-*/
Paxaro: Won t do Gum: With very few ex-
ceptions, the legislators of the world have ever seen
ready to go to war with the other fellow's life, while t | >e * r
own precious skins have been well-cared-for by the tax-
payer in security at home. Victoria is spending’, in
cowardly and tyrannous act of murder and brigandag ,
the money she should use to relieve the sufferings o
those who can't get work at any price, and of the old ana
infirm who are being sent to gaol for no other reason than
that they are poor. Premier Turner aiways draws a long
face when any of these things are mentioned, but ne
rushes with a gleeful smile into this loathsome raid,
the only real object, whereof is to glut tne
avarice of a gang of stock-exchange vultures.......
Fred. W. (8.N.Q.) : Yes, it was once sold at 3d. for a little
time Don W. : Thanks, but tod much obstetric detail.;
J.McC. : These verbal quips are rather dull, don t
you think? It.A.T.S. : Dvar lady, the verses are sin-
cere, but tame and insignificant. ,:...H.F.H. (Vic.): Un-
suitable Zibla : 8urn......A.D.8. : “Is this the End
unusable. -
The expected has happened in S. Africa
rather prematurely. General Jouberb has
allowed himself to be tempted, or has been forced
by the impatience of his followers, to fight a big
battle, and has apparently been badly beaten.
Big battles are not the Boers’ forte ; so long as
they content themselves with moving about the
country in little bodies of a few hundred men
each they can cut off small parties, capture supply
trains, and generally paralyse the action of an
army. At Glencoe the Boers are said to have
been 9000 to the British 4000. That may or may
not be ; but it is certain that the more there
were of them the less chance they would have of
winning. The popular idea of a battle is that
two lots of men with guns face each other and
gradually creep nearer till one of the two, having
had enough, runs away. That is how the war cor-
respondent sees it, but if the two bodies of men
are not eqnvfcly well-trained and skilfully handled,
it works o& differently. If one of them, like the
Boers, can only go straight forward and hasn t
learned to make difficult evolutions, while the
leader of the other can move his men about so as
to vary the pressure on different parts of his
enemy’s line, conditions of the game are changed.
Neither personal courage nor good marksman-
ship will save an army that cannot change its
formation during a battle from defeat, at the
hands of an opponent who can do that. Good
shooting is a good thing, but it is the only
thing, as some Australian “authorities ( seem to
think. Nor is personal courage the most im-
portant. Most men are brave in a crowd. In war,
as in other things, steadiness and skill will win.
THE LATE THOMAS SUFFIELD.
Ex-Lands Minister Miles (Tas.) thought
to play the bluff skipper when the select com-
mittee brought up its report that, while Master
Warden of Strahan Marine Board, his boy-son
tendered for the breakwater contract ostensibly
from Maori land, and his young daughter osten-
sibly from Sydney, under the names of ’ firms
who didn’t appear before the committee, or write,
or wire. Interviewed by a pressman after the
report was brought up, he said he’d shpw it to be
all wrong. He had put up the .£2OO deposit for
one “ tenderer,” and lent his son the .£2OO deposit
for the other ; but, bless his soul! he had known
“Stocks" of Sydney for years, and would have
put up any amount for him. As for his son s
tender, the grieved old horse-marine sadly told
the committee that he had been deceived by his
own offspring. But he undertook to go before
his constituents at Glamorgan and appeal from
the select committee to them. The gallant sea-
man left the Braddon Govt, and the Assembly,
and very little has been heard of him since.


THE SAME OLD PROCESS.
Mr. Lyne'e motion to send a contingent to S. Africa was passed on the voices.-after a mere trifling throe days’ debata.
N.S.W. I’REMIER LYSE: "I note wash my hands of the blood of this ...man!"


“DRUNK!!”
YOUNG AUSTRALIA : “ Gorsavequcensh!!"


Announced that a cemetery near New
York is being equipped for the cremation of the
dead with an electric furnace supplied with
oxygen by means of liquid air, thus reducing the
duration of process from hours to minutes.
N.S.W. cx-Agent General Saul Samuel
had his 79th .birthday Oct. 2. Recent news from
London gave him indifferent health. He was
born in London, but arrived in N.S.W. when
about 12 years of,age. He was a member of the
old Leg. Council three years before Responsible
Govt., and was six times Crown Minister in the
Leg. Assembly, It was during his Postmaster-
Generalship chat the present Sydney G.P.O. was
first opened, Samuel on that occasion tendering
citizens a banquet which is still spoken of with
fervour. It was while Saul entertained Gov.
Fitzroy athis Wellington station that someone
put an aggrieved darkey up to fire the question
through the window at the Hebrew host: “Missa
Samuel, Missa Samuel, who kill Christ?” Saul
didn’t like it, but Fitzroy is said to have
treasured it as a rare piece of Australian plea-
santry.
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE'S
BABY,"
says
“ Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,‘
it
will
stop
■s your ,
hair r j<® ;
from r
falling 'j
■ off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too ~
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
Hair Failing, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for; the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating
and its unique testimonials prove ltTto be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i 2 6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Scores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO,. LTD.
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“ My Experience as a Charity Carnival
j' Organiser,” an interesting 16-page illustrated
j pamphlet, published by A. S. Gordon. Free on ap-
plication. Send, post-card to A. S. Gordon, mana-
ger Adelaide Property Distribution, Perth, W.A.*
An idiotic practical joker is the Bakblox
humorist. Up south, t’other day, a number of
jocular souls made an old fellow drunk, made a
dint in his hat, filled it with spirits, and then set
the head-gear on fire. The burning spirit ran
down the poor fellow’s hair and beard on to his
clothes, burning him badly. Result —hospital for
weeks. They say the Chow has no humor. Per-
haps that’s why he’s so kind to old people, women
ind hors'es. . ■
Arthur Adams’s book, “ Maoriland and
Other Verses,” now published by The , Bul-
r.ETiN, will definitely place him among the
first flight of local poets. The book contains, in
addition to those published in The Bulletin,
many charming pieces hot previously printed ;
and is issued in dainty style. Price 5s., post-free
from Bulletin office. ,J - ''
“ Points from Clara Tschudi’s “ Life of
Empress Eugenie ” :— 1
Her grandfather, Kirkpatrick, Malaga, came from
.Scotland, exiled with the Stuarts, Eugeiiie, itis alleged,
descended, in an illegitimate line, from James II., of
England. Kirkpatrick’s lovely daughter, Mamiela, served
in her father’s wine shop, where she fascinated Count
t’eba, and married him. They had two daughters
Fransiska and EtrgCme. Both'fell in.love with Count
Alba. He married Fransiska. Eugenie poisoned
herself, but recovered. Then she entered on fast
life, getting “mashed” on toreadors, and the like
L’he mother, Manuela of the wine-shop, Countess Teba,
was a lady with a thoroughly gamey reputation. Tpey>
frequented a 1-the fashionable wateringfplaces, trying to
work Eugenie off, for a big match. She met Louis
Napoleon in London. He proposed, but She refused
because of his blank, prospects. They corresponded some-
what afterwards. Then cauie the ’48 : Revolution, and after •
it the coup d’etat. Baron Rothschild furnished Eugenie
with funds to make a dashing appearance before the
Prince President. At one of his hunting parties, at
Compidgne, she suddenly appeared before him, mounted
on a flyaway Andalusian horse, and gorgeously apparalled.
, He'felt the vestiges of the ancient flame, and proposed to
her to become his mistress. She scornfully refused. Then
Ihe mean little Emperor carried his case to Countess
Teba, and proposed the dishonor of her daughter. -He
l bought to himself, "This bid harridan will call it horaiqr.P’
Butjythe old woman, despite her own dreadful repute/
also refused, It is also reported that - Eugenie cut
Napoleon over the face with - her, riding whip when he at-.
.. tempted to be Frenehy.” Nevertheless,.‘he had not the
j faintest idea of marrying her till after he had ransacked
I the Courts for a wife. He proposed, among oLhet'fe/ to
I Princess Mary of Cambridge, afterwards Smother of the
Princess May, the present Duchess of York. Napoleon’s
proposal to Eugenie alt a bail in the Tuileries came when
he found that the royalties of Europe were not speaking
to him. Eugenie Could hardly sLagger under the tre-
mendous excitement of tin* Coronation at Notre Dame,
rivalling that of Napoleon and Josephine. When
Orsini’s bombs exploded, hitting 16u people, Napoleon ill.
got a chip through his choked hat. Another struck
Eugenie's face, and blood trickled on her white satin
dress, in the carriage. Yet t hey went on to the Opera,
and stopped to the end. When Eugenie finally left the
Tuileries, on,the arm of Count Nigra, Italian Ambassador,
in 1870, site said, “ Do I tremble? ” He answered, V No.”
Lord Burgoyne’s yacht Gazelle, taking her over to
England, all but foundered in a storm. Her latest
portrait, with the white hair and hard mouth, is .terrible
Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
Of Tasmania’s army of 1500 volunteers, it
was not considered possible to get more than 50
men fit and willing to go Boer-hunting. Some-
thing like 100 men were induced to say they were
willing, but those who offered were far from fit—
and it really seems that those whose loyalty to
Bull is most intense are generally round-shouldered
and flat-footed, and hopelessly afflicted with
varicose veins 1
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Queen Victoria puts her name to about
140 documents per day on an average. The busi-
ness of carrying the documents to and fro the old
lady is a sinful expense, and the trouble that it
costs her octogenarian fingers is foolish trouble,
for the signature might as well be stamped on
each paper by a responsible official; but the
performance serves a purpose. It gets para-
graphed in sassiety papers from time to time, and
dehides “loyal ” subjects into the idea that the
Imperial show couldn’t get along without a
monarch’s personal signature.
COXON & CO.'S
SPECIAL OPPEa.
ONE MONTH ONLY.
Campbell’s Gem.MELO-
DEONS, 10s 6d; ditto
Miniature ditto, 16s 6d ;
ditto Paragon ditto, 20s
6d ; ditto Favorite diLto,
24s 6d.
Coxon’s Dulcet ACCOR-
DEONS, 6s 9d; ditto, 2
stops, 8s 9d; ditto Faunt-
leroy ditto, 16s 6d ; ditto
Vox Humana ditto, 18s
6d ; ditto, Indestructible
Bellows, 21s 6d; ditto
Blow Accordeons,' 4/6,
6/6, 10/6, 12 6.
Send for Catalogues.
MANGLES and WRING-
ERS, 2s. per week.
W. F. COXON & CO., LTD.
745 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET (Opposite -
Christ Church), SYDNEY - .
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bonnd
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. Thie
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
*a. lOd. from ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Aid exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for thii
And other East Selling Books.* Mention this paper when writing.
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared arid Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
w
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
A rrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
4 HARLENE ’
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
//•fin
Fall description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle •
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Dottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS* “HARLENE” Co., 85 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON. W.O.
w<p
s'm
St*
<0
iO
tn
A .SAUNDERS
PATENT FLYBACK
SPIIT SECONDS
v
LEVER
&
M
30
Imiluul
Split Second Fly-back Chronograph and Minute
Recorder, £3 loa ; not split, £2 2a. Special value.
A- Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Broooh, 13s 6d :
160. Gold, 255; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s; 160. Gold, £2.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luok
Brooch, 10s 6d; 15a Gold, 21s.
9c. Solid Links and Opals, 30s.
160. Gold, £2 10s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, £2. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other style, 10s 6d, 12s6d, 16s,
20s. Silver, 2s tid, 3s.
Frenoh Diamond, Pure Solid
Silver Hat Pin, 4s 6d. Any
Initial.
Gold 2-Bird Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s.
Pearl Set, 22s 6d. 160. Gold, 62.
Gold Wish Bone Pearl Set Bee, 17s Qd;
160. Gold, S6s.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s Cd; extra strong, 10s ; 160.
Gold, 16s; 18c. Gold, 20s; Silver, 8s 6d.
160. Gold Heart and Bird, with Ruby and
Diamond, 355.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Geld Secret Name Brooch, 255.; 16c Gold
£2. Diamonds, as shown, £2 10s. and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free, Six different
patterns, similar.
18c. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three Diamonds, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4.
M Registered.” 90. Solid Gold, 17* 6d
160. Gold, 80a; 180. Gold, 86a.
180. Oold, 5 first-class
Opals, £2 10s;
Larger, £3 10s.
A. Saunders.
180. Solid Oold, 8 Sap-
phires or Rubies, and
4 Diamonds, £3, £3 10s
£4. Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
18c. Solid Oold, Band
Rings, pure Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A- Saunders.
LBa Oold, purs Double-
out Diamond, £5.
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
18c. Gold, 2 Opals and
8 pure Diamonds, £4.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watoh Repairs Guaranteed.
All Guaranteed.
Ladies’ Short-wind Keyless 0.F., 20s.
Silver Hunting Keyless, £2, £2 10s, £8 j
Key, 258, 30s, 355.
Solid Gold Keyless, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pearl Set Bird, 8 Bells and
Chain Gold Brooch, 13s 6d; l&o. Gold, 255.
A SAUNDERS’ New Gold Forget-me-not
Heart and Chain Broooh, lie 6d;
Amethyst Heart, 12s fid.
Registered
“ Gold Sword ”
and
Spray Broooh,
13 Pearls, Ruby,
•r Sapphire, and
Diamond, 255;
without
riiamond,
22s 6d.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
First-class Pure Diamonds, .£10; Diamonds and P.ubies, £7 10s.
LATEST STYLE
Handiome Gold Keoklet and Pure White Pearls, PS ss; extra heavy, i's.
LATEST LONDON RAGE.
SEND
FOR
Prick List.
A. SAUNDERS, JEWELLER,
815 <5€0R<£€ STRCCT (nearly opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Solid Gold Band.
Opal, 17s 6d ;
8 Opals, 22s 6d.
16o. Gold, 1 Opal, 80s ;
3 Opals, 36s.
90. 2-Bar and Bell, 12a M j
Amethyst, 13s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Firat-class, Hand-made, Solid Gold Wedding
Bing and Keeper, 6s 6d, 7s fld, 10s. 16c. Gold,
16s; extra heavy, 265. 180. Gold, 20s, 80s,
86s, £2. Send for our Size Card


The first of the Dutch adventurers who
.U tTl<, hv the nose was one Smellekamp,
got the Boers by tra( jing craft that put into
supercargo ?f a Dutc ang settled
?X with the Veto-
raad, assuring it of the Pf Section of HoUand,
Europe h The d ßrrs according accredited him
bi"h“i‘U id „ol S sUXJpT.,I to“_j r
the Boers. . , ~ .
Nervous sufferers will it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen s advt. on p g
27 of this issue.*
An action was brought by a European
against a Chinaman in Vic. County Court the
other day. The case stood upon a question of
fact as to what was said in a certain conversation
between the European and the Chinaman on a
given date. The versions were entirely different.
On his side the Chow brought half-a-dozen follow
Chows to swear to his version, and several of these
could not, or, through the simple-minded cunning
of the heathen, said they could not, speak English
in the box. Nevertheless they all testified to the
correctness of the defendant Chow s story as to
the conversation, which was held in E g » •
Judge Hamilton, who tried the case, did not
miss that point, and instantly gave a verdmt f°r
plaintiff with strong remarks about Chinamen
who knew no English yet svyore to English con-
versations. Then an anguished yabber showed
that the Chow witnesses saw the point all at once.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are sw’ollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL.. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now* being cured,
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, .Bronchitis,
Bunions, . and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Store*,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
THE BEST
WEDDING GIFT
The
ARTIST
MODEL
(Allan’s Patent)
Price, £3 lOs.
A Tripod Stool of beautiful model (our
registered design), and obtainable
only at our warehouse.
MUSIC STOOLS
In Brass, with plush seats, from 4°/'
Bentwood, with cane seats, from 25/-
Walnut or Black & Gold, with leathei
seats, 35h 73/6
Organ Benches, in Walnut, at 25/
Illustrated Lists post free.
ALLAN & CO.
276 & 278 COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne.
IVEN AWAY, ABSOLUTELY FREE, 1000 REAL
VX GOLD BROOCHES, Hall Marked, of Modern Design,
retail would cost HALF-GUINEA, to further introduce
DR. YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP, which
is a marvellous Skin and Complexion Soap. One trial
only necessary. Send, without delay, Is 6d, for which we
wili forward you post free one box (three tablets) of DR.
YON MULLER’S PEARL CREAM SOAP. All we ask for
the brooch is that you introduce the soap to at least six
friends. You can have any name desired engraved on
the brooch. Numerous testimonials.
THE ARGYLE APOTHECARY COMPANY,
Bond-street, Sydne3 r .
Arnold’s Balsam of Horehound
A WONDERFUL EXPECTORANT
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hoarseness.
■\TOTHING so quickly cures Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
■IN Asthma, Loss of Voice, Influenza, and Weak Chest as
this Balsam. Where children have whooping cough, or are
liable to croup, always keep it in the house. A single dose
quietens and gives relief. A small bottle often cures.
This is the best expectorant now in use; rapidly relieves
the bronchial tubes by discharging the congealed phlegm.
CAUTlON.—Purchasers should insist upon getting
Arnold’s Balsam. The genuine has the name of
the proprietor, JAMES BRINSMEAD, Chemist, St.
Kilda, on label and wrapper . ~ , „
By post 1, 6 and 2 6, if not obtainable locally.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
id 1
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means>f j cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude »nd
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
PHONOGRAPHS
no m
255.
Including
Reproducer,
Horn, . . .
Records . •
(from 2 up)
and Portable
Case.
Pert §• Son,
118 King-st., Sydney.
Manufacturers of the
famous BOOMERANG
Mouth Organs.
Largest and Cheapest House in Australia.
Catalogues of Violins, Cornets, Mandolines, Flutes,
Accordeons, Banjos, Autoharps, Phonographs, Records,
Music, Songs, Waltzes. Slot Graphophones and Slot
Polyphone Music Boxes Posted FREE.
TO LAPIES..
Ladies’Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/-each. English HAIRTAILS, from 5 6 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CRAIG & AITKIN,
680-652 Georgb St.,
SYDNEY.
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
A SILVER WATCH
For Nothing!
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR! 1500
TXTE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
W FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
| O-E P*O P * E O-E D*S* N Y. |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a Watch. . , . ,
We are making this offer solely with the object of in-
troducing and advertising our goods.
Wesleyan Parsonage,
Port Fairy, Victoria, 29/4/’99.
Dear Sir.—l beg to acknowledge receipt of Watch and
Chain, and am pleased to state that both are very
satisfactory. _Yours truly, M. COCK.
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
are celebrated for their quality.
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
are well known for their elegance.
OTTO HERZ & CO SHOES
never lose their shape.
OTTO HERZ & CO. S SHOES
fit the foot to perfection.
OTTO HERZ & CO.’S SHOES
have a 40 years’ reputation.
OTTO HERZ &CO.’S SHOES
form the most comfortable footwear.
OTTO HERZ & GO ’S SHOES
are sold by all of
JOHN'HUNTER & SON’S (Ltd.)
SHOE STORES.
Business Announcements. u
gsiMlgßaning Carnival.
Stainer $ (Jo.,
VISITORS to the MELBOURNE RACING
CARNIVAL will find us replete in ALL
DEPARTMENTS with the CHOICEST
Exclusive Novelties 1
Personally selected for the CUP SEASON by
our Special Buyer.
MAGNIFICENT GOWNS „. _ _
STAINER & CO.
EXCLUSIVE MILLINERY
STAINER & CO.
DELIGHTFUL BLOUSES .
STAINER & CO.
ELEGANT LACE ROBES
STAINER & CO.
STYLISH PARASOLS „ . „
STAINER & CO.
CHARMING BLOUSE &
CHOXCE FEATHER
DAINTY TAfeATS and RUFFLES
STAINER & CO.
Exquisite CHIFFON and LACE SCARVES
STAINER & CO.
CHASTE BELT SETS STAINER & CO.
NEW TINTS IN GLOVES & 00
NOVELTIES IN HOSimY sTAiNEK
STAINER & CO.,
LADIES' OUTFITTERS
DRAPERS and COSTUMIERS,
33, 35 Swanston-st., Melbourne.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
TSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
SAUCE.
the-
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice. • •
•
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy :— 11 I
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
m
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
A Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Medical.
'S'
e>
r:
pp
old
Rtfs
9c
jUNBu
fing
i/9
CHA
<s?
'v
&.C
O/yr
S
H
Y
l»K
p *ieto
RS
COMFORT
WALKING.
ee
st
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
In CQRNS & BUNIO NS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham,
England
fmrtvmrvr
FELTON, GRIMYVADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
flre you Run j)ouin ?
The present summer promises to be a
severe one. Weak people, therefore,
should fortify themselves by taking a
course of
(Qinerua T° nic -r
For promoting an appetite, strengthen-
ing the constitution, feeding the brain,
and steadying the nerves, this prepara-
tion is without an equal.
Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister for
Works, speaks of MINERVA as “an
admirable tonic,” and recommends it
to the public.
All Chemists throughout Australia.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
m,
mm.
MEDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
v.; lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of tafcte
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal W-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy, it
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, N eu ralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, eto. '
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, tree, or
send order direct to 1
Home Catarrb CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
** THE queen.
ROYAL
WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO
Ask for
Wbisky aod
‘Scb^eppc’
SCHWEPPES
SODA WATER, Ac.
( 3dd3M(ps,
pCie ApOejg
JO} >|S\£
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE
—London Medical Record.
6&
HO
iTTER
EXISTS.”
SESSsUSSr
ADl7lS-
th« lofin*®*
S' Thfe f^ JcJtor ln<»n“
y*“"f £?o?s?in« *» d
,d Yoonr C f' W C^Xt^»' ,lr ' ltl °^
9 Ag*A ~ f f|f
Hen & Hnnburys Ltd
1 .qsa^SgSg
NEW STYLE,
J&llenbiirgs Foods.
A Succession of Foods which affords nourishment suited to the changing digestive powers from birth upwards.
Tib® u All<&nburym y? D
Tib© i6 Allwbujys ??
specially adapted to the first
three months of life.
similarly adapted to the second
three months of life.
Complete Foods,
need in£ the
addition oI hot
water only.
Food N°.5
hitherto known as “Allen & Hanburys’ Malted
Food,” is adapted to, and has proved all that can
be desired for Infants after five or six months of age.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding free on application. _
The Malted Food has also been found of great Yalue to CON YALE SCENTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED^,
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London.
Food Manufactory:
Ware Mills, Hertfordshire.


we Favorite
WHISKEY.
GEO.'ROE&C?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER&C9 cvnucv'
B2 A PITT srr' JlUNtl'.,
ASK
FOR
P BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Clyi! Service Co-Operative Store*.
tittSt.,aud by Leading Hotels and Wiue and
Spirit Merchant*.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY 0 CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Gsorgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auotion Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
USf” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb.
It Was Indigestion.
You awake in the morning more tired than
when you went to l»e<l, with an unpleasant taste
in the mouth,' and the tongue coated and dry.
Little appetite for break fast—even what you eat
causes pain and acidity-or faint sensation in the
pit of the stomach. The face is flushed, com-
plexion sallow, and von are run down. Thousands
are suffering from indigestion and liver complaint
when one bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure would*
relieve them, and throe or four bottles Completely
cure. Ihe instructions for use accompanying each
bottle are simple. R : ad a lady’s experience
“Albert-street, Chewton, Vie.
“ For a period of tiro mars I was a great suf-
ferer from indigestion in the form of chronic dys-
pepsia. What I suffered from vomiting, pains in
the chest and head, hysteria, and impoverished
blood, I cannot describe. I consulted three doc-
tors, and tried many so-called remedies, but with-
out deriving any benefit whatever. Jn the end I
was persuaded to try Warner’s S i.fe Cure. I took
several bottles before I found it doing me any
good, but 1 Lept oh, and when I had taken my
fourteenth bottle 1 was com/ leUhi aired. This is
now fifteen months ago, and ever since l have been
in perfect health. I feel (hat I owe not only my
health but my life to this medicine.—B (I
MARGARET McDONALD.* ‘
Photography is one of the most pleasant
hobbies that can be taken up by anyone, and the
number of people who successfully "make photo-
graphers are legion. In times past the expense
attendant on photographic work was the chief
deterrent to its more general use, but it would
seem that now there is no need to make excuses
for that reason. Reference to the advertisement
on another page shows that Harrington & Co.,
Ltd., have placed upon the market a complete
outfit for the nominal sum of hive Shillings,
This comprises everything that the beginner
requires, including a wonderfully compact little
camera and chemicals. Such an outfit if placed
in the hands of any boy or girl should provea most
pleasurable companion and do much to foster a
love of the artistic.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
Why Australia and Canada are to help
,S r the Bop”. “ England must blood her
ffi; o f S N.S.W llSter (frorn Yorkshir «) Cope-
Early in the year Agent-General Salomons
!j|v' r ' 13 p 0 - S - W - Premier Lyne will have the
the vaoancy. Reid miscalculated the
length of his Ministerial days.
Premier Lyne was the only N.S.W.
Minister to speak during the long debate on the
dispatch of troops to the Transvaal. There is
aope for a Govt, that can hold its own—tongue.
The Dickson (Q.) Ministry survived Daw-
son s censure motion by a majority of 11. Also
t>y way of emphasising the importance of the
number ll in Queensland, there were 22 lepers dis-
cohered in that province last year.
n , £ZT C 0S °u President Paul Kruger’s offer
of £oooo for the capture of the Transvaal’s great-
Mt eneni3% Cecil Rhodes, dead or alive, the
offered - e ' 2ooo f( >r the capture
termB &rstßoer Preside nt, Pretorius, on the same
Hedy Joe Cook, M.L.A. (N.S.W.) : “ The
ltlanders are fighting because they are taxed
withoui representation. 1 ’ Query: Does lloly Joe
Gook knowing country which doesn't tax aliens
without representation? And while lie was a
r. r 7 f the Dod-Fearing Ministry when did
n_oij Gook ever move that it was wrong to tax
wnhout representation the 10,000 or so aliens in
Groat Britain’s motives for interfering
in the affairs of the Transvaal were, Mr. Cham-
berlain declared, parallel with those which led
America to interfere in Cuban matters. Great
Gntain was chiefly championing the causo ot
Hritisliers wlio were deprived of their promised
nghts. Quite true: the U.S. went to war in
trustf y tb ® in * tigation of tho Yankee
Ex-Premier Beid, with his indignant
monocle fixed on Premier Lyne's programme :
The speech of the Premier is exceedingly pleasant to
offi^efo aU?e j “ df:e from il he has evidently couie into
office to carry out my work.
A 8 , ,11 .y Sibe ! Lyne couldn’t carry out Reid's
work if Reid had carried it out himself. The only
'’‘'e reason vvhy Lyne is doing Reid's work is
" ls w otk for Lyne to do.
The proposal to start at
once dividing into con-
stituencies for the election of
members of the Federal Lower
House is a ridiculous affair.
No one knows yet how many
members N.S.W. will have.
Eaoh province is to have six
senators, and the membership
of the Lower House is to be, as
nearly as possible, twin.*- that of
the Senate. If Westralia comes
in there will be 30 senators and,
roughly speaking. 72Representa-
tives for 3,0 0,000 peop e—one
member for every 51,800 people ;
therefore N.S.W.’s proportion will
be 26 members and it will need to be
divided into 20 constituencies. And
i' W. A. stands out there will be
HO senators and, as nearly as
possible, CO Representatives for
H,51)0,000 people—one Represen-
tative for every 50,300 j»eople ;
therefore N.S.W. will have 23
Representatives, and will require to be divided
mto 23 constituencies. Premier Turner Iras re-
bjsed to start dividin'? up Victoria because he has
fiie same difficulty ahead of him. Sul.-di\isum
into electorate* just now is liable to be oidy waste
t>f time and money,
The F inns bitterly resent Russia’s recent
Aggression upon their civil rights—particularly
the new law compelling Finns to serve in the
•ornjy in any part of the empire as well as in
Finland. A huge emigration movement is in
preparation, and a Finnish representative is in
Queensland trying to arrange for the settlement
of numbers of bis countrymen in that province.
The Finns, a fine,.manly people of great physique*
should prove desirable colonists.
_ The old men who waited in deputation on
Premier Lvne t’other day complain bitterly that
the Premier allowed them only two minutes to
talk, while when they waited a year ago on Col.
Sec. Brnnker on the same question lie let tl em
talk two hours. The question was Old Age Pen-
sions, and the. incident pathetically indicates what
Hoods of talk old men when they get pensions will
want to pour out. Rrunker let them talk two
hours. Tie did nothing for them—merely let them
talk. Therefore, gratitude.
Ex-Governor Loch is of opinion that it
will be wise for Britain to annex and disarm both
the South African republics. Which is gospel
truth. Anti it would be twenty times wiser to
annex and disarm F ranee, which is a vast amount
more dangerous to Britain than both the African
republics. And having annexed France, the
annexation and disarmament of Germany would
be most important. Also, in the interests of
India, the annexation and disarmament of
Russia are essential. In fact, no country will ever
be safe until it has annexed and disarmed the
whole globe.
The Vic. Parliamentary enquiry into the
paltry case of Minister Best and his brother-in-
aw begins to look like a match against time.
Ihe board s!ts on Wednesdays only. Morkham,
tlie Secretary for Lands, was the witness under
examination last week, and he came along with a
written history of the case, which began by accus-
lng a previous witness of disloyalty to his superior,
Morkham. Hie board, afttr digesting Mr. M's.
heavy yarn, will cross-examine him this week, and.
go on adjourning as before.
Australia is a great deal moro loyal to
Britain than Britain is to herself. In the
House of Commons, I3.‘> members out of
P r o s ent—more than a fourth—voted that the
1 rans vaM war was a gross injustice, deliberately en-
gineered by Rhodes and Chamberlain. In N.SW.
the 1 ransvaal war was approved by nearly 8 to 1.
and the House sang the National Anthem in ad-
dition. lasmania, Victoria, and Westralia also
showed by their vote that they had a better opinion
ot Britain than Britain herself has.
Thus the Kwo.vo Yick Wau Bo (Chinese-
Australian Llkkai.ij) :
R r)yi h °!;? thaL !" this war with the Transvaal the
war i' nm cn ln, 't l-»ut at the same time the cause of the
Slates o?A?w?,^ te ' U P ol| cy of the lirilisli Vassal
of thesi t lasla ’ "°r "• consistent with ti,ereligion
s o I llm Pe ° ple Wllich teaches them that they
done ? other pemUM as they themselves wool,l ho
aor e by. In Australia the British place the Chinese
un« er political disabilities and hardships whi«h are far
more (."evons than those indicted on the British by the
The new Tas. Ministry Ims “a soft
thing on. inasmuch a* it has no need to declare a
policy or even pretend to have a policy, until
Iteration happens. All the Ministers have to
Ywm t 0 Ca , rr y ol 't t" e Public works scheme of
a r> ,.!’ n ’ dr j iw their salaries, and postpone
p , e se tih after the Couiuiouwealth
J <ti I lament has settled down to work. It would
be a dull crowd indeed that couldn't retain power
under the circumstances. Braddon wiil not
trouble them much ; he aspires to a Federal seat.
Premier Dickson, of Queensland, is un-
speakably pained at the conduct of the
secretary of the Gulf Railway and Progress
League. lh:s benighted caitiff wired to Dickson,
protestmg against the “ waste of good quids 11 on
the ocaly land African Army Corps while “our
requirements ... the way of a steamer service
rtmam m abeyance. ’ When Oily James had
Eito“m*!!„!S?‘' md to b ™ ul ‘°' •'»
He ypur telegram of 2Sth inst. I regret (hat ant-
?vnmathv wiiTl’l ° r c0, " 1n,1,,i should find itself out of
ia'sm„h if,,l *! '0 t the British army
' , 1 . 1 Af " ca \ ,0 winch such enthusiastic support is
emg given in the Australian colonies, and in oth«r
tomr'ise 'ihsi ° f U ** b.deed grea.lv to my
‘‘t*, s,,la 1 centre of Queensland colonists
• i o exhiiM a,, r'* le “' lh loyal I!,i,ish seiinment
siron rlv Vl V rt,sa Pproval of a proposal which so
toinmends itself to all who ate capanle of
yon lL . 'V ° f ,he Em P"' e to which they
C: m hi °, a Sl " ,silliarv " la " - Bee,o the
18 receiving the attention of the Govemment ami
"r q,,eS,i ° n not he atieeied l,y
... ‘, C • llcl ' Lhe Government may feel filled upon
Uiemm^So^ecoloV'^^ 1 °' * ° f
OF FORMAN DESCENT.
QUEENSLAND P.M. : “ What is your name?"
APPLICANT FOR GOVT RELIEF-RATIONS: "Cland
Charles Augustus I’lanlayenet Montmorency.”
P.M.: "Ah! That's quite refreshing after so
many Smiths and Drowns.”
Dear Bi-li.ktix.— When Labour-member
Holman (N.H.W.) was maintaining in N..S.W.
Assembly that abstract justice was with the
Boers, Barton snapped the question at liitn “ Do
3ou want the British or the Boers to win?”
Holman said in his haste that he wanted
the Boers to win, and in consequence lie is
regarded with execration in some quarters, and
.viewed as a thing of loathing. And Barton,
who is for Britain right or wrong, is a
patriot. Yet l believe I have heard of Barton
fighting against his country in the law courts, and
holding a brief against bis own native land. And
lie then wanted his country to be defeated, redit
or wrong--Holin-an only wanted Britain to be
defeat* cl because he thought it was in the wrong.
And Barton fought against his country for sordid
money for the fee marked on his brief; not for
sentiment. It is quite as much a duty to be for
our country right or wrong in the law-court as in
the battle field. -r- Yours disrespectfully, T.S.
“MISTAKEN IDENTITY
Sketched Outside the “ Scotch ” College, Melbourne.
S.A. Government having erected State
cymmlp works nt Mount Grainger, and thesm.ply
to lZ !T ~r,Vatr n " barely sufficient
to keep■ them working at tin ir full capacity, two
n '.blic t 'n't e b r taken Y !> in tl,e ,lillne of the
0 . ev [ . ° ll,e "’l>en*foro
, . ! •• ' v 'tli laboured sarcasm, desired to
on'sVr’ T‘"'r tlle Tetersbnrg racecourse i 3
ninm nf ,i'"'’ m-®* 8 co " !d "’ t be entered in the
name of the public trustee, on the ground that
theie aren t as many privately o'.Mied horses
running as the course will hold.
. Sydney Evexing News, in a warlike lead-
ing article of October 10
'V hat would l.abor inemhers like Messrs. Hnirhes and
Holman say if any British Government were lo overawe a
niiiin-coninunnly with armed police (ami foreigners at
Um ). »nd by a fort full of corns? They would cry
SI none! and probably talk sedition ; lmt because the
nnnuiir community happens lo be British (inchidino- a.
n?e n "/"h V Austl ' a,ia " s ’> a,lrl ifs oppressors' Dutchmen
the Dutchmen are naturally declared in the right ’
According to the Evening Noose’s logic, tho
Imcr is a foreigner even ,n the country whoro ho
as born and when be.garrisons his own fort with
into the hind PS ’ ‘ G * S br "*“ in " a forei g» oppressor
Melbourne Age, in a bitterly patriotic
eider of 1, th October, quotes a resident of tho
limsvaal as a proof of tho Uitlanders’ griev-
ances: b
~ ink >’ e n [ tBtin sr soap Id. per lb., brooms and
brushes 50 per cen,., candles 33 per cent., bools Is. a
And in Victoria the duty on soap is 2d. per lb. on
some kinds, -Id. per lb. on others ; on brooms it is
pei cent. ; anti on some kinds of boots it goes
as ugh as os. per pair. Also, there is a duty of
roily do percent, on candles in Queensland S A
J asmama and W.A., though in Victoria it is
on. v about lb per cent. This is indeed terrible.
The Democratic League of N.S.W. has
fixed up a Federal political platfpnn in three
clauses. Clause lis as follows •
NaMonTpT,!;!' rP, ''' eBe " , l a,i ,°" ■" > ,otl ' Houses of the
Nation ] I ,uhament, and the unrestricted ri-ht of the
n'T'i °a ’ 6 !. ,eo|,ie t 0 ml ° " 'tli regard to all legislation.
yu lading th,’ alteration of the Constitution.
'I hat should about end any chance of making the
••; :: 'T7h Cl f^' l r a ' la ! l ' Anstralian combination.
J or d the right of altering the Constitution is to
V with a bare majority of the people, it is sim-
>l\ a cose of N.S.W. and Victoria, which are tho
1 1,011 7 . saying to the smaller States :“ We ask
yiui to join us on the terms set down in the. Con-
"V r, ; serv "'S right, after you have
f 1 . tl,B terms and come in, to alter the
ever hi-"TV' wny '. ve ” No small State is
terms * to 110 beaLlt y and loveliness of these
Ex-Premier Reid's loud complaint that
Premier Lyne wasn’t prompt enough in arranging
*., IH despatch of a N.S.W. contingent to
l? „P. sv ? aI ' vas lriacle to look very foolish by
J*. It. \V ises disclosure of this minute, written bv
Tt-id when still Premier, in reply to the first
appeal for assistance :
fol ' present. I have come to the conclusion
li-.-iiin.o^d' ’"Potti.v of i lie Australian provinces with the
U.il.niiatedcsires of the British inhahitants in the Trans-
''. , las , ee ? already made sufficiently manifest, and
HE 11 v '"‘tween the British people and the people
at his miTof n l ' a, ' Cel T. Ca ". S for dis ' lla - vs °f patriotism
bein * all'n !n. i th „? ?trengtb of ‘the position
oe,n -» a *» 0,1 the side of Great Britain.
And as soon as Yes-No got out of office lie re-
m uveil that it was most unfortunate to have in
office at this crisis a slow person like Lyne who
' b V V rapidly enough to the assistance of
the dear old mother country.- Such is the game
of party-politics ! b
Mdb A robs rises to assert that as the
federal Constitution says nothing about State
Governors, and clie Chief Justices cannot fill
•wo j> and the election of Governors by
th- people from the people would not prove
acceptable to the people, and the Canadian system
of appointment by the Federal Cabinet has not
Li i-n altogether successful, absolutely nothin**
remains for us “ but to be as liberal as possible in
voting salaries for State Governors and to con-
tinue to look to England to supply the necessary
gen .lumen. Rats ! The Bulletin concludes in
view of the above circumstances, and the other
la arm table fact that the imported Governor is
geieraHy a dismal failure-just look round at
th 'xn now .—that nothing remains but for us to
go without State Governors altogether, allowing
th i State Premier a little additional screw and
lot ■ ug him get the Governor-General to assent to
: , , b -V Post and dissolve Parliament through the
tel -phone.
Curious that so exact a student and so
wide a reader an I ’.nice Smith should be still
inou thing John Mills earlier preachings with
their Spencerian glosses, while overlooking Mill's
solemn and impressive acceptance, in his “ Auto-
biography,” of the tenets of Socialism. Mill, by
the way, is not seldom placed on a lower level
than Spencer as an original investigator, but it
was very significant of the two men’s methods
that one liberalised as he grew older and the
other Toryfied. Spencer withdrew from his
latest editions the most far-reaching of his specu-
lations—that as to land ownership in the first
edition of “Social Statics because his pro-
foundly philosophic conclusions on that question
clashed with his latter day working theory as to
the tendency to widen the scope of Govern-
ment. On the other hand, Mill, by committing
liiinself m his last work, to the main proposition
ot Socialists—that the State should control pro-
dnotion and distribution—laid the axe to the root
of his whole earlier economic system.
From Brisbane Telkgraph of 14th Oct. :
Hr. Annear thinks it is a dreadful thins that 77 per
fT i „„ * >o P M,at 'on in l lie Trans, aal should lie domin-
ated by 2 3 per cent, and deprived of the franchise.
it is a very bad case, no doubt, a terrible thing. In
lact; one against which all should fight.
there/eremlnm vote in V«.W..w'f oqninst the Co-
n 8,11 represents M per rent, of the „h,te pop ula-
Xioii; and they are dominated i, v the oilier IT per cent.
Oiujhr.venoU 0 ask Great Britain to interpose, and* to
see that justice is done?
Mr. A nnear was one of lho«e who voted for this over-
riding of the S 3 per cent, of the people here, and now be
" 7 , per rr " L 01 ihe people of the Trans-
jell s h°uld be so dealt uiih. Oh, man, thy name pray
Let’s see. The referendum vote against the Bill
m Queensland was 30,9% and the vote for the
Lill was 35.458. And 30,9%, it seems, is 83 per
cent while 38,488 is only 17 per cent. In other
words 30,9% is five Hmcs tr than 38,488. The
be is poor and crude certainly, yet its size is
magnificent, ihereisuo attempt at probability
OUR BLIND BROTHER.
BENEVOLENT PARTY : "Poor fellow, have you been
hi ind long?”
HALF-TITSY BEGAR (after hearing the coin
rallc): “ Yes, a good while now , sir; ever
since the dcaf-and dumh ag an’ the crippled in
bailie game give up payin’.”
about it. It is just as raw and inartistic as if the
I KI.EGRAPH editor had stated that his mother-in-
law was 872 feet high ; in fact it looks like the
work of a person who lies with a pick and shovel,
"let its mere dimensions command some respect.
Only great courage or great recklessness or a great
deal of beer or three-parson piety cun account
for it.


Palings
“Here Since ’53.”
They are direct Importers
of everything per-
taining to
MUSIC and
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS,
PALINGS-
FOB
Pi AHOS
The Best and most
popular Manufacturers
stocked.
Steinway
Brinsmead
Eeurich
Uebel
Ecke
Victor
Belling
and others.
PALIN6
FOB
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
Violins
Cornets
Guitars
Banjos
Mandolins
Autoiiarps
Concertinas
Accordeons
And all other known
Musical Instruments.
PRUM<S’S^s-~
GUARANTEE
Every Instrument.
YOU
can buy on
EASY TERMS.
# & # j*
Call or
Write for
CATALOGUES
They are EREE.
Jit jZ jt Jt
The Largest Selection of
Music in Australia.
W.H
o„ S TP "
6EOR6E STREET,
S’/PNEY
And at
BrisbaQG
Newcastle
r
Storekeepers’ CoGpoo Register
USERS .
OPINIONS
9
“ All the registers we
have had from you have
given the utmost satis-
faction.
“Washington H.
Soul & Co.,
“Sydney.”
•
“ The two registers
purchased recently are
doing their work splen-
didly ; the more we use
them the better we like
them.
Campbell Bros,
and Co.,
“ Toowoomba, Q. ”
Omk
BENEFITS
OF USE.
A SYSTEM MOST
NEARLY ALLIED
TO PERFECTION.
•
PERFECT CHECK
ON ALL CASH
RECEIVED.
®
A RECORD OF
EVERY
INDIVIDUAL
TRANSACTION.
The Qnly True 4 Elective Coupon System
Full particulars, prices, etc.,
on application to \
National Casl) Register
COMPAKTY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
I Q
>J\
N.
n
ONE OF THE OUNLOP TYRZ CO.’& FACINQ ItdOTQSSd
Tbs faster tbs tyre
tbs easier tbe work
of propelling your Cycle. The great
advantage of riding MULTIPLEX
is that they are the fastest either
of) tbe road or track and yet are
Stropg and durable enough to stand
continuous riding on rough roads and
tracks:—in fact they are the BeSt Tyres
for aj l pCirpoSeS.
Roadster Tyres for 12 n?oolbs
First in 1888 ... Foremost ever since.
i
ghe gunlop pneumatic gyre <go. of (Australasia <Ltd.,
485 Kent Street, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, rerlh, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
MONEY LENT
... ON ...
All Classes of Security.
IQont de piete (Jo.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY '
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MTOKrTR.
BILLS DISCOUNTED, ADVANCES MADE ON
FURNITURE, MERCHANDISE, Etc.
(WITHOUT POSSESSION.)
Pledge Department
- SIDE -
ENTRANCE.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The mutual [if®
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bndge st.)gy(j n ey t
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. I Ad. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, SI.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Cly.ve ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. VV
Farquuar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Universal Land <£ Deposit
BANK, LIMITED. . . 2 50 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Loans granted on Freehold Property repayable by
Slonthly Instalments.
FIXED DEPOSITS ... 12 Monlhs,
>• » 2 Years, 5%
>i n 3 Years, 6/ 0
Address all Communications to
Ernest C. V. Broughton, Managing’ Director.
Queensland Smelting pipy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
“DU YE US and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, [.ead, and
Copper Ores, Aurd-tons Concent rates an I Pyrites
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V'. S. DUNN, Manager’
Melbourne Office, 62 Market street; or to the MANAGER*
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loqcloo & Lag}c^s!)ir^
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,260.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors— John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manaoer.
THE UNITED AUSTRALIAN
EIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
NOTED FOR ITS PROMPT AND LIBERAL
SETTLEMENTS,
HAVING PAID AWAY OVER £200,000 IN LOSSES
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND VICTORIA
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital, 1500,000 Capital paid-up, £38,000.
Reserve Liability, £213,000.
The Capital of the Company as stated above, in regard
to its responsibilities to the Public, is equal to that of the
Principal Insurance Companies transacting business in
Australia.
HEAD OFFICES (Property of the Company): 79 PITT-
ST., SYDNEY ; 405 and 407 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
E. B. McKENNY, Secretary.
RISKS TAKEN AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Agents wanted where not represented.
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
[ Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND (
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 28,
Gabo, Tues., Oct. 31,
Peregrine, Sat., Nov.
12 Noon.
5 p.m.
4, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tues., October 31, 5 p.m,
I ALBANY
FREMANTLE
-Gabo, Tues., October 31, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE 'i
MARYBOROUGH |
ROCKHAMPTON (
BUNDABERG J
Leura, Sat., Oct. 28, 2 p.m.
Konoovvana, Tues., Oct. 31, 5 p m
Tyrian, Sat., Nov. 4, 2 p.m.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 28* 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Nov. 4. 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. Ac.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo rqr all Ports received Daily.
Lowest. Current,Fares and Freights to all Ports
» r Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Keturn Pickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
o “ < Wy7y?Jd‘slree£ Bui ‘ dingS) COrner Geor S e and
Wharves—Foot of King- Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, dec.
Tbe T Cxc^GtorS,
AND
Con>pai)y Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
« 3-,;j
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £l5OOOO O 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts.
ami Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
truste°e VenCy Depa, ' tment > Mr - L - I. Barker registered
Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Isn t' E m '’nm M ' ° - .V M ■ L ' A -> Vice Chairman ; John
Esq., O. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES JBORROWMAN, Manager.
No. 412 wiK D ,f.AKS;.. A ‘ ,h, "‘ M ‘ natc --
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Scares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government
A moun t of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital
2,C00,000
500,000
500,000
£3,000,000
—THE-
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital.. «. *3,150,574 15 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. \V. H. Embling, MLC '
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C. ‘ ' ’
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner J.P
Chief Inspector : H. L Heron
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol, Arthur
Walker, and Alban Hill
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsynte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES'
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall. 1
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant; Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyongi New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
X'-THE-, “
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
j Accumulated Funds, £ 2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765 -assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIL J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG, r* LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,009,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KBItR, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. ... .. 1,950,000 0 0
0 0
Total 5,100,000
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred GO.ttee, Esq.
Sir J ames Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
"■ Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. s. Harrison, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in ali the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom. ’
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities In tlie Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and (lie East..
J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
rjOLLINS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL,
V CHARTERS TOWERS.
The Best and Most Popular Hotel on the Goldfield.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
For particulars, apply R. COLLINS, Charters Towers.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
-C° Natal, Capetown and London •
. T x T e A f m l . l ? vvi /J ff magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Nov.
24
15
Bfjivuiuu accommoaauon, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
onS e !L by this route t 0 London will avoid the heat
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
For Freight and Passage Money apply to
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
IM GLAND VIA AMERICA
_ by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive it
San
Franoisoo,
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
27 Dec.
25 Jan.
22 Feb.
D •»»*nd,uie until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, ban 1 rancisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
a ‘* " b il er apply Union St»am Ship Co
nivt n’p n‘o 5 Buildings, George Sircet,
" ext , G -80-- Sydney; Corner Collins and William
4nfi ets ; M o b , n 'c, r xr e i,B. w. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide j 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
otock Kates and Freight Quota! ions, apply 9
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ ~ Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Business Announcements.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL-
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL
£20,000.
TUILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M‘ Brahe, Harvey Paterson.
L. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempriere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
THOMAS McINERNEY,
Metallurgist, Engineer, etc., etc.,
39 REGENT STREET, PADDINGTON.
Written Credentials may be had at a moment’s notice.
Personal reference kindly permitted by Thos. Buckland,
Esq., Equitable Buildings; Dr. R. Read ; W. Longworth,
Esq., Rushcutter’s Bay; Thos. Longworth, Esq., Cobar.
ALSTON’S
WINDMILLS
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
«5 lOs.
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
« ves * :nient or House, Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line ; not a Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
IS A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write me your requirements. Send tor Catalogue.
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee and Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNE
F
AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
Second Edition. 220pp.—4s. 6d.
. Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
_ South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullana, Friday, Oct. 27.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday, Nov. 4.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Bullana, Friday,
October 27.
S.S. Wollovvra, Saturday,
November 4.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairna
S.S. Allinjra, Friday,
October 27.
& est tie Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. VIJ ILL and CO., I /re., Agents
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
w >th Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
HIMALAYA
OCEANA
BRITANNIA
INDIA
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. .. (Oct. 21
6603 L. H. Crawford, C.8.,R.N.R. Nov. 2
6525 F. H. Seymour ... .. Nov. 18
7911 T. Leigh ... ... .... Dec. 2
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
mAunS ■’ LONDON, Return Tickets, ' 65 to £llO.
lO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid.here on
for P assa ff es from England. EDWARD
■■j-eLLAMNY, Agent, No. 5 BENT STREET, Sydney.
’nwßßßaßawji - 1 -
—TO-
MELHOURNI?, HOIMHT,
LAUNCES TON, W EST A I STRA LIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Satan.
MESSAUERIES_ IWARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
• Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
Trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
L m/k ll ' , i^ ljßANY ’ COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m .
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
Oct. 30 Nov. 2 Nov. 4
Nov 27 Nov. SOj-Dec. 2
Dec. 25 Dec. 28j.-Q( : o.. 30
Jan. 22 Jan. 2a!Jftn. 27
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to U7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everv assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea. :
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney
G. LAURENT COCHELET,
Principal Agent.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S.Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,'
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibt)S ? Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Strbkt, SYDNEY.
N
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHEE
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers and carrying 1,983,482 tons cargo.
Trading between European Ports, Asia, North
and South America, Australia, New
Guinea, etc.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers or apply to
Weber Lohmann & Co., General Agents,
279 GEORGE STREET, opposite Hunter St., SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly*
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA - Weekly.
Passenger Accommodat ion, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE —British, India and Queensland Agency/
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Beanie’s Bronchitis Cur
°X*33l:
FAMIOUS IXDEiaVCJESIDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, tak - - - -
and a Complete Cure is certain.
taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient.
B€WAR€ OF COU6NS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OPP THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ~
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to,
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use Of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to!Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it'was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING- COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances uliich
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents..
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD. Trinkev, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.” , .
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
• ■
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us boih. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broad ford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
• ■
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—o. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C.. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
9
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 9
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of rfivdicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending \L to everybody.-—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9 '
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at tny present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN O.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozeri of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.’,’
9
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure d got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROVV, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ IG9 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently,
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“ This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales Of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HEARAE, Ghemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED),
13-A.IPXO (Lake Illawarra), near SYDWEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS,
PRODUCERS
OS'
FINE SILVER.
MB
■
, ■
' - . ■
:
a ms
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
‘ ILLAWAERA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BUTT
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS. ULLION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food for
Infant:
9
mi
■v:
Bengar’s Food is sold in various sizad
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IHVAUDS
AND
THE AGED.
Books!
Books! Books!
History of Australian Bushrangihg, by C. White. Frank
Gardiner, the King of the Road, and his Gang, Is 3d ;
Ben Hall and his Gang, Is 3d ; The Galoola Robbers and
other startling incidents, Is 3d.
The New South Wales Banditti, or Donohoe, Under-
wood, Webber, Clarke, and their Gangs, Is 3d. I have
three very choice books Is 6d each. Popular Educator,
in 6 vols., £5 for 255. Write for Catalogues,; all hooks
sent post free. It. IV. SKINDfEII, Second-hand Book-
seller, 105 Castlereagh-st.» Sydney* Telephone 3043.
Val6abU Books-
Man, Know Thyself.
Woman, Know Thyself
POSTED FOR 6(J. IN STAMPS OF ANY COLONY
W. N. JeokiQS,
41 Stephen Street,
. Melbourne.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian tasti?. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 15s.
• 255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUI ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOE A
BOOK CATALOGUE
op RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the It.MjsniATED London Standard.
Post. Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
BEST REMEDY ON EARTH
FOR
COUGHS & COLDS.
THE EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
is a perfect Bicycle at a fair price,
and the best at any price.
Factories loronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Brandies—Melbourne, Sydney. liun.edin, Brl.sii.me, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
‘‘ i’ilee, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert Sharp!
Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any colony
from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
«
a ■
handle Sdar Adjustment.
Found only on 1900 jUlodel Red Birds.
Notice the great simplicity and effectiveness of this device : just a turn
°f nu " and the handle bars may be adjusted to any position . and,
at the same time, be raised or lowered. Nothing to get out of
order. No squeezm of the head tube, as with other bolt and nut
fastenings, consequently no loose head cones and bearings.
This is another of the many little features which make Red Birds superior to other cycles.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by ... .
Che 6oold Bicycle Co M Ctd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada
Hgents everywhere.
Australasian Branches
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Austraujw.
261 Couins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
WHITE FOR CATALOGUE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Coincidence that 21 started for Caulfield Cun
ast Saturday (21st) Race was not fast—2min. 38$sec.
1 has been equalled or beater, by every winner since and
inclusive of. Vengeance, in DO. Ultimate first and second
nags (Dewey and Uauleon respectively) whinner! in n.o
field at three furlongs. Ikeys with set books heavily
As showing difference in Sydney and Melb. prices it wav
be mentioned that, up to the death, Dewey vvas 5 to l m
Sydney when as much as lu to 1 could have been had
about him on the course. Cocos, top weight (9.m was
first in the straight and led there for over 100yds. ; he is
in great buckle, and may land the other end (Melb. Cun)
of the double for the Caulfield winner’s owner (Pavten)
Dewey carries 101 b. penalty in Melb. Cup-getting o"b
from Uauleon, who gave him a stone on Saturday The
dead-sure-thmg favorite, Mora—voted a moral hv all
concerned, and heavily weighted with the money of the
cuiinmg dry-hash ” section, could get no nearer than
sixth, after having a good position and a clear run (an
parently)”!! the way Her rider (Parker) says she got
badly humped by La Carabine at the turn, but Mora was
done with then ; besides, the bump couldn’t have been
serious, as La Carabine finished fourth full of running.
Dewey’s clever capture of the Caulfield Cud
was quite in accordance with the run that landed him
third for the Stakes on the previous Saturday but it
came as a surprise to many who saw him win the Cooney
Handicap on the Wednesday. At the finish of the 11-fur-
hat h a P C hnH ay i e, ‘ S COlt bo , re<l , towards the rails . and seeing
that he had also run unkindly in the Metropolitan at
Randvvick. scores, probably hundreds, of punters decided
to leave him alone for the Cup. It looked as though
Dewey were an indifferent slayer and a bad one for a
little boy to ride in a big field of horses. Yet, when the
Cup-race came to pass, Dewey held a favorable position
all the way, and getting a clear run next to the rails at
the critical moment, he made a bee-line for the winning
£,°mo o nd m P M r!" 8 " uniber U P- Such is racing. If the
same Caulfield Cup were run ten times over Dewey would
win how often ? Thrice, perhaps. 3 wouia
Taking Balliatiteas a creation of recent “form ”
and looking at the race as it was run. La Carabine had
wow®, of , luck 1,1 the Cau| field Cud. Not long ago
W R.\YH S on s mare easily beat Ballistite (they are both
?iK Ca^ lne)o 'l era . n il 1 eand a< > uaner » difference of
lb. They met on the same terms last Saturday, hut at
lJ4m.es La Carabine was hopelessly placed at the tail-
end of the crowd, whereas Ballistite was among the
leaders. The horse came third at the finish, with the
mare fourth, close behind him. La Carabine must have
been giving Ballistite fully 30 yards start in the final
two furlongs. Had she managed to get well placed
like her stable companion. Scorn, she would have
won the Caulfield Cup in a canter—perhaps Any-
way-, La Carabine was all behind when Scorn (said
to be much the faster animal in private) vvas leading
the held round the turn for home. Scorn at this moment
looked a certainty for a “ shop,” even if hedidn’t actually
win all the way down the straight, as Amberite did two
years ago. The Derby eolt is supposed to be a stayer.
Given a front place and a fast pace. Scorn couldn't lose
said the Stable. But on Saturday he wouldn't or
couldn't, struggle when the pinch came, and unless it
was that something galloped into him and caused him
to stop suddenly, Scorn must be set down as a “ rogue ”
It is a remarkable fact that \V. It. Wilson’s horses as a
rule, are troubled with bad tempers or bad feet, some-
times both. *
The Caulfield Cup was, of course, a tipster’s race
this year. Most, of the ‘ prophets” selected Dewey as
one of the three likeliest, and some of them went near to
placing the horses correctly. Out of Tus Billktin’s four
picks, three finished among the first six in the race and
the other, Scorn, was the fellow who ought to have won—
but didn't.
• • • •
All three placed horses in this year’s Caulfield
Cup were bred in N.S.W. Dewey i 8 by- Lochiel - Dona
Giiuleoii by Gozo —lndustry, ami Ballistite by Carbine-
Inheritance. Latter was foaled at Wagga.
Caulfield Cup winner Dewey as a two-year-old
ran novvheie eight times, was third to Beaulieu once ant)
got away with two-year-old Maiden Stakes at. Randwick
Autumn meeting last year. This season he began with
third to Mawtnas at. Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) ran no-
where in Hampden Stakes, won Ivy The Chief; was second
to Nevermore m Hawkesbury Handicap last month: then
came his recent A.J.C. Spring performances.
* * * m
Said that last week .£l5OO was offered and
£2U(M) asked-for Dewey. Now, M.L. sport and champion
polfer, 5. 11. Gollan, who has a team of crack “down
under,” wants the colt. Owner (Pavten’s) price is £2500
and if sale is effected horse to remain in charge of present
trainer, who will pay all expenses, and take half stakes
won.
* » • •
Apropos Caulfield Cup. The only first favorite-
ever known to win was Wallace’s Calma in ’S3. Bunge-
bah has pride of place as Ihe hottest pot in the hislory
of the race. Paris (!>.4) holds record for biggest weight-
all other winners carried less than (Ist. Largest field was
in Grace Darling’s year when 41 started ; 17 fell. This is
the most extensive racing accident known ; more horses
have been killed hut never so many jockeys unhorsed.
The effect of the catastrophe was known in the following
year—only 18 faced the Hag.
* * * •
Of the Melb. Cup horses that showed during'
Caulfield meeting present writer has most, liking for
Gauleon, The Chief, La Carabine, Tremarden, Contrast,
Le Var, Dewey, and Scorn, for it. is not advisable to judge
such horses as Scorn by one bad performance. The Chief
shaped very w-ell behind Australian Star last Wednesday
and if he is quite himself again on Cup Day he will have
a good chance to carry- Mr. Bill Forrester s colors in the
van for the third year in succession. On the other hand
it seems even more likely that the Gaulus and Grafter
blood will score a third Cup victory- by means of Gauleon.
Among the good horses that have been backed,
or will be backed, for Melb. Cup, the present scribe is in-
clined to mistrust Wait-a-Bit, Cocos, Gaulus, Dirk 11am-
merhand, Mora, and Gungadin, but next week will be
time enough to attempt a sorting-out of the various
chances. One thing will always be evident—Cranberry,
the colt that gave 131 b. and a beating to Dewey, ought to
win Derby and Cup, unless his queer track “ form ” at
Fleimngton of late is an indication of the proverbial
“ screw loose somewhere.”
* * * *
John Crazier picked up a race, last Saturday,
with Security, who came over from Adelaide with parti-
cular designs on the Toorak Handicap. The wily J C
may be expecting to get a race out of Gnullo likewise
before the curtain falls on the “ Carnival ”
• • • »
The Prize, winner of Salisbury Stakes at Rand-
wick Saturday last, is half-brother to the Ballarat horse
Tremarden, which got away with Caulfield Guineas a.
week before. The Prize was so named through being one
of the subjects of St. Alban’s lottery- worked off by- sweep-
promoter “ Tattersall.”
• * * •
“Tout”: Welter Handicap at A.J.C. Meeting
Saturday provides food for reflection upon manner it*
which horse-races are clocked. Winner, Lady Macbeth,
r!a h v 8 ’ wiT steln! de d ° l !: P,utu " finished a head
lowered ir n l 00 h,S K ' rth9 - Until »»Jin Djin
vet. 7 month 1.40 was the mile record for years.
™? Bke< L t 0 b , elieve that a “a* carrying welter
" knocked It **“* ° f . thiB ' while 'wo others
the riflim,. Li *1 door ’ Haven t seen any turf scribe on
themai!? k k * gam3t th * B ’ Wbat ' B the matter with
• • • ,
par ’ 2 1/l°/’99) anent Sydney weekly
sporting paper tipping four winners at Rosehill on nrif
B cHhe S n ,r rday - " '? VVOrth mentioning that the
cl' Lu up a 9Undar performance for last Saturday s
Caulfield meeting and had the other two winners of »iv
races second in his selection. And some of them started
comparative the betting. started
Lord Beldon. trotter, won at Coornaroo fO 1
Stfa-f-vs&r - »sssr&afc
• * • •
, 6 Westralian sweep-man seems to have made
tary f gee- B gee°w as altow ed 60, ,t he case in which a ™ U '
sweeD events Tn loWed . a " alk ove r” for one of his
all the monev JL' w,nn,n ir ticket took first prize, plus
prizes being added a » Par t h for Btarters > second and third
starter* Th . the “mount divisible among non-
winner got a . .? rran,rem ® n t was unimpeachable. The
three or more hor than he would ha ' e received had
than he was enthi d f°" e l °u the > lost - and Jet no more
onlystarTer”tilet 7 7 the holder of the “one and
included two And - 9 £ elll K that the non-starters
ing the “ walked nius t have filled the places(assum-
three or nti er . vvould have won in any case), if
denuvfheono c ? n, P et, tors had passed the post, evi-
to dhdde the two ar^f r t ! Cket ' holderS hafl a full o,ain »
be *o" na prlzes an, ong them. It will
the I t i 1 u non ' starters were scratched
e the drawing of the sweep-but what of that ?
burto f PUt a " th ? ~o" 'i"ations on equal terms,
starter and ’ bu "? d , nonilnatior "» just as valuable a non-
before the r a “e ° * WaS Scratched ‘“‘‘f an-hour
wr^ked n o B n°?he Crilsoe ‘ s t celebrated swim when
been eclinsed h P aS9a * e f Sydney to Melbourne has
who were P n» d J the P erfo ™ ,an °cs of Chesney and Kiora,
was Jreek d IK o B Per Thermopylae when that vessel
"een on h£ard n r e h r Capetown ’ VVhe " ,he horses were last
‘f" boaid t ‘ | ey were secured in their boxes, and it is
ming in n. V , '7 KOt c ' ear ’ Chesnev was seen swim-
mln J‘ „n? ! la 7 u on 'he night of the accident, when a
Kwv ollt with a rope and towed him ashore.
“ , !7T7' Ce was 9tll l "'°re extraordinary. It was
land fuliv ' n exfc,n °rmng that he was found trying to
on asn illld I°"’ ! he V e(-k - He was ‘hen standing
hhn and ° f r ° ck an | lvben a rO P e was got round
n ced h„m? rescuers called upon him he whinnied.
Shore d ßofh n ,nto deep " a,pr ' and was towed gently to
not tho.nrhr Ih°— 8 " e - e ,m,ch cut and bruised but it is
not thought their injuries will be permanent.
* * * *
d;ed f !he P tn k ’ a °r e ‘ t . ime rac,n ? Potentate at ’Ome,
Deiht and n l ■ k ! n his younar da -vs trained the
for L 1 °x? kB x,' Vmners A Hcncaster and Marie Stuart,
oal/er Inlf M r. V.7T Subsequently he bought Don-
nno d B °i d he borse t 0 the D,lke of Westminster
annfhe 4 ; n O, k™ aS t . ra " lpr for the rich Duke he scored
another Derby win with Doncaster’s eon, Bend Or. After
olnti 6 Set a 1 1? for hi,nself a 8 a horse-owner and turf
at large Opinions always differed as to
or h m«7 lloh f rt Pecl < was a clever trainer and tactician,
or J „st an abnormally lucky young man whose success
was thrust upon him. In a good many cases the elderly
head lad of a stable^ makes a refutation for the boss.
Estimated that each member of the returning
Australian learn netted J&900 over the recent tour.
*** ♦ .
.At Christchurch (M.L.) Hunt Club meeting,
the rider of Heur-de-Lys found himself about 3Mb. short
of required 12.7. Efforts to get enough lead failed, and a
blacksmith s stock of tools was drawn upon While the
jockey stood on the scales, an attendant kept handino-
oui rasps, heavy-headed hammers, &c., from a kit until
the indicator balanced at the proper spot. Which recalls
a meeting at Warrengate, when a bullock chain was
wound round the body of a native jockey, who was even
then too light, and horseshoes had to be utilised.
* * • *
Australian Cricket Council—-which now only
■consists of Victoria and S.A.—will be wound up next
month. Henceforth Australian cricket will apparently
be bossed by the Melb. C.C., backed by the leading
players, who esteem it because of the favors it dis-
tributes. And it will, in the end, be a bad thing lor
Australian cricket. ®
* * * *
Melbourne Crick-et Club has everything cut-and-
■dried not to take the 1900 English team to Svdney if
there is war with Sydney Ground trustees and N.S.W.
Association. It is also stated that, in the event of
trouble, S. A. will stand in with Wardill and co , and it
will, of course, pay her to do so. Trouble looms ahead
in connection with the money to be made out of the next
tests in Australia So far as the players are concerned
t will, foi obvious reasons, probably side with the
M.C.U.
• • • *
Two old-timers, in George Giffen and J. F
Lyons, performed well with bat and ball at Adelaide
last Saturday. Bowling against the Ports, Giffen took S
wickets for 11 runs ; whilst Lyons, playing against West
Torrens, ran up 102 in his old-time dashing* style.
• • * •
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen’s three-days’ car-
mival closed on Saturday. After all expenses are paid
the funds benefit to the extent of £4OO. In motor-paced’
events (five miles),.Megson downed “ Plugger ” Martin-
hack tyre of latter’s pacing machine burst. Mutton
i(Bathurst) accounted for Bananalander Walne, who
“ pulled off” three laps from home. The final was for a
■time highly exciting. Megson’s pacer failed earlv ; he
had a “cut” unpaoed, but soon saw the task was'hope-
less. Mutton eased, anti won in lOmin. Spencer Cigar
Trophy (in miles) provided a hot finish. Rounding for
home, Megson, Forbes, and Gordon looked like having
matters to themselves till Lewis, with every ounce on,
•dashed up inside, just snatching the race from McDonald
and Gordon, amid wild excitement.
* * * *
Melbourne Charlie Downie and Sydney Jim
Havre met at Alhambra A.C. (Sydney) Saturday night.
Jack Blackmore should have been Dowme's opponent
but his illness compelled the management to look else-
where, and Barre took on the contract with less than five
days to get ready. Fight was all Downie’s in first few
rounds-he got some heavy swings home—but Barre only
shook his head and grinned. Downie fought foul, hold-
ing with one hand and punching with the other AH
through he hit with the heel of the hand and a’dozen,
tunes wrestled his man down. Despite comparatively
poor condition Barre hung on grittilv. hashing away
when opportunity permitted and taking gruel as if he
loved it. In the last eight of the stipulated 20 neither
•did much damage. There wasn’t a knock-down in the
whole affair. Referee, unable to separate them on points
declared match a draw. Writer would have given Downie-
the verdict.
* * • *
Ink-hued middleweight Ike Stewart had an easy
task at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) on Saturday night
500 paid to see the black do what he liked with Jim Jack
until latter turned it up half-way through round 3.
Beaten man is a pupil of whilom crack “feather” Paddy
Moran, and had latter’s endorsement as a comer. On the-
showing made sawing wood is more in Jack’s line than
fighting. It is notorious among cognoscenti that the
poorest judge of a fighter's capabilities is a fighter.
Dozens of instances could be quoted in support of this.
* * *
Novice boxing tourneys are not the draw they
were in Sydney ; the game is being played too low
Originally these men evidenced some knowledge of the
game, however slight, hut now absolute “chumps” are
competing, and all for the “caser” and “ half-caser ”
referred to in B. 14 10 ’99. Thespectacle of two contestants,
with no more knowledge of the art than might be ex-
pected of a chimpanzee lashing out, swinging and sprawl-
ing, and finishing in half-a-miuute is common. At time
of writing, two of these events are going on - one started
with 102 and another 40 entrants ; all told, there were
not 20 among the lot who had the remotest notion of how
to deliver or stop a punch properly.
* • • •
One “ Buck ” Sullivan, a lanky youth billed as
the " unbeaten champion of Riverina,” stood up against
the bulky Fred. Preston at Mclh. Victoria Hall on Satur-
day night. Ilis efforts gave the house a mighty poor
opinion of stoush as dealt out in Riverina, and after en-
during Preston’s punches for four rounds the borderer
cried go. Just now matters pugilistic are dull in Mel-
bourne. telix, who claims the Australian championship,
is there, but nobody can manage to make a match with
him. Preston is the last who failed.
• * * *
Crack Victorian lightweight pug. Tot Higgins,
who lately beat Sydney champion Ned Burden, after-
wards went straight to Tasmania and met Jim Deir at
Queenstown last Saturday night. The battle was highly
exciting, and extended over 17 rounds. Higgins had
much the better of matters right through and wo i. He
will probably meet Peter Murphy in Melbourne shortly.
• • • •
details of Australian champion Fred Lane’s
300yds. world's record performance last month show that
not the slightest room was left for doubt. Previous
figures (3min. 56sec.) were created by Englishman Tvers
six years back. Course was measured bv surveyors
specially engaged, arid two tested watches “docked”
the swim. Lane threw the distance behind him in fine
style, and put up 3.47 1-5 - that is to say, 8 4-ssec. faster
than the time assailed.
* * • *
Cablpd last week that ex-champion sprint swim-
mer of Australasia, Jack Hellings, won City of London
Championship (150yds). Time given, Imin. 46 2-ssec. —
4sec. slower than the world’s amateur best (accomplished
by Tvers five years ago), which is lsec. more than the
prof, champion of the world’s speediest effort (1.41 2 5).
It is odds on that Hellings had “a soft thing” and did
not hurry himself. There seems to he no swimmer in
England owning the necessary residential qualifications
who could make the little Woollomooloo Bay lad have it
all out.
* * * *
•Sydney swimming handicappers have got their
business down to a fine art. In club events rarely are
finishes other than very close. Last Saturday West
Sydney men swam a 45 yards “ dash ” in five heats ; three
were won by sheer quickness in touching and two by less
tnan 12m.
* • * *
Sydney athletic clubs have developed a craze
for vice-presidents ; swimmers are affected most. Oime
club has 50, several 30, and none much less than. 15.
writer was at an annual meeting, recent!v, where vice-
presidents were being nominated in droves. “ How
many are wanted, Mr. Chairman ?” queried a small voice
a *L ■ , haolc ' " Oh, no limit,” replied the presiding
official, unconcernedly, while he proceeded to write a
few-more names down. So great is the demand, too, for
particular individuals that you see the same name figur-
ing on the lists of several different clubs. A nice sort of
honor!
* * * «
Professional champion swimmer of the pro-
vinces, Sid. Cavill, was to have left for Yankeeland per
Alameda on Wednesday. He goes in response to cabled
appointment (received last week) as swimming instructor
to the toney Olympic A C., of Frisco. It will be remem-
bered that Sid , awhile hack, Loured the States and beat
allcomers; the billet now available comes of good im-
pressions then created. At latest Percy Cavil] was in
Spain teaching the dons—having got through wifh his
French contract. What with Wrav coaching Boston
amateurs, Australian boxers as instructors at several
American clubs, and Melbourne Tom Burrows and Tom
Williams giving the army at Aldershot (Eng ) pointers in
wrestling, club-swinging, and boxing, this little patch on
the globe is indeed a factor in the world’s athletics.
* * * *
Two old-time Sydney rowing names are per-
petuated in the 8-oar crew to represent N.S.W. in the
coming race—Fitzhardinge and Degotardi. A. F. Filz-
nardinge is the son of M.A.H., acknowledged to be the
best amateur of his day in a club skiff. C. Uegotardi is
son of “Jack,” a powerfully-built and first-class sculler
&na oarsman of a score of years ago.
* • • •
Only three boats started for Johnstone’s Bay
(Sydney) Sailing Club’s handicap on Saturday, but boats
and skippers were of the best. Keriki was sailed by
George Ellis Donnelly by George Holmes, and Plover by
AV. Read. Donnelly, 18ft., had On.in. start of the two
22-footers .and Kenki won from Donnelly, which beat
1 lover by her tune-allowance. How long Ellis has been
boat-sailing writer would not like to say, but he can
recollect Holmes owning and sailing the old Glencoe a
deep-keeled 15ft. dingy, fully 35 years ago ’ a
* * * *
“Warringah” complains indignantly of the
manner in which N.S.W. team for the Australasian cham-
pionships at Brisbane next month is being selected-says
that only the same old clique will have a chance. Re-
marks that those picked as “certs** up to a fortnight
since have no recent performances to their credit.
Three (English, Rosemgrave, and Laidlaw) have
been out of harness for at least a year, and Rowley's
only late feat was success by a foot from Henderson
in the furlong championship after former got a good
?° u" a " a the inside of a sharp circular
track. Whne men like Field, Collins, and Holden are
asked to compete against standard-time, Rowley and
Rosemgrave (former partially-trained and latter not at
all) are given places straightway. Henderson, after run-
ning Rowley to a foot in 2J4yds. outside evens on a loose
sandy track, surely deserves some consideration. He is
only 17 years old, and, for his age, is the fastest runner
ever seen in Australia.
* * * *
, rl T s e two Sydney Chess Clubs are heads-and tails.
ihe Sydney Chess Club, so-called, challenges Queensland
as representative of N.S.W.; and the other club has
challenged also on behalf of the province—the S.A.
Association. This sort of thing would be tommyrot even
over croquet or skittles; but since it is about chess, fool-
ishness is no name for it.
• • * *
Mrs. Donald M‘Donald has ridden from Sydney
to Melbourne, 577 miles, against a southerly gale, on
Dunlop tyres.*
* « * *
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate
jewellery, papers, etc.-at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very tnoder-
at rates.*
In connection with a recent remarkable
rescue at sea, a correspondent of Sydney D.T.
recalls an extraordinary occurrence of 15 years ago
when, during the barque Gladstone’s voyage to
Sydney, a man who fell overboard owed his life to
a fierce attack upon hiiii by albatrosses. As he
had seuboots and oilskins on, he must speedily
have sunk, if he had not managed to grasp an alba-
tross by the neck, and the body of the strangled
bird, acting as a life-buoy, kept him afloat till
he was picked up.
Lovely little bib from Brisbane Courier,
20/10/’99: —
On the Dari in a Downs «"me of the Mounted Infantry
companies are volunteering very well. At Clifton only
three officers and two men of I Company have so far
offered, hue Q Company (Warwick and Allora) con-
tributes fifteen men. Speaking to the Warwick men on
Saturday last, Captain Chauvel, the enrolling officer,
sairl ; “Great credit was due to the men who were
offering. It was the chance of a lifetime. They would
have a good trip without expense, and the opportunity
of mixing in with highly-trained troops. He did not
wish to press any man to go, but he would advise them
to take the opportunity of volunteering. The chances of
being shot were not much ; there would be no great dan-
ger. He would not be surprised if it were all over before
they got there.’’
Two Melb. sneak-thieves, one of whom
makes a speciality of stealing boots from the feet
of hopeless drunks, lately entered the local Bank
of N.S.W. in the hope of getting a handful of
silver and running. The astute detectives subse-
quently put in the offenders on another charge
but suspecting a third man hauled the bank-clerks
to the watch-house to identify him. As he was
being paraded the real culprits peeped through the
door and were recognised—a “clever capture”
which so inflated the D.’s that they laid the
burlesque charge of “ attempting to steal £lO,OOO ”
against the pair. In court the fatuity of such a
charge was exposed. The vacant teller's box
contained about but all save .£350 was
locked in the drawers, and the sum exposed was
composed wholly of large notes.
Henry Lawson holds forth mainly about
“ Holman ” :
Australian bush Unionism did not recognise nation-
ality. The democracy of Australian bush Unionism is
dead for the present—has been so for some time past It
sickened when Lane’s New Australia mania caught some
of the best leaders; it died when the unenlightened Aus-
tralian workman blundered with his bluchers on the rest.
Arthur Rae was “straight” and earnest according to hi*
lights, though his small stature and a twinkle in his eve
prevented him from being taken seriously—but he is
doing hard graft iri the bush now. Donald Macdonnel
the tallest, straightest, and perhaps the best of the
Bourke-side hush-leaders, got no show ; Willis and clique
were too strong for him round Bourke—the scene of hia
lahors and self-sacrifice for Australian democracy He had
no money. Spence and 00., who had followed comfortably
for years behind the roller of Unionism which slowlv but
surely levelled the track to their feet, saw the great
cylinder pause and rock for want of the bullocking power
behind it, and had the gumption tostop—under pretence
of lacing their boots, so to speak—till they saw that the
roller was rolling backward. Then theydrifted hastily
but unostentatiously into the timber, where they’ve been
silting on their swags and smoking ever since. About
the same time Sleatli and Ferguson, who had been
throw-n-up on a popular howl because they had been per-
secuted more publicly than most (which was a bad start
for men in politics), lost their heads finally—or found
them—and hopped backwards shouting for Unionism and
the working man—and were lost sight- of.
Holman was born of the democracy of Unionism He
was a cabinet-maker, and a socialist. A handsome "dark-
haired hoy, with a complexion like a girl’s, and wildly
enthusiastic with the conviction of truth. And he hasn’t
changed, which is a marvellous part of the matler
There was never any doubt about his truth; it leapt in
rich color to his face—in fire to his eyes.
I heard him make, I think, his first speech in public in
the Domain, one May Day years ago now. There was a
large, “ respectable,” and enthusiastic crowd—for social-
ism was fashionable. There was a drag with a
large red flag growing from behind the whip socket
There was at least one tall shiny hat under the
wave of that flag. The leaders wore red ribbon
in their button-holes—with the exception of George
Black who hung on the rear with a red rose
Holman was wildly enthusiastic and nervous; an eager-
hearted boy who thought his chance had come. He
stumbled getting over the dashboard, which increased
his nervousness. It was a very short declamation, and
very brave, apart from its subject. The drag drove off
amidst demonstrative enthusiasm, Holman waving the
red flag—his girlish skin still glowing. 6
George Black was the god that day; later on in the
evening, on the platform at Leigh House, he cleverly re-
ferred (incidentally) to the “Red Rose of Socialism”
touching his own—lest some thought, and might say.
that he hadn t had the pluck to wear a red ribbon or
rosette in daylight in a public place. And G.B. is a good
deal deader now than little Arthur Rae.
The wrong—or “cronk”—crowd got hold of Hohran,
and him for their own paltry, contenipti,ble, Iii««
personal purposes, and he had a hitter, cruel time, which
had nothing to do with the world. And he went through
it unchanged ; which doesn’t seem so marvellous now
you know his temperament. With his eloquence and
earnestness, he has now every chance of looming large in
National politics. And he has nevu let go of that red
flag:.
Because of all this, when he stood up in the House the
other night to tel] the truth about the Transvaal Con-
tingent business he stood practically alone—his only
helper the cool and logical Ashton. The, howled at him
because Unionism was dead ; thev sneered at him
because his truth was old and threadhare-and out of
fashion. (There are no tall hats in the Domain now-a-
davs.) When asked whom he would like to see win—
British or Boers ? his answer was-hot-headed and charac-
teristic:. He should have said that he would like to see
the side win on which there was right and justice. That
would have been statesmanlike and true enough for
all purposes. But, no doubt from Holman’s position,
it would have been a wily lie. They said, and printed,
that, his father was a Dutchman, which was a lie, without
the solemn dignity of the cable perjuries. Holman’*
father was madder at him for what he had done than the
rest.
So the backward-moving roller of democracy has
rolled over Holman ; and whether it cures him, or kills,
depends on himself. A little time will prove him and
Ashton to have been true patriots in what they said the
other night.; but by then their action will have been for-
gotten, or others will take credit for it. Later on, if Hol-
man grows worldly-wise in the meantime, he will get
the crowd of the other night in perspective, and see their
true littleness. But by that time they'll be deader than
George Black. Unlike Arthur Rae, Holman is taken too
seriously, and no allowance is made for the candour of
youth. But dead-earnestness of purpose wins in the end
in politics. Holman is too good to be lost, and I would
advise him to drop the remnant of the alleged Labor-
party—which only handicaps him. Drop it as softly as
he will—or as hard—and go tree —and wide—to hi*
destiny !


THE THIRTEENTH REPORT
OF THB DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia,
The Directors now submit to the Shareholders the Balance-Sheet of the Bank, as on 30th September last, and the
Profit and Loss Account for the six months which terminated on the same date.
The net profit, after deducting expenses of management and the other items specified in Pmflt and r.nss
Account, amounted to ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
To which add Balance from previous half-year ... .. ... ... ... ...
Deduct Note Tax in Australia and Income Tax in Great Britain . M „ «* ...
Leaving available ... .. .. .. _ .* „»
It is proposed to dispose of this sum as follows :
Dividend at 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares ... « .. ..
Carry forward .. .. .» .. .. .» ... ... ...
£71,362 15
During the half-year two further anticipatory payments amounting to £1,132,005. were made in connection with
the Deferred Fixed Deposits, and there now remains only £473,790 of these liabilities to be dealt with, out of an
original total of £6,844,884.
The Directors announce, with extreme regret, the death of their esteemed colleague, Mr. Arthur Septimus King,
which occurred on 28th September last. Mr. King had been a director of the bank for upwards of 15 years, manifest-
ing throughout a lively interest in its welfare, and the board feel that the institution has lost in him an experienced
and prudent adviser.
The ordinary general half-yearly meeting will be held at the Equitable Building, 320 Collins-street, Melbourne,
on Wednesday, Ist November, at noon.
By order of the Board of Directors.
F. G. SMITH,
Chief Manager.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office : Melbourne, 19th October, 1899.
STATEMENT OF THE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF THE ABOVEMENTIONED BANK.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank on the 30th September, 1893 (including London Office to 26th Augus '
1899, and Western Australian Branches to 18th September, 1899), were as follows :
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1899.
Dr. CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference shares,
paid in cash to £lO ... 305,780 .0 0
250,000 ordinary shares,
paid up to £4 per
share, representing thS
paid-up capital of the
National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, £1,000,000.
Calls made on 250,000
shares, at ‘ 3 per
share, £750,000, of
which there has actu-
ally been paid in cash,
£717,456 2s. sd.—Total,
£1,717,456 2s. sd. Less
10,531 shares forfeited,
£45,456 4s. ... ... 1,671.999 18 5
Reserve fund account ... 5n,000 0 0
Profit arid loss account ... 71,362 15 3
2,099,142 13 8
Notes in circulation ... 305,497 2 6
Bills in circulation ... 487,458 611
Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£114,111 17s. Gd.; hear-
ing interest, £476,680
12s. 9d 590,792 10 3
Other deposits —
Not bearing interest,
£2.321,037 ss. 5d.; bear-
imr interest, £3.005,196
Bs. Sd 5,326,233 14 1
Interest accrued, and re-
bate on current bills ... 46,025 16 10
Balances due to other
banks ... ... ... 48,922 16 0
6.804,930 6 7
£8,904,073 0 3
Contingent liability, as per oontra,
£216,569,165. 6d.
ASSETS.
Gr.
By Coined gold and silver
and other coined me-
tal 1,161,231 4 9
Gold or silver in bul-
lion or bars 52,427 14 4
Cash at bankers 1,000 0 0
Government, municipal
and other public
stocks, debentures and
funds 729,019 19 1
Notes and bills of other
banks ... 7,226 7 6
Balances due from other
banks 44,685 15 11
Bills in transitu 610,998 9 5
2,606,589 11 <
Beal estate, consisting of bank premises,
at cost to the bank 459,191 8
Other real estate, at cost to the bank,
less £91,565 15s. sd. written off ... 490,091 1 5
Advances, exclusive of provision forbad
and doubtful debts 4,368,337 13 10
Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 976.929 12 11
Duty stamps ... ... 2,933 12 11
£8,904,073 0 3
Liability of the old bank, in the form of a
guarantee of certain shire and munici-
pal debentures (Victoria) sold in Lon-
don, and which are being duly provided
for by sinking funds, in terms of the Act
authorising their issue, £114,100; and
liabilities of customers and others on
letters of credit and drafts, £102,469
15s. 5d., as per contra, £216,569.158. 6d.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 108 branches
and 10 agencies £51,716 5 6
Note and Income Taxes ... ... ... 8,0.6 16 6
Balance ... ••• ... ... ... 71,362 15 3
£126,155 17 2
By Balance brought forward..
Gross Profits, including Recoveries, less
Rebate on Bills Current, Interest paid
and Accrued on Deposits, Repairs to
Premises and Rent
£52,116 12 11
74,039 4 3
£126,155 17 2
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
£50,000
£60,000
By Balanoe brought forward
... £BO,OOO
£60,000
*
*
THE
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEY
Sole PistribOtiOS AgeOt
for ACiStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER EOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-205 Clarence Street , Sydney .
Amusements.
HKK MAJESTY'S 'UIKATIW,, SYDNEY.
Knl« T.psapes, Messrs, AYiiliainson and Musflprove.
Sole Lessees,
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman
Trees., J. B. Moutrie.
Farewell Performances of the Dramatic Company, and
LAST NIGHTS of
“TH€ CHRISTIAN.”
Adapted from Hall Caine’s famous novel by Mr. Wilson
Barrett, and re-arranged for Messrs. Williamson and
Mi.sgrove by Mr. Bernard Espinasse.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
c
UITEUION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD.
Brilliant and Triumphant Success,
PREYFUS, DREYFUS,
the Martyr of France.
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as Capt. ALFRED DREYFUS.
Miss LILIAN WHEELER as Mdme. LUCIE DREYFUS.
Prices: 35., 25., Is. . Early Doors 6d. extra, 6.55.
Ordinary Doors, 7.15. Terminate, 10.45.
*|YIIE WORLD - RENOWNED SOPRANO
tydlle. TREBELLI.
NOW TOURING THE COLONIES.
ADELAIDE—EarIy in October.
BROKEN HlLL—Early in October.
SYDNEY-End of October and November.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
THIRD WEEK!
iohn F. STTERIDAX “ When the Lamps
JOHN F. SHERIDAN are Lighted.”
GRACIE WHITEFORD By George R. Sims and
ORACIE WHITEFORD _ Leonard Merrick.
Dan Raffcrlift Rehearsal Scene.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES : 35., 25., and Is.
iV|a(id tyacCartby,
The World-famous Australian Violinist.
“The Greatest Musical Genius Australia
has Produced.”
AUSTRALIAN Commenced SYDNEY, Wed.
foUR * ■ • 18th October.
JOHN LEMMONE, Manager.
■QALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Firs’ Appearance in Sydney of
MR. TOM COSTELLO,
HOWARD & T. CLAIR.
IPRY and AUSTIN. TOM and LILLIE ENGLISH.
Alma Gray, George C. Dean,
Vallace King, Arthur Hahn, J. Watts, Elsie Golding,
Neva Carr Glvnn. Alf. Lawton, Thorne and Dell.
POPE and SA YLES, and all our Double Company.
Plan at. Paling’s. Matinee every Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, HULIiOIJ'HNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokards.
First Appearance in Melbourne of
G-00. W. Hunter,
Reappearance of MR. PAUL PELHAM
Splendid Success of the Marvellous VALDARES.
VIRTO and IRENE, Howard Chambers, Fr.d Duncan,
Will Whitburn, Lulu Zeseh, Alice Jeffries, Li lle
Fannie Powers, Frank Rowen, Keenan Bros., Clias.
W. Cogill, Clarence Sisters, and ail our Brilliant Co.
Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theathe royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, LAST NIGHT OF
The Merciless World.
IATURDAY, October 23, first production in Melb. of the
Bright, Sensational Melodrama,
Our Home.
2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and MrsoicoVß.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Seventh and Last Week but one of the Season.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“MA WE ROSETTE.”
Saturday Next, 28th Oct.., for THREE NIGHTS ONLY,
“GONDOLIERS."
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plans at Allan's and Menzies*.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
QfiStip ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated bO KING BTREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Amusements.
The Melbourne cup attraction
EXTRAORDINARY.
PITZ&ERALB BROTHERS*
Novelty Shows, Circus and Menagerie,
- - - INCLUDING - - •
HAGENBECK’S ANIMAL SENSATIONS.
LOCATION: FLINDERS STREET.
Every E waning,
For a Season of
Three Weeks Only!
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
SUCCESS of SUCCESS again achieved by
THE SHOW OF THE CENTURY !
NOVELTIES FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD l
DAZZLING SENSATIONS and Entirely NEW PEOPLE.
The Lion and ElephT.it Tricycle Act!
The Tiger Riding a Horse!
THE HIGHEST JUMPING HORSE IN THE WORLD,
“ NEW HAVEN.”
Prices—4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and One Shilling.
J. MORRIS, Atrenfc.
FRANK JONES, Press Rep.
JjIXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AOUA It lUM !
THE MUSEUM!
TH E FEIt,Y/- It ¥ !
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
Open 10 5. Daily.
Admission —ONE SHILLING; Children-SIXPENCE!
“imperial” Bicycles
(THIS GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES A. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
ts" Superior Board ng Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(nee BO LG EE).
Vic toria Racing Club.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY NOY. 4
CUP DAY NOV. 7
OAKS DAY ... NOV. 9
STEEPLECHASE DAY... NOV. 11
£3" Largest Entries ever received.
£3" Accommodation for Thousands.
Tim conveniences for the comfort of visitors to
Flemmgton now surpiss anything in the world.
Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary.
MEMOR Y!
MEMORY LESSONS.
HOW TO ATTAIN AND RETAIN KNOWLEDGE.
EASY TO LEARN. SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Over 600 practical illustrations, showing how to learn,
with rapidity and certainty, history, geography, figures,
dates, foreign languages, chemistry, physiology, ledger
folios, names, addresses, and the theory of music, counter-
point, harmony, etc. Tauirht by correspondence. Pros-
pectus, terms, testimonials, etc., free. Prof. BROWN,
40 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Testimonies of those who have learnt it:—
Dr. B. B. Ham, F.R.C.S., Guy’s Hospital, London.—“l
heartily commend it to every medical student. By it,
the thousand confusing names of drugs, nerves, muscles,
etc., can be quickly and surely memorised. It has been
a great boon to me, and 1 wish to bear testimony to the
Simplicity, utility, and wonderful results of your system. •
Rev. W. E. Bromilow, Missionary.—** It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory. By it 1 learnt the
almanac for the year in about two m nutes, and could
give instantly the day of any date and vice versa. Its use
must be of great assistance to students.
W. J. Simpson, Council Chambers, Newcastle, N.S.W.—
“Was very sceptical when I began. You said there was
no miracle about it. But taking the simplicity of your
natural methods and the wonderful results produced as
compared with the old repetition method one might truly
say It is indeed miraculous. I must express my gratitude
(or having acquired such a boon for so small a sum.”
Cardinal Moran, with several prelates and other
visitors, arrived here to-da.v from Rockhampton. An ad-
dress was presented by Father Plormel on the spot where
the Spanish Admiral De Quiros landed 300 years ago,
when a Franciscan father celebrated Mass for the first
time in Australia.”
Editor Bulletin,— By the above telegram from
Queensland, in last Friday’s B.M. Herald, it
seems that Card. Moran still hugs the absurd de-
lusion that, contrary to all known historical and
geographical facts, he has discovered that “Quiros
the Liar ” landed at Port Curtis; and he now
boldly announces it as an actuality. Pity that the
cobbler does not stick to his last in this instance.
Some time back when His Eminence first pro-
pounded his de Rougemont-like romance, 1 drew
attention in your columns to the simple faot that,
locating the place where Torres and Quiros parted,
at Port Curtis (Q.), as the Cardinal does in his
History of the R.C. Church in Australia, would
necessitate Torres going overland after leaving the
spot. The object of the statement is, of course,
to claim for the Church the honor of first landing
on the east coast of Australia. The fact of Torres
being constrained to sail overland is a mere matter
of detail: also the disappearance of the active
volcano and other islands which were in the
neighbourhood of the place where the ships
separated, is not worth notice. While the Cardi-
nal is at it, fixing up Australian history, he should
set to work and find Leichhardt.— Ernest Faveno.
De Courcy Browne, police inspector,
miner, warden, M.P., journalist, and mining
expert, lately dead, was the agent through whom
nearly the whole of the Broken Hdl mine leases
!>assed. After W. P. MacGregor, who also
ately died, had got the Silverton Tramway Co.’s
Bill through Parliament, he resigned; and
De Courcy Browne was given his seat. But by
the time the general election came around the
Broken Hill miners had got a say in the matter ;
and another Brown—the warden to whom Broken
Hill owes most—was preferred. De Courey
Browne was known, by repute if not personally,
to almost every miner in N.S.W. He was
in several of the earlier gold-rushes, and, as
member of the mining board of the old days,
author of some guides to prospectors, and other-
wise kept always before the mining section.
Twice he got into Parliament, but, chiefly because
he earned most of his living by advising on mining-
titles supposed to be faulty, and by expediting
the issue of leases, he never could keep the work-
ing miners’ votes. He was a strong force to
have on one’s side when a mining title was con-
cerned ; and when it secured his services four or
five years ago to advise on the mining regulations,
the Westralian Govt, got hold of a man who knew
as much alx>ut the business as anyone on the con-
tinent. Yet he died poor.
Overheard recently from a damsel in a
Brisbane dentist’s waiting-room : —“We were to
have a lecture on ‘ Marriage ’ at our Pioneer
Club the other night, but one lady member
objected to tliis title, and wanted it changed to
'The Force of Circumstances.’”
When N.S. W. Parliament met, ex-Premier
Reid was in a sour and savage mood. He snarled
at the Works Minister about the absurd “ table of
precedence ” established in his speech at Captain’s
Flat (O'Sullivan interposed to say that the state
ment ascribed to him was a humorous lie). He
accused the same Minister of promising the ex-
penditure of £100,000,000 on railways (somebody
remarked that it wasn’t true). Then the embittered
Reid pointed out that the new Govt, had already
appointed four royal commissioners (B. R. Wise
interrupted just here to state that this wasn’t true
either, the number being one—not four.) Also
the stout fury complained that a Minister had
promised to build a new railway station on Hyde
Park, Sydney, but being contradicted here also
he began to simmer down
New Tasmanian Ministry : Premier and
Attorney-General, Neil Elliot Lewis, barrister ;
Treasurer, Bolton Stafford Bird, mining-agent:
Minister of Lands, Edward Mulcahy, clothier and
hotel-owner; Chief - Secretary, G. T. Collins,
lawyer; without portfolio, F. W. Piesse, mer
chant. Mulcahy, Collins, and Piesse take offic<
for the first time. Lewis is the second or third
Tas. native who has become Premier—Hen r.>
Dobson is a Tasmanian, but it is doubtful whether
Richard Dry was born in the island or came to ii
in early childhood. The Braddon Ministry had
an ex-parson in it, the Lewis Ministry has an
other. T. Reiby was an Anglican Archdeacor,
before entering politics ; for a quarter of a centur\
he has been a politician and an owner of race
horses. Bird was formerly Minister of Davey
street Congregational Church, Hobart. Lewis i>
an Oxford University man, and probably the only
Oxford Premier in Australasia, except Robert
Herbert, first Q. Premier. He married Mis?
Youl, a relative of the late Coroner Youl, o'
Melb. Will be a Judge some day, and a good
one. Mulcahy, who last year built the Grand
Hotel and Gaiety Theatre at Zeehan, is a Limeri<
man, who arrived at Hobart in childhood. Pies
is the financier and figure-man of the crowd
though Bird goes to the Treasury. Collins re pr-
een ts " the North ” in the Ministry.


Has
Cured
Thousands
✓
* /'/A
Y/m s
.z
Anti
Will
Cure
You
V
J
•Another Great Triumph over “HYDATIDS”
A Grateful Patient gives Unsolicited and Valuable Testimony to the Efficacy of this Great
Herbal Remedy. Read Carefully and Investigate for Yourself.
“Mr. S. A. Palmer, Vitadatio Institute, Bourke Street. <{sl w 0
“Sir,—As I consider Webber’s Great Herbal Remedv ‘ VTT ADA Tm ’ u„„ i We stgarth Street, Fitzroy, 19/9/’99.
hand you this testimonial, so that others suffering the same as mvself mav know t] soe mea “ 0 saving my life, I think the least I can do is to
DATIO ’ifit is onlv Mven a fnV iviol ti q ■ , ? , » me as m y seit ra W know tkat there is a certain and reliable cure for them in ‘ WEBBER’S VTT A
.. BVin niilxNU UUbJiD, but one day I noticed an advertised cure bv ‘ WEP.RF R ,( 3 VTT Atvamm > „ j at, " ® , 0 1 naa AilllAiih
what similar to my own, ‘I THOUGHT I WOULD GTVF TT A Tl >TA r '> ~ , DATIO, and the symptoms of the patient being some-
to anyone and give them my own ’ Yot t tTb"? ’f 1 T D 1 * 11 be P ,eased *° »P«*
testimonial. I may add lam now S* to do all my own household wofb; aAing I have beelZabTe *“■
Witness—G. E. Richardson, 19/9/’99. ... (Mrs.) CARRIE HOCKING,
31 Westgarth Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Head
Sold Everywhere—Price, 5/6 and 3/6 per Bottle.
Institute; 47 Bourke street, Melbourne.
Sydney Institute s 184 PITT ST.
And at Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Wellington, N.Z.
(Next Her Majesty’s
Theatre).
CXJX RA.TE
Consulting and
I
§0
c 9
UC GO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THE CELEBRATED EUCRASY CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cub Price, 18b. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medical science can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind,, loss of vital force,
"weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c.i and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more "disappointing arid
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
Bv its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part, of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
pub’’c
Complete Exhaustion —Thousands in our ihidst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day 's delay brings you nearer to the grave.-
Kidney and Bladder Complaints —ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering- people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Keinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You mav have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
vi « orator and destroy the earliest germs of the malafly
The Keinvigorator used for all bladderand kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism,. liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright's Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results. —The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson's Keinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward siuii of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it,.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. AH this and
more is easily cured by the Keinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs —You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in-
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that fhey did not
from the very first take the Keinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea *
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Stron
ctq
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against col;!s, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back arid loins, ete.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle' current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new'life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner
Current Conductors.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.— Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
-Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the w'isdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidnevs-and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so i extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.—The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charms of the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and* give
energy to the muscular.and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months are
effusive in, their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials both
oral and written, that, we have received, o-iv’e the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured ”
Yes ! what is of more value than health? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belts. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life t
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
H>:r\ Hughes’s Fitsepilep
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILKPSV ;\ND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the age.
uccessf.nl has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative eflfectsO-
So succ
a testimony, endorsed by the press.
Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pile Cure.
pyramid.
„™?>£ HEMOImHOrDS. The most chronic and obstinate charnel
INWARD or O.ITI WAJfcD I 11/hS readily yield. to this improved mode of treatment; Price 3s Gd n P r ha C ? er
hnvos fnp lflc Pnattxya M nix W.:t. t i, . . , 1 Per 00X> nr 9
boxes for 10s. Postage Gd. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
I REE I' CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we'will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
■
i
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Country Trial Order respectfully Solicited.


HirrßaSSn)(iSS€i)’S Alfaligc Herbal Remedies-
More marvellously/ Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have ben before the Public for over 14 Years.
iii.ii i i iii'ii i iff mi.
Cured Thousands for* the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
Contain Mercury Or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves* Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
1
Mr. 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of th«
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12 t 1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Hear Sir.—t feel it illy duty to Write aild tell yoii how
your remedies have cured me.
1 suffered great agony With WEAK SERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some Of yOUr ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which Completely cured me, atid t have felt
m well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
1 also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PIILS,
Which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp arid made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the halt-
from being grey to that Of its original color, i have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have fiever known them to fail, but to
do all that Was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these Remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depehded oh.
You ate it liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
YoUrs truly, O. j. A. NIELSEN.
Rciatica Cured.
Parliament ROuSe, Sydney.
To Herr RassmxjSsen.
Dear Sir. —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Herves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
176 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.- Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had Lried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, TIIOS. KING. Witness—Frank Dribert.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN*
547 Deorge-st.,
SYDNEY,
, , , ‘ 1 ' ~,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
'UiUliilllifMUjTTi ii u in LMhiTniii't m iin turiinulTunnnHifrHup
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
£ts well as numerous
Tesfittilonials from
bured and grateful
patrons, ;with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
AIF aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A u aline BLOOD pills
♦ill cUt& the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They rehiove ahy Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 68. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely frfee from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 438. 6d.
ALFALINU
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled fot Liver and Kidiiey Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.j
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
ate an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOt) and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females,' beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, os.; Courses, 23a. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rossmnssen, TJp-to-Vate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons thdt his
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeiL
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
,'HBBHBaBMsaaBBnraaHHMaHaK]
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THOS. MUtiIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
1 Was quite Unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas 1; as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
Mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant curs
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage -This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr fassmsei’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SIIOIE9
AND IMPJRTANT BRANCH SS AS FOLLOWS ; *
BRISBANE 160 (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154: Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOEGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZIES ... ... Shenton-s'treet (opposite P. 0.)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near Hig-h-street)


Brian Wibberley, a Primitive Methodist
parson of Adelaide—minister, too, of the most
tashionaule church of the denomination in S.A.—
has scandalised the local clerical jingoes by this
variation of the Athanasian creed :—
* ,K e . liev . e in Creed Almighty, grasping everything
worth having in heaven or earth, and in Force, its only
Degotter. Son, born of so-called patriotism, suffered under
righteousness, was never dead or buried, but rose under
ine Cant of Imperialism, and descended to Parliament
Press, and Pulpit, whence it sits to judge the world, i
believe in our country ; in her interference with foreign
t ", ‘ e ' l her r .'" ht or wrong. I believe that the
stretch of fresh territory is of greater ini| utanee than
principles of eternal truth, and that equity, justice, and
honor are merely local bylaws; that morality is a
matter of maps and mileage ; that love is a question of
longitude ; that God is of less account than gold; that
nngnt is right.
Hie Victorian Full Court has done a mon-
strous injustice to the widow of James Stevens,
who was one of the victims of the South Yarra
Sewerage Tunnel accident two years ago, and
Whether the court’s law is right or not will not
alter the fact. Stevens was one of the employes
of the contractors, and with four others was sent
into a tunnel which proved to be full of foul air.
Iwo of his companions were overcome, but
Stevens and another man named Hoare managed
to make their way back to the air-lock. On
arrival there Stevens told Hoare to go for assist-
ance, and then himself returned into the foul air
With a view of rescuing his mates. He was not
successful, and lost his own life in the attempt.
His widow brought an action against the con-
tractor, and got a verdict for .£300. The
defence was that Stevens’ death was the result
of his own humane act, and that question of
law was reserved for the decision of the Full
Court. In its tremendous anxiety to uphold the
dignity and purity of the law, and to guard
against what Chief-Justice Madden called “ the
very strong temptation to go wrong in admiration
of a very noble man,” the Full Court promptly
annulled the verdict, and gave the widow nothing.
It held that, when Stevens had reached the air-
lock and escaped from danger, his duty to his em-
ployers i ,a( 3 ended. Stevens, it is true, went back
on hisemployer’s business—he went back tosavethe
lives of certain men, and, incidentally, to save his
boss having to pay heavy damages for their death.
And the law lays it down in a general way that a
employe shall look after his employer’s interests.
Stevens died in the effort to save his employer’s
pocket, and if he had perished in saving his
employer s pocket, but had done it without any
display of courage and humanity, his widow
would probably have got damages. It was his
courage and humanity that did the mischief. The
court was so anxious to show that it wasn’t misled
by any mere sentiment of admiration that it
pave an unjust decision to prove its absolute
justice. It was the case of the schoolmaster
who whales his own son more than any other
pupil for fear an impression should arise that he
doesn t whale his own son so much as the other
pupils, and he be suspected of so doing because
his son is his son. And, in like manner, the
Minister who wants to work up and trade upon a
terrific reputation for justice, sometimes unjustly
keeps back his own relative in the public service
for fear he should be suspected of unjustly push-
ing him forward. Judge Madden’s desire not to
be suspected of being lead away by admiration for
bravery led him to penalise bravery and put a
premium on cowardice and indifference to human
life.
The thin but useful excuse that “ the pro
vince was already committed to sending the
Transvaal contingent and couldn’t honorably
draw back” did good service in the debate in
N.S.W. Assembly. Even Labor-leader M‘Gowen
used that shield to cover his retreat. Yet
supposing Reid and Lyne, instead of offering a
contingent to go and kill somebody, had offered
to find room in N.S.W. for, say, 20,000 of
Britain’s poor, all ready to work for low wages,
would the Labor-party have troubled much
whether the honor of the country was involvi d in
keeping the promise ? Yah ! “ Leader ”M‘Uowan
is a miserable shuffler, and steadfastness of politi-
cal purpose is not in him.
The death of Mr. O’Malley Clarke, at
Melbourne last week, was quite unexpected ;
he was 03 at his demise, but looked almost
10 years younger. Since his retirement from the
position of stipendiary magistrate at Sydney some
years ago, he had travelled constantly, and been j
nearly all over the world. Mr. Clarke was !
in receipt of an official pension of J1500
a year, and had succeeded to the substan-
tial fortune of his late wife (a daughter of Richard
Lalor Shiel), the widow of an Imperial military
officer. He was most popular personally, and it
is rarely that the public secure the services of a
man so eminently suited to the magisterial bench. '
Mr. Clarke’s remains were buried at Waverley
(Sydney) cemetery in the presence of many old
friends.
In Ligmolliene Cream Soap Mr. W. H.
Malyon, the Ballarat manufacturing chemist, has
struck a veritable bonanza for those who suffer
from the various small skin-troubles incidental to
a sub-tropical climate. Prickly heat, sunburn,
and such things disappear as if by magic before
this strongly antiseptic and curative agent, which
is also admirably suitable for shampooing, nur-
sery, and bath purposes. Ligmolliene Soap is
obtainable from all chemists throughout Austral-
asia, as is also Malyon’s Ligmolliene Ointment,
which, on the testimony of such authorities a*
Dr. Holthouse, of Ballarat, Dr. Woolley, of
Castletnaine, and many others, has worked such j
wonders in supposed incurable cases of eczema.
A trial of the ointment will speedily speak for ;
itself.*
The Australian Mutual Provident Society is
particularly noted for its readiness to at all times insti-
tute methods of a most liberal character into the working
of the institution, but none of the changes introduced
into its practice has been more appreciated by the mem-
bers than the system which has now obtained for a con-
siderable number of years of distributing its surplus at
the end of each year. In our advertising columns it is
announced that the next investigation into the affairs of
the society, and the distribution of the profit, will be
made as at 31st December next, when all policies then in
force will participate in the bonus to be declared. To
those about to insure, the present is a most opportune
time to give effect to the thought. The amount of each
bonus distributed among the participating policy-holders
for the single year 189S, reached the very handsome sum
of £479,742, and according to the liberal regulations oi
this popular institution, a policy now issued, and upon
which a full year’s premium has been paid, will be en
titled to a full year’s bonus at the end of the year. Should
only half a-year’s premium be paid, then half-a-year’s
bonus'will be added, and so on. The society’s prospectus,
containing rates of premium charged for all kinds ol
assurance, may be had on application at any office of the
society, and intending proposers would do well to obtain
a copy, and send in an early application either direct, or
through one of the society’s agents, for a policy, so as to
reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.*
Tl)e Colonial Bai)k of A(istrala£<a
LIMITED.
THE THIRTEENTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Thirteenth Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the Bank, 126
Elizabeth-street. at noon on Tuesday, the 31st October, 1899.
REPORT.
The directors beg to submit to the shareholders their thirteenth report, with a balance-sheet and statement o
profit and loss for the half-year ended 30th September, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on note
circulation, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit, including the balance brought forward
from last half year, amounted to £10,820 2 11
From which must be deducted additional interest, at the rate of one-half per cent, per annum
on the deferred deposit receipts, in accordance with the terms of the arrangement of 21st
June, ISJS 2,701 17 0
Leaving a balance of, .. ... ... ... £B,llB 511
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum on preference shares...
To reserve fund
Balance carried forward
£4,560 13 3
1,940 4 9
1,617 7 11
£B,llB 5 11
The directors have transferred the sum of J 3,059 15s. 3d received in respect of forfeited shares to reserve fund,
and have also tran.-ferred a further sum of £1,940 4s. 9d. as above from profit and loss account, making the total
reserve fund £5,000.
During the half-year the bank has made good progress, and there is every prospect of a further improvement in
the future.
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the Ist prox., and at the branches on receipt of
advice.
The Thirteenth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the head office of the company, 126
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 31st day of October, 1899, at noon.
By order of the Board,
Melbourne, 19th October, 1899. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
STATEMENT of ASSETS and LIABILITIES of the ABOVEMENTION ED BANK.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank on the 30th September, 1899, were as follow
BALANCE-SH EET of the COLONIAL BANK of AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-year Ending 30th September, 1899.
Dr.
To Proprietors’ Paid-up Capital, viz. :—
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9 15s. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash . ... 81,857 15 0
£385,901 15 0
To fund 5,000 0 0
To notes in circulation 99,839 0 0
To bills in circulation 107,163 14 6
To Government deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£35,014 6s. 4d. ; bear-
ing interest, £293,738
0s. 6d £328,752 6 10
To other deposits —
Not bearing interest,
£568,75419s. 2d. ; bear-
ing interest, new de-
posits, £394,533 8s. 8d. £963,283 7 10
1,292,040 14 8
Bearing interest, deferred deposits ... 1,037,149 11 10
To interest accrued thereon and rebate on
bills current 23,643 16 9
To profit and loss 8,879 18 2
£2,959,618 10 10
Contingent liabilities as per oontra
£21,856 1 4
Cr.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal £477,646 19 0
By gold and silver in
bullion or bars 14,132 6 4
By cash at bankers ... 13,914 1 8
By Victoria Government 3
per cent, inscribed
stock, at par 19,840 16 7
By balancesdue from other
banks ... 19,132 8 11
By notes of other hanks ... 506 0 0
By bills and remittances
in transitu 116,696 5
By stamps 657 7
8
2
-£662,526 5 4
By real estate, consisting of —
Bank premises at cost to new bank .. 189,507 10
Other real estate at valuation 75,093 19
Shares in other companies at valuation .. 19,724 13
By advances, exclusive of provision forbad
or doubtful debts 1,666,888 17
By bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above, ex-
clusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts 843,068 10
By chattel property at valuation (written
off, £650) 2,808 14
£2,959,618 10 10
Liabilities of customers and others in re-
spect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra £21,856 1 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including
rents, repairs, stationery, &c.)
To bank note tax
To transfer to reserve fund ...
To balance
salaries,
£21,268 4 0
932 3 6
1,940 4 9
8,879 18 2
£33,020 10 5
By balance brought forward £1,040 1 fl
By gross profits for the half-year, after al-
lowing for interest accrued on deposits,
rebate on bills current, and making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts . £31,080 8 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To bftlano*
... £5,000 0 0
£5,000 0 0
By amount received in respect of forfeited
shares £3,059 15 8
By transfer from profit and loss 1,940 4 9
%
£6,000 0 0
R. Thompson, M.H.R. (Maoriland) : “ I
-liould not like to say anything unkind about the
Leader of the Opposition while he is asleep on his
bench over there and can’t defend himself, but
there are certain things I will feel called upon to
say about him when he wakes up.”
The White Star monster Oceanic more than
fulfilled expectations on her first trip, which she
accomplished (Liverpool to New York,) in 21 firs
23 min under the week, averaging about 22 statute
miles an hour, and touching 23, without being
“ fully extended ”, The coal-feed involved (400
tons) was comparatively small, and, though the
weather was heavy, the huge vessel never rolled
outside 5 deg.
" DOWKEDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
ILLXJSTRATE3D I
TyITH numerous anatomical
’ ’ colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 25.,
posiage (sealed) Is. extra. Circu-
lar, explaining contents of hook,
sent on receipt of 2d. (stamps) for
postaire. Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM”
THE
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing, and relieve sing-
ing’, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-da.v for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
129 Collins Street, Melbourne
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throug-hout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely lie-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
nc
T*
'Thomsons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld » London
Fair girls and gray horses-
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
ASK FOB
WHISKY.
COMBINES PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY.
IN
BLACK
BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY
Solid
Silver
HAT
PINS.
Length,
' inches.
Any
Initial.
Extra
Strong.
38
each.
We have an Immense
Stock of Fancy
hat pins.
Stone Set Butterfly,
2s 6rt each.
Silver Federation,
with Australian Coat of
Arms, 3.3.
Fancy, 2s to 6s each.
Gold BANGLE, set with 9 Beautiful Opals and 16 White
Pearls, 50s each.
Our New Gold Bamboo BANGLES, 22s 6d ; Broader, 32s 6d.
Children’s Size, 14s.
S3*
Gold, set with One Finest Quality Amethyst, Topaz, or
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
BUS
PLAIN ahd RICHLY ENGRAVED BRAJELETS.
Solid Gold, 18s (id. 20s, 255, 30s to 40s.
Japanese Lantern
PIN anti CHAIN.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d ;
Lantern only, 3s 6d.
Beal Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK.
Very Pretty and
Useful, 2s 6d each.
O
Miniature Tron
HORSESHOE.
Stone Set, Is 6d.
With Gold Pin an>l
Chain, 6s.
LUCKY SHAMROCK
LtCiiy SHAMROCK
CHARM.
Set with 1 Pearl,
2 Amethyst, and
1 Topaz or Obsidion,
4s.
Gem-set
LUCKY GOLD PIN and CHAIN PENDANTS.
WISHBONE With Lucky Bean,7/6; smaller size, 6/6
CHARM, „ Lucky Bell, 7/6; „ „ 4/6
B»6d. „ Heart 7/6; „ „ 6/6
With Pin „ Cross 8/-; „ „ 7/-
and Charm, Silver Pin, Chain and Lucky Bell,
7b. Bean, Heart, or Cross, 2/6.
Pleate send for our llluttrated Slips of Novelties.
.dll Articles sent Post Free to any address.
LATEST NOVELTY.
Solid Gold.
Pin, Chain, Heart, Bell and
Lucky Bean, 7s 6d.
Registered.
Foat Free. |
FEDERATION BROOCHES
Sterling Silver, 3s 6d.
Solid Gold, 138 6d.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.


ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
FtTLZi SETS, £2 10a.
Without Good Teeth there cannot he thorough
MASTICATION.
Without Thorough Mastication there cannot he perfect
DIGESTION.
Without Perfect Digestion there cannot be proper
ASSIMILATION.
Without Proper Assimilation there cannot be complete
NUTRITION.
Without Complete Nutrition there cannot be
HEALTH.
Without Health, What is Life ?
Hence the Paramount Importance of Good Teeth.
Full Sets of Perfectly Fitted Artificial Teeth, £2 10s.
Ditto, 18-carat Gold-Setting, £5.
Thorough Masticating Power and beautiful Natural Appear-
ance guaranteed; also, Painless Extractions and Stop-
pings, otherwise no fee.
J. I. MARSHALL, Dental Surgeon,
28 WYNYARD SQUARE (ONLY), 2min. from G.P.O.
D.S.MAIR
gp
n
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
English Mainsprings, first quality, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Rotherham English Lever Watches,
capped and jewelled, nearly new, correctly regulated.
Guaranteed 5 years, 35/-
D. S. Mair for Heavy 3 Opal Stone Dress Rings. Best
quality Opal. Solid Gold, 19/6.
D. S. Mair for Heavy Solid Silver Pocket to Pocket
Alberts, English Hall Marked, 10/6, 12/6.
Note address— 6B4 George Street, Sydney.
VW
M
USICAL TIME
CLOCK.
This Clock is a Combination
Musical Box and Timepiece—
a wonderful invention, a hand-
some ornament. Will play-
popular airs at will, and is a
perfect timekeeper. The case
is solid Nickel, ornamental
Brass Front, Brass Handle and
Pillars, with Glass Sides. Un-
like any other make of alarm,
you are awakened by the
strains of “ Home, Sweet
Home,” “There’ll Come a
——- Time Some Day,” “Daisy
Bell,” “Annie Rooney,” “Sweet Marie,” and other up-
to-date tunes. It will always tell you the correct time,
and will play choice selections the whole day, or as de-
sired. PRICE, 15/-; Carriage paid in N.S.W. 1/2 extra;
any other Colony, 2/2. Sent on Approval; if returned
within 14 days, money refunded.
6 6 —A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6,
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessing about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 63. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent, in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT cures all eye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
Tbs B. at)d N.Trcatricot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c.,use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
The Australian plows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Establisiibd 1871.
riijilS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
-t- which issues Special Policies granting — ... ,
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineinato-
f raphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
)ecorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia — EPISOH ELECTRIC COMPANY
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
TF. JT. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
7
Uo
a
-■v
mzmk
' ■■ i-sk'/l
mm
■fllS
Hr
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
I
ELECTRICITY.!
If you ate tired of STOMACH DRUGGING |
and disappointment, send for one Of Stephenson’s
, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by |
■ Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-I
1 CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.'
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
: LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can (
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, |
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Doss of Memory, etc., ete.,-*etc. (
iThey impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and |
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
REGISTERED
MR*
rnH EFFECT^
LIGHT IMFIWSb EYES&IIDS
Weak Eyes Dimness E t - c
551 GEORGE ST
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —>■
ROSE’S
Oeleljrated Eye lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
cVo., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used, by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Uyes of
Cattle. Siieep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEITY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best o,dy SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Medical.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELT for
CENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser of our ELECTRIC BELTS
and APPLIANCES a trial of 30 days before payment,
which is fully explained in our “ELECTRIC ERA.”
Our Electric Belts will
cure all Nervous and
other Diseases in nil
stages, however caused,
and restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through
all weak parts. REMEM-
BER, w'e give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. It it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address:—
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NOBODY WILLJSTEAL THEM.
There are two reasons why the Crown jewels are
never stolen from the Tower of London. They
are in a strong place, well guarded, and are dan-
gerous things to handle when dishonestly come by.
Most losses of valuables are due either to care-
lessness on the part of the owners or custodians,
or to bribery. Perhaps the burglar’s vocation is
under no circumstances an absolutely safe one,
but not infrequently he chances upon a “job”
which is both easy and lucrative. Ido not men-
tion this fact for the unworthy purpose of induc-
ing any of the youth of the land to enter the
profession but solely to throw illustrative light
upon quite another theme. Still, there is a rela-
tion between them, and we shall hit it after we
have talked a bit about the case of Mrs. Mary
Rowlands, who lives in Wales.
The lady says that no longer ago than February
(1898) she had a severe attack of influenza, fol-
lowed by bronchitis. At this point we are con-
cerned to know whether the influenza was in any
sense responsible for the bronchitis, as cause and
effect. If so, why? It is well understood, of
course, in England, where influenza is so com-
mon, that other ailments do follow it; yet pro-
bably, the majority of us have not settled in our
minds the reason for it.
At all events, Mrs. Rowlands had a low, bad
time. The trouble lingered along as, sometimes,
winter does, away down into the period proper for
May blossoms. She could not seem to get the
better of the throat ailment nor master the
lethargy and weakness left her as a legacy by the
influenza. Her condition may be likened unto
that of a ship which has indeed survived a gale
but finds herself stripped of the sails needed to
enable her to take advantage of gentler winds.
The lady’s hope of getting back her lost
strength by taking plenty of solid, nourishing
food was illusory. Every meal of that kind caused
fearful distress in the stomach and acute pain
at the chest. Nature distinctly repudiated the solid
food, and almost as strenuously objected to the
liquids, such as broths, teas, and milk. It looked
as if Mrs. Rowlands must starve at her own table.
Then came on asthmatic symptoms, so bad she
was often obliged to gasp for breath. Between
this combination of complaints she got but little
rest day or night. Soon after arose a threat of a
still more serious disease—a threat happily not
fulfilled. I refer to the cold, clammy sweats that
broke out upon her, pointing to a fatal decline.
The fear was natural, as grim Consumption with
his poisoned dart, often approaches by that same
road.
“I became so reduced and feeble,” the lady
writes, “ that my daughter had to nurse me con-
stantly. I could not get into or out of bed with-
out her help. In the house, or to others, I was
of no use at all. The doctor who attended me
left nothing untried that he knew of; but, in spite
of all he did, I grew worse and worse.
“Where I should have been to-day, whether in
the land of the living or not, who can tell, if a kind
Providence had not intervened to save me ? In
some way my husband heard of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, and persuaded me to try it. I began
taking it and soon felt better. My appetite re-
turned, and all kinds of food agreed with me.
With plenty of nourishment I gained strength
rapidly. The asthma and the bronchial trouble
vanished and almost before I could realise it, I
found myself in the best of health, and have con-
tinued so to be ever since. For my remarkable
and unexpected recovery I am under obligation to
Mother Seigel’s Syrup ; and so I tell all whom I
know.” —(Signed) Mary Rowlands, Deri, via
Cardiff, August 31, 1898.
One thing Mrs. Rowlands says in her letter
which I have reserved for this place, namely, that
she was a dyspeptic. Her system was weakened
and her blood rendered impure by indigestion.
That is the main point. That is ivhy she was open
to the attacks of influenza, bronchitis, and asthma.
Her body castle being weak, the precious jewel of
health was stolen.
Keep the digestion strong and the blood clean
and pure, by the frequent use of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup and there will be no soil for the germs of
disease to grow in. The system thus guarded,
protects the health as the walls and door of the
Tower hold safe the Crown jewels.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitas’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send for a FREE bottle of medi<=
cine and to try it. lam quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Sa e Remedy.
CERTIFIED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,2B,ENDSLEIGH GDNS.,LONOON,ENG.


D. Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS.
—‘IMPORTERS OF —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Fancy Vestinqs
LADIES’
AX REFORM
PRICES
Experienced
CUTTERS!
TAILORING
Novelties for Ladies’ SPRING Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Underwear':
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
A HI US EM ENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprisin'/ One Perforini 11/ Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klond.yke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vourcharacter, ver> superior
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions snclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716} 4 and 718 Georgre-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Matiajrer.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ gureka ” gas gooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
TTie Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
it
THE
iRIEhD
R.A.IIERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
USE
Spooler's
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL FAVY
DRESSIIfCr,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P,O. Box 185, Melbourne.
drunkenness
OR THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY
CURED BY AD-
MINISTERING
EUCRASY,
THE CELEBRATED AND ONLY SAFE, SURF ANT
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
It can lie given in Coffee, Tea, or Food withou, ucr,eo-.
tion Perfectly harmless, and will effect a Permanent
and Speedy CURE. It never fails. Book of particulars
and testimonials free, sealed. Address—
HEADQUARTERS: THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTERi
STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: THE EUCRASY CO.,
271 Collins-street, Melbourne.
A FEW “POINTS”
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT,
AND
Soothes the Aching Part,
and wherever pain is present Komoeea or
Homocea Embrocation should be used.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General Dealers, and Chemists.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNE Y MAIIK ET :
The Principal Selling Centre in, Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT A CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
VVINOHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
.1. C. YOUNG & CO.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I'ricc, lOs o«|.
ra.
“I’ll Try It.” Solb Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitlten, 680-632 George- st,, Sydney
mmt
The*
only
Specific
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
FREE
PAMPHLET
FROM
H.H WARNER & C9 LIP
MELBOURNE, AUST.
SPRING & SUMMER FASHIONS
i>adie:s
Beautiful spring and summer weather has come, and
ladies want to wear something seasonable, pretty, and
comfortable. 0. G. Hatte's Home Buyers have despatched
a large and choice assortment of some of the newest and
most fashionable goods, which he is enabled to sell at
prices which are simply bargains. You can get nothing
better than the following, and will have to pay nearly
double the price anywhere else.
BLOUSES.
A Nice Assortment, all latest shapes, both Stripes and
Fancy Patterns, from 2s 3J4d
White Muslin, elaborately trimmed with embroidery, 3/6
Fancy Muslin, in all colors, trimmed lace, 3 11
SKIRTS AND COSTUMES.
Ladies’White Skirts, trimmed frill and Torchon lace, 4/6
Splendid variety of colored Zephyr Skirts, trimmed lace,
from 2s llj^d
Ladies’ Black Figured Lustre Skirts, full width, 4/11
Ditto ditto extra wide, 6/11
Ladies’ White Pique Skirts, latest shape, 4/6
Ditto superior (splendid value), 6/11
Ladies’ Norfolk Holland Costumes, from 7/11 to 18/11
„ Pique Eton Costumes, 15/6
„ Pretty Striped Cambric Costumes, for morning
wear, 4/11
~ Lace Shoulder Capes, from 6/11
» Lace Threequarter Capes, silk yoke, trimmed with
jet and ribbons, 16/11
Children’s Print Costumes, light and dark colors, 3/11
Boys’ Norfolk Coats, in fawn, navy, and butcher blue,
trimmed braid, 2/11)4
And everything in the way of Parisian Millinery,
Dress Materials—all that is latest and most fashionable—
AT
C. G. HATTIE,
NEWTOWN. SYDNEY.
FEPERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
RECORDS IN j QUEENSLAND.
WHAT PEOPLE SAY IN
QUEENSLAND.
Local Reports Convince Local
Readers.
The Case o-F
MR. JAMES BEQBIE.
(BY OUR SPECIAL REPORTER.)
*' Make every available enquiry, and bring
us a full report of the whole matter.”
Armed with these instructions, our reporter
hastened away to South Brisbane, and, as is
customary with newspaper men, pushed a
few cautious enquiries in the neighbourhood
of Vulture-street, all of which tended to
show that his instructions were well based,
and that he was on the scent of some
authentic and interesting information. Mr.
James Begbie, about whom our reporter had
been enquiring, proved to be widely known
and respected all around the district in
which he lives. He has been 23 years in
the colony, 20 of which were spent as cutter
to a leading merchant tailor in Queen-street,
Brisbane. He is also a Freemason of some
note and of 36 tears’standing. It is three
years since that he retired from his old
position, and commenced business in Mel-
bourne Street, South Brisbane., where our
reporter now interviewed him*
“It is currently reported that you have
been in a bad way,” said the newspaper man.
“ I have indeed been ill,” replied Mr.
Begbie, quite willing to talk about his suffer-
ings. “ Strange feelings beset me; some-
thing went wrong with my appetite. Ino
longer cared whether I ate anything or not.
I sat down to my meals, it is true, but always
got up after eating but a few mouthfuls,
with a feeling of heav.y oppression and
tightness on my chest. The food I had
taken, in course of time fermented and
generated a sour gas, which swelled up in
my chest and gave me great pain till 1 had
riel myself of it.”
“Yes; what else?”
Coughing. Yes, you may look surprised,
but although I have as sound a pair a lungs
as anyone; yet the indigestion that had got
hold of me caused me to cough all night.
It fact, I couldn’t sleep till six o’clock in
the morning, when, being fairly worn out
with the hacking cough, I would fall into a :
heavy, but uneasy? slumber. In the morning ;
when I woke I was in an awful state, my
tongue furred dry and yellow, a dull, sickly
headache, a bitter taste in the mouth,
foul breath, and so dog tired I could hardly
raise my limbs off my couch. I hate
to give way, so 1 always made an effort to
get out of bed, but when I was up I was too
tired and broken up for anything. Some-
times I didn’t get a solitary wink of sleep
the w’hole of the night, and frequently I got
out of bed and lighted my pipe and walked
about. The pipe, however, always made
me worse, and I look upon this as a bad
sign, for when an old smoker can’t enjoy his
pipe he must be ill indeed. [He is.— Ed.]
“ What about the medicines you tried?”
“ Well, I poured all sorts of things down \
my throat, but nothing relieved me. The i
tightness and pain in the chest got worse
and worse; sou.climes it felt like a solid!
lump of metal ins, le of me. I began to fall
away in flesh; this waistcoat you see upon
me hung quite loose. I became black under!
the eyes, and pale and cadaverous about the!
cheeks and jaws. Pains started in my left!
side, and I grew very hopeless and despond-
ent.. and felt no interest in my business, or,'
in fact, in anything else. The continual;
headaches from which I now suffered were
almost unbearable. ”
“ Why didn’t you try exercise ? ”asked the
reporter.
“I was too weak, ” replied Mr. Be r e.
" Sometimes I would go for a short walk to,
take the air, and a sort of giddiness would
come over me. I felt as though my heart
/as going U> stop beating, and that I wap
going to fall jbo the ground, and I should
have to stand and press my hands over my
eyes and wait some time till 1 recovered and
was able to walk on again.”
“ What about diet ? ”
“ You may be sure I was very careful in
that particular. Meat of any kind I daren’t
touch on any account, but 1 chiefly lived on
milk, sago, and rice, and such-like light
material; but even these invalid foods
nourished me very little, for I was unable
to digest them. I went on like this for some
time, growing weaker and weaker and more
despondent. Finally, a neighbour living
opposite me said I ought to take a new
l'emedy altogether, and she said she felt
confident she could recommend something
that would cure. I was also told at the same
time concerning an officer holding a promi-
nent place in the Brisbane Police Force, who,
of his own personal experience, could
recommend the same remedy. I am
naturally a cautious man, but I could not
resist this evidence, so I sent for a couple of
bottles of the ”
“ Of what? ”
“ Of Clements Tonic ; and I shortly found
to my unutterable relief that the stories I
had heard of Clements Tonic were not in
the least exaggerated. Why, look here,”
said Mr. Begbie, lifting up his coat and
shewing the reporter the waistcoat which
once hung loosely upon him; “you see how
that vest is burst at the sides—that’s
Clements Tonic. In a few days I began to
pick up again wonderfully. The pains in the
side went, the headaches were cured. I
slept again at night, for which I was more
than thankful. I was able to change my
food to something a little more solid than
arrowroot and such-like stuff, and, what’s
more to the purpose, I could now digest such
food, too. I could walk without giddiness.
My tongue was clean and my breath sweet,
the pain and wind in the chest vanished,
and my hand grew as steady as a rock ; ”
and Mr. Begbie, to prove this,'seized a
tumbler full of water and held it extended
on the palm of his hand without a tremor.
“That’s what Clements Tonic did for me.
When I was all broken up with indigestion
a cup or a glass used to fairly dither in my
grasp. ’*
“ Then you found Clements Tonic a
cure ? ”
“I should say I did. It entirely wiped
out the cough, and in the course of a
month set me up, strong and right, and fit
for any amount of work, just as you see me
now ; and if you wish I can tell you about
the grand effect of Clements Tonic on
other people.”
“ Thank you; but I’ll have to excuse
myself now,” replied our reporter, who was
anxious to get back in the office with his
report; “but before I go,” said the
journalist, “ tell me 1 can publish this
interview.”
“Of course,” replied Mr. Begbie, shaking
hands.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T, James Begbie, of Vulture-street, South Brisbane,
in the Colony of Queensland, do hereby solemnly and
sincerelyvdeclare that I have carefully read the an-
nexed document, consisting of five folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to five, and that it con-
tains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish the same in any way ; and that
I do not receive any payment for the same ; and 1
make this solemn declaration voluntarily, con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of “ The Oaths Act, 1867.”
Declared at Brisbane, this 81st day of July, one
thousand eifffi* hur-**ed end ninety-jiine, before me,
► j DA vieS, J.P.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
V v
A.« F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS .AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for .£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, .£6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S. .
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
JVj'ANON PIANOS
ftJ~4NON PIANOS
ANON PIANOS
ANON PIANOS
ANON PIANOS
£35
CASH or on EASY TERMS.
NICHOLSON & CO.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
$8
FOREIGN STAMPS.
A RRANGED in Continents—grand value :
50 Africa (all different), Is *3d; 100
Africa, 5s ; 50 Asia, Is 6d ; 100 Asia, 5s ;
100 North America, 7s; 100 Central
America, ss; 100 South America, 6s; 100
Europe, 3s. Many varieties in the larger
sets. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d; 250,
Is; 500, 2s; 1000, 3s sd. Remit P. 0.0.,
P.N. or stamps. Price Lists Free.
nT All l 102 Elizabeth Street,
Wm. Acklana, MELBOURNE.
FOUEIG-KI STAMPS
OETS 4 Soudan (Oamee) Is; 7
h- 5 Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; '6 Newfoundland (new issue).
Is 6d; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
60 Spain, 2s. Packets 80 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 160, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B„
DONNE, 346 Ltle Oollins-street, MELBOURNE.
A Twofold Passion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first he met and loved her she was just
eighteen. A tall, well-formed girl from whom the
awkwardness of childhood was jusu departing.
Her face was round and full, to him suggesting
softness and warmth that only needed developing.
Possibly what made him notice her first and drew
him to her was a bashful reserve which he thought
to spring only from gentleness and softness of
heart. So he pursued and won her, and they
were engaged.
He was a man of twenty-five, and an artist, as
yet comparatively. unknown. He was irritable,
sensitive, high-strung. A man in whom a degree
of noisy activity concealed a vast amount of weak-
ness—a weakness which.perhaps only some great
crisis would discover. As in his art, for which
only he had hitherto lived, so in his new-found
love. He entered into it with vivacity, pursued
it with unwavering enthusiasm, and endowed its
object with a myriad poetic attributes born of his
own artistic imagination.
Filled with the sublimity of his passion, he
worked hard and steadily for that fame which
would crown his hopes in a twofold sense, and he
scarcely noticed in his enthusiasm that the time of
his engagement had run into years.
He had only two objects in life—his love and
his art; and, much as he loved it, he was conscious
that his art was subservient to that other passion,
and that he pursued it so tenaciously, not, as for-
merly, for its own sake, but as a means to an end.
At times, he was conscious of something in the
object of his great love which he had not noticed
in the beginning—something that affected him
unpleasantly. It was as if some attribute she had
formerly possessed had departed, leaving her
somehow wanting. Unable to understand what
caused him this dissatisfaction, he laid the blame
upon his own imaginative and exacting disposi-
tion.
He did not realise that the girl had grown into
the woman ; that, while he had remained station-
ary, she had be n developing in mind and body.
No longer the bashful retiring girl, she was now
the perfect woman. She had grown tall, as was
her promise ; the soft outlines of her features had
grown bolder and firmer, and her character had
formed as he had decreed for her. And that char-
acter, as he realised afterwards, was very different
from that which, at first, he had deified and wor-
shipped. She had grown cold, possessed, mag-
netic ; and a thing which impressed him vividly
was her love of truth and romantic regard for
honor. A promise made, however lightly, was to
her a sacred i hing, and she held in utter abhorrence
anyone in whom she found deceit.
At length success came to the artist-lover. And
then, his heart throbbing with triumphant joy, he
sought her. and found her alone.
“At last! ” he cried. “ After all the waiting, it
has come at last. We need wait no longer, and
we can be h.ipoy now. Are you not glad ? ”
She was sitting at his feet, her head bowed on
her hands, and her eyes steadily refused to meet
his. Thinking she was only overcome with
pleasure, he raised her head, and looked into her
face. It was pallid, as he had never seen it, and
he could not fathom the expression of her eyes.
“Are you not glad?” he repeated softly,
wondering.
“Glad ?” she said at last. “Of course I am
glad. Very glad. I know you had set your heart
upon fame, and, now it is come, I rejoice for your
sake.”
“ And for your own ? ” he asked.
She was silent for a time, and again turned
away from him. “ For myself? ” she said slowly.
“ Oh ! I do not know how to tell you.”
“ What have you to tell me? Only what you
have told me often, that you will be my wife.”
“ Why can you not understand ? ” she said,
almost angrily. “I thought I need never tell you.
It has been all a mistake. I was only a child,
and did not know myself. You should have been
able to see.”
“What is it you are trying to tell me? he
said, in a whisper. “That you do not love me ? ”
“ I thought I loved you,” she replied. “ I was
wrong. I have realised it for months, but I could
not tell you. I hoped you would find it out.”
As he stood behind her, she felt his fingers
gripping her shoulders spasmodically. He did
not speak for minutes, and she turned and looked
at him. The misery in his face startled her, and
she arose and went to him. Her own face was
white as his.
“ Let us face our trouble,” she said, calmly. “I
do not love you; the pity is that you should be so
fond of me ! I am blameworthy, inasmuch as I
have deceived you all this time. I have promised
to be your wife, and that promise will bind me
until you release me from it. If you wish it, I
will marry you ; only remember that my heart is
not yours.”
“ Whose ? ” he said shortly.
“You need never fear that,” she said. “I am
bound by my word and my conduct to you, and my
love can go to no one else. Will you release me
from my promise ? ”
“ Perhaps you may love me in time ? ” he said,
drearily. “ I cannot leave you.”
“ Most likely I will hate you,” she said ; “ but,
if you are prepared to take the risk, I will marry
you.”
“I will take the risk,” he said. “I cannot
live without you.”
“ So be it,” she said, resignedly. “ I will keep
my promise. I will be your wife. ”
* * * •
So they were married. At first, in his satisfac-
tion at possessing the one who had enthralled
him, he scarcely noticed the absence of that
clinging love of which he had dreamed in the
years of his engagement. She was very kind to
him ; very attentive to his wants, and seemingly
anxious to please him in all things. It was only
months after their marriage that it slowly came
to him that she really meant what she had told
him—that she did not love him.
He strove to win her affection. She could never
hint a wish that he did not hasten to gratify ; he
studied her tastes till he knew them better than
she did herself ; but soon his attentions had a con-
trary effect to what he intended. His constant
attendance became irksome to his wife, and his
solicitous fondness repelled, instead of attracting,
her. The time came when she knew that her in-
difference was turning to absolute hate.
The climax came one day when a picture upon
which he had forced himself to expend all his skill
was hailed by the public in a way that surprised
him, and brought a little joy to relieve his now
habitual moodiness. He hastened to tell his wife,
hoping the news would arouse her from her chill
indifference. He found her alone, and, coming
behind her, he stooped and kissed her. She re-
coiled from the caress, and flung his arms from
her with a gesture of repugnance. In his pain he
forgot what had hurried him to her. The pent-
up passion burst forth tempestuously.
“Why are you so cold?” he cried, angrily.
“ You fling me off as if you hated me.”
“I do,” she replied, calmly. “Your very
presence is loathsome to me. Could you not see
that for a long time past ? ”
“Of course,” he said. “I am not totally blind.
I know that I have done all I could to make you
love me, only to find that my reward is hate and
repulse.”
“I warned you,” she said, steadily. “I did
not love you; yet you forced me to marry you.
You must stand the consequences of your own
folly.”
“Folly,” he laughed. “I was a fool, and am
one still. I love you. Love you, I tell you ! Not
as some men might, content with having you. I
want your heart, your kisses, your passion. I
want all the warmth of your body; all the fire of
your soul. I want you, yourself—not merely your
photograph.” She listened in silence and a little
impatiently.
“Listen,” he went on, his passion increasing.
“I love you so much that I absolutely hate you
at times. When all my soul is craving for your
sympathy, and I come to you with my arms ex-
tended and my heart on fire, you repulse me so
coldly that the reaction is so great I hate you,
and t could strike you to iny feet.”
“Strike me 1” she said, flushing angrily. “You
would not dare.”
“I will never do it,” he replied, “because I
love you. How can your icy, bloodless nature
understand ? How can you comprehend the pas-
sions that surge in a man’s heart ? I loathe you
as my bitterest enemy, yet I love you better than
my life.”
“ If you hate me, leave me,” she said calmly.
“ What can I do?” he said, hopelessly. “ You
have bewitched me, stolen my very being from
me. I could not live without you. The very
thought of your absence maddens me. Yet in
that atmosphere of ice with which you surround
yourself I cannot live. You make me hate you so
much that I could kill you, did not my love for
you hold me back.”
“ Are you not mad ? ” she said scornfully.
“ Mad ? Yes, you have made me so. I tell
you I cannot live without you, because I adore
you. I cannot live with you because your loath-
ing makes me hate you. What am Itodo ? ”
She was silent.
“I can see only one way out,” he went on,
speaking more calmly now, “ and I will take that
way. It will be very hard to do, not because I
am afraid, but because the very thought of leav-
ing you will unnerve me, and make me shrink
from my salvation. For a moment I will be
strong. I will go blindly forward, thinking of
something else, as a timid child enters a dark
room. But it must end.”
“What would you do?” she asked in a
frightened tone. .
“ Leave you,” he said, smiling slightly. “It is
the only way.”
“I have been a good wife,” she began, terrified
at the meaning she gathered from his words.
“A good wife,” he repeated, calmly. “ Faith-
ful and pure as the angels, but—you did not love
me.”
“ I might ” —— she said.
" No/’ he interrupted her—“ never ! Good-
bye.”
He placed his hands in hers and stooped to kiss
her. A slight smile came to his lips as he felt her
recoil from his touch. Even at that moment she
could not forget her hate.
He halted and looked back at her from the door.
Perhaps even then he had a hope that she would
soften. In her eyes he read only horror and in-
credulity nothing he could construe into
awakening love ; and with almost a sob he opened
the door and went out.
* * * *
She scarcely knew whether relief or horror
was uppermost in her mind when they told her hv
was dead.
P. T. FBEEMAN.
Jim’s Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fob several years I had lost sight of Jim Hagon
and his.dog. Jim was clever, hut his dog—a
scraggy-iooking mongrel—was cleverer. Arriving
one day at an out-back township, I found a crowd
collected in front of the local Hotel Australia.
“Just in time to see the fun,” said the beer-
dealer, as I swallowed the accursed drink; “a
chump of a stranger’s took our crack runner on
for a fiver. Come an’ see him licked ! ”
A peculiar race-track was marked out —a straight
line of dry cow-deposits stretched away for 200
yards, and out from this line a half-circle was
indicated. The stranger had undertaken to run
round the half-circle while the local champion cut
across the straight line : thus, presuming the half-
circle to be accurately laid, he was making a con-
cession of some 114yds. I thought the stranger
must be a fool, until I saw that it was Jim Hagon.
He knew me, but made no sign.
“ S’pos’n them there cows comes acrost an’
baulks a feller, can he claim a foul ? ” asked Jim,
as the starter was ramming the charge of powder
home.
“No,” said his opponent, “y’ve got ter run
round ’em same as me ; ’n mind yer keep outside
the cowdung.”
“ Right! ” asserted Jim. “It’s onderstood that
no ’bstructions of no kind counts.”
“ Certingly,” said the other.
Just before the start I had seen Jim’s dog slouch
out of some bushes and take up a position about
the middle of the straight track. He was
“ shoo’d ” away, but as the gun went off he re-
turned, and now, as the champion came on, there
was a yell at the cur. He didn’t seem to under-
stand it, and lay passively on the track. With
bulging eyes and steaming face the champion
approached, swerving to escape the dog, but the
stupid brute dodged right in front, and in an
instant there was a hopeless entanglement of
champion and dog. The dog was the first to
unravel himself; then, apparently annoyed at
being mixed up in such company, as the champion
raised himself cow-like (hind part first), the beast
took a samsonian grip of his running-pants (white
moles cut off above the knees) and held on until
an angry crowd approached, when he lost no time
in getting away. Meanwhile, Jiin had toiled in
an easy winner.
“ B’lieve y’d er beat me but fer the dawg,” said
Jim as the disconsolate and be-ripped ex-champion
shuffled up. “ Glad y’ objected t’ obstructions.”
When Jim joined his waiting dog, a mile out,
that night, the beast enjoyed a meal of the best
rump-steak procurable. 1 paid for it.—W.H.R.


Xmas cards for posting to friends across the sea,
arrived and arriving. Messrs. Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st.,
have a magnificent assortment of loose and packet cards
for Xtnas and New Year. It is now time to see about
getting in supplies if you wish to send to your friends on
the continent. We can supply all the most modern cards
at economical prices. Loose cards from 6d. to 12s. per
dozen (envelopes included), post free. Packet cards, post
free, Bd. to 3s. per packet. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
H. Newman’s Novelties in High-class Jewellery
18ct. Gold., with
1 Diamond and 1 Ruby
Sapphire, £1 10a.
18ct. Gold.
1. Ruby or Sapphire and
S Diamonds, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold.
6 fine Opals, £2 10s.
15ct. Gold. Opals and Diamonds, £&.
18ct. Gold.
3 Opals, 4 Diamonds, JE6.
18ct. Gold.
1 Opal, 10 Diamonds, £lO.
18ct. Gold. Opal Heart
and 14 Diamonds, ,£lO 10s.
16ct. Gold. 5 Opala, £3lsa.
15ct. Gold. With beautiful Opal and fine Diamonds, £22 10a.
era
iM
16ct. Gold and fine Opals, £9 9s.
Sleeve Links, set with Opals.
Oct. ... £1 10 0
15ct. ... £2 0 0
15ct. Bow and Heart Brooch.
All Pearls, £2.
With Diamond Heart, £2 10s.
Amethyst and Peart Pendant.
15ct,., £2 15s.
New Oijrb Chain Bangle, 15ct. Gold, set with Opals, Turquoise, or Pearls, £5.
Fine Pearl Necklet, lficfc. Gold, £l2 10s.
Handsome Opal Necklet, 16ct., £9.
oo£
Sleeve Links.
Act., £1; 15ct., £1 7s 6d.
Handsome Opal and Pearl Brooch.
15ct. Gold, £6 sb.
lffct. Pendant, set with fine
Pearls, £4 4s.
■75 * >77 Elizabeth Street,
dIEtBOURDE.
The Cheapest House in Australia
for First-class .TewplWy
The Song of the Cop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out from parade in the barraoks yard,
Trackin’ in single line,
All of us forty roun’ the chest,
And all of us five-foot nine*
Led to our beats at the senior’s side
(Wonderin’ what he saw)
The silent troops of the wars of peace
An’ the outpost's of the law.
They punched our hearts an’ found ’em tough ;
They teased our morals out;
They filled us up with law and stuff;
They tied a garter round our cuff;
(God knows what it’s about)
Then in Police Gazette a line;
And then they showed the way
To tread the street
An’ work a beat
For six-an’-six a day.
We set to work an’ studied well
The Police Offences Act;
Wo learnt to make the handcuffs tell,
An’ when we’re dealin’ with a swell
To “ exeroise some tact.”
We learned that men of higher rank
It isn’t safe to “ kid.”
We learnt to black
Our boots and pack
Our beds the way we’re bid.
We learned a heap of other things
The regulations missed—
To keep away from cliques an’ rings,
To play the point that scores an’ brings
Our number on the list.
We learnt to find the freehold pubs.
W ith widow licensees,
An’ where it’s best
To take our rest
An’ spend our hours of ease.
We found out who to trust, in case
Of trouble by-and-by—
Who, some day, might be in our place—
So, when we have “ the Board ” to face
We know the way to lie.
We found the softest billets out—
An’ how they’re worked—what’s more ;
An’ silent spread
Our nets ahead
An’ wait the chance to score.
But still we had to learn a lot
Before we knew the game;
We had to crave the grace to spot
The man who’s crook, an’ tell who’s not—
Which isn’t quite the same ;
To block the 0.1. man who’d grab
The oase that’s ours by rights;
We learnt it’s best
To have our rest
An’ dodge the drunks at nights.
An’ now with five years service done
An’ through the two exams.
We ve feared an’ fought an’ worked an’ won,
An , firm in faith, no longer run
The risk of sergeants’ damns.
An if we stiok to duty an’
Behave ourselves, we know
That we’ll be ripe
For a senior’s stripe
In fifteen years or so.
Ploddin* round the oity streets,
Prayin’ for no arrest;
All of us five-foot-nine at least,
An* forty roun’ the chest.
Keepin’ down the time until
The day-reliefs arrive
With kickin’ doors an’ shiftin’ girls
From nine o’olook to five.
M‘G.
Two Verdicts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat beside her on the sofa, holding her two
hands in his.
Neither spoke, for they imagined they under-
stood one another perfectly, and the silence was
only broken by the ceaseless droning hum of
London’s traffic, and the rustling of the lace
curtains by a soft June breeze as it played with
the girl’s brown hair. She was the first to break
the silence—
“ Kenneth, dear,” the pencilled eyebrows
arched inquiringly—“ Kenneth, dear, how much
do you love me? So much that nothing, nothing,
nothing could ever make any difference? ”
“Nothing could: you know that well, little
woman,” he answered. “What's up with you
now ? ”
“ I’m so glad,” she said. “ I wanted to tell you
something. I always meant to tell you, but
somehow I couldn’t till to-night. Ken, there was
a man once ”
Was there, really ? I expect there were
several men once, if you were like you are now."
“No there weren’t. There was only one; he
made love to me, and I thought I cared for him ;
and I tried to show him how much I cared. There
was only one sort of love he seemed to under-
stand, and I—l—oh, Ken, it was five years ago,
and—you aren’t angry, Ken, darling, are you ? ”
The man’s face was chalk-white.
In the silence that followed the girl thought
she could hear her heart beat. Then the man
slowly and deliberately took the diamond-and-
turquoise ring from her finger—and left her.
He turned at the door, and looked at her.
“ You’ve spoilt my life,” he said. “ Good-bye 1 ”
He paused on the Thames embankment, look-
ing at the muddy river.
“Two tenners isn’t much,” he said; and then
two diamonds glinted for a second in the moon-
light as they touched the water.
The turquoise did not touch the light; but then
turquoise signifies “ love ” —and love was dead.
Prom somewhere in the Strand he could hear a
string-band playing Tosti’s “Venetian Song,”
once a favorite song of his, and now the words
6eemed meaningless to him as he hummed them,
“ \Y e are alone ; the world, my own, doth hold but
you and me.”
“ What damned rot! ” he said.
They sat together in a long cane chair on the
station verandah.
The stillness of the moonlight night was only
broken by the wail of. curlews, and an occasional
“ moo ” of motherly solicitude from the milkers
outside the calf-pen fence. The girl spoke first.
“ How much do you love ine, Ken ?” she asked,
“ So much, darling,” the man answered, “ that
I won’t marry you under false pretences. You
think I’m a sort of King Arthur, but I’ve been
more of a Don Juan ; I’ve been several different
sorts of a blackguard, dear. You can’t under-
stand ; you’re too good and pure ; but five years ago
I came a bad cropper through a woman, and I’ve
been a beast since. ,1 wish I could make you
understand, but .”
t( “ I do understand, old boy,” she answered ;
* but tell me, Ken—never since you knew me ? ”
“Never, darling, I swear that. Do you hate
what I’ve told you ?”
“Hate you? No, why should I; you’re mine
now, and what does it matter to me what you
used to be? ”
In the drawing-room the squatter’s other
daughter, fresh from a Sydney school, began to
sing Tosti’s “Venetian Song” (with the soft pedal
down). “We are alone,” she sang, “we are
alone ; the world, my own, doth hold but you and
me—but you and me.”
The man drew the girl close to him and kissed
nor.
“ I just love that song,” he said.
GBAHAM KENT.
Banana -Billy,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Squash ” started the subject by telling us that
a friend of his paid a shilling for four pig’s feet,
sold them for a penny each, and made fourpence
profit. Then Smoker tried to ring in the chestnut
about the man who bought the hat for ten shil-
lings and gave a bad sovereign to the hatter, who
went next door for change and had to redeem the
“ crook ” coin later on. We all knew that, so the
Parson said : “ Here’s one I made up myself that
no one has ever guessed, so you fellows can have
a go at it. A gentleman went into a bar, had a
drink and two cigars. He put down a half-sov.
The barmaid gave him eight shillings in silver,
and a half-sov. in mistake for sixpence. Now,
how much did he make ?"
Well, some said he made nine-and-six; one
said ten ; another thought he was eight-and-six
ahead without counting the two cigars and the
drink. At last the Parson said: “You fellows
must be thick in the head, or else I don’t speak
plain. I told you distinctly that a gentleman got
a half-sov. in mistake for sixpence. Being a
gentleman, he, of course, didn’t make anything at
all out of it. He gave the money back, for it
would have cost the poor girl half a week’s wages
to make the mistake good.”
“Yah 1” said Banana Billy, “he must a-been a
mug 1 ”
It was that sort of fool-talk that got the Parson
his nickname. He never should have been a
sailor.
Our ship got to Townsville soon after this, and
in those days we used to draw on the skipper for
any money we wanted, so we got a pound each
and went for a spree ashore. Banana Billy was
our bully and leader (we called him by his pet
name because he used to pick all the best fruit off
the dish and pile it up before his plate as soon as
he sat down to begin his dinner. He ate so muoh
he was always last at table).
Billy was a great masher, and had half-a-dozen
girls in love with him at every port. One bar-
maid in Townsville was dying about him, and to
her pub. we went first, for Billy liked to show-off
before her. We had our drinks, and the girl
flushed-up and got so excited she didn’t seem to
know what she was doing, she was so pleased to
see him. She took Billy’s pound to the till, and
when she came back said something about meet-
ing him Sunday night. Billy took no notice ;he
was too busy looking at the change, for I’m
blest if she hadn’t, in her flurry, brought him
four pounds seventeen and six. He put it quickly
in his pocket and hurried us out. “Boys,” he
said, in a tone of solemn intensity, “ I’ve struck
it all right. I’m four pounds ahead, and I’m
going to paint the town 1 ’’
“ You’re surely not going to rob the poor girl,”
said the Parson. “Let’s go back and tell her.”
“If you stir a foot,” said Billy, “I’ll make that
sanotimonious face of yours look like it’s been in a
shower of marlin-spikes. Take it away from my
sight before I stave it in.” The Parson took the
hump at this, but as he walked away he told us
that if the girl got into trouble about it he’d tell
the whole thing and chance the staving-in part.
Well, we had a big night. We were too much
under Billy’s control to protest, and I suppose our
moral sense wasn’t as keen as the Parson’s. The
four of us went to all the pubs., and Billy showed
off like a millionaire. He shouted fizz and cigars,
and ordered the girls about so that all the old
mashes loved him more than ever, and he made
two or three new ones. We were full to the
“ Plimsoll ” when we rolled down to the jetty,
yet not so dead to decency that three of us were
not sorry for the poor girl. Now the money was
gone, we wished it had been given back, but Billy
was quite pleased. He said it served her right
for being such a fool, and he hoped she’d do it
again next trip.
We were surprised to find the captain waiting
for us. He had just come aboard, and as
we crossed the plank he called out: “ Come here,
you fellows. I find I gave Billy a fiver to-night
instead of a one, so I'll trouble you for the
change.”
Billy’s face went pale-green in the moonlight.
“ Why, sir, it was a one you gave me,” he
gasped.
“No, it wasn’t. I took the note for you out of
my cash-box, and as there was only one fiver there,
you must have it.”
When Billy realised the extent of the disaster
he nearly cried, and begged us to chip-in a pound
each, but we felt it would be blasphemy to inter-
fere with what was so plainly a dispensation of
Providence.
He had to pay it off himself at <£l a month,
and it was the most sickening “ dead-horse ” he
ever tackled. He blamed it all on the barmaid,
and never spoke to her again. Said he had no
patience with such idiots, anyhow.
PERCE ABBOTT.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Flesh,
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
pO 'A
t
I
///
m
Vf/Mi
nW/ik
w
m
iliL
s //>
m
X
\I
‘' Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
and was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I becgane very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go into a neighbor ’s house until I was fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months. ’ ,
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another; and still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.” -
This Is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such-cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“Ayer’s” is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
AYER’S &n§fe!*a
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
PLAIN HOME TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dk. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physioian. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the'imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK’
posted for only 7s. 6d. ’
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. 1* 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette —Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is Gd post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Datb Comic Keciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassb’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song- Book, over 300 latest somrs
Is 3d post free. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books most of which can only be obtained from him are
advertised m his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Kin WILL
111 ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
IHmpljkTer
muMMi
CHEAP BOOKS
WIL.I. ANDRADE
PLAIN NOME TALK.
By Dr. E. B
POOTE.
Latest and Best Edition, 800 Colored Plates and Engravings, 1000 pages, post
free anywhere, 7s 6d. This work contains information for MARRIED and
UNMARRIED. Send for a Free Catalogue giving a full description of this
and other similar works at lower prices.
; Kvehy Man His Own Builder, 224 illustrations, Is 6d; Metal Working for
Amateurs, brazing, soldering, gas-fitting, brass-easting* etc., illus., Is 6d.
Electrical Apparatus for Amateurs, Telephones, Electric Light, Coils, etc
illustrated, Is 6d. How to write Signs, Tickets and Posters, 170 illustrations, is 6d ’
Conjuring, Ventriloquism, Magic, Card Tricks, etc., by Robert Heller, the
Devil’s Own Wizard, Is ; post, Is 3d. Speeches and Toasts, ready made, Is 6d post
Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster ; or, How to Educate Oneself, post 1/6 Tiie
Kelly Gang (.Ulus.) post 16. Australian Handbook of Midwifery (illus) 2/6 •
post, 3s. Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is ; post is 2d. ’
Comic Reciter, contains 150 gems ; post Is 3d. Athletics, Dumb-bells, Indian
Clubs, etc., Is 3d. ’
Ot,r List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere. Wholesale
and Retail.
WILL AKrrmA.DE,
(Opposite Waxworks) 201 BOURKE-STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Ways of Many Waters.
By DEI. J. BRA.DY.
A collection of Ballads and Verses of the Lives of Sailors and Wharf-men. ss. post free.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
0 E !ill A s M ’S
F°GiSKt a^f,r? erVOU ! P iso , 1 ,' ders > such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
ina-s of ulnes s and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
turbed ? ° , A P petlte Shortness of Breath, Cosriveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WJLI crvp Swr m ™ r ™ s m , a T l Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
earnestly W T } VRNT J MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
GUINEA A BOX^' 0116 X ° 3 fc^ese dls > and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
T)mn!,fk£ H i5 S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. Fora
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
Mu^culJrlw^r? . few , u do l seB win work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
arousine- wit h flw tnst o™* 0 ™* the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
are^llff-^Jr■?'lJ JD ° OV Health ,he Whole Physical ENERGY of the human frame. These
Nmnm nfn by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
ht world hull an 1 * f ted 18 Pee J! hams PMs have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
n e woi la. 11 ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is IUI, and 2s 9d each.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w.
40
C. ZEJiaDTR-XZDO-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
YORK S'l'UKEl’ SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout /rum all the colonies promptly
attended to.
IST” A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There ia not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxsord-st., London. CSV Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
%
u
IN BLUE INK
IS NOW
PRINTED
of every Bottle of the
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blaekwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
Tt
W 0
'jrQKW
mEJN
IASI
twmm
«*£*<
!«2wa
mmUABLE TO
r—\ SINGERS & SPEAKERS
33®
m
STOP THAT COUGH!
HOW CAN YOU STOP IT?
T ak WHERE IS THE REMEDY ?
Boopipgtop’slrkl) A*loss
Another Voice from Hill grove.
Messrs. BONNINGTON & CO. * 26th July, ’95.
Dear Sirs.—l have been recently afflicted with a severe cold in my head, throat and
ungs. Four bottles of your Bonnington’s Irish Moss have completely cured me.
Yours truly, MARY T. GIBSON.
BoQQIQgtOQ’S Pills.
GREAT CURE FOR BILE. IND*a*S
TION, AND ALL LI v«s b
DISORDERS.


TENNIS_GOODS.
Slazenger a* i.ondon prices.
If* Belle, 6/-; Renshaw, 10/6;
Jackets - Pastime, 16/-; Whitehouse, 21/-
E G It, 26/-; Boodie, 26-.
Slazenger
Ayres - -
1899 Balls Uncovered,
Covered, 13/-.
1899 Balls Uncovered,
Covered, 14/-.
(Auoeiation Rates to Members.)
6/6;
7/6;
Tennis S P®° ial Quality Rubber on all our
Shoes.
Shoes
Prices from 4/- to 25/-.
Rubber Goods of all Descriptions,
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AN® . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’a Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATBFUI,—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
SPOONS Sm FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ftOOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark.
<shsJJbbot
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PBOPKS., SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB IOT.-OOZeC,*’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The (9|ost powerful Oriving Belt in the UJorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... ... ... Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
. ■£
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wspITEIIT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tail & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter: Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting- less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-fiaiTOred butter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay. consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and We will deliver it at your doors.
Good
at a
ioon teas or for ordinary use
butter such as we have described is appreciated always, ... ... _ ;
any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON; Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
GATES’ ROCKBREAKER
THE OLDEST MODERN MACHINERY
PARKE
HOUSE IN THE WORLD.
LACY
Oompany Eiimited,
MINING & METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of and Dealers in
ALL ELIXriDS OF MODERN MACHINERY
For Mining, Metallurgical Stone Crushing and Pulverising.
A Large Stock of ENGINES, BOILERS & GENERAL MACHINERY and MINE & MILL SUPPLIES.
Sole Agents for the Bartlett Concentrator.
FREMONT STREET,
San Francisco, TJ.S.A.
60 CLARENCE STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
27 CLEMENTS LANE,
London, E.C.
i-.
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY
ENGINEERS’ and ——
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TRADE MARK.
—.i-i-
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL,
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. Send for Catalogues . .
